20440651|There is growing acknowledgement of the dependence of human society on ecosystem services and of the fact that service delivery is being compromised by human impacts on ecosystems. This paper describes the linkage between landscape-scale hydrology and ecosystem services, and how degradation of the landscape is believed to have altered the delivery of those services. The Little Karoo, an arid environment in South Africa that encompasses a remarkable diversity of plant species, has been degraded by inappropriate agricultural practices, mainly overgrazing, cultivation, and irrigation. Landscape linkages, such as hydrological flows and the recycling of organic matter and nutrients, have been disrupted, resulting in net losses at all scales, from the shrub patch to the river basin. Land rehabilitation, while in most cases too expensive at the farm scale, may be economically feasible at the river basin scale, provided that some of the economic benefits are used to rehabilitate and manage areas as socioecological systems.
27809109|Biodiversity assessment underpins our understanding of ecosystems and determines environmental management decisions on resource use and conservation priorities. Recently, a new discipline  environmental or ecological genomics (ecogenomics)  has emerged from major advances in sequencing technologies, such as pyrosequencing (a technique based on the detection of pyrophosphate during nucleotide incorporation), and enabled extraordinary progress in the way biodiversity can be assessed. Since 2008, numerous high-impact microbial metagenomic sequencing studies, which have relied on both classical and next-generation sequencing, have been published. As a result, many previously unrecognized taxa and biota have been identified, but none of these studies explored eukaryote diversity. Here, we illustrate the power of applying next-generation pyrosequencing to identify and enumerate eukaryote species assemblages in the context of assessing the impacts of human activity on ecosystems.
10.2307/3868314|Ecologists have long studied the critical role of natural light in regulating species interactions, but, with limited exceptions, have not investigated the consequences of artificial night lighting. In the past century, the extent and intensity of artificial night lighting has increased such that it has substantial effects on the biology and ecology of species in the wild. We distinguish "astronomical light pollution", which obscures the view of the night sky, from "ecological light pollution", which alters natural light regimes in terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Some of the catastrophic consequences of light for certain taxonomic groups are well known, such as the deaths of migratory birds around tall lighted structures, and those of hatchling sea turtles disoriented by lights on their natal beaches. The more subtle influences of artificial night lighting on the behavior and community ecology of species are less well recognized, and constitute a new focus for research in ecology and a pressing conservation challenge.
10.2307/3868335|The interdisciplinary study of human-environment interactions is becoming increasingly important around the world. Long-term experimental manipulations that combine approaches from both the ecological and social sciences could play an important role in the study of human-environment feedbacks in cities. The inclusion of in situ human subjects in this research is vital, as it facilitates more accurate scientific models and might produce social benefits such as increasing public trust in scientists. Within a landscape experiment, human subjects may alter experimental conditions to suit their needs, imitating the rapidly changing environmental conditions in cities. In response, researchers adjust explanatory models in a process which could be called "adaptive experimentation". These ideas are illustrated by a description of a proposed experiment in the Phoenix metropolitan area, where residential landscaping will be manipulated and the feedbacks between ecological processes and the activities of resident humans studied.
43187681|Habitat connectivity is a landscape attribute critical to the long-term viability of many wildlife species, including migratory birds. Climate change has the potential to affect habitat connectivity within and across the three main wetland complexes in the Great Plains of North America: the prairie potholes of the northern plains, the Rainwater Basin of Nebraska, and the playas of the southern plains. Here, we use these wetlands as model systems in a graph-theory-based approach to establish links between climatic drivers and habitat connectivity for wildlife in current and projected wetland landscapes and to discern how that capacity can vary as a function of climatic forcing. We also provide a case study of macrosystems ecology to examine how the patterns and processes that determine habitat connectivity fluctuate across landscapes, regions, and continents.
20696460|What landscapes best represent the land uses and land covers (LU/LC) of the continental United States? Would the set include a cornfield? A forest? A backyard? Combining principles of landscape ecology and computer science, we identified a small set of "exemplar landscapes", representing distinct LU/LC pattern types of the conterminous US. We first partitioned the 1992 US National Land Cover Dataset into 193 705 landscapes, and quantified patterns with standard measures of LU/LC composition and configuration. Using the values to estimate similarity of LU/LC patterns between landscapes, we applied an algorithm developed to find representatives in large sets. In the resulting 17-member set of exemplar landscapes, patterns created and managed by human activity are by far the most evident features. This set of representatives summarizes the nation's LU/LC, demonstrating the degree to which human-influenced patterns dominate: aggregations of rectangular fields, farmlands within cleared forests, shrublands/pasture, and suburbs. The algorithm's selection of an exemplar for each group may have other ecological applications when an objectively determined subset of representative items is needed.
23034444|The global reach of human activities affects all natural ecosystems, so that the environment is best viewed as a sociaecological system. Consequently, a more integrative approach to environmental science, one that bridges the biophysical and social domains, is sorely needed. Although models and frameworks for socialecological systems exist, few are explicitly designed to guide a long-term interdisciplinary research program. Here, we present an iterative framework, "PressPulse Dynamics" (PPD), that integrates the biophysical and social sciences through an understanding of how human behaviors affect "press" and "pulse" dynamics and ecosystem processes. Such dynamics and processes, in turn, influence ecosystem services  thereby altering human behaviors and initiating feedbacks that impact the original dynamics and processes. We believe that research guided by the PPD framework will lead to a more thorough understanding of socialecological systems and generate the knowledge needed to address pervasive environmental problems.
3868900|Existing global protected area networks have two shortcomings: (1) they do not cover certain habitats, and (2) local people often resent their formal management. Here, we show that communities around the world traditionally protect natural sites that are dedicated to ancestral spirits or deities. Such sites cover a wide variety of habitats and are often located in biodiversity rich regions. Case studies on sacred groves show that these small forest patches play an important role in biodiversity conservation. Furthermore, natural sacred sites are maintained through traditional methods of community based conservation that do not require governmental involvement. Incorporating these sites into conservation networks could enhance the effectiveness of protected areas by covering a wider variety of habitats and by harnessing the support of local people. In this article, we discuss current threats to sacred groves that need to be addressed through management approaches. More research on the ecology and underlying socioeconomic mechanisms of natural sacred sites is required to fully reveal their potential for biodiversity conservation.
20440704|At best, common renewable energy strategies can only offset fossil fuel emissions of CO -- they cannot reverse climate change. One promising approach to lowering CO in the atmosphere while producing energy is biochar bio-energy, based on low-temperature pyrolysis. This technology relies on capturing the off-gases from thermal decomposition of wood or grasses to produce heat, electricity, or biofuels. Biochar is a major by-product of this pyrolysis, and has remarkable environmental properties. In soil, biochar was shown to persist longer and to retain cations better than other forms of soil organic matter. The precise half-life of biochar is still disputed, however, and this will have important implications for the value of the technology, particularly in carbon trading. Furthermore, the cation retention of fresh biochar is relatively low compared to aged biochar in soil, and it is not clear under what conditions, and over what period of time, biochar develops its adsorbing properties. Research is still needed to maximize the favorable attributes of biochar and to fully evaluate environmental risks, but this technology has the potential to provide an important carbon sink and to reduce environmental pollution by fertilizers.
3868869|The current motivating concept underlying our view of invasive plant species is that they are dangerous and destructive invaders that drive native plant communities to extinction and must be eradicated at almost any cost. This negative view of non-native plants has resulted in the adoption and implementation of control efforts that may not be entirely successful and have the potential to result in severe non-target effects. The history of weed control in agroecosystems may provide insights on how to deal with non-native plant species in non-croplands, and shed light on some of the potential consequences of current control programs for the environment and for non-target organisms. Alternative research and management foci, based on knowledge gleaned from agricultural systems, may improve the effectiveness and sustainability of non-native plant species management in range- and wildlands.
23034442|Marine and terrestrial ecologists rarely exchange information, yet comparing research from both sides of the landsea boundary holds great potential for improving our understanding of ecological processes. For example, by comparing the interaction between tiger sharks (Galeocerdo cuvier) and dugongs (Dugong dugon) to that between gray wolves (Canis lupus) and elk (Cervus elaphus), we show that top predators in marine and terrestrial ecosystems trigger three similar types of anti-predator behavior: (1) encounter avoidance, (2) escape facilitation, and (3) increased vigilance. By implication, the ecological roles of top predators in both ecosystems may be more similar than previously thought, and studies that fail to account for multiple modes of anti-predator behavior are likely to underestimate these roles and the consequences of eliminating predators from ecosystems. We encourage more communication between marine and terrestrial ecologists, in the interest of generating further insights into ecosystem dynamics and conservation.
23470551|The need for sound ecological science has escalated alongside the rise of the information age and "big data" across all sectors of society. Big data generally refer to massive volumes of data not readily handled by the usual data tools and practices and present unprecedented opportunities for advancing science and informing resource management through data-intensive approaches. The era of big data need not be propelled only by "big science"  the term used to describe large-scale efforts that have had mixed success in the individual-driven culture of ecology. Collectively, ecologists already have big data to bolster the scientific effort  a large volume of distributed, high-value information  but many simply fail to contribute. We encourage ecologists to join the larger scientific community in global initiatives to address major scientific and societal problems by bringing their distributed data to the table and harnessing its collective power. The scientists who contribute such information will be at the forefront of socially relevant science  but will they be ecologists?
43187704|Urban ecology has quickly become established as a central part of ecological thinking. As cities continue to grow in size and number, two questions serve to unify this broad and multidisciplinary research landscape: (1) how can urban ecology contribute to the science of ecology, and (2) how can urban ecology be applied to make cities more livable and sustainable? In spite of the advances made thus far, there are many unexplored ways of integrating the science and application of urban ecology. Although scientists assess and make predictions regarding the connections between environmental and socioeconomic processes, practitioners involved in real-world application deal with urban planning and with designing ecosystem services to improve living conditions for all urban inhabitants and to make cities more sustainable. Research in urban ecosystems can be developed from many different perspectives, and we suggest that each perspective has something to offer both society and the science of ecology. We present several research perspectives and describe how these can integrate conceptual and applied aspects to bridge the figurative gaps between trees, buildings, and people.
25595037|There is growing interest in implementing market-like programs that would pay farmers and ranchers for producing environmental services (beyond those that generate food and fiber) from working agricultural lands. However, few examples exist of programs that pay directly for quantified services. Since 2005, a coalition of non-governmental environmental organizations, state and federal agencies, ranchers, and researchers has been developing a Pay-for-Environmental Services (PES) program that would compensate cattle ranchers in Florida's northern Everglades region for providing water storage and nutrient retention on private lands. We use our experience with this program to identify key challenges to PES program design, including identifying a buyer and defining the environmental services; agreeing upon credible, yet practical, approaches to quantifying the services provided; reducing programmatic costs in light of existing policies and complex regulatory issues; and maintaining an adaptive approach to program design and implementation, while satisfying the concerns of multiple stakeholders.
10.2307/3868363|New studies have detected a rising number of reports of diseases in marine organisms such as corals, molluscs, turtles, mammals, and echinoderms over the past three decades. Despite the increasing disease load, microbiological, molecular, and theoretical tools for managing disease in the world's oceans are under-developed. Review of the new developments in the study of these diseases identifies five major unsolved problems and priorities for future research: (1) detecting origins and reservoirs for marine diseases and tracing the flow of some new pathogens from land to sea; (2) documenting the longevity and host range of infectious stages; (3) evaluating the effect of greater taxonomic diversity of marine relative to terrestrial hosts and pathogens; (4) pinpointing the facilitating role of anthropogenic agents as incubators and conveyors of marine pathogens; (5) adapting epidemiological models to analysis of marine disease.
10.2307/3868443|Agriculture meets a major human need and both affects and depends on all other life support systems. Current trends point to continued human population growth and ever higher levels of consumption as the global economy expands. This will stress the capacity of agriculture to meet food needs without further sacrificing the environmental integrity of local landscapes and the global environment. Agriculture's main challenge for the coming decades will be to produce sufficient food and fiber for a growing global population at an acceptable environmental cost. This challenge requires an ecological approach to agriculture that is largely missing from current management and research portfolios. Crop and livestock production systems must be managed as ecosystems, with management decisions fully informed of environmental costs and benefits. Currently, too little is known about important ecological interactions in major agricultural systems and landscapes and about the economic value of the ecosystem services associated with agriculture. To create agricultural landscapes that are managed for multiple services in addition to food and fiber will require integrative research, both ecological and socioeconomic, as well as policy innovation and public education.
41811807|Although oriented migrations have been identified in many terrestrial bird species, the post-breeding-season movements of seabirds are generally regarded as dispersive. We used geolocator tags to reveal post-breeding movements and winter distribution of northern gannets (Morus bassanus) at a meta-population scale. By focusing on five breeding colonies of European gannets, we show that their breeding and wintering grounds are connected by a major flyway running along the coasts of Western Europe and Africa. Moreover, maximum winter distance to colony was similar across colonies despite their wide latitudinal range. In contrast with the general opinion that large pelagic birds such as gannets have unlimited ranges beyond the breeding season, our findings strongly suggest oriented chain migration in northern gannets (a pattern in which populations move uniformly southward) and highlight the benefit of meta-population approaches for studying seabird movements. We argue that the inclusion of such processes in ocean management plans is essential to improve efforts in marine biodiversity conservation.
3868819|There is little empirical data addressing the important and controversial question of how prairie dogs (Cynomys spp) affect livestock weight gains in western rangelands. This is particularly relevant in the short-grass steppe, where the area occupied by prairie dogs has increased substantially in recent years, exacerbating conflicts with livestock producers. In our 6-year study, livestock weight gains decreased linearly, but at a rate slower than the rate of colonization by black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus). This decrease in livestock gains resulted in lower estimated economic returns. For example, pastures with 20% of area occupied by prairie dogs reduced the estimated value of livestock weight gain by $14.95 per steer (from $273.18 to $258.23 per steer) and by $2.23 ha<sup>-1</sup> (from $40.81 to $38.58 ha<sup>-1</sup>). In pastures with 60% occupancy, reduced livestock weight gain lowered estimated value by $37.91 per steer and $5.58 ha<sup>-1</sup> or about 14%.
20696462|Advances in ecological stoichiometry, a rapidly expanding research field investigating the elemental composition of organisms and their environment, have shed new light on the impacts of climate change on freshwater and marine ecosystems. Current changes in the Earth's climate alter the availability of carbon and nutrients in lakes and oceans. In particular, atmospheric CO concentrations will rise to unprecedented levels by the end of this century, while global warming will enhance stratification of aquatic ecosystems and may thereby diminish the supply of nutrients into the surface layer. These processes enrich phytoplankton with carbon, but suppress nutrient availability. Phytoplankton with a high carbon-to-nutrient content provide poor-quality food for most zooplankton species, which may shift the species composition of zooplankton and higher trophic levels to less nutrient-demanding species. As a consequence, climate-driven changes in plankton stoichiometry may alter the structure and functioning of entire aquatic food webs.
25595147|Tree canopies play an enormous role in the maintenance of tropical forest diversity and ecosystem function, and are therefore central to conservation, management, and resource policy development in tropical regions. However, high-resolution mapping of tropical forest canopies is very difficult, because traditional field, airborne, and satellite measurements cannot resolve the number of canopy species, or particular species of interest, over the large regional scales commensurate with conservation goals and strategies. Newer technologies, such as imaging spectroscopy and light detection and ranging (lidar), are just now reaching performance levels that will allow monitoring of tropical forest diversity from the air, but the methods for applying these technologies are not yet ready. Here, we present concepts that combine chemical and spectral remote sensing perspectives to facilitate canopy diversity mapping. Using examples from our ongoing work in the Hawaiian Islands, we demonstrate how a new "airborne spectranomics" approach could revolutionize tropical forest monitoring in the future.
41811871|Climate stabilization wedges are defined as strategies that contribute to greenhouse-gas (GHG) mitigation that - in aggregate - achieve a particular goal. Wedges have been proposed as a GHG mitigation framework because no single technology or economic sector can sufficiently reduce emissions to acceptable levels. To avoid the most dangerous risks of climate change, we argue that mitigation of ~ 9000 teragrams of carbon equivalents (Tg Ceq) will be required by the year 2030. We estimate that agriculture could provide wedges of 1350 to 3900 Tg Ceq under attainment of technological and human behavior mitigation potentials. Improved agricultural management can decrease nitrous oxide and methane emissions and increase carbon sequestration. Consumption of fewer livestock products along with agricultural intensification through available technolo-gies can result in reduced emissions in both developed and developing countries. Decreasing excess protein and calorie consumption in developed countries improves personal health, while reforestation and avoided deforestation in developing countries help to maintain biodiversity. The mitigation wedges have varying economic costs but also have multiple benefits.
29546186|Accurate seafood labels can play a role in encouraging sustainable fisheries operation, by helping consumers to correctly identify the origins of seafood products, and thereby allowing them to make informed, responsible purchasing decisions. Yet, the renaming and mislabeling of seafood - as a consequence of ineffective regulations or poor policy implementation - remain serious problems. Here, we show that 39 out of 156 (25%) cod and haddock products, randomly sampled from supermarkets, fishmongers' shops, and take-away restaurants throughout Dublin, Ireland, were genetically identified as entirely different species from that indicated on the product labels, and therefore were considered mislabeled under European Union (EU) regulations. More significantly, 28 out of 34 (82.4%) smoked fish samples were found to be mislabeled. These results indicate that the strict EU policies currently in place to regulate seafood labeling have not been adequately implemented and enforced. Although the problem of seafood mislabeling has recently been brought to public attention in North America, we show here that product mislabeling is also an issue in Europe. We suggest that - through sustained consumer misinformation - mislabeling may hamper efforts to allow depleted cod stocks to recover.
20440607|Conservation easements have become the principal tool used by land trusts to preserve habitat and open space. However, anecdotal evidence has led some to question whether easements actually deliver conservation value. Our analysis of data from 119 easements held by The Nature Conservancy (TNC), spanning eight states and 20 years (1984-2004), is the first study to examine temporal patterns in the stated goals of, and activities allowed under, conservation easements. We found that these easements operate in accordance with conservation principles: 96% of sampled easements have identified biological targets, 84% are within TNC priority sites, and 79% are adjacent to protected areas. Easement usage has also become more strategic; recently established easements are more likely than older easements to be large and to include a management plan that focuses on biological targets. The one shortcoming we uncovered is a lack of biological monitoring. Although 92% of sampled easements have been monitored for legal compliance in the past 3 years, only 19.8% of biological targets have been monitored quantitatively. It is clear that we cannot draw conclusions regarding easement effectiveness unless we implement more systematic monitoring.
20440558|Coastal ecosystems are increasingly dominated by humans. Consequently, the human dimensions of sustainability science have become an integral part of emerging coastal governance and management practices. But if we are to avoid the harsh lessons of land management, coastal decision makers must recognize that humans are one of the more coastally dependent species in the biosphere. Management responses must therefore confront both the temporal urgency and the very real compromises and sacrifices that will be necessary to achieve a sustainable coastal ecosystem, one that is economically feasible, socially just, and ecologically sound.
20440887|Urbanization, an important driver of climate change and pollution, alters both biotic and abiotic ecosystem properties within, surrounding, and even at great distances from urban areas. As a result, research challenges and environmental problems must be tackled at local, regional, and global scales. Ecosystem responses to land change are complex and interacting, occurring on all spatial and temporal scales as a consequence of connectivity of resources, energy, and information among social, physical, and biological systems. We propose six hypotheses about local to continental effects of urbanization and pollution, and an operational research approach to test them. This approach focuses on analysis of "megapolitan" areas that have emerged across North America, but also includes diverse wildland-to-urban gradients and spatially continuous coverage of land change. Concerted and coordinated monitoring of land change and accompanying ecosystem responses, coupled with simulation models, will permit robust forecasts of how land change and human settlement patterns will alter ecosystem services and resource utilization across the North American continent. This, in turn, can be applied globally.
43187793|Mitigating further anthropogenic changes to the global climate will require reducing greenhouse-gas emissions ("abatement"), or else removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and/or diminishing solar input ("climate engineering"). Here, we develop and apply criteria to measure technical, economic, ecological, institutional, and ethical dimensions of, and public acceptance for, climate engineering strategies; provide a relative rating for each dimension; and offer a new interdisciplinary framework for comparing abatement and climate engineering options. While abatement remains the most desirable policy, certain climate engineering strategies, including forest and soil management for carbon sequestration, merit broad-scale application. Other proposed strategies, such as biochar production and geological carbon capture and storage, are rated somewhat lower, but deserve further research and development. Iron fertilization of the oceans and solar radiation management, although cost-effective, received the lowest ratings on most criteria. We conclude that although abatement should remain the central climate-change response, some low-risk, cost-effective climate engineering approaches should be applied as complements. The framework presented here aims to guide and prioritize further research and analysis, leading to improvements in climate engineering strategies.
41480673|Trade in live plants has been recognized worldwide as an important invasion pathway for non-native plant pests. Such pests can have severe economic and ecological consequences. Nearly 70% of damaging forest insects and pathogens established in the US between 1860 and 2006 most likely entered on imported live plants. The current regulation of plant imports is outdated and needs to balance the impacts of pest damage, the expense of mitigation efforts, and the benefits of live plant importation. To inform these discussions, we document large increases in the volume and value of plant imports over the past five decades and explain recent and proposed changes to plant import regulations. Two data sources were used to estimate the infestation rate of regulated pests in live plant shipments entering the US, thus allowing evaluation of the efficacy of the current port inspection process.
29546189|The cultivation of plants for the production of hydrocarbon fuels is gaining global momentum. These biofuels offer potential benefits as alternatives to fossil fuels, but mitigating any environmental risks posed by largescale cultivation of bioenergy feedstock (biofeedstock) species poses new challenges: some proposed biofuel crops have become naturalized, and even invasive; the relative risks and benefits of growing monocultures versus polycultures of biofeedstock species require more thorough examination; and prompt development of a robust ecological risk assessment framework and careful screening are needed before these biofuel species are widely cultivated. Greater collaboration between agronomists developing crops for biofeedstock production and invasion biologists could substantially lower the risk of new plant invasions.
3868712| Climatic changes associated with the El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) can have a dramatic impact on terrestrial ecosystems worldwide, but especially on arid and semiarid systems, where productivity is strongly limited by precipitation. Nearly two decades of research, including both short-term experiments and long-term studies conducted on three continents, reveal that the initial, extraordinary increases in primary productivity percolate up through entire food webs, attenuating the relative importance of top-down control by predators, providing key resources that are stored to fuel future production, and altering disturbance regimes for months or years after ENSO conditions have passed. Moreover, the ecological changes associated with ENSO events have important implications for agroecosystems, ecosystem restoration, wildlife conservation, and the spread of disease. Here we present the main ideas and results of a recent symposium on the effects of ENSO in dry ecosystems, which was convened as part of the First Alexander von Humboldt International Conference on the El Nio Phenomenon and its Global Impact (Guayaquil, Ecuador, 16-20 May 2005). 
10.2307/3868359|The shallow-water ocean environment is of great importance in the context of global change and is heavily impacted by human activity. This study evaluates the effects of human activity on the CO
41811854|The peat swamp forests (PSFs) of Sundaland, in Southeast Asia, support many endemic freshwater fish species. However, the future of these species is in doubt, owing to ongoing PSF deforestation. Here, we show that, if current rates of PSF conversion to a predominantly agricultural mosaic landscape continue through 2050, 16 fish species may become globally extinct. In the worst-case scenario, where the rate of conversion across the region matches that of the most rapidly deforested river basin, 77% (79 of 102 species) of the narrowly adapted (stenotopic) fish species are likely to become extinct, a figure that would more than double known extinctions of the world's freshwater fishes. As indicated by our analysis, the PSFs of Indonesia's Central Kalimantan region would be most severely impacted.
10.2307/3868586|The Florida Everglades is an oligotrophic wetland system with tree islands as one of its most prominent landscape features. Total soil phosphorus concentrations on tree islands can be 6 to 100 times greater than phosphorus levels in the surrounding marshes and sloughs, making tree islands nutrient hotspots. Several mechanisms are believed to redistribute phosphorus to tree islands: subsurface water flows generated by evapotranspiration of trees, higher deposition rates of dry fallout, deposition of guano by birds and other animals, groundwater upwelling, and bedrock mineralization by tree exudates. A conceptual model is proposed, in which the focused redistribution of limiting nutrients, especially phosphorus, onto tree islands controls their maintenance and expansion. Because of increased primary production and peat accretion rates, the redistribution of phosphorus can result in an increase in both tree island elevation and size. Human changes to hydrology have greatly decreased the number and size of tree islands in parts of the Everglades. The proposed model suggests that the preservation of existing tree islands, and ultimately of the Everglades landscape, requires the maintenance of these phosphorus redistribution mechanisms.
10.2307/3868464|A growing realization that the oceans are being degraded has led to calls for a fundamental shift in the management of activities that affect marine ecosystems. Insights from research in coastal marine ecosystems will help shape policies that consider interactions between ecosystem components. The concept of connections is central to coastal marine ecology. Connections between: (1) ecosystem structure and functioning; (2) land and sea; (3) marine habitats; (4) species; (5) diverse stressors; and (6) knowledge and uncertainty are of particular importance. These linkages provide conceptual and tactical guidance to inform the transition to ecosystem-based management for the oceans. Conceptual guidance includes recognizing of linkages, expecting of surprises, and avoiding hubris in management. Tactical guidance includes managing coastal systems at watershed scales, emphasizing monitoring, using area-based management, and incorporating the recognition of uncertainties into decision-making. Ultimately, successful management of human activities that affect the oceans will require integrating these conceptual and tactical approaches.
10.2307/3868428|There are times when birds reproduce at higher rates in places where they are less abundant, limiting the generally accepted value of bird counts as environmental indicators. But how often, and under what circumstances, does this happen? In 109 published cases involving 67 species across North America and Europe, higher density sites displayed greater recruitment per capita and per unit of land area in 72% and 85% of cases, respectively. The frequency of negative relationships between abundance and reproductive success did not differ between different kinds of birds or habitats. However, density was negatively related to reproductive success more often in areas of human disturbance than in relatively natural areas. Although further study is needed to confirm the generality of this pattern, especially in areas such as the tropics, results suggest that birds can fail to recognize ecological traps or opportunities in landscapes that differ from those in which they evolved.
23470483|Widespread threats to forests resulting from drought stress are prompting a re-evaluation of priorities for water management on forest lands. In contrast to the widely held view that forest management should emphasize providing water for downstream uses, we argue that maintaining forest health in the context of a changing climate may require focusing on the forests themselves and on strategies to reduce their vulnerability to increasing water stress. Management strategies would need to be tailored to specific landscapes but could include thinning, planting and selecting for drought-tolerant species, irrigating, and making more water available to plants for transpiration. Hydrologic modeling reveals that specific management actions could reduce tree mortality due to drought stress. Adopting water conservation for vegetation as a priority for managing water on forested lands would represent a fundamental change in perspective and potentially involve trade-offs with other downstream uses of water.
43187837|In recent decades, perspectives on the integrated social-ecological aspects of natural resource problems have become increasingly influential as traditional national security outlooks have expanded to include environmental and human concerns. However, China has not been influenced much by new environmental security frameworks. An overview of six main stressors-ecosystem degradation, food security, energy, water, urbanization, and climate change-that affect security in China reveals that current policies need to be reformed. China's ecosystems remain subject to widespread degradation, food supply is under stress, energy demand is growing rapidly, there are increasing conflicts over water quality and quantity, urbanization cannot proceed without fundamental environmental and social reforms, and climate-change impacts are projected to intensify. To resolve such security issues, China's leaders must depend less on technological solutions and should instead craft adaptive management reforms to address the lack of interdisciplinary problem-solving, low institutional capacity, and gaps between policy and implementation.
43187771|Microorganisms inhabit almost every environment, comprise the majority of diversity on Earth, are important in biogeochemical cycling, and may be vital to ecosystem responses to large-scale climatic change. In recent years, ecologists have begun to use rapidly advancing molecular techniques to address questions about microbial diversity, biogeography, and responses to environmental change. Studies of microbes in the environment generally focus on three broad objectives: determining which organisms are present, what their functional capabilities are, and which are active at any given time. However, comprehending the range of methodologies currently in use can be daunting. To provide an overview of environmental microbial sequence data collection and analysis approaches, we include case studies of microbiomes ranging from the human mouth to geothermal springs. We also suggest contexts in which each technique can be applied and highlight insights that result from their use.
43187878|The importance of connectivity for species conservation has resulted in myriad attempts to identify corridors linking habitat patches and conservation areas. However, making smart decisions for restoring connectivity requires information beyond simple maps of corridors. Here, we combine land-parcel cost estimates with a new analytical approach that pinpoints where barrier removal can best improve connectivity to develop a return-on-investment framework for connectivity restoration. An iterative series of barrier analyses followed by simulated restorations allowed us to incorporate cumulative effects of previous restoration decisions, which can alter the potential value of future restorations. To demonstrate our approach, we identify specific sites that, if restored, would most increase habitat connectivity for the Washington ground squirrel (Urocitellus washingtoni). The analysis was performed in two ways: first without consideration of economic costs and then again, explicitly incorporating the costs of land purchase and restoration. We found that accounting for land costs could reduce overall restoration costs by 55% and increase the area of land restored by 30%. These methods can be tailored to meet different connectivity objectives and can complement reserve design selection methods that prioritize conservation of contiguous natural areas.
43188492|When characterizing the processes that shape ecosystems, ecologists increasingly use the unique perspective offered by repeat observations of remotely sensed imagery. However, the concept of change embodied in much of the traditional remote-sensing literature was primarily limited to capturing large or extreme changes occurring in natural systems, omitting many more subtle processes of interest to ecologists. Recent technical advances have led to a fundamental shift toward an ecological view of change. Although this conceptual shift began with coarser-scale global imagery, it has now reached users of Landsat imagery, since these datasets have temporal and spatial characteristics appropriate to many ecological questions. We argue that this ecologically relevant perspective of change allows the novel characterization of important dynamic processes, including disturbances, longterm trends, cyclical functions, and feedbacks, and that these improvements are already facilitating our understanding of critical driving forces, such as climate change, ecological interactions, and economic pressures.
10.2307/3868445|National scale aggregate indicators of ecosystem services are useful for stimulating and supporting a broad public discussion about trends in the provision of these services. There are important considerations involved in producing an aggregate indicator, including whether the scientific and technological capacity exists, how to address varying perceptions of the societal importance of different services, and how to communicate information about these services to both decision makers and the general public. Although the challenges are formidable, they are not insurmountable. Quantification of ecosystem services and dissemination of information to decision makers and the public is critical for the responsible and sustainable management of natural resources.
43187723|Forest decline played a pivotal role in motivating Europe's political focus on sustainability around 35 years ago. Silver fir (Abies alba) exhibited a particularly severe dieback in the mid-1970s, but disentangling biotic from abiotic drivers remained challenging because both spatial and temporal data were lacking. Here, we analyze 14 136 samples from living trees and historical timbers, together with 356 pollen records, to evaluate recent fir growth from a continent-wide and Holocene-long perspective. Land use and climate change influenced forest growth over the past millennium, whereas anthropogenic emissions of acidic sulfates and nitrates became important after about 1850. Pollution control since the 1980s, together with a warmer but not drier climate, has facilitated an unprecedented surge in productivity across Central European fir stands. Restricted fir distribution prior to the Mesolithic and again in the Modern Era, separated by a peak in abundance during the Bronze Age, is indicative of the long-term interplay of changing temperatures, shifts in the hydrological cycle, and human impacts that have shaped forest structure and productivity.
25741271|Many adaptation strategies focus on improving short-term capacities to cope with environmental change, but ignore the possibility that they might inadvertently increase vulnerability to unforeseen changes in the future. To help develop more effective long-term strategies, we present a conceptual framework of adaptation. The framework emphasizes that in order to ensure that existing problems are not exacerbated, adaptation must: (1) address both human-induced and biophysical drivers of undesired ecological change; (2) maintain a diversity of future response options; and (3) nurture the kinds of human capacities that enable the uptake of those response options. These requirements are often not met when adaptation strategies rely on technological fixes, which tend to concentrate on coping with the biophysical symptoms of problems rather than addressing human behavioral causes. Furthermore, to develop effective, long-term adaptation, greater emphasis is needed on strategies that enhance, rather than erode, the human values, skills, and behaviors conducive to sustainable activities. Participatory approaches to environmental stewardship are part of the solution to this problem.
20696486|The management requirements for protected areas are frequently complex and urgent; as a result, managers often need to act quickly and make decisions with limited supporting evidence at their disposal. Despite demands for high-quality information, it is unclear how much of this evidence conservation practitioners use to assist with their decision making. We investigated the information used to manage protected areas, based on the evidence reported by practitioners when evaluating their management performance. We examined the management of over 1000 protected areas run by two Australian conservation agencies  Parks Victoria and the New South Wales Department of Environment and Climate Change  an unprecedented scope for this type of study. We found that very few conservation practitioners use evidence-based knowledge to support their management. The evidence used varies with the management issue, reserve type, and reserve size. Around 60% of conservation management decisions rely on experience-based information, and many practitioners report having insufficient evidence to assess their management decisions. While experience plays an important role in conservation management, the apparent lack of evidence-based information to support decision making in the reserves has the potential to compromise outcomes and jeopardize the investment made in protected areas for conservation.
10.2307/3868486|As landscapes throughout Europe and eastern North America recover from past agricultural use, forests continue to reflect their agricultural history. For centuries after agriculture has ceased, plant communities on abandoned agricultural lands remain impoverished in herbaceous species characteristic of uncleared forests. To facilitate the recovery of biological diversity in these forests, and to anticipate the effects of future land-use decisions, we need to understand the process of recolonization. The unique interactions between forest herbs and agricultural history also allow us to explore some universal questions in ecology, such as how dispersal and environment limit species distributions.
3868880| China, one of the world's "megabiodiversity countries", is home to more than 30 000 vascular plant and 6300 vertebrate species. Over thousands of years, however, cultivation has led to the disappearance of many of these species from the plains and lowland areas. The mountain regions still harbor large numbers of species, because there have been fewer human and natural disturbances and there are more diverse habitats. We used county level species distribution databases to explore patterns of biodiversity and to identify biodiversity hotspots within China. Ten hotspot ecoregions were identified, containing 3110 plant genera (92.0% of the country's total), 220 (90.5%) endemic plant genera, 366 (94.3%) endangered plants, and 254 (72.2%) endangered vertebrates, 427 (91.0%) terrestrial mammal species, and 65 (85.5%) endemic mammals. All 10 hotspot ecoregions are located in the mountainous areas of China. Although high richness of overall, endangered, and endemic plants and animals co-occurred in many of the same hotspot ecoregions, they often occurred in different counties within these ecoregions and showed low spatial congruence. In conclusion, China's mountain regions are critical for protecting biodiversity and should be made conservation priorities in the future. /// ???????? ????????? ??????30,000????????6,300??????? ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ????????????????????????????????????????????10???????????? ????????????????3110?????????????92.0%?? 220???????????90.5%?? 366????????94.3%???427????????91.0%?? 65??????????85.5%??254??????????72.2%?? ??????????????????????????????????????????????? ??????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????????????? 
43188491|Although shale drilling operations for oil and natural gas have increased greatly in the past decade, few studies directly quantify the impacts of shale development on plants and wildlife. We evaluate knowledge gaps related to shale development and prioritize research needs using a quantitative framework that includes spatial and temporal extent, mitigation difficulty, and current level of understanding. Identified threats to biota from shale development include: surface and groundwater contamination; diminished stream flow; stream siltation; habitat loss and fragmentation; localized air, noise, and light pollution; climate change; and cumulative impacts. We find the highest research priorities to be probabilistic threats (underground chemical migration; contaminant release during storage, during disposal, or from accidents; and cumulative impacts), the study of which will require major scientific coordination among researchers, industry, and government decision makers. Taken together, our research prioritization outlines a way forward to better understand how energy development affects the natural world.
41811858|Should a species be translocated? Uncertainty regarding the necessity and feasibility of many translocations complicates answering this question. Here, we review translocation projects, both published and unpublished. Our results indicate that most projects (1) addressed fewer than half of the basic criteria established for translocations and (2) were either unjustifiable from a conservation perspective or inadequately designed to guarantee success or preclude negative consequences. We propose a hierarchical decision-making system - an explicit method that integrates existing guidelines, thereby covering a key gap in conservation science - to reduce ambiguity when deciding whether to implement a given translocation project. This method will improve the likelihood of success in translocation projects and contribute to the efficient use of the limited resources available for these conservation efforts.
29546188|Large-scale natural disturbances are commonplace around the world. They can have profound effects on human infrastructure and populations, as well as substantially influencing key ecological processes, shaping landscapes, and affecting many species. Major natural disturbances also have the potential to produce important ecological and resource management insights. Here, we argue that it is essential to initiate research quickly after such disturbances, and provide examples illustrating the ecological and management discoveries that arise from the early initiation of post-disturbance studies. However, there are currently few funding programs available to support this type of rapid research response. Consequently, many ecological and management learning opportunities are lost. We propose ways to address these problems, including: (1) establishing funding programs specifically directed at supporting studies of ecosystem response and recovery after major disturbances, and (2) encouraging scientists to develop plans for studying natural disturbances before they occur.
20440910|Headwater streams provide important ecosystem services, including clean drinking water, habitat for aquatic life, and rapid processing and uptake of nutrients, which can reduce delivery of nitrogen and phosphorus to downstream coastal waters. Despite their importance to ecosystem functioning, very little research has addressed the extent to which headwater streams are buried beneath the land surface during urbanization. We measured the occurrence of stream burial within a major tributary to the Chesapeake Bay, for streams with catchment areas ranging from 10 ha to 10 ha. We used hydrologic modeling to identify where streams should be and then calibrated a map of impervious surface area, using high-resolution aerial photography to build a stream channel decision-tree classification. We found that 20% of all streams were buried, with streams in low-residential and suburban areas outside Baltimore City exhibiting 19% burial rates. Smaller headwater streams were more extensively buried than larger streams, and this difference increased with increasing impervious surface area. Within Baltimore City, 66% of all streams and 70% of streams in catchments smaller than 260 ha (1 mi) were buried. In this densely urbanized city, headwater streams are buried to the same extent as is dry land.
23034493|As a peak in the global number of offshore oil rigs requiring decommissioning approaches, there is growing pressure for the implementation of a "rigs-to-reefs" program in the deep sea, whereby obsolete rigs are converted into artificial reefs. Such decommissioned rigs could enhance biological productivity, improve ecological connectivity, and facilitate conservation/restoration of deep-sea benthos (eg cold-water corals) by restricting access to fishing trawlers. Preliminary evidence indicates that decommissioned rigs in shallower waters can also help rebuild declining fish stocks. Conversely, potential negative impacts include physical damage to existing benthic habitats within the "drop zone", undesired changes in marine food webs, facilitation of the spread of invasive species, and release of contaminants as rigs corrode. We discuss key areas for future research and suggest alternatives to offset or minimize negative impacts. Overall, a rigs-to-reefs program may be a valid option for deep-sea benthic conservation.
20440582|A century of wildfire suppression in the United States has led to increased fuel loading and large-scale ecological change across some of the nation's forests. Land management agencies have responded by increasing the use of prescribed fire and thinning. However, given the continued emphasis on fire suppression, current levels of funding for such fuel management practices are unlikely to maintain the status quo, let alone reverse the effects of fire exclusion. We suggest an alternative approach to wildfire management, one that places less emphasis on suppression and instead encourages managers to balance short-term wildfire damages against the long-term consequences of fire exclusion. However, any major change in wildfire management, such as the one proposed here, will shift the costs and benefits of wildfire management, inevitably raising opposition.
43187629|In this paper, we argue that the Anthropocene is an epoch characterized not only by the anthropogenic dominance of the Earth's ecosystems but also by new forms of environmental governance and institutions. Echoing the literature in political ecology, we call these new forms of environmental governance "global assemblages". Socioecological changes associated with global assemblages disproportionately impact poorer nations and communities along the development continuum, or the "Global South", and others who depend on natural resources for subsistence. Although global assemblages are powerful mechanisms of socioecological change, we show how transnational networks of grassroots organizations are able to resist their negative social and environmental impacts, and thus foster socioecological resilience.
41811811|In an increasingly urban society, city residents are finding innovative ways of stewarding nature that integrate environmental, community, and individual outcomes. These urban civic ecology practices -including community gardening, shellfish reintroductions, tree planting and care, and "friends of parks" initiatives to remove invasive and restore native species-generally begin as small, self-organized efforts after a prolonged period of economic and environmental decline or more sudden major disruptions, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, and conflict. Those practices that are sustained expand to encompass partnerships with non-profit organizations; local-, state-, and federal-level government agencies; and universities. Civic ecology practices reflect local cultures and environments as well as the practical knowledge of city residents, and thus vary widely across different cities. When viewed as local assets in some of the most densely populated urban neighborhoods, civic ecology practices offer opportunities for scientific and policy partnerships that address the Ecological Society of America's important Earth Stewardship initiative.
20440620|Human migration and population growth, in concert with globalization trends, greatly affect the environment and conservation efforts. In the Americas, the movement of people, capital, goods, and services has caused different types of ecosystem change, including deforestation. Urbanization, a dominant trend in the Americas, is a two-edged sword for conservation, moving human populations away from rural and protected areas, but also increasing per capita demand for energy, goods, and services. Migration to the forest frontier and the abandonment of marginal rural land present opposite but equally difficult ecological challenges. Projected climate change will also complicate both conservation and migration flows, particularly in developing countries with limited economic and technical capacity. However, better integration of ecological, demographic, and sociological data and theory can lead to the development of predictive models, which will help us to understand and project human migration patterns and their dynamic relationship with ecological change. This interdisciplinary work could lead to the successful development of long-range conservation policy and interventions. /// La migracin humana y el crecimiento de la poblacin, aunado a las tendencias de la globalizacin, afectan substancialmente al medioambiente y los esfuerzos de conservacin. En el continente americano, el movimiento de personas, capital, bienes y servicios ha causado diferentes tipos de cambios en los ecosistemas, incluyendo deforestacin. La urbanizacin, tendencia dominante en el continente americano, es un arma de dos filos para la conservacin, ya que, por un lado, desplaza a las poblaciones humanas fuera de las reas rurales y protegidas, pero por otro lado, incrementa la demanda de energa, bienes y servicios. La migracin hacia zonas boscosas y el abandono de tierras rurales marginadas exponen retos ecolgicos opuestos, pero igualmente difciles. Adems, el cambio climtico previsto complicar los flujos migratorios y la conservacin de los ecosistemas, particularmente en los pases en desarrollo cuya capacidad econmica y tecnolgica es limitada. Sin embargo, una mejor integracin de los datos y de las teoras ecolgicas, demogrficas y sociales, encaminarn a desarrollar modelos predictivos que ayudarn a entender y proyectar los patrones de migracin humana y su relacin dinmica con el cambio ecolgico. Este trabajo interdisciplinario puede encaminarnos hacia el desarrollo de polticas e intervenciones de conservacin exitosas.
3868822|The management of fire-prone forests is one of the most controversial natural resource issues in the US today, particularly in the west of the country. Although vegetation and wildlife in these forests are adapted to fire, the historical range of fire frequency and severity was huge. When fire regimes are altered by human activity, major effects on biodiversity and ecosystem function are unavoidable. We review the ecological science relevant to developing and implementing fire and fuel management policies for forests before, during, and after wildfires. Fire exclusion led to major deviations from historical variability in many dry, low-elevation forests, but not in other forests, such as those characterized by high severity fires recurring at intervals longer than the period of active fire exclusion. Restoration and management of fire-prone forests should be precautionary, allow or mimic natural fire regimes as much as possible, and generally avoid intensive practices such as post-fire logging and planting.
43187702|The reality confronting ecosystem managers today is one of heterogeneous, rapidly transforming landscapes, particularly in the areas more affected by urban and agricultural development. A landscape management framework that incorporates all systems, across the spectrum of degrees of alteration, provides a fuller set of options for how and when to intervene, uses limited resources more effectively, and increases the chances of achieving management goals. That many ecosystems have departed so substantially from their historical trajectory that they defy conventional restoration is not in dispute. Acknowledging novel ecosystems need not constitute a threat to existing policy and management approaches. Rather, the development of an integrated approach to management interventions can provide options that are in tune with the current reality of rapid ecosystem change.
10.2307/3868263| Outbreaks of many vector-borne human diseases are broadly correlated with climatic variation, but evidence of similar fluctuations in disease in natural host populations is rare. Here, we use 21 years of monitoring of black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies to demonstrate a link between extinctions of colonies attributed to plague (Yersinia pestis) and climatic fluctuations associated with El Nio Southern Oscillation events that promote the growth of flea vector and rodent host populations. During epizootics, rates of extinction of the largest colonies (>16 ha) were nearly as high (>60%) as for the smallest ones (<3 ha), but only a third of intermediate-sized colonies were extirpated. The probability of extinction was influenced by the size and fate of adjacent colonies, but there was no predictable relationship between extinction probabilities and intercolony distance, indicating that spatial isolation does not reduce the vulnerability of colonies to plague. By causing sporadic extinctions of colonies, plague creates a metapopulation structure that has altered the dynamics of prairie dog colonies as they respond to a century of human persecution and habitat loss. 
43188444|As part of the 2014 US National Climate Assessment, over 60 subject-matter experts from government agencies, academia, nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector assessed the current and projected impacts of climate change on ecosystems, biodiversity, and ecosystem services. Here, we introduce and provide context for the papers included in this Special Issue, drawing upon the key findings from separate assessments of biodiversity, ecosystem structure and function, ecosystem services, climate-change impacts in the context of other Stressors, and societal responses to change (ie climate adaptation). We also explain the assessment process and show how the current state of knowledge can be used to identify risks and guide future research and management initiatives.
41811421|Four decades after the passage of the US Clean Air Act, air-quality standards are set to protect ecosystems from damage caused by gas-phase nitrogen (N) and sulfur (S) compounds, but not from the deposition of these air pollutants to land and water. Here, we synthesize recent scientific literature on the ecological effects of N and S air pollution in the US. Deposition of N and S is the main driver of ecosystem acidification and contributes to nutrient enrichment in many natural systems. Although surface-water acidification has decreased in the US since 1990, it remains a problem in many regions. Perturbations to ecosystems caused by the nutrient effects of N deposition continue to emerge, although gas-phase concentrations are generally not high enough to cause phytotoxicity. In all, there is overwhelming evidence of a broad range of damaging effects to ecosystems in the US under current air-quality conditions.
25595248|If tropical farmers cannot be provided with sustainable land-use systems, which address their subsistence needs and keep them gainfully employed, tropical forests will continue to disappear. We looked at the ability of economic land-use diversification - with reforestation of tropical "wastelands" as a key activity - to halt deforestation at the farm level. Our ecological-economic concept, based on land-use data from the buffer area of the Podocarpus National Park in southern Ecuador, shows that stopping deforestation after 10 years is possible without violating subsistence demands. Tropical, farm-level diversification may not only reduce total deforestation by 45%, but also increase farmers' profits by 65%, because the formerly unproductive wastelands have been returned to productive land use. We therefore conclude that a "win-win" scenario is possible: the subsistence needs of people can be reconciled with conservation objectives. However, inexpensive microcredits (at interest rates below 6%) and experience on alternative land-use opportunities must be offered to farmers.
10.2307/3868566|Buruli ulcer (Mycobacterium ulcerans infection) is an emerging disease of developing tropical and subtropical countries. This environmental mycobacterium causes severe morbidity in communities associated with rivers and standing water bodies (particularly those created as a result of human environmental disturbance such as deforestation and agriculture) and subsequent water quality changes. Neither the reservoir nor the mode of transmission is known, but data from laboratory studies suggest that biting aquatic insects may be involved. M ulcerans has been shown to colonize and grow within specific water bugs (Naucoridae), which then transmit M ulcerans to mice through their bites. PCR evidence suggests that the mycobacterium is present in water, biofilms of aquatic plants, detritus, invertebrates, and fish; however, systematic ecological studies that would provide a more comprehensive understanding of M ulcerans distribution in the environment have been lacking. Several hypotheses are explored in relation to human impacts on aquatic food webs and M ulcerans ecology.
20440788|Forest communities, defined by the size and configuration of cover types and stand ages, have commonly been used as proxies for the abundance or viability of wildlife populations. However, for community types to succeed as proxies for species abundance, several assumptions must be met. We tested these assumptions for birds in an Oregon forest environment. Measured habitat was a weak proxy for species abundance and vegetation cover type was a weak proxy for habitat, explaining only 4% of the variance in species abundance. The adequacy of forest community types as habitat proxies was highly dependent on classification rules and the spatial scales at which communities were defined. Habitat was perceived differently by species guilds and a single, generalized characterization of habitat is therefore unlikely to provide a reliable basis for multi-species conservation efforts. Given the weak relations between forest vegetation and species abundance, evaluation of landscape pattern is unlikely to be an effective replacement for the direct monitoring of species population size and distribution.
10.2307/3868430|Sustainability is often poorly defined and difficult to measure. We describe several concepts from ecology, economics, and physics, that have contributed to sustainability indices, and discuss their positive and negative aspects. Indices range from mostly ecological (such as ecosystem resilience and global human carrying capacity), to those inspired by both economics and ecology (green income and maximum sustainable yield), to a mix of ecology and physics (exergy and emergy). Economic concepts such as substitutability of natural and human capital (the "weak" versus "strong" sustainability debate), and through-put of natural resources through an economic system, are the basis for several strictly economic indices. The second law of thermodynamics, which dictates the decrease in usable energy, has also had an increasing influence on sustainability discussions. The indices described here address different aspects of the interactions between human societies and ecosystems, and are therefore probably most effective when used in combination.
41811834|In response to concerns regarding the global status of living marine resources, there has been a worldwide tightening of fishery access regulations. This has led to growing interest in individual transferable catch share programs, a market-based allocation approach to distribute fishing rights. However, the economic, ecological, and social benefits of these systems are the subject of continued debate. Here, we review empirical studies of transferable catch share systems published over the past decade. Our results show that, despite some of these systems having been in place for more than 20 years, systematic empirical assessments of their impacts are still rare. Furthermore, methods used to assess the impacts of catch share systems to facilitate comparisons remain under development, making it difficult to derive general conclusions from existing studies.
10.2307/3868337|Ecology has emerged as a global science, and there is a pressing need to identify ecological rules -- general principles that will improve its predictive capability for scientists and its usefulness for managers and policy makers. Ideally, the generality and limits of these ecological rules should be assessed using extensive, coordinated experiments that ensure consistency in design and comparability of data. To improve the design of these large-scale efforts, existing data should be used to test prospective ecological rules and to identify their limits and contingencies. As an example of this approach, we describe prospective rules for grassland responses to fire and rainfall gradients, identified from long-term studies of North American grasslands and tested with existing data from long-term experiments in South African savanna grasslands. Analyses indicated consistent effects of fire on the abundance of the dominant (grasses) and subdominant (forbs) flora on both continents, but no common response of grass or forb abundance across a rainfall gradient. Such analyses can inform future research designs to refine and more explicitly test ecological rules.
3868711|Biodiversity conservation in forestry and agricultural landscapes is important because (1) reserves alone will not protect biodiversity; (2) commodity production relies on vital services provided by biodiversity; and (3) biodiversity enhances resilience, or a system's capacity to recover from external pressures such as droughts or management mistakes. We suggest ten guiding principles to help maintain biodiversity, ecosystem function, and resilience in production landscapes. Landscapes should include structurally characteristic patches of native vegetation, corridors and stepping stones between them, a structurally complex matrix, and buffers around sensitive areas. Management should maintain a diversity of species within and across functional groups. Highly focused management actions may be required to maintain keystone species and threatened species, and to control invasive species. These guiding principles provide a scientifically defensible starting point for the integration of conservation and production, which is urgently required from both an ecological and a long-term economic perspective.
20440909|In this study, we present a coarse-scale, first approximation of the geographic areas where privately owned forests support at-risk species in the conterminous United States. At-risk species are defined as those species listed under the US Endangered Species Act or with a global conservation status rank of critically imperiled, imperiled, or vulnerable. Our results indicate that two-thirds of the watersheds in the conterminous US contain at-risk species associated with private forests, with counts ranging from one to 101 species. Those watersheds with the greatest number and density of such species are found in the Southeast, Midwest, and west coast states. Many private forests are threatened by land-use conversion. Those forests projected to experience the greatest increase in housing density within the next 25 years, and with relatively high densities of at-risk species, are found in over 100 watersheds, most of them in the Southeastern states.
10.2307/3868585|Amazonian farmers and ranchers use fire to clear land for agriculture and pasture as part of extensive land-use strategies that have deforested 500000 km
23470525|Understanding human impacts on ecosystems is critical for conservation, but can be complicated by interactions between multiple impacts occurring at different times. Using historical patterns of ditch construction on Cape Cod, Massachusetts, we tested the hypothesis that mosquito ditches have exacerbated salt marsh die-offs. Ditching activities occurred in the 1930s and were followed by post-World War II shoreline development, which created > 90% of current shoreline infrastructure on Cape Cod. Recently, predator depletion caused by recreational fishing has allowed populations of a native herbivorous crab (Sesarma reticulatum) to increase dramatically, triggering herbivore-driven cordgrass (Spartina alterniflora) die-off at developed sites. Depression-era mosquito ditching had little effect for decades, but accelerated subsequent die-offs by expanding cordgrass habitat. Despite occurring decades apart, ditching interacted synergistically with shoreline development and recreational fishing to devastate  55% of low marsh habitat (the narrow band of marsh grass necessary for marsh persistence and expansion). This suggests that historical human impacts can remain dormant for decades before interacting unexpectedly with modern perturbations. Such latent impacts are widespread in both marine and terrestrial habitats and may be common in other ecosystems with a history of disturbance.
41811397|Citizen science is a powerful tool for connecting people to science, but in the US, such initiatives have not connected as well to groups that have been historically underrepresented in science. Research suggests that while several factors contribute to this lack of diverse participation in citizen science, the critical hurdle may be an absence of alignment between community priorities and research objectives. Here, I discuss a participatory framework for designing citizen-science programs that align with community priorities.
20440845|Worldwide, management of fisheries has repeatedly failed, despite substantial investment in scientific research, primarily in the natural sciences. We argue that the way in which ecosystems are viewed and the lack of explicit consideration of three key elements -- corporate responsibility, social justice, and ethics -- have contributed to this dismal history. Here, we turn classical ecosystem thinking on its head, proposing an alternative image of an "inverted trophic pyramid" that places humans at the bottom. The inverted pyramid encapsulates ecosystem-based management and the interdependent relationship between humans and the ecosystem. It requires business incentives, ethics, and a balance of power to prevent the pyramid from toppling and to avert a crisis.
10.2307/3868567|Research ecologists and biodiversity managers frequently have to contend with difficult ethical questions during the course of their work. Yet there is no established approach or field within professional or practical ethics devoted to helping researchers and managers identify and reason through these complex ethical and philosophical issues. Unlike biomedical scientists and clinicians, ecologists and biodiversity managers lack an explicit scholarly forum such as bioethics, that can help them to analyze the complicated ethical situations they encounter in the field, the laboratory, or the conservation facility. Here we present a series of real world cases to illustrate some of the current ethical challenges faced by research ecologists and managers. We call for a new integrated and interdisciplinary field of concrete ethical inquiry -- "ecological ethics" -- that will fill an important gap in the practical and professional ethics literature, as well as provide ecological researchers and managers with a critical support network and resource base to improve ethical decision making.
29546190|Predicting how vegetation may change in response to an increasingly variable climate is difficult, but the analysis of observed responses to past climatic oscillations can inform the forecasting process. The consequences of multiple extreme events were recorded (1978-1998) for a California salt marsh. Ultimately, after less-extreme decadal weather patterns were preceded by more-extreme ones resulting from the Pacific Decadal Oscillation, six types of climate-change-related effects on vegetation became apparent. Among the identified effect types in this system, "sequential" (or event-order-dependent) effects were the most severe with regard to abrupt biodiversity losses. Similar outcomes could be applied to other ecosystems subjected to variable conditions. Managers and restoration ecologists need to anticipate the many ways in which extreme events can affect vegetation and use this knowledge to build resilience into restoration targets and plantings. A national program of adaptive restoration could first be applied in downstream wetlands, where the cumulative effects of flooding and sedimentation will cause vegetation to respond rapidly, and where adaptive approaches (eg futuristic assemblages) could be tested in large field experiments.
25595059|We used field and laboratory measurements, geographic information systems, and simulation modeling to investigate the potential effects of accelerated sea-level rise on tidal marsh area and delivery of ecosystem services along the Georgia coast. Model simulations using the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) mean and maximum estimates of sea-level rise for the year 2100 suggest that salt marshes will decline in area by 20% and 45%, respectively. The area of tidal freshwater marshes will increase by 2% under the IPCC mean scenario, but will decline by 39% under the maximum scenario. Delivery of ecosystem services associated with productivity (macrophyte biomass) and waste treatment (nitrogen accumulation in soil, potential denitrification) will also decline. Our findings suggest that tidal marshes at the lower and upper salinity ranges, and their attendant delivery of ecosystem services, will be most affected by accelerated sea-level rise, unless geomorphic conditions (ie gradual increase in elevation) enable tidal freshwater marshes to migrate inland, or vertical accretion of salt marshes to increase, to compensate for accelerated sea-level rise.
20440555|Recent reviews have emphasized the need to incorporate genomics into ecological field studies to further understand how species respond to changing environmental conditions. Genomic tools, such as cDNA (complementary DNA) microarrays, allow for the simultaneous analysis of gene expression of thousands of genes from all or part of an organism's genome (the transcription profile), thereby revealing the genetic mechanisms that underlie species' responses to environmental change. However, despite their potential, two major limitations have hindered the incorporation of microarrays and other genomic tools into field studies: (1) the limited availability of microarrays for ecologically relevant, non-model species and limited financial resources for developing new microarrays; and (2) concern that high sensitivity of gene expression to even subtle alterations in environmental conditions will hinder detection of relevant changes in field measures of transcription profiles. Here, we show that with cross-species hybridizations of microarrays developed for a closely related model organism, an appropriate experimental design, and sufficient replication, transcriptional profiling can successfully be incorporated into field studies. In this way, relevant changes in gene expression with changing environmental conditions can be detected.
20440730|Fifty years ago, GE Hutchinson defined the ecological niche as a hypervolume in n-dimensional space with environmental variables as axes. Ecologists have recently developed renewed interest in the concept, and technological advances now allow us to use stable isotope analyses to quantify these niche dimensions. Analogously, we define the isotopic niche as an area (in -space) with isotopic values (-values) as coordinates. To make isotopic measurements comparable to other niche formulations, we propose transforming -space to p-space, where axes represent relative proportions of isotopically distinct resources incorporated into an animal's tissues. We illustrate the isotopic niche with two examples: the application of historic ecology to conservation biology and ontogenetic niche shifts. Sustaining renewed interest in the niche requires novel methods to measure the variables that define it. Stable isotope analyses are a natural, perhaps crucial, tool in contemporary studies of the ecological niche.
10.2307/3868139|Tropical forests are one of the most diverse and endangered habitats on earth. They have also been portrayed as a source of future pharmaceuticals, yet finding useful compounds can be both scientifically and politically challenging. Increasingly, over the past decade, the potential value of medicinal compounds derived from plants, microorganisms, and animals has been proposed as a tangible benefit of biodiversity, and therefore a basis for promoting its preservation. Ecological theories of plant defense can increase the probability of discovering compounds with activity in bioassays against human disease targets. In addition, conducting research in tropical countries with local scientists provides immediate and lasting benefits for the sustainable use of biodiversity. This new approach to drug discovery has been effective in identifying bioactive leads. It is both an important step towards understanding the medicinal value of biodiversity, and a practical way to link drug discovery with conservation.
10.2307/3868213|The world's tropical forests take up and emit large amounts of carbon (C) through photosynthesis and respiration. Their response to global changes in the atmosphere and climate could therefore act as a feedback. Only recently has research been focused on the possibility that tropical forests may not be in C balance. There is currently a vigorous debate about whether these ecosystems might be accelerating or slowing down the rate of atmospheric CO
10.2307/3868487|The survival of humans as a species is intimately linked to the well-being of ecosystems and the resources they provide. The well-being of ecosystems depends, in turn, on minimizing the damaging impacts of human activities. Irrespective of the kinds of habitats we choose to protect or restore, we need to understand how ecosystems, and the organisms that inhabit them, respond to chemicals and radiation exposure. Recent technological advances in molecular biology and analytical science have allowed the development of rapid, robust, and sensitive diagnostic tests (biomarkers) that can be used to monitor exposure to, and the effects of, pollution. For the first time, we are able to make health assessments of individual organisms in much the same way that we evaluate human health. Here, we discuss how to best use this capability to ensure that pollution does not threaten the sustainability of our ecosystems and cause adverse effects in human and wildlife populations.
41811833|The use of nitrogen (N) in fertilizer has doubled the amount of reactive N in the biosphere, leading to increased greenhouse-gas emissions and nutrient enrichment in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. Despite the global impact of N, many uncertainties exist about the factors that determine the loss and retention of fertilizer-associated N in terrestrial ecosystems. A growing body of evidence shows that linkages between plants and soil microbes play a major role in controlling the loss and retention of N. The promotion of such plantmicrobial linkages in agricultural systems has the potential to enhance N retention and reduce N loss. Although trade-offs with agricultural yield are inevitable, promoting plantmicrobial linkages will reap benefits in terms of plant crop resistance to climate change as well as to pests and diseases.
23470549|Ecologists require spatially explicit data to relate structure to function. To date, heavy reliance has been placed on obtaining such data from remote-sensing instruments mounted on spacecraft or manned aircraft, although the spatial and temporal resolutions of the data are often not suited to local-scale ecological investigations. Recent technological innovations have led to an upsurge in the availability of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)  aircraft remotely operated from the ground  and there are now many lightweight UAVs on offer at reasonable costs. Flying low and slow, UAVs offer ecologists new opportunities for scale-appropriate measurements of ecological phenomena. Equipped with capable sensors, UAVs can deliver fine spatial resolution data at temporal resolutions defined by the end user. Recent innovations in UAV platform design have been accompanied by improvements in navigation and the miniaturization of measurement technologies, allowing the study of individual organisms and their spatiotemporal dynamics at close range.
10.2307/3868141|Research into the public understanding of science has revealed a widespread lack of understanding of basic scientific concepts and procedures. However, it also shows that the relationship of lay citizens and other nonexperts to science is much more complex than is captured by a simple "cognitive deficit" model of knowledge that focuses on "what people don't know". Overall, research findings point towards a need for diversity and local sensitivity in programs of environmental education. They also suggest that the goal should be to enable students to engage in an informed conversation with expertise about the environment and help them develop the confidence and skill to add to it and, when appropriate, to challenge it. Achieving such a goal will require changes in both teaching and assessment approaches.
43187621|Conservation monitoring programs are critical for identifying many elements of species ecology and for detecting changes in populations. However, without articulating how monitoring information will trigger relevant conservation actions, programs that monitor species until they become extinct are at odds with the primary goal of conservation: avoiding biodiversity loss. Here, we outline cases in which species were monitored until they suffered local, regional, or global extinction in the absence of a preplanned intervention program, and contend that conservation monitoring programs should be embedded within a management plan and characterized by vital attributes to ensure their effectiveness. These attributes include: (1) explicit articulation of how monitoring information will inform conservation actions, (2) transparent specification of trigger points within monitoring programs at which strategic interventions will be implemented, and (3) rigorous quantification of the ability to achieve early detection of change.
41149680|The analysis of coupled biogeochemical cycles (CBCs) addresses the scientific basis for some of today's major environmental problems. Drawing from information presented at a series of sessions on CBCs held at the 2009 Annual Meeting of the Ecological Society of America and from the research community's expertise, we identify several principal research themes that justify action and investment. Critical areas for research include: coupling of major element cycles to less studied yet equally important trace element cycles; analyzing CBCs across ecosystem boundaries; integrating experimental results into regional- and global-scale models; and expanding the analysis of human interactions with CBCs arising from human population growth, urbanization, and geoengineering. To advance the current understanding of CBCs and to address the environmental challenges of the 21st century, scientists must maintain and synthesize data from existing observational and experimental networks, develop new instrumentation networks, and adopt emerging technologies.
43187881|Jellyfish are usually perceived as harmful to humans and are seen as "pests". This negative perception has hindered knowledge regarding their value in terms of ecosystem services. As humans increasingly modify and interact with coastal ecosystems, it is important to evaluate the benefits and costs of jellyfish, given that jellyfish bloom size, frequency, duration, and extent are apparently increasing in some regions of the world. Here we explore those benefits and costs as categorized by regulating, supporting, cultural, and provisioning ecosystem services. A geographical perspective of human vulnerability to jellyfish over four categories of human well-being (health care, food, energy, and freshwater production) is also discussed in the context of thresholds and trade-offs to enable social adaptation. Whereas beneficial services provided by jellyfish likely scale linearly with biomass (perhaps peaking at a saturation point), non-linear thresholds exist for negative impacts to ecosystem services. We suggest that costly adaptive strategies will outpace the beneficial services if jellyfish populations continue to increase in the future.
10.2307/3867984|Ecological impacts from roads may be the rule rather than the exception in most of the conterminous United States. We measured the proportion of land area that was located within nine distances from the nearest road of any type, and mapped the results for 164 ecoregions and 2108 watersheds nationwide. Overall, 20% of the total land area was within 127 m of a road, and the proportion increased rapidly with distance, so that 83% was within 1061 m of a road, and only 3% was more than 5176 m away. For forest land area only, the proportions differed by less than 2% for all distances. Regions with more than 60% of their total land area within 382 m of a road may be at greatest risk of cumulative ecological impacts from roads. These regions include nearly all coastal zones, as well as substantial portions of the southeast US and the basins of the Ohio, Brazos, Colorado, Sacramento, and San Joaquin Rivers.
20440650|Environmental monitoring is often cirticized as being unscientific, too expensive, and wasteful. While some monitoring studies do suffer from these problems, there are also many highly successful long-term monitoring programs that have provided important scientific advances and crucial information for environmental policy. Here, we discuss the characteristics of effective monitoring programs, and contend that monitoring should be considered a fundamental component of environmental science and policy. We urge scientists who develop monitoring programs to plan in advance to ensure high data quality, accessibility, and cost-effectiveness, and we urge government agencies and other funding institutions to make greater commitments to increasing the amount and long-term stability of funding for environmental monitoring programs.
41811403|National Geographic FieldScope is designed to allow citizen scientists to visualize and analyze their data via online GIS maps. It is being developed with and for citizen-science organizations and will facilitate collaborative problem solving and decision making.
3868760|Amphibians can be important consumers in both aquatic and terrestrial habitats and may represent an important energetic link between the two, particularly in the tropics, where amphibian species richness and abundance are high. In the past 20 years, amphibian populations have declined dramatically around the world; numbers have decreased catastrophically in protected upland sites throughout the neotropics, usually resulting in the disappearance of over 75% of amphibians at a given site, particularly those species that breed in streams. Most studies of amphibian declines have focused on identifying causes and documenting changes in adult abundance, rather than on their ecological consequences. Here, we review evidence for the potential ecological effects of catastrophic amphibian declines, focusing on neotropical highland streams, where impacts will likely be greatest. Evidence to date suggests that amphibian declines will have large-scale and lasting ecosystem-level effects, including changes in algal community structure and primary production, altered organic matter dynamics, changes in other consumers such as aquatic insects and riparian predators, and reduced energy transfers between streams and riparian habitats. Furthermore, because of habitat and functional differences between larvae and adults in most amphibians, the loss of a single species is akin to losing two species.
20440938|One of the most storied biological expeditions is the 1940 trip to the Sea of Cortez (Gulf of California) by author John Steinbeck and his close friend Edward F Ricketts, a professional biologist. Steinbeck and Ricketts visited intertidal sites around the Gulf and made extensive collections, taking notes on fauna and natural history. In 2004, we retraced the Steinbeck and Ricketts voyage, visiting the same intertidal sites during the same season and using the authors' extensive natural history notes as a baseline for comparison. Although we found many of the same species as they did, populations were, in many cases, not as geographically widespread, and individuals were fewer in number and smaller in size. In particular, echinoderms and large gastropods showed declines, as did most large pelagic vertebrate species. One of the most remarkable changes in the pelagic community is the present abundance of jumbo squid, Dosidicus gigas, a species not reported in 1940. Although Steinbeck and Ricketts, by their own admission, "could not yet relate the microcosm of the Gulf with the macrocosm of the sea", the changes we observed with historical perspective are in agreement with documented changes in ocean and coastal ecosystems around the world.
25595195|Forests are viewed as a potential sink for carbon (C) that might otherwise contribute to climate change. It is unclear, however, how to manage forests with frequent fire regimes to maximize C storage while reducing C emissions from prescribed burns or wildfire. We modeled the effects of eight different fuel treatments on tree-based C storage and release over a century, with and without wildfire. Model runs show that, after a century of growth without wildfire, the control stored the most C. However, when wildfire was included in the model, the control had the largest total C emission and largest reduction in live-tree-based C stocks. In model runs including wildfire, the final amount of tree-based C sequestered was most affected by the stand structure initially produced by the different fuel treatments. In wildfire-prone forests, tree-based C stocks were best protected by fuel treatments that produced a low-density stand structure dominated by large, fire-resistant pines.
20440649|In 2003, the environmental authorities of the Federal District of Mexico declared that genetically modified organisms were incompatible with ecological agriculture practices established in rural areas south of Mexico City. To ensure compliance with official standards and organic agriculture policies, steps were taken to implement an early warning system for the detection of genetically modified maize in farmers' fields. In our sampling efforts, which were conducted in 2003, transgenic proteins expressed in maize were found in two (0.96%) of 208 samples from farmers' fields, located in two (8%) of 25 sampled communities. Mexico imports a substantial amount of maize from the US, and due to formal and informal seed networks among rural farmers, there are many potential routes of entrance for transgenic maize into food and feed webs. To sustain agroecological practices, preserve organic agriculture, and conserve maize landraces in the Soil Conservation area of the Mexican Federal District, environmental authorities will need to maintain and update ecological policies such as the "green seal" for organic agriculture, apply alternative technologies such as biofertilizers to enhance plant nutrition, and develop sustainable maize agriculture with the implementation of profitable intercropping systems.
10.2307/3868189|Mice, rats, and other rodents threaten food production and act as reservoirs for disease throughout the world. In Asia alone, the rice loss every year caused by rodents could feed about 200 million people. Damage to crops in Africa and South America is equally dramatic. Rodent control often comes too late, is inefficient, or is considered too expensive. Using the multimammate mouse (Mastomys natalensis) in Tanzania and the house mouse (Mus domesticus) in southeastern Australia as primary case studies, we demonstrate how ecology and economics can be combined to identify management strategies to make rodent control work more efficiently than it does today. Three more rodent--pest systems -- including two from Asia, the rice-field rat (Rattus argentiventer) and Brandt's vole (Microtus brandti), and one from South America, the leaf-eared mouse (Phyllotis darwini) -- are presented within the same bio-economic perspective. For all these species, the ability to relate outbreaks to interannual climatic variability creates the potential to assess the economic benefits of forecasting rodent outbreaks.
3868844|Resource managers have traditionally had to rely on simple hydrological and habitat-association methods to predict how changes in river flow regimes will affect the viability of instream populations and communities. Yet these systems are characterized by dynamic feedbacks among system components, a high degree of spatial and temporal variability, and connectivity between habitats, none of which can be adequately captured in the commonly employed management methods. We argue that process-oriented ecological models, which consider dynamics across scales and levels of biological organization, are better suited to guide flow regime management. We review how ecological dynamics in streams and rivers are shaped by a combination of the flow regime and internal feedbacks, and proceed to describe ecological modeling tools that have the potential to characterize such dynamics. We conclude with a suggested research agenda to facilitate the inclusion of ecological dynamics into instream flow needs assessments.
20440885|Recent advances in our understanding of the importance of continental- to global-scale connectivity among terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems make consideration of aquatic-terrestrial linkages an urgent ecological and environmental issue. Here, we describe the role of inland waters as sentinels and integrators of the impact of humans on terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. The metabolic responses of lakes and streams (ie the rates at which these systems process carbon) are proposed as a common metric to integrate the impacts of environmental change across a broad range of landscapes. Lakes and streams transport and alter nutrients, contaminants, and energy, and store signals of environmental change from local to continental scales over periods ranging from weeks to millennia. A carefully conceived and well-integrated network that includes monitoring and experimental approaches to terrestrial-aquatic connectivity is critical to an understanding of basic ecosystem-level processes and to forecasting and mitigating future environmental impacts at the continental scale.
20440791|A genre of papers has arisen around the premise that ecological progress and communication with non-specialists are impeded because (1) many ecological terms have multiple meanings and (2) many ecological terms have meanings similar to each other. There is a repeated call for ecological terminology to be standardized and for terms to be defined more concretely. These calls for the standardization of definitions are based on faulty premises about the way language conveys meaning. Most recommendations for definitional reform are unlikely to take hold due to properties of language and they are unlikely to stimulate increased ecological understanding. Precisely delimited definitions are necessary in very few instances, whereas extensive and prescriptive classification can hinder the development of a field by preventing some types of questions from being asked. Useful lexical reviews should focus on the development of ecological knowledge that is signaled by a wealth of terms and meanings, rather than critiquing the terms employed.
25595244|Fire is fundamental to the natural dynamics of the North American boreal forest. It is therefore often suggested that the impacts of anthropogenic disturbances (eg logging) on a managed landscape are attenuated if the patterns and processes created by these events resemble those of natural disturbances (eg fire). To provide forest management guidelines, we investigate the long-term variability in the mean fire interval (MFI) of a boreal landscape in eastern North America, as reconstructed from lacustrine (lake-associated) sedimentary charcoal. We translate the natural variability in MFI into a range of landscape age structures, using a simple modeling approach. Although using the array of possible forest age structures provides managers with some flexibility, an assessment of the current state of the landscape suggests that logging has already caused a shift in the age-class distribution toward a stronger representation of young stands with a concurrent decrease in old-growth stands. Logging is indeed quickly forcing the studied landscape outside of its long-term natural range of variability, implying that substantial changes in management practices are required, if we collectively decide to maintain these fundamental attributes of the boreal forest.
10.2307/3868266|No rock at the Earth's surface escapes weathering. This process is the primary source of all the essential elements for organisms, except nitrogen and carbon. Since the onset of terrestrial life, weathering has been accelerated under the influence of biota. The study of biological weathering started at the end of the 19th century. Although the role of bacteria (Eubacteria, Archaea) has attracted a lot of interest, until recently the role of fungi has largely been neglected. More recently, however, fungal weathering has become an increasingly important focus of biogeochemical research.
23470948|Many conservation plans remain unimplemented, in part because of insufficient consideration of the social processes that influence conservation decisions. Complementing social considerations with an integrated understanding of the ecology of a region can result in a more complete conservation approach. We suggest that linking conservation planning to a socialecological systems (SES) framework can lead to a more thorough understanding of humanenvironment interactions and more effective integration of social considerations. By characterizing SES as a set of subsystems, and their interactions with each other and with external factors, the SES framework can improve our understanding of the linkages between social and ecological influences on the environment. Using this framework can help to identify socially and ecologically focused conservation actions that will benefit ecosystems and human communities, and assist in the development of more consistent evidence for evaluating conservation actions by comparing conservation case studies.
43188447|Climate change alters the functions of ecological systems. As a result, the provision of ecosystem services and the well-being of people that rely on these services are being modified. Climate models portend continued warming and more frequent extreme weather events across the US. Such weather-related disturbances will place a premium on the ecosystem services that people rely on. We discuss some of the observed and anticipated impacts of climate change on ecosystem service provision and livelihoods in the US. We also highlight promising adaptive measures. The challenge will be choosing which adaptive strategies to implement, given limited resources and time. We suggest using dynamic balance sheets or accounts of natural capital and natural assets to prioritize and evaluate national and regional adaptation strategies that involve ecosystem services.
25741224|"Interface" organizations are groups created to foster the use of science in environmental policy, management, and education. Here we compare interface organizations that differ in spatial scale, modes of operation, and intended audience to illustrate their diversity and importance in promoting the application of science to environmental issues. There has been exciting recent growth in the nature and extent of activities by interface organizations and in new methods for science communication and engagement. These developments can help scientists  who face personal and institutional challenges when attempting to convey the results of their research to various audiences  interact with society on specific issues in specific places, and with a wide range of non-traditional audiences. The ongoing mission for these organizations should be to move beyond simply increasing awareness of environmental problems to the creation of solutions that result in genuine environmental improvements.
29546187|Although human behavior is frequently cited as a factor influencing the emergence of disease at the human-animal interface, few empirical studies have demonstrated this relationship. We compare humans and their domestic animals living in close proximity to populations of the endangered African wild dog (AWD, Lycaon pictus) in both Kenya and Botswana. We identify culturally based differences in domestic-stock grazing practices among pastoralists that strongly influence frequency of contact between domestic dogs and AWDs, with parallel differences in disease-related mortality in AWD populations. Using this study and other examples, we illustrate a conceptual model of the interaction between human behavior and emerging infectious diseases at the human-domestic-animal-wildlife interface. Human cultural behavior has the potential to influence pathogen adaptation, host susceptibility, spatial distribution, and pathogen exposure and contact rates between susceptible hosts, reservoir hosts, and pathogen communities. This affects the pathogen's basic reproductive number (R), ability to invade, and persistence potential. Human behavior may be the key that unlocks the proverbial Pandora's Box, allowing infectious diseases to emerge.
3868903|In spite of the increasing use of local ecological knowledge (LEK) in various environmental studies, few methodological innovations exist to facilitate new uses. This is especially true in studies of environmental change, where standard methods of comparing LEK with scientific knowledge do little to bolster causal claims. Here, I report on a novel approach that uses LEK to formulate manipulative experiments. This interdisciplinary approach exploits LEK's rich historical observations, while employing experimental approaches to disentangle competing hypotheses and to identify underlying mechanisms. This integrated approach produces historically based, mechanistically sound explanations that can be more useful than either LEK or experimental studies alone. I illustrate this approach with recent studies of common reed (Phragmites australis) invasion in salt hay farms.
10.2307/3868563| Ships' ballast water is a leading mechanism for the transport and introduction of nonindigenous species to ports worldwide. Two management strategies are being advanced to reduce propagule supply and invasions from overseas shipping. Ballast water exchange (BWE) is now required by several nations and is expected to be replaced by discharge standards (maximum organismal concentrations), negotiated as a treaty within the International Maritime Organization (IMO). Here, we provide the first forecast and comparison of changes to propagule supply at a national scale, resulting from these alternate management strategies. For unmanaged ballast water, sampled ships (n = 354) arriving to the US typically contained zooplankton concentrations < 3000 organisms m
10.2307/3868237|Two-thirds of all known coral species live in waters that are deep, dark, and cold. Yet due to the difficulty of researching them in their natural environment, their biology and ecology are poorly understood. Deep-sea coral communities provide habitat for many vertebrate and invertebrate species, including some commercially important fish and crustacean populations. Some have levels of biological diversity comparable to shallow-water reefs. They are also highly susceptible to disturbance from many of our deep-sea activities. Bottom trawling in particular has caused considerable destruction of these communities around the world. Due to their extreme longevity and slow growth, recovery is likely to be in the order of decades or even centuries. We provide an overview of deepwater coral biology and ecology, identify the more manageable threats, and suggest recommendations to mitigate further loss.
41480052|Although the geographical context of ecological observations shapes ecological theory, the global distribution of ecological studies has never been analyzed. Here, we document the global distribution and context (protected status, biome, anthrome, and net primary productivity) of 2573 terrestrial study sites reported in recent publications (2004-2009) of 10 highly cited ecology journals. We find evidence of several geographical biases, including overrepresentation of protected areas, temperate deciduous woodlands, and wealthy countries. Even within densely settled or agricultural regions, ecologists tend to study "natural" fragments. Such biases in trendsetting journals may limit the scalability of ecological theory and hinder conservation efforts in the 75% of the terrestrial world where humans live and work.
10.2307/3868465|Recent scholarship about women and science is a good source of material for addressing the under-representation of women in science. This review is the result of an interdisciplinary fusion of science and women's studies to critically assess teaching tools in undergraduate ecology education. We examine: (1) the representation of women and the coverage of social and cultural context in introductory ecology textbooks, and (2) student learning about women's contributions to ecology. Discipline demographics reveal that women are presented in textbooks less often than expected, and that explicit discussions of the social and cultural context of science are rare. When course content is enriched with material about women's contributions, student's awareness of women scientists improves. Such knowledge can play a critical role in proactively challenging students' perceptions of ecology and ecologists, creating a more positive classroom climate for all students, and introducing novel avenues of questioning and discovery.
43187791|In the Yellow Sea region of East Asia, tidal wetlands are the frontline ecosystem protecting a coastal population of more than 60 million people from storms and sea-level rise. However, unprecedented coastal development has led to growing concern about the status of these ecosystems. We developed a remote-sensing method to assess change over ~4000 km of the Yellow Sea coastline and discovered extensive losses of the region's principal coastal ecosystem  tidal flats  associated with urban, industrial, and agricultural land reclamations. Our analysis revealed that 28% of tidal flats existing in the 1980s had disappeared by the late 2000s (1.2% annually). Moreover, reference to historical maps suggests that up to 65% of tidal flats were lost over the past five decades. With the region forecast to be a global hotspot of urban expansion, development of the Yellow Sea coastline should pursue a course that minimizes the loss of remaining coastal ecosystems.
10.2307/3868188|Toxic cyanobacteria are a diverse and widely distributed group of organisms that can contaminate natural and man-made bodies of water. Anthropogenic eutrophication can exacerbate the risks, allowing toxic cyanobacteria to grow unchecked and resulting in harmful algal blooms with potentially serious economic and health-related impacts. Predicting bloom events is an important goal of monitoring programs and is of fundamental interest to those examining the ecology of aquatic ecosystems. While microscopic identification and toxin analysis have traditionally been employed for monitoring purposes, molecular biological methods may provide rapid and sensitive diagnoses for the presence of toxic and toxigenic cyanobacteria, and are useful for general ecological studies. The molecular toolbox of ecologists and resource managers is evolving rapidly. Current techniques and their applications will help bring about a better understanding of the ecology of these events.
10.2307/3868163|Peatlands are ecosystems of exceptional conservation value because of their beauty, biodiversity, importance in global geochemical cycles, and the paleoenvironmental records they preserve. Commercial extraction and drainage for forestry or agriculture have caused the destruction of many peatlands, especially in or close to urban areas of the northern temperate zone. Are these commercial and environmental interests irreconcilable? A close analysis suggests that limited peat extraction may actually increase biodiversity in some cases, and may be sustainable over the long term. As we learn more about how peatlands spontaneously regenerate following disturbance, and what conditions govern the re-establishment of a diverse community and the ability to sequester carbon, we increase our chances of being able to restore damaged peatlands. Preserving the chronological records hidden in the peat profile, the natural heritage value of peatlands, and the bulk of sequestered carbon, however, will remain incompatible with any form of exploitation.
20696434|International political borders rarely coincide with natural ecological boundaries. Because neighboring countries often share ecosystems and species, they also share ecosystem services. For example, the United States and Mexico share the provisioning service of groundwater provided by the All-American Canal in California; the regulating service of agave crop pollination by long-nosed bats; and the aesthetic value of the North American monarch butterfly, a cultural service. We use the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA) to elucidate how drivers in one country can affect ecosystem services and human well-being in other countries. We suggest that the concept of ecosystem services, as articulated by the MA, could be used as an organizing principle for transboundary conservation, because it meets many of the criteria for successful transboundary policy. It would frame conservation in terms of mutual interests between countries, consider a diversity of stakeholders, and provide a means for linking multiple services and assessing tradeoffs between uses of services.
43188490|Efforts to conserve marine biodiversity must move beyond conserving individual species within protected areas and seek to preserve the functional roles that species perform in ecosystems across seascapes. For instance, herbivorous and predatory (including invertebrate-feeding) fish are critical for maintaining coralreef habitat and the diversity of dependent fish assemblages. However, increasing the biomasses of fished species may come at a cost to fisheries. Using coral reefs as an example, we examined critical functional roles and model trade-offs between fishery profits and the spatial extent of functional fish communities. The nature of the trade-off depended on the management scenario: protecting functions in small areas could be achieved with marine reserves at minimal cost to fisheries, whereas reducing fishing effort was a more effective method for protecting functional communities across a seascape. An appropriate choice of management actions can alter the trade-off and, in doing so, ameliorate potential for conflict with resource users.
3868685|In a world that is increasingly perturbed by humans, the need to understand ecosystems is urgent. Attaching measuring devices to wild animals is often the only way to acquire vital life-history information on larger, charismatic species, and on cryptic species that do not lend themselves to observation. However, the ethics of acceptable practice for attached devices are poorly defined. Here, we consider the need for further research and attempt to identify a system that allows animal restraint practices and device-induced effects to be quantified and monitored, so that ethics committees can have a defined scale on which to base decisions.
23034415|The effectiveness of recovery plans for threatened and endangered species has been questioned in academic and political domains. A comprehensive assessment of species recovery plans concluded that quantification and prioritization of threats have received insufficient attention, which contributes to the failure of some plans. On the basis of this assessment, we developed and implemented a detailed analysis of threats in the Recovery Plan for the Northwest Atlantic Population of the Loggerhead Sea Turtle (Caretta caretta), produced by the National Marine Fisheries Service and US Fish and Wildlife Service. The analytical approach that we designed and summarize here provides an objective process for quantifying known threats and prioritizing recovery actions in terms of their relative impact on population growth rate () of the loggerhead sea turtle. Although this process was developed for loggerhead sea turtles, it can be applied to other species.
10.2307/3868036|The fringes of cities, and rural properties within commuting distance of cities, experience some of the highest rates of development in the world. This can cause dramatic changes to the landscape, the alteration of ecological functions, and a reduction in biodiversity. With the spread of suburbia, however, come opportunities for some species to exploit new resources. While many wild creatures can enrich the lives of suburban dwellers, large increases in the populations of species such as deer, beaver, and coyotes can lead to a change in status from resource to pest. For several decades, wildlife managers have alternately embraced and ignored issues related to urban and suburban wildlife. Today, management of suburban areas challenges wildlife agencies on two fronts: the threat to habitat and biodiversity and the problem of "overabundant" wildlife. This is not only a tremendous management challenge, but also an educational opportunity to help people understand the natural world and their place in it.
20440556|The Amazon Basin is one of the world's most important bioregions, harboring a rich array of plant and animal species and offering a wealth of goods and services to society. For years, ecological science has shown how large-scale forest clearings cause declines in biodiversity and the availability of forest products. Yet some important changes in the rainforests, and in the ecosystem services they provide, have been underappreciated until recently. Emerging research indicates that land use in the Amazon goes far beyond clearing large areas of forest; selective logging and other canopy damage is much more pervasive than once believed. Deforestation causes collateral damage to the surrounding forests -- through enhanced drying of the forest floor, increased frequency of fires, and lowered productivity. The loss of healthy forests can degrade key ecosystem services, such as carbon storage in biomass and soils, the regulation of water balance and river flow, the modulation of regional climate patterns, and the amelioration of infectious diseases. We review these newly revealed changes in the Amazon rainforests and the ecosystem services that they provide.
20696489|The spread of sea lice (Lepeophtheirus salmonis) from salmon farms probably contributes to declines of some native Pacific salmon populations. Migration normally protects juvenile wild Pacific salmon from the marine ectoparasite in coastal waters by separating juvenile salmon from infected wild adults that are located offshore. Farmed salmon populations dwarf natural coastal host populations, particularly in winter, leading to biomagnification of louse populations. By spring, there may be large numbers of lice on farmed salmon, and this is associated with recurrent parasite infestations of wild juvenile salmon and depressed wild salmon stocks. Abiotic (eg temperature and salinity), biotic (eg predator abundance and food availability), and management (eg periodically emptying farms and applying chemical parasiticides) factors are thought to mediate the louse threat, but none have been well studied. Policy is needed that protects undeveloped juvenile salmon habitats and that supports long-term study of salmon ecosystems, to evaluate the sustainability of wild and farmed salmon.
41811420|Hundreds of millions to greater than one billion North American birds are directly killed each year by human Stressors, including collisions with man-made structures, predation by feral and pet cats, intentional and accidental poisoning, and pollution. Because these causes of mortality are increasingly abundant and because some result in large bird die-offs, they have received both increased scientific attention and general media coverage. However, quantifying bird mortality remains imprecise and methods to assess whether these losses cause important biological impacts remain underdeveloped. If local mortality studies followed rigorous design and sampling schemes, allowing comparison of data and scaling up of mortality estimates to broad regions, this could lead to improved analyses. Several analytical techniques - including hierarchical and population models - show potential for improving quantification of anthropogenic mortality of birds and inference of population-level effects. Results arising from improved study designs and analytical techniques will more effectively inform decision making about policies and regulations aimed at reducing avian mortality and minimizing population impacts.
27809092|Agriculture in the United States is heavily influenced by the Farm Bill and has considerable negative impacts on ecosystem functioning. Could the Farm Bill be redesigned to fund "green" payments that would encourage producers to provide beneficial ecological services? Such a change would be a complex undertaking, involving missing or uncertain information, heterogeneous systems, and challenging political and budgetary realities. Much of the information necessary for Farm Bill redesign is available, but is not being used; however, there remain critical gaps in our understanding of how to structure science-based, producer-relevant policy. One way to fill these information gaps is to fund cooperative pilot projects, based on environmental units of interest, such as watersheds. Nevertheless, political and budgetary constraints may mean that such information is more likely to inform policy and activities outside of the Farm Bill.
41149745|As global climate change drives the demise of tropical reef ecosystems, attention is turning to the suitability of refuge habitat. For the Great Barrier Reef, are there historically stable southern refugia where corals from the north might migrate as climate changes? To address this question, we present a precise chronology of marginal coral reef development from Moreton Bay, southeast Queensland, Australia. Our chronology shows that reef growth was episodic, responding to natural environmental variation throughout the Holocene, and that Moreton Bay was inhospitable to corals for about half of the past 7000 years. The only significant change in coral species composition occurred between -200 and -50 years ago, following anthropogenic alterations of the bay and its catchments. Natural historical instability of reefs, coupled with environmental degradation since European colonization, suggests that Moreton Bay offers limited potential as refuge habitat for reef species on human time scales.
10.2307/3868404|The sight of land managers poring over ant checklists is a regular occurrence in Australia, where ant monitoring has been successfully applied to a wide range of land-use situations. The robustnes of ants as ecological indicators has been consistently demonstrated, and is supported by an extensive understanding of their community dynamics in relation to disturbance. Despite the widespread recognition of the value of terrestrial invertebrates as bioindicators, the use of ants represents one of the few examples where invertebrates are widely adopted in land management as indicator organisms, as opposed to being consigned to the "too hard" basket. The use of invertebrates as bioindicators in land management will always require specialist expertise and a substantial investment in resources. However, research in Australia shows that invertebrate monitoring does not require comprehensive surveys, and that it is possible to simplify sampling and processing without compromising indicator performance. This should help take invertebrates out of the "too hard" basket and provide land managers with a powerful tool for environmental monitoring.
10.2307/3868138|Quantile regression is a way to estimate the conditional quantiles of a response variable distribution in the linear model that provides a more complete view of possible causal relationships between variables in ecological processes. Typically, all the factors that affect ecological processes are not measured and included in the statistical models used to investigate relationships between variables associated with those processes. As a consequence, there may be a weak or no predictive relationship between the mean of the response variable (y) distribution and the measured predictive factors (X). Yet there may be stronger, useful predictive relationships with other parts of the response variable distribution. This primer relates quantile regression estimates to prediction intervals in parametric error distribution regression models (eg least squares), and discusses the ordering characteristics, interval nature, sampling variation, weighting, and interpretation of the estimates for homogeneous and heterogeneous regression models.
43187834|Baleen and sperm whales, known collectively as the great whales, include the largest animals in the history of life on Earth. With high metabolic demands and large populations, whales probably had a strong influence on marine ecosystems before the advent of industrial whaling: as consumers of fish and invertebrates; as prey to other large-bodied predators; as reservoirs of and vertical and horizontal vectors for nutrients; and as detrital sources of energy and habitat in the deep sea. The decline in great whale numbers, estimated to be at least 66% and perhaps as high as 90%, has likely altered the structure and function of the oceans, but recovery is possible and in many cases is already underway. Future changes in the structure and function of the world's oceans can be expected with the restoration of great whale populations.
41811400|Continental-scale monitoring is vital for understanding and adapting to temporal changes in seasonal climate and associated phenological responses. The success of monitoring programs will depend on recruiting, retaining, and managing members of the public to routinely collect phenological observations according to standardized protocols. Here, we trace the development of infrastructure for phenological monitoring in the US, culminating in the USA National Phenology Network, a program that engages scientists and volunteers.
43187794|Farmland abandonment is changing rural landscapes worldwide, but its impacts on biodiversity are still being debated in the scientific literature. While some researchers see it as a threat to biodiversity, others view it as an opportunity for habitat regeneration. We reviewed 276 published studies describing various effects of farmland abandonment on biodiversity and found that a study's geographic region, selected metrics, assessed taxa, and conservation focus significantly affected how those impacts were reported. Countries in Eurasia and the New World reported mainly negative and positive effects of farmland abandonment on biodiversity, respectively. Notably, contrasting impacts were recorded in different agricultural regions of the world that were otherwise similar in land-use and biodiversity characteristics. We showed that the conservation focus (pre- or post-abandonment) in different regions is an important factor influencing how scientists address the abandonment issue, and this may affect how land-use policies are defined in agricultural landscapes.
20440673|Despite increasing interest in long-distance migration, the wintering areas, migration corridors, and population mix in winter quarters of most pelagic marine predators are unknown. Here, we present the first study tracking migration movements of shearwaters through the non-breeding period. We used geolocators (global location sensing [GLS] units based on ambient light levels) to track 22 Cory's shearwaters (Calonectris diomedea) breeding in three different areas. Most birds wintered in one or more three relatively small areas, all clearly associated with major coastal upwelling systems of the tropical and south Atlantic. Trans-equatorial movements were dominated by prevailing trade winds and westerlies, while calm, oligotrophic areas were avoided. Breeding populations clearly differed in their preference amongst the three major wintering areas, but showed substantial mixing. This illustrates the exceptional value of GLS, not only for determining and describing the influence of oceanographic features on migration patterns, but also for assessing population mix in winter quarters. This knowledge is essential to understanding the impacts of population-level threats, such as longlining, offshore windfarms, and oil spills on multiple breeding sites, and will be critical in devising conservation policies that guarantee the sustainable exploitation of the oceans.
41811423|A regional landscape is a complex social-ecological system comprising a dynamic mosaic of land uses. Management at this scale requires an understanding of the myriad interacting human and natural processes operating on the landscape over a continuum of spatial and temporal scales. Complexity science, which is not part of traditional management approaches, provides a valuable conceptual framework and quantitative tools for dealing with cross-scale interactions and non-linear dynamics in social-ecological systems. Here, we identify concepts and actions arising from complexity science that can be learned and applied by ecosystem managers and discuss how they might be implemented to achieve sustainable future landscapes.
10.2307/3868164|Recent research has changed our understanding of how people learn. These findings are based on well-established learning theories that can potentially help faculty teach more effectively. Unfortunately, most science faculty, including ecologists, have little or no exposure to research on learning or its application to teaching. In this paper, four areas of research on knowledge and learning are given as the basis for an approach designed to help students overcome the common misconception that plants do not consume oxygen. To help improve college ecology instruction, ecology faculty and researchers who study learning should collaborate to design research about ecology teaching and ecological thinking.
29546160|Water temperatures are increasing in many streams and rivers throughout the US. We analyzed historical records from 40 sites and found that 20 major streams and rivers have shown statistically significant, long-term warming. Annual mean water temperatures increased by 0.009-0.077C yr, and rates of warming were most rapid in, but not confined to, urbanizing areas. Long-term increases in stream water temperatures were typically correlated with increases in air temperatures. If stream temperatures were to continue to increase at current rates, due to global warming and urbanization, this could have important effects on eutrophication, ecosystem processes such as biological productivity and stream metabolism, contaminant toxicity, and loss of aquatic biodiversity.
3868738|The "dead zone", an area with reduced concentrations of dissolved oxygen, forms every year off the mouth of the Mississippi River in the northern Gulf of Mexico. Some marine animals are stressed or killed by the hypoxic conditions, with negative consequences for this large and economically important marine fishery. In the past, the dead zone has been linked to nitrogen (N) input from the Mississippi River, but recent analyses suggest that phosphorus (P) also plays a role. It has therefore been proposed that controlling both the N and P entering the Gulf may be required to minimize hypoxia. However, the use of elemental ratios (stoichiometric analysis) of dissolved inorganic nutrients to reach this conclusion is scientifically tenuous. Stoichiometric analyses of total N and P and the results of several nutrient enrichment growth bioassays also suggest the importance of both N and P, but offer less evidence for a P effect, providing a stronger scientific basis for management.
10.2307/3868542|Linear regression and analysis of variance (ANOVA) are two of the most widely used statistical techniques in ecology. Regression quantitatively describes the relationship between a response variable and one or more continuous independent variables, while ANOVA determines whether a response variable differs among discrete values of the independent variable(s). Designing experiments with discrete factors is straightforward because ANOVA is the only option, but what is the best way to design experiments involving continuous factors? Should ecologists prefer experiments with few treatments and many replicates analyzed with ANOVA, or experiments with many treatments and few replicates per treatment analyzed with regression? We recommend that ecologists choose regression, especially replicated regression, over ANOVA when dealing with continuous factors for two reasons: (1) regression is generally a more powerful approach than ANOVA and (2) regression provides quantitative output that can be incorporated into ecological models more effectively than ANOVA output.
43187858|Marine and coastal ecosystems provide important benefits and services to coastal communities across the globe, but assessing the diversity of social relationships with oceans can prove difficult for conservation scientists and practitioners. This presents barriers to incorporating social dimensions of marine ecosystems into ecosystem-based planning processes, which can in turn affect the success of planning and management initiatives. Following a global assessment of social research and related planning practices in ocean environments, we present a step-by-step approach for natural resource planning practitioners to more systematically incorporate social data into ecosystem-based ocean planning. Our approach includes three sequential steps: (1) develop a typology of ocean-specific human uses that occur within the planning region of interest; (2) characterize the complexity of these uses, including the spatiotemporal variability, intensity, and diversity thereof, as well as associated conflicts and compatibility; and (3) integrate social and ecological information to assess trade-offs necessary for successful implementation of ecosystem-based ocean planning. We conclude by showing how systematic engagement of social data -together with ecological information -can create advantages for practitioners to improve planning and management outcomes.
43187653|Highly biodiverse ecosystems worldwide are rapidly losing species diversity as a result of human overexploitation of natural resources. However, it is not known whether there is a critical threshold of species loss at which an ecosystem fails to recover, leading to its collapse. By combining multiple ecological networks (including facilitation, pollination, and seed dispersal) into a realistic scenario, we document how an ecosystem may collapse through synergistic disruptions to those networks. Although the interdependence of different ecological networks is indicative of ecosystem fragility and low resilience, our findings may improve environmental remediation efforts, thereby helping to bridge the gap between the disciplines of ecology and conservation biology.
10.2307/3868292|With the end of commercial whaling, it was thought that populations of the highly endangered North Atlantic right whale (Eubalaena glacialis) would gradually recover. However, recent modeling studies have shown that the population's growth rate increased gradually during the 1980s, but began declining in the early 1990s, when female mortality rates increased substantially. Demographic projections predict that, assuming birth and mortality rates remain comparable to those observed in the early 1990s, the population will become extinct in less than 200 years. Further extrapolations suggest that reducing mortality rates by a few female deaths per year through conservation efforts would be sufficient to support a slow recovery of the population. However, the effects of climate variability and change on calving rates may make the North Atlantic right whale even more vulnerable than previous projections have suggested. Failure to incorporate the effects of climate in demographic projections may lead us to underestimate the conservation efforts required to ensure recovery of this whale population.
43187677|An important goal of macrosystems ecology (MSE) research is to advance understanding of ecological systems at both fine and broad temporal and spatial scales. Our premise in this paper is that MSE projects require integrated information management at their inception. Such efforts will lead to improved communication and sharing of knowledge among diverse project participants, better science outcomes, and more transparent and accessible (ie "open") science. We encourage researchers to "complete the data life cycle" by publishing welldocumented datasets, thereby facilitating re-use of the data to answer new and different questions from the ones conceived by those involved in the original projects. The practice of documenting and submitting datasets to data repositories that are publicly accessible ensures that research results and data are available to and useable by other researchers, thus fostering open science. However, ecologists are often unfamiliar with the requirements and information management tools for effectively preserving data and receive little institutional or professional incentive to do so. Here, we provide recommendations for achieving these ends and give examples from current MSE projects to demonstrate why information management is critical for ensuring that scientific results can be reproduced and that data can be shared for future use.
23470949|Conservation is particularly difficult to implement for "moving targets", such as migratory species or landscapes subject to environmental change. Traditional conservation strategies involving static tools (eg protected areas that have fixed spatial boundaries) may be ineffective for managing species whose ranges are changing. This shortfall needs to be addressed urgently. More dynamic conservation-based approaches have been suggested but remain mostly theoretical, and so implementation issues and measures of success have yet to be explored. In recent years, however, the concept of biodiversity offsets has gained traction in the conservation community. Such offsets effectively replace biodiversity "lost" during current economic development projects, and are intended to ensure "no net loss" of biodiversity overall. Given their flexibility and unique no-net-loss requirement, offsets provide a platform for testing dynamic new approaches to conservation. Here we explore the potential for offsets to conserve moving targets, using a complex dynamic example: the migratory saiga antelope (Saiga tatarica) in Uzbekistan.
20696404|A number of permanent and seasonal islands will be formed when the world's largest dam, China's Three Gorges Dam, begins to operate at full capacity in 2009. The possible effects of this large-scale habitat insularization on biodiversity and ecosystem processes have attracted considerable attention from scientists around the globe. We investigated the species composition and distribution of rodent populations at two geographic locations in the Three Gorges Reservoir Area through field surveys and determined the dietary composition of dominant rodent species using stable isotope techniques. Our results show that the total rodent density on the islands was significantly higher than that of mainland areas. Stable isotope analysis revealed that the dietary composition of rodents was more diverse on islands than at nearby mainland sites. Moreover, the island populations had greater overlap in food sources than did the mainland populations, suggesting more intense competition for food in the newly insularized habitats. Thus, habitat fragmentation due to the construction of the Three Gorges Dam may substantially increase intra- and interspecific competition among local rodent populations, leading to further changes in species composition and biodiversity.
41811392|Approaches to citizen science - an indispensable means of combining ecological research with environmental education and natural history observation - range from community-based monitoring to the use of the internet to "crowd-source" various scientific tasks, from data collection to discovery. With new tools and mechanisms for engaging learners, citizen science pushes the envelope of what ecologists can achieve, both in expanding the potential for spatial ecology research and in supplementing existing, but localized, research programs. The primary impacts of citizen science are seen in biological studies of global climate change, including analyses of phenology, landscape ecology, and macro-ecology, as well as in subdisciplines focused on species (rare and invasive), disease, populations, communities, and ecosystems. Citizen science and the resulting ecological data can be viewed as a public good that is generated through increasingly collaborative tools and resources, while supporting public participation in science and Earth stewardship.
41479961|Assisted colonization - also known as managed relocation or assisted migration - is one way of facilitating range shifts for species that are restricted in their ability to move in response to climate or other environmental changes. Over the past decade, a healthy debate has evolved in the scientific community over the costs and benefits of assisted colonization as a climate-adaptation strategy. This discussion has focused largely on the specific risks and benefits of intentionally moving species, and has led to the development of multiple frameworks and numerous recommendations for weighing and evaluating these factors. Here, we argue that this debate is, in part, misguided, and that a more productive discussion would result if the issue were reframed in light of (1) the goals of assisted colonization, (2) the realities of projected climate impacts, and (3) the use of complementary adaptation strategies, such as enhancing landscape connectivity.
41149678|The biogeochemical cycles of carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) are fundamental to life on Earth. Because organisms require these elements in strict proportions, the cycles of C, N, and P are coupled at molecular to global scales through their effects on the biochemical reactions controlling primary production, respiration, and decomposition. The coupling of the C, N, and P cycles constrains organismal responses to climatic and atmospheric change, suggesting that present-day estimates of climate warming through the year 2100 are conservative. N and P supplies constrain C uptake in the terrestrial biosphere, yet these constraints are often not incorporated into global-scale analyses of Earth's climate. The inclusion of coupled biogeochemical cycles is critical to the development of next-generation, global-scale climate models.
20440993|The Long-Term Ecological Reflections program brings together ecologists, creative writers, and philosophers at sites of long-term ecological research to advance understanding of ecological change and of our evolving relationship with the natural world. Developed as an analog to the Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) program sponsored by the National Science Foundation, the Reflections program attempts to bridge the sciences and humanities in places like the HJ Andrews Experimental Forest LTER site (Oregon) and Mount St Helens (Washington State), where participants reflect, share ideas, and write. Records of these reflections are posted as primary, raw data (eg journal entries and video interviews) on a webpage, and completed works are published in widely circulated journals. This growing body of material demonstrates the importance of taking the long view in building ecological knowledge. The writings display the value of metaphor and story in communicating such knowledge to the public.
10.2307/3868444|In response to worldwide environmental crises driven by declines in the availability or quality of freshwater, ecologists and water resource economists are searching for ways to collaborate in order to guide the difficult choices facing the public, land managers, and politicians. Scientists are challenged to detect and quantify both the drivers of ecosystem change and ecosystem responses, including positive and negative feedbacks that will determine the future states of inland waters. Predicting ecosystem shifts over large temporal and spatial scales has proven difficult or impossible, even in well-studied systems, where the drivers of change are known. New remote-sensing, monitoring, and tracer technologies, however, offer glimpses of watershed processes at unprecedented spatial and temporal scales. Several interdisciplinary groups, including scientists, information specialists, and engineers, are exploring the best ways to design sampling schemes using these new technologies, to interpret the extensive, spatially explicit dynamic data they will yield, and to use these data to formulate models useful for forecasting. Economists, in turn, can use this information to design management and policy tools for sustaining critical ecosystem components and processes.
10.2307/3868137|Individual animal species can impact ecosystem processes, but few exotic invaders have demonstrated ecosystem-scale impacts, even when population sizes are large. We combined whole-stream measures of carbon and nitrogen fluxes with rates of consumption and ammonium excretion to show that an exotic fresh-water snail, Potamopyrgus antipodarum, dominated these fluxes in a highly productive stream. The snails consumed 75% of gross primary productivity, and their excretion accounted for two-thirds of ammonium demand. Such large fluxes were due to high snail biomass rather than high rates of excretion or consumption. This exotic species may dramatically alter ecosystem function in rivers, with potential consequences for food web structure and element transport.
27809090|Principles for designing marine protected area (MPA) networks that address social, economic, and biological criteria are well established in the scientific literature. Climate change represents a new and serious threat to marine ecosystems, but, to date, few studies have specifically considered how to design MPA networks to be resilient to this emerging threat. Here, we compile the best available information on MPA network design and supplement it with specific recommendations for building resilience into these networks. We provide guidance on size, spacing, shape, risk spreading (representation and replication), critical areas, connectivity, and maintaining ecosystem function to help MPA planners and managers design MPA networks that are more robust in the face of climate-change impacts.
3868867|Non-native species continue to be introduced to the United States from other countries via trade and transportation, creating a growing need for early detection and rapid response to new invaders. It is therefore increasingly important to synthesize existing data on non-native species abundance and distributions. However, no comprehensive analysis of existing data has been undertaken for non-native species, and there have been few efforts to improve collaboration. We therefore conducted a survey to determine what datasets currently exist for non-native species in the US from county, state, multi-state region, national, and global scales. We identified 319 datasets and collected metadata for 79% of these. Through this study, we provide a better understanding of extant non-native species datasets and identify data gaps (ie taxonomic, spatial, and temporal) to help guide future survey, research, and predictive modeling efforts.
3868902|The fight against global poverty has gained momentum following the creation of the Millennium Development Goals, which aim to halve extreme poverty by 2015. Traditionally, ecologists have not played leading roles in poverty alleviation. Yet, knowledge of ecosystem functions and processes can be applied to improve the lives of millions of people, suffering from hunger, lacking clean drinking water and reliable, efficient energy sources, dying from preventable diseases, and suffering disproportionately from natural disasters. Here, we describe ways in which ecologists can apply ecological theory and tools to help improve the efficacy of poverty alleviation programs.
20440744|Paleoecological studies from tropical islands around the globe show that human colonization has been devastating for these remote biotic communities. Island histories reveal that human predation and human-mediated landscape change have each played a key role, but many island extinctions following human arrival are strongly associated with introduced predators, herbivores, weeds, and diseases. On the Hawaiian Island of Kaua'i, human-caused extinctions are currently occurring in a microcosm of island endemics. Recent studies of endangered plants suggest that conventional in-situ and ex-situ conservation strategies are losing the battle here. Paleoecological findings support the idea that creating new populations in formerly much larger, late prehistoric and early historical ranges of declining species may provide a reliable and cost-effective hedge against extinction. On Kaua'i, several paleoecological sites have played key roles in planning and implementing ecological and cultural restoration projects.
41149748|Forestry - including afforestation (the planting of trees on land where they have not recently existed), reforestation, avoided deforestation, and forest management - can lead to increased sequestration of atmospheric carbon dioxide and has therefore been proposed as a strategy to mitigate climate change. However, forestry also influences land-surface properties, including albedo (the fraction of incident sunlight reflected back to space), surface roughness, and evapotranspiration, all of which affect the amount and forms of energy transfer to the atmosphere. In some circumstances, these biophysical feedbacks can result in local climate warming, thereby counteracting the effects of carbon sequestration on global mean temperature and reducing or eliminating the net value of climate-change mitigation projects. Here, we review published and emerging research that suggests ways in which forestry projects can counteract the consequences associated with biophysical interactions, and highlight knowledge gaps in managing forests for climate protection. We also outline several ways in which biophysical effects can be incorporated into frameworks that use the maintenance of forests as a climate protection strategy.
43187635|Graduate students in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines struggle with developing research agendas that balance the overall goals of their work with questions of civic concern. The Earth Stewardship Initiative helps to resolve this disparity. Furthermore, connecting STEM research to civic concerns increases the relevance of research and facilitates the development of cross-disciplinary approaches. We describe how STEM graduate students can incorporate Earth Stewardship into their research, identify opportunities for educational institutions to support such research, and discuss the potential benefits of, and barriers to, linking Earth Stewardship to graduate-level studies.
43187657|Recreation ecology  the study of the environmental consequences of outdoor recreation/nature-based tourism activities and their effective management  is an emerging field of global importance. A primary research generalization in this field, the use-impact relationship, is commonly described as curvilinear, with proportionally more impact from initial recreation/tourism use. This finding has formed the basis of visitor management strategies in parks, wilderness, and protected areas in many parts of the world. In this paper, however, we argue that the current generalization may be an oversimplification derived from one ecological response: the response of vegetation cover in some plant communities to trampling. Use-response functions for other plant communities, wildlife, soils, and aquatic/marine systems, for example, can differ and require alternative management strategies for sustainable use. On the basis of the available literature, we propose several alternative response relationships.
41811809|Extreme climatic events (ECEs) - such as unusual heat waves, hurricanes, floods, and droughts - can dramatically affect ecological and evolutionary processes, and these events are projected to become more frequent and more intense with ongoing climate change. However, the implications of ECEs for biological invasions remain poorly understood. Using concepts and empirical evidence from invasion ecology, we identify mechanisms by which ECEs may influence the invasion process, from initial introduction through establishment and spread. We summarize how ECEs can enhance invasions by promoting the transport of propagules into new regions, by decreasing the resistance of native communities to establishment, and also sometimes by putting existing non-native species at a competitive disadvantage. Finally, we outline priority research areas and management approaches for anticipating future risks of unwanted invasions following ECEs. Given predicted increases in both ECE occurrence and rates of species introductions around the globe during the coming decades, there is an urgent need to understand how these two processes interact to affect ecosystem composition and functioning.
10.2307/3868013|The development of policies that promote ecological, economic, and cultural sustainability requires collaboration between natural and social scientists. We present a modeling approach to facilitate this communication and illustrate its application to studies of wildfire in the interior of Alaska. We distill the essence of complex fire-vegetation interactions that occur in the real world into a simplified landscape model, and describe how equally complex fire-human interactions could be incorporated into a similar modeling framework. Simulations suggest that fire suppression is likely to increase the proportion of flammable vegetation on the landscape and reduce the long-term effectiveness of wildfire suppression. Simple models that test the consequences of assumptions help natural and social scientists to communicate objectively when exploring the long-term consequences of alternative policy scenarios.
20696436|Despite recent advances, ecosystem service monitoring is limited by insufficient data, the complexity of socialecological systems, and poor integration of information that tracks changes in ecosystems and economic activities. However, new information and communication technologies are revolutionizing the generation of, and access to, such data. Can researchers who are interested in ecological monitoring tap into these increased flows of information by "mining" the internet to detect "early-warning" signs that may signal abrupt ecological changes? Here, we explore the possibility of using web crawlers and internet-based information to complement conventional ecological monitoring, with a special emphasis on the prospects for avoiding "late warnings" that is, when ecosystems have already shifted to less desirable states. Using examples from coral reef ecosystems, we explore the untapped potential, as well as the limitations, of relying on web-based information to monitor ecosystem services and forewarn us of negative ecological shifts.
43187618|Despite rising global concerns over the potential impacts of non-native bumble bee (Bombus spp) introductions on native species, large-scale and long-term assessments of the consequences of such introductions are lacking. Bombus ruderatus and Bombus terrestris were sequentially introduced into Chile and later entered Argentina's Patagonian region. A large-scale survey in Patagonia reveals that, in 5 years post-arrival, the highly invasive B terrestris has become the most abundant and widespread Bombus species, and its southward spread is concurrent with the geographic retraction of the only native species, Bombus dahlbomii. Furthermore, a 20-year survey of pollinators of the endemic herb Alstroemeria aurea in northern Patagonia indicates that B ruderatus and B terrestris have replaced B dahlbomii, formerly the most abundant pollinator. Although the decline's underlying mechanisms remain unknown, the potential roles of exploitative competition and pathogen co-introduction cannot be ruled out. Given that invasive bumble bees can rapidly extirpate native congeners, further introductions should be discouraged.
20440842|Taxonomic groups and ecoregions shape the "lenses" through which biodiversity is assessed and conserved. A historical bias toward vertebrates and vascular plants in the northern hemisphere underpins how global patterns of biodiversity in terrestrial ecosystems are perceived. Here, we focus on the hitherto overlooked non-vascular flora (liverworts and mosses) in the remote sub-Antarctic Magellanic ecoregion of southwestern South America. We report that: (1) this ecoregion hosts outstanding non-vascular floristic richness, with &gt; 5% of the world's bryophytes on &lt; 0.01% of the Earth's land surface; (2) species richness patterns for vascular and non-vascular plants are inverted across 25 degrees of latitude in Chile; and (3) while vascular plants are 20 times more abundant than non-vascular plants globally and in tropical South America, non-vascular plants are dominant in the sub-Antarctic Magellanic ecoregion and Antarctic Peninsula. These findings have been translated into policy and conservation decisions, including the creation of the Cape Horn Biosphere Reserve in 2005 and the introduction there of "tourism with a hand lens" in the diverse "miniature forests" of bryophytes, lichens, and invertebrates. We argue for consideration of ecoregional- or biome-specific indicator groups, rather than a narrow set of global indicator groups, for designing effective conservation strategies.
41149673|Nutrient fluxes to coastal areas have risen in recent decades, leading to widespread hypoxia and other ecological damage, particularly from nitrogen (N). Several factors make N more limiting in estuaries and coastal waters than in lakes: desorption (release) of phosphorus (P) bound to clay as salinity increases, lack of planktonic N fixation in most coastal ecosystems, and flux of relatively P-rich, N-poor waters from coastal oceans into estuaries. During eutrophication, biogeochemical feedbacks further increase the supply of N and P, but decrease availability of silica - conditions that can favor the formation and persistence of harmful algal blooms. Given sufficient N inputs, estuaries and coastal marine ecosystems can be driven to P limitation. This switch contributes to greater far-field N pollution; that is, the N moves further and contributes to eutrophication at greater distances. The physical oceanography (extent of stratification, residence time, and so forth) of coastal systems determines their sensitivity to hypoxia, and recent changes in physics have made some ecosystems more sensitive to hypoxia. Coastal hypoxia contributes to ocean acidification, which harms calcifying organisms such as mollusks and some crustaceans.
41480003|In the US, 95% of biofuel is produced from corn (Zea mays L), an intensively managed annual that is also grown for food and animal feed. Using the DAYCENT model, we estimated the effects on ecosystem services of replacing corn ethanol feedstocks with the perennial cellulosic feedstocks switchgrass (Panicum virgatutn L) and miscanthus (Miscanthus x giganteus Greef et Deuter). If cellulosic feedstocks were planted on cropland that is currently used for ethanol production in the US, more ethanol ( 82%) and grain for food ( 4%) could be produced while at the same time reducing nitrogen leaching (15 to  22%) and greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions ( 29 to 473%). The GHG reduction was large even after accounting for emissions associated with indirect landuse change. Conversion from a high-input annual crop to a low-input perennial crop for biofuel production can thus transition the central US from a net source to a net sink for GHGs.
23470946|Size-selective harvesting in commercial fisheries can induce rapid changes in biological traits. While experimental and wild harvested populations often exhibit clear shifts in body size and maturation associated with fishing pressure, the relative contributions of genetic and environmental factors to these shifts remain uncertain and have been much debated. To date, observations of so-called fisheries-induced evolution (FIE) have been based solely on phenotypic measures, such as size data. Genetic data are hitherto lacking. Here, we quantify genetic versus environmental change in response to size-selective harvesting for small and large body size in guppies (Poecilia reticulata) across three generations of selection. We document for the first time significant changes at individual genetic loci, some of which have previously been associated with body size. In contrast, variation at neutral microsatellite markers was unaffected by selection, providing direct genetic evidence for rapid evolution induced by size-selective harvesting. These findings demonstrate FIE in an experimental system, with major implications for the sustainability of harvested populations, as well as impacts on size-structured communities and ecosystem processes. These findings highlight the need for scientists and managers to reconsider the capacity of harvested stocks to adapt to, and recover from, harvesting and predation.
10.2307/3868658|Vegetation research in boreal forests has tended to focus on the tree component, while little attention has been paid to understory components such as dwarf shrubs, mosses, and reindeer lichens. However, the productivity of understory vegetation is probably comparable to that of the trees. We review recent research in the boreal forest of northern Sweden to highlight the ecological importance of understory vegetation, both in the short term by influencing tree seedling regeneration, and in the longer term by affecting belowground processes such as decomposition, nutrient flow, and buildup of soil nutrients. Wildfire resulting from lightning strike is a primary determinant of understory vegetation, and as such is a major driver of forest community and ecosystem properties. Forest management practices that alter the fire regime and the composition of understory vegetation may have long-term consequences for both conservation goals and commercial forest productivity.
3868735|"Teaching Issues and Experiments in Ecology" (TIEE) is a peer-reviewed electronic publication designed to help ecology faculty improve their teaching. The Ecological Society of America (ESA) electronically hosts TIEE, which is an important part of the Society's contribution to the BioScience Education Network, a pathway of the National Science Digital Library. A central part of each TIEE "Issue" (mainly for use in lectures) and "Experiments" (for inquiry-based labs) are published figures, genuine datasets, and open-ended investigations. Surveys and interviews show that users teach both at liberal arts colleges (61%) and research universities (26%), and that TIEE provides a much-needed outlet for peer-reviewed education scholarship. Over 75% of respondents to our survey (n = 59) adapted TIEE materials for their courses and 30-50% used TIEE as a model for changing their method of teaching. In addition, over 60% said that publishing in TIEE would be valued in reappointment or tenure decisions. Evaluation findings and recent interest in "scientific teaching" has prompted us to establish a team of faculty who are doing research on their own teaching. We are testing the hypothesis that these faculty will become more invested in, and more successful at, changing the way they teach. Our future plans for TIEE include expansion of this research component.
23034465|There is currently relatively little information on how marine organisms process and analyze sound, making assessments about the impacts of artificial sound sources in the marine environment difficult. However, such assessments have become a priority because noise is now considered as a source of pollution that increasingly affects the natural balance of marine ecosystems. We present the first morphological and ultrastructural evidence of massive acoustic trauma, not compatible with life, in four cephalopod species subjected to low-frequency controlled-exposure experiments. Exposure to low-frequency sounds resulted in permanent and substantial alterations of the sensory hair cells of the statocysts, the structures responsible for the animals' sense of balance and position. These results indicate a need for further environmental regulation of human activities that introduce high-intensity, low-frequency sounds in the world's oceans.
10.2307/3868238|Although ballast water has received much attention as a source of aquatic invasive species, aquariums and trade in aquarium and ornamental species are emerging as another important source for species likely to invade aquatic habitats. These species are spread throughout the world in a generally unregulated industry. The recent focus on the aquarium trade as a possible mechanism for environmentally sustainable development poses an especially dangerous threat, although this has so far escaped the attention of most environmentalists, conservationists, ecologists, and policy makers.
41811867|The use of commercial nitrogen (N) fertilizers has led to enormous increases in US agricultural productivity. However, N losses from agricultural systems have resulted in numerous deleterious environmental impacts, including a continuing increase in atmospheric nitrous oxide (NO), a greenhouse gas (GHG) and an important catalyst of stratospheric ozone depletion. Although associated with about 7% of total US GHG emissions, agricultural systems account for 75% of total US NO emissions. Increased productivity in the crop and livestock sectors during the past 30 to 70 years has resulted in decreased NO emissions per unit of production, but NO emissions from US agriculture continue to increase at a rate of approximately 0.46 teragrams of carbon dioxide equivalents per year (2002-2009). This rate is lower than that during the late 20th century. Improvements in agricultural productivity alone may be insufficient to lead to reduced emissions; implementing strategies specifically targeted at reducing NO emissions may therefore be necessary.
20440911|Ecosystems influence climate through multiple pathways, primarily by changing the energy, water, and green-house-gas balance of the atmosphere. Consequently, efforts to mitigate climate change through modification of one pathway, as with carbon in the Kyoto Protocol, only partially address the issue of ecosystem-climate interactions. For example, the cooling of climate that results from carbon sequestration by plants may be partially offset by reduced land albedo, which increases solar energy absorption and warms the climate. The relative importance of these effects varies with spatial scale and latitude. We suggest that consideration of multiple interactions and feedbacks could lead to novel, potentially useful climate-mitigation strategies, including greenhouse-gas reductions primarily in industrialized nations, reduced desertification in arid zones, and reduced deforestation in the tropics. Each of these strategies has additional ecological and societal benefits. Assessing the effectiveness of these strategies requires a more quantitative understanding of the interactions among feedback processes, their consequences at local and global scales, and the teleconnections that link changes occurring in different regions.
3868736|Traditional ecological models have focused mainly on competition between plants, but recent research has shown that some plants benefit from closely associated neighbors, a phenomenon known as facilitation. There is increasing experimental evidence suggesting that facilitation has a place in mainstream ecological theory, but it also has a practical side when applied to the restoration of degraded environments, particularly drylands, alpine, or other limiting habitats. Where restoration fails because of harsh environmental conditions or intense herbivory, species that minimize these effects could be used to improve performance in nearby target species. Although there are few examples of the application of this "nursing" procedure worldwide, experimental data are promising, and show enhanced plant survival and growth in areas close to nurse plants. We discuss the potential for including nurse plants in restoration management procedures to improve the success rate of such projects.
20440913|Restoration initiatives seek to address widespread deforestation and forest degradation, but face substantial problems. "Passive restoration", whereby abandoned agricultural land undergoes secondary succession, is often slow, owing to biotic and abiotic limitations. "Active restoration", chiefly accomplished by planting trees, can be very expensive if large areas are to be restored. We suggest "woodland islets" as an alternative way to achieve ecological restoration in extensive agricultural landscapes, particularly in low-productivity environments. This approach involves the planting of many small, dense blocks of native trees to enhance biodiversity and provide a range of ecosystem services. If the surrounding land is abandoned, the islets act as sources of woodland species and seed, which can accelerate woodland development. Alternatively, if the surrounding area is used for cultivation or pasture, the islets will increase the conservation value of the land and offer the potential for income generation. Here, we review existing approaches to woodland restoration and evaluate the relative strengths and weaknesses of the woodland islets approach.
27809114|Are environmental science students developing the mindsets and obtaining the tools needed to help address the considerable challenges posed by the 21st century? Today's major environmental issues are characterized by high-stakes decisions and high levels of uncertainty. Although traditional scientific approaches are valuable, contemporary environmental issues also require new tools and new ways of thinking. We provide an example of how such new, or "post-normal", approaches have been taught at the graduate level, through practical application of scenario planning. Surveyed students reported that they found the scenario planning course highly stimulating, thought-provoking, and inspiring. Key learning points included recognizing the need for multiple points of view when considering complex environmental issues, and better appreciating the pervasiveness of uncertainty. Collaborating with non-academic stakeholders was also particularly helpful. Most students left the course feeling more positive about the potential contribution they can make in addressing the environmental challenges that society faces.
10.2307/3868190|The idea that alternative stable states may exist in communities has been a recurring theme in ecology since the late 1960s, and is now experiencing a resurgence of interest. Since the first papers on the subject appeared, two perspectives have developed to describe how communities shift from one stable state to another. One assumes a constant environment with shifts in variables such as population density, and the other anticipates changes to underlying parameters or environmental "drivers". We review the theory behind alternative stable states and examine to what extent these perspectives are the same, and in what ways they differ. We discuss the concepts of resilience and hysteresis, and the role of stochasticity within the two formulations. In spite of differences in the two perspectives, the same type of experimental evidence is required to demonstrate the existence of alternative stable states.
20440874|Conservation biologists are concerned that climate change will cause widespread extinctions because limited capacity for migration could compromise species' ability to adjust to geographic shifts in habitat condition. However, commercial plant nurseries may provide a head start for northward range shifts among some plant species. To investigate this possibility, we compared the natural ranges of 357 native European plant species with their commercial ranges, based on 246 plant nurseries throughout Europe. In 73% of native species, commercial northern range limits exceeded natural northern range limits, with a mean difference of  1000 km. With migration rates of  0.1-5 km per year required for geographic ranges to track climate change over the next century, we expect nurseries and gardens to provide a substantial head start on such migration for many native plants. While conservation biologists actively debate whether we should intentionally provide "assisted migration", it is clear that we have already done so for a large number of species.
23034492|Anticipating future forest-fire regimes under changing climate requires that scientists and natural resource managers understand the factors that control fire across space and time. Fire scars  proxy records of fires, formed in the growth rings of long-lived trees  provide an annually accurate window into past low-severity fire regimes. In western North America, networks of the fire-scar records spanning centuries to millennia now include hundreds to thousands of trees sampled across hundreds to many thousands of hectares. Development of these local and regional fire-scar networks has created a new data type for ecologists interested in landscape and climate regulation of ecosystem processes  which, for example, may help to explain why forest fires are widespread during certain years but not others. These data also offer crucial reference information on fire as a dynamic landscape process for use in ecosystem management, especially when managing for forest structure and resilience to climate change.
29546164|Labels on products are meant to influence consumer behavior. Consumers buying products labeled as eco-friendly may hope to help conserve the environment, but eco-labels vary in their claims and credibility. We define three types of wildlife-friendly eco-labels, according to their potential to conserve wildlife, and describe barriers to convincing consumers of their claims. Eco-labels we term "Supportive" donate revenues to conservation organizations and are, at best, indirect interventions, opaque to consumer scrutiny. "Persuasive" eco-labels certify manufacturing/collection practices, under the assumption that wildlife will benefit as a result. "Protective" eco-labels certify wildlife conservation, which can gain the highest level of credibility, but require the greatest verification effort. Proving that producers conserved wildlife is costly, time-consuming, and technically challenging, because wild animals ignore property boundaries and experience mortality and dispersal irrespective of people, but their population dynamics often obscure the role of human activities and economic practices. Nevertheless, wild animals are among the most inspiring and marketable components of the environment.
3868709|In North America, Eurasia, and Australia, salvage logging is increasingly being used to mitigate economic losses due to fire, although the effects of this type of intervention are still essentially unknown. In a field experiment in a large recent boreal forest fire in central Quebec, we used 24 paired salvaged and non-salvaged stands to test the effect of salvage on the recruitment of two conifer species possessing an aerial seed bank (Pinus banksiana and Picea mariana). The seedbeds following salvage were, on average, more hospitable to germination, but, incongruously, engendered far lower regeneration densities. The poor recruitment on salvaged sites was due primarily to the loss of seeds following the immediate post-fire salvage, when cone-bearing branches were removed along with the trunks. By contrast, the density of the asexually-recruited Populus tremuloides was relatively unaffected. We suggest simple ways to modify current salvage procedures that would retard this transition from conifer to Populus forest, as well as leaving more wood in situ.
41811493|A forest carbon (C) offset is a quantifiable unit of C that is commonly developed at the local or regional project scale and is designed to counterbalance anthropogenic C emissions by sequestering C in trees. In cap-and-trade programs, forest offsets have market value if the sequestered C is additional (more than would have occurred in the absence of the project) and permanent (sequestered within the project boundary for a specified period of time). Local management and ecological context determine the rate of C sequestration, risk of loss, and hence the market value. An understanding of global C dynamics can inform policy but may not be able to effectively price an ecosystem service, such as C sequestration. Appropriate pricing requires the assistance of ecologists to assess C stock abundance and stability over spatial and temporal scales appropriate for the regional market. We use the risk that sequestered C will be emitted as a result of wildfire (reversal risk) to show how ecological context can influence market valuation in offset programs.
10.2307/3868293|For centuries, traditional farmers have developed diverse and locally adapted agricultural systems, managing them with ingenious practices that often result in both community food security and the conservation of agrobiodiversity. This strategy of minimizing risk stabilizes yields, promotes dietary diversity, and maximizes returns using low levels of technology and limited resources. These microcosms of agricultural heritage still cover no less than 10 million ha worldwide, providing cultural and ecological services not only to rural inhabitants, but to mankind generally. These services include the preservation of traditional farming knowledge, local crop and animal varieties, and native forms of sociocultural organization. By studying these systems, ecologists can enhance their knowledge of the dynamics of complex systems, especially the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem function and practical principles for the design of more sustainable agroecosystems appropriate to small farmers. Novel agroecosystem designs have already been modeled on successful traditional farming systems.
25595143|Seagrasses are important marine foundation species that are reported to be declining worldwide, with almost 15% of species considered threatened. Seagrasses are highly productive plants that reconfigure water flow and influence nutrient cycling, as well as provide critical habitat for a wide array of fish and invertebrate species. Yet, many of these seagrass-dependent species, including economically important fishes and invertebrates, are themselves in danger of overexploitation or extinction. In fact, there is on average more than one threatened associated species for every seagrass species across the globe. Links between threatened seagrasses and their dependent communities illustrate the importance of an ecosystem-based management approach that incorporates interdependencies and facilitation among species.
43188493|Despite centuries of use, artificial light at night has only recently been recognized as a cause for environmental concern. Its global extent and ongoing encroachment into naturally lit ecosystems has sparked scientific interest into the many ways in which it may negatively affect human health, societal attitudes, scientific endeavors, and biological processes. Yet, perhaps because sources of artificial light are largely land based, the potential for artificial light pollution to interfere with the biology of the ocean has not been explored in any detail. There is little information on how light pollution affects those species, behaviors, and interactions that are informed by the intensity, spectra, and periodicity of natural nighttime light in marine ecosystems. Here, we provide an overview of the extent of marine light pollution, discuss how it changes the physical environment, and explore its potential role in shaping marine ecosystems.
10.2307/3868637|Biologists need to continuously reflect upon the ethical and rhetorical dimensions of their language when communicating about invasive species. In particular, is current language likely to promote social cohesion and, consequently, effective and appropriate action towards invasive species? To address this question, I focus on prevailing militaristic and combative metaphors within invasion biology. I argue that these metaphors are problematic because (1) they lead to an inaccurate perception of invasive species; (2) they contribute to social misunderstanding, charges of xenophobia, and loss of scientific credibility; and (3) they reinforce militaristic patterns of thought that are counterproductive for conservation. Therefore, while these metaphors may effectively motivate conservation action in the short term, they could be ineffective in the long term. Alternatives to militarism will better promote realistic management and conservation goals in a multicultural context.
23034512|In forests worldwide, tree-cavity supply can limit populations of the 1040% of bird and mammal species that require cavities for nesting or roosting. Conservation efforts aimed at cavity-using communities have often focused on woodpeckers because, as cavity excavators, they are presumed to control cavity supply. We show that avian excavators are the primary cavity producers in North America (77% of nesting cavities), but not elsewhere (26% in Eurasia and South America; 0% in Australasia). We studied survivorship of 2805 nest cavities and found similar persistence of cavities created by woodpeckers and those created by decay in Canada, but low persistence of woodpecker-excavated cavities in Poland and Argentina. Outside of North America, the ephemeral nature of many woodpecker cavities may render most cavity-using vertebrates critically dependent on the slow formation of cavities by damage and decay. The future of most cavity-using communities will therefore be highly dependent on changing forest policies to stem the current loss of old trees.
10.2307/3868587|Under natural conditions, most rivers are bordered by riparian woodland. Many studies have highlighted the ecological importance of these wooded zones, but the impact of riparian woodland dynamics on the complexity of the active tract (the area of bare sediment adjacent to the river) has been overlooked. This paper highlights the impact of downed trees and sprouting driftwood on the development of islands and associated ponds within the active tract of large rivers and the effects of these features on the abundance and diversity of plants and animals, and points to the benefits of riparian woodland for channel restoration.
41480007|Real-time remote diagnostic tools may help to overcome the "taxonomic impediment" of dwindling and geographically fragmented taxonomic expertise. We tested several real-time remote microscopy systems based on desktop videoconferencing or virtual research environments (VREs) using standardized performance tests and real diagnostic challenges. All performed well, but ease of use was greatest for those systems with a dedicated audio channel, a remote pointer, and control over image quality. The greatest impediment to implementation was the need to overcome internet firewall restrictions. We also implemented a remote specimen viewing system for the New Zealand Arthropod Collection, and compared its performance and cost with that of the conventional specimen loan system. Successful real-time remote identifications were made on a wide variety of arthropod taxa, and there were major benefits: specimen access was more timely, operational costs were lowered, and the risk of specimen damage was reduced. Widespread adoption of such systems may help to overcome the taxonomic challenges facing the disciplines of ecology and evolution.
3868789|Brazilian free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis) form enormous summer breeding colonies, mostly in caves and under bridges, in south-central Texas and northern Mexico. Their prey includes several species of adult insects whose larvae are known to be important agricultural pests, including the corn earworm or cotton bollworm (Helicoverpa zea). We estimate the bats' value as pest control for cotton production in an eight-county region in south-central Texas. Our calculations show an annual value of $741 000 per year, with a range of $121000-$1 725 000, compared to a $4.6-$6.4 million per year annual cotton harvest.
25595173|The alteration of natural cycles of light and dark by artificial light sources has deleterious impacts on animals and ecosystems. Many animals can also exploit a unique characteristic of light - its direction of polarization - as a source of information. We introduce the term "polarized light pollution" (PLP) to focus attention on the ecological consequences of light that has been polarized through interaction with human-made objects. Unnatural polarized light sources can trigger maladaptive behaviors in polarization-sensitive taxa and alter ecological interactions. PLP is an increasingly common byproduct of human technology, and mitigating its effects through selective use of building materials is a realistic solution. Our understanding of how most species use polarization vision is limited, but the capacity of PLP to drastically increase mortality and reproductive failure in animal populations suggests that PLP should become a focus for conservation biologists and resource managers alike.
43187726|Aquatic ecosystems are being degraded by anthropogenic pollution on a global scale. Septic tank systems (STS), which are widely distributed in rural and peri-urban areas, are one potential source of water pollution. Although generally regarded as the most efficient method for onsite treatment of domestic wastewater, we question whether current regulation and management of these systems is sufficient to guarantee that they function effectively. Here, we present watershed-specific examples that illustrate some of the problems that arise when many years of inadequate regulation and management result in a legacy of failing STS that can become long-term, chronic sources of nutrient pollution. Our data suggest that more accurate accounting of the location, performance, and degree of failure of STS, and more research into their impacts on water quality, would improve source attribution of pollutants within rural watersheds. This would ensure that education of homeowners, mitigation, interdisciplinary research, and technological innovation could be targeted in a cost-effective way.
41811810|Human activities have serious impacts on marine apex predators. Inadequate knowledge of the spatial and trophic ecology of these marine animals ultimately compromises the viability of their populations and impedes our ability to use them as environmental biomonitors. Intrinsic biogeochemical markers, such as stable isotopes, fatty acids, trace elements, and chemical pollutants, are increasingly being used to trace the spatial and trophic ecology of marine top predators. Notable advances include the emergence of the first ocanographie "isoscapes" (isotopic geographic gradients), the advent of compound-specific isotopic analyses, improvements in diet reconstruction through Bayesian statistics, and tissue analysis of tracked animals to ground-truth biogeochemical profiles. However, most researchers still focus on only a few tracers. Moreover, insufficient knowledge of the biogeochemical integration in tissues, fractionation and routing processes, and geographic and temporal variability in baseline levels continue to hamper the resolution and potential of these markers in studying the spatial and feeding ecology of top predators.
43187703|Autonomous acoustic telemetry monitoring systems have been deployed in aquatic ecosystems around the globe - from under ice sheets in the Arctic to coral reefs in Australia - to track animals. With tens of thousands of tagged aquatic animals from a range of taxa, vast amounts of data have been generated. As data accumulate, it is useful to reflect on how this information has advanced our understanding of aquatic animals and improved management and conservation. Here we identify knowledge gaps and discuss opportunities to advance aquatic animal science and management using acoustic telemetry monitoring. Current technological and analytical shortfalls still need to be addressed to fully realize the potential of acoustic monitoring. Future interdisciplinary research that relies on transmitter-borne sensors and emphasizes hypothesis testing will amplify the benefits of this technology.
27809112|Modern software development techniques are largely unknown to ecologists. Typically, ecological models and other software tools are developed for limited research purposes, and additional capabilities are added later, usually in an ad hoc manner. Modern software engineering techniques can substantially increase scientific rigor and confidence in ecological models and tools. These techniques have the potential to transform how ecological software is conceived and developed, improve precision, reduce errors, and increase scientific credibility. We describe our re-engineering of the forest landscape model LANDIS (LANdscape DIsturbance and Succession) to illustrate the advantages of using common software engineering practices.
10.2307/3867963|While the earth's climate can affect the structure and functioning of terrestrial ecosystems, the process also works in reverse. As a result, changes in terrestrial ecosystems may influence climate through both biophysical and biogeochemical processes. This two-way link between the physical climate system and the biosphere is under increasing scrutiny. We review recent developments in the analysis of this interaction, focusing in particular on how alterations in the structure and functioning of terrestrial ecosystems, through either human land-use practices or global climate change, may affect the future of the earth's climate.
10.2307/3868611|Although ecologists want to conduct research in urban systems, cultural constraints, spatial complexity, and institutional agendas limit the establishment of ecological experiments. Recent approaches using household landscaping have begun to tackle these obstacles; others, including adaptive management, restoration, reclamation, and wetland construction, reveal overlaps between ecological experiments and urban design. "Designed experiments" propose going beyond current strategies to partner with urban designers, landscape architects, and architects to insert architecturally designed experiments into the urban mosaic. The interdisciplinary approach of designed experiments exploits the aesthetics and functions of urban design, balancing ecological goals with important design factors such as context, public amenities, and safety. Designed experiments represent a novel way for ecologists to help improve urban environments by providing a means with which to work with urban designers in creating attractive, practical, and replicated experimental designs that generate quality ecological data from metropolitan sites.
20440626|Cascading events that start at small spatial scales and propagate non-linearly through time to influence larger areas often have major impacts on ecosystem goods and services. Events such as wildfires and hurricanes are increasing in frequency and magnitude as systems become more connected through globalization processes. We need to improve our understanding of these events in order to predict their occurrence, minimize potential impacts, and allow for strategic recovery. Here, we synthesize information about cascading events in systems located throughout the Americas. We discuss a variety of examples of cascading events that share a common feature: they are often driven by linked ecological and human processes across scales. In this era of globalization, we recommend studies that explicitly examine connections across scales and examine the role of connectivity among non-contiguous as well as contiguous areas. /// Los eventos consecutivos en cascada que empiezan a pequeas escalas espaciales y que se propagan de forma no lineal a travs del tiempo para influenciar reas ms grandes a menudo tienen impactos de gran envergadura sobre los recursos y servicios de los ecosistemas. La frecuencia y la magnitud de eventos tales como incendios y huracanes estn aumentando mientras que los sistemas se interconectan por los procesos de la globalizacin. Necesitamos mejorar nuestra comprensin de estos acontecimientos para poder predecir su ocurrencia, reducir al minino los posibles impactos, y para permitir una recuperacin estratgica. Aqu sintetizamos la informacin de estos eventos consecutivos en cascada en sistemas localizados a travs del continente Americano. Discutimos una variedad de ejemplos de eventos consecutivos en casada que tienen una caracterstica en comn: son inducidos por procesos ecolgicos y humanos ligados a travs de las escalas. En esta era de globalizacin, recomendamos estudios que examinen explcitamente las conexiones a travs de las escalas, y que se examine el rol de la conectividad entre reas contiguas y no contiguas.
23470947|A subset of members of the Ecological Society of America was surveyed to describe the current status and infer the future state of ecology. Today's modal ecologist is a 55-year-old male professor who uses field observations and experiments to study communities and ecosystems and finds fulfillment in his research. Younger ecologists rely more heavily on laboratory experiments and modeling but obtain satisfaction in field work. If gender-based retention rates equalize, there may soon be as many women as men in ecology  and their interests differ markedly. Women and men report greater fulfillment from teaching and from data analysis/written communication, respectively. These patterns may explain the poor retention of women in the discipline, given the professional emphasis on publications and grants. Such dissonance between personal satisfaction and the missions of employing institutions must be addressed in order to advance the goals of ecology and enhance the diversity of its practitioners.
43188445|This paper provides a synthesis of the recent literature describing how global biodiversity is being affected by climate change and is projected to respond in the future. Current studies reinforce earlier findings of major climate-change-related impacts on biological systems and document new, more subtle after-effects. For example, many species are shifting their distributions and phenologies at faster rates than were recorded just a few years ago; however, responses are not uniform across species. Shifts have been idiosyncratic and in some cases counterintuitive, promoting new community compositions and altering biotic interactions. Although genetic diversity enhances species' potential to respond to variable conditions, climate change may outpace intrinsic adaptive capacities and increase the relative vulnerabilities of many organisms. Developing effective adaptation strategies for biodiversity conservation will not only require flexible decision-making and management approaches that account for uncertainties in climate projections and ecological responses but will also necessitate coordinated monitoring efforts.
20440743|No-analog communities (communities that are compositionally unlike any found today) occurred frequently in the past and will develop in the greenhouse world of the future. The well documented no-analog plant communities of late-glacial North America are closely linked to "novel" climates also lacking modern analogs, characterized by high seasonality of temperature. In climate simulations for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change A2 and B1 emission scenarios, novel climates arise by 2100 AD, primarily in tropical and subtropical regions. These future novel climates are warmer than any present climates globally, with spatially variable shifts in precipitation, and increase the risk of species reshuffling into future no-analog communities and other ecological surprises. Most ecological models are at least partially parameterized from modern observations and so may fail to accurately predict ecological responses to these novel climates. There is an urgent need to test the robustness of ecological models to climate conditions outside modern experience.
25595061|Recent research has emphasized the importance of terrestrial ecosystems in the global biogeochemical cycle of silica (Si). The production, retention, and dissolution of amorphous silica of biological origin in soils and vegetation effectively control terrestrial Si fluxes. However, surprisingly little is known about the role of wetlands in these processes. Wetlands are known hotspots for both nitrogen and phosphorus cycling, and there have been countless studies and numerous reviews on these nutrients worldwide. By bringing together previously scattered results, we show that wetland ecosystems may be as important for Si transport and processing as they are for other important biogeochemical cycles. Yet, the range of studied systems is small and incomplete. This constitutes a serious gap in our understanding of both coastal eutrophication and climate change, issues that are strongly linked to Si biogeochemistry. Ecosystem scientists and wetland biogeochemists around the world need to begin addressing these issues.
20440741|The influence of pre-Columbian human populations on Amazonian ecosystems is being actively debated. The long-standing view that Amazonia was only minimally impacted by human actions has been challenged, and a new paradigm of Amazonia as a "manufactured landscape" is emerging. If such disturbance was the norm until just 500 years ago, Amazonian ecosystems could be far more ecologically resilient to disturbance than previously supposed. Alternatively, if the "manufactured landscape" label is an overstatement, then policy that assumes such resilience may cause substantial and long-lasting ecological damage. We present paleoecological data suggesting a middle path, in which some areas were heavily modified, but most of Amazonia was minimally impacted. Bluffs adjacent to main river channels and highly seasonal areas appear to have been the most extensively settled locations. Away from areas where humans lived, their influence on ecosystems was very local. Consequently, we see no evidence suggesting that large areas at a distance from rivers or in the less seasonal parts of Amazonia were substantially altered by human activity. Extrapolating from sites of known human occupation to infer Amazon-wide landscape disturbance may therefore potentially lead to unrealistic projections of human impact and misguided policy.
20440700|Harmful non-indigenous species may be introduced, either accidentally or intentionally, into the US through commerce, and may subsequently drive reductions in abundances of native species and changes in ecosystem function. The "injurious wildlife provision" of the Lacey Act (1900) is the primary legal tool protecting US non-agricultural ecosystems against the introduction and spread of invasive animal species. We evaluated the efficacy of this provision at disrupting the invasion processes involved in transport, introduction, establishment, and spread, and found that the wildlife provision prohibits importation of only 17 taxa. While the Lacey Act may have been somewhat effective at preventing transport into the country of the few taxa listed prior to their introduction, over half of listed taxa were already present in the US when listed, and most taxa already established in the wild continued to spread after listing. Currently, five taxa are being considered for listing. Mean time for a petitioned listing has increased to over 4 years, and only one species has been added by petition in the past decade. If the goals of the provision are to be met in the face of increasing international trade in live organisms, then revision or replacement of the provision is required.
3868845|Brucellosis is a hotly debated topic in the western United States. For decades, this disease has pitted conservationists against ranchers, as well as against federal and state government agencies, particularly in Montana and Wyoming. Bison and elk are the primary wildlife disease reservoirs, and cattle the primary species of agricultural concern. Here, we briefly summarize the disease's etiology and ecology in wildlife and discuss recent developments in the sociopolitical landscape and in scientific research that could result in improved management. Applying some key principles of ecosystem management is crucial to improving brucellosis control in wildlife.
23470950|A key challenge in aquatic restoration efforts is documenting locations where ecological connectivity is disrupted in water bodies that are dammed or crossed by roads (road crossings). To prioritize actions aimed at restoring connectivity, we argue that there is a need for systematic inventories of these potential barriers at regional and national scales. Here, we address this limitation for the North American Great Lakes basin by compiling the best available spatial data on the locations of dams and road crossings. Our spatial database documents 38 times as many road crossings as dams in the Great Lakes basin, and case studies indicate that, on average, only 36% of road crossings in the area are fully passable to fish. It is therefore essential that decision makers account for both road crossings and dams when attempting to restore aquatic ecosystem connectivity. Given that road crossing structures are commonly upgraded as part of road maintenance, many opportunities exist to restore connections within aquatic ecosystems at minimal added cost by ensuring upgrade designs permit water flow and the passage of fish and other organisms. Our findings highlight the necessity for improved dam and road crossing inventories that traverse political boundaries to facilitate the restoration of aquatic ecosystem connectivity from local to global scales.
10.2307/3868431|Exotic earthworms from Europe and Asia are invading many northern forests in North America that currently lack native earthworms, providing an opportunity to assess the role of this important group of invertebrates in forest ecosystems. Research on earthworm invasions has focused on changes in soil structure and carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycling that occur following invasion. These changes include the mixing of organic and mineral soil horizons, decreases in soil C storage, and equivocal effects on N cycling. Less well studied are changes in the soil foodwebs that accompany earthworm invasion. Soils of north temperate forests harbor a tremendous diversity of microorganisms and invertebrates, whose distribution and abundance can be substantially altered by earthworm invasion. Furthermore, invasive earthworms can affect understory plant communities, raising concerns over the loss of rare native herbs in some areas. The ecological consequences of earthworm invasion are mediated through physical, geochemical, and biological effects. These effects vary with different earthworm species, as well as with the characteristics of the site being invaded. Earthworm invasions may have important interactions with other rapid changes predicted for northern forests in the coming decades, including climate and land-use change, increased nutrient deposition, and other biological invasions.
43188513|Water is essential for life on Earth, yet little is known about how water acts as a trophic currency, a unit of value in determining species interactions in terrestrial food webs. We tested the relative importance of groundwater and surface water in riparian food webs by manipulating their availability in dryland floodplains. Primary consumers (crickets) increased in abundance in response to added surface water and groundwater (contained in moist leaves), and predators (spiders and lizards) increased in abundance in response to added surface water, in spite of the presence of a river, an abundant water source. Moreover, the relative magnitude of organism responses to added water was greatest at the most arid site and lowest at the least arid site, mirroring cricket recruitment, which was greatest at the least arid site and lowest at the most arid site. These results suggest that water may be a key currency in terrestrial dryland food webs, which has important implications for predicting ecosystem responses to human-and climate-related changes in hydrology and precipitation.
20440888|Climate is changing across a range of scales, from local to global, but ecological consequences remain difficult to understand and predict. Such projections are complicated by change in the connectivity of resources, particularly water, nutrients, and propagules, that influences the way ecological responses scale from local to regional and from regional to continental. This paper describes ecological responses to expected changes in four key meso-scale drivers that influence the ecosystems of the North American continental interior: drought, warming, snowpack disappearance, and altered fire regimes. Changes in these drivers will affect, for example, atmospheric smoke, dust, and reactive nitrogen concentrations; stream discharge; nitrate concentrations; sediment loads; and the vector-borne spread of invasive species and infectious diseases. A continental network of sensors and simulation models is required to detect changes in the transport vectors -- atmospheric, hydrologic, and mechanized -- that connect spatial scales. Knowledge of these downwind, downstream, and down-corridor effects will be critical if we are to understand and forecast responses to climate change at regional to continental scales.
43187631|Environmental design and planning are important tools for human adaptation. Designers and planners depend on experience, craft, and environmental knowledge to shape preferred futures. Ecological literacy would enhance the design and planning of built environments. The concepts of "resilience" and "ecosystem" offer opportunities for collaboration between ecologists and practitioners in the design and planning disciplines. Urban resilience to natural disasters and coastal "green" infrastructure represent two areas where design and planning based on ecological principles should be applied. The Sustainable Sites Initiative is a practical example of interdisciplinary collaboration.
10.2307/3868089|We used a simple process model and satellite data to explore trends in China's terrestrial net primary production (NPP). We found that the country's terrestrial NPP increased by 18.7% from 1982 to 1999. Evidence for this major increase also came from crop yields and forest inventory surveys, and much of it appeared to be the result of a lengthening of the growing season. Plant growth also increased during the middle of the growing season, but to a lesser extent. Historical NPP trends indicate a great deal of spatial heterogeneity, increasing significantly over an area covering 30.8% of China during the past 18 years, but decreasing in areas undergoing rapid urbanization.
27809113|Compensatory mitigation, or biodiversity offsets, provide a mechanism for maintaining or enhancing environmental values in situations where development is being planned, despite detrimental environmental impacts. Offsets are generally intended as an option for addressing any remaining environmental impacts of a development plan, after efforts have been made to avoid, minimize, or restore on-site impacts. Although offset programs require that developers adhere to the mitigation hierarchy to avoid, minimize, and restore biodiversity on-site before considering an offset for residual impacts, no quantitative guidelines exist for this decision-making process. What criteria are needed to require that impacts be minimized or avoided altogether? Here, we examine how conservation planning can provide a way to address this issue. By blending landscape-level conservation planning with application of the mitigation hierarchy, we can ensure that the use of biodiversity offsets is consistent with sustainable development practices.
3868866|Ground vegetation influences habitat selection and provides critical resources for survival and reproduction of animals. Researchers often employ visual methods to estimate ground cover, but these approaches may be prone to observer bias. We therefore evaluated a method using digital photographs of vegetation to objectively quantify percent ground cover of grasses, forbs, shrubs, litter, and bare ground within 90 plots of <tex-math>$2\text{m}^{2}$</tex-math>. We carried out object-based image analysis, using a software program called eCognition, to divide photographs into different vegetation classes (based on similarities among neighboring pixels) to estimate percent ground cover for each category. We used the Kappa index of agreement (KIA) to quantify correctly classified, randomly selected segments of all images. Our KIA values indicated strong agreement (> 80%) of all vegetation categories, with an average of 90-96% (SE = 5%) of shrub, litter, forb, and grass segments classified correctly. We also created artificial plots with known percentages of each vegetation category to evaluate the accuracy of software predictions. Observed differences between true cover and eCognition estimates for each category ranged from 1 to 4%. This technique provides a repeatable and reliable way to estimate percent ground cover that allows quantification of classification accuracy.
3868821|We conducted an intensive review of conservation science to find out whether the field has tracked priorities over the past 20 years. A total of 628 papers from the literature, for the years 1984, 1994, and 2004, were surveyed. For each paper, we recorded where conservation research was done and what was studied. We found geographic gaps in conservation research, with marine, tundra, and desert biomes being studied less than other systems. We also found taxonomic gaps, with amphibians being understudied as compared to other, less threatened, taxonomic groups. Finally, we discovered that studies of invasive species are still lacking, despite the magnitude of the threat they pose to global biodiversity. Although there was a weak trend towards filling these gaps between 1984 and 2004, progress has been slow. To be more effective, the research community must quickly redirect research to better match conservation priorities.
27809110|It is increasingly clear that future long-term environmental challenges (eg climate change) are being driven by economic and cultural choices, as well as by physical and biological mechanisms. We looked at the extent to which these apply to potential future changes in fisheries in the Laurentian Great Lakes. These fisheries rank among the most valuable freshwater fisheries in the world, but have declined markedly in recent decades. To investigate how these fisheries might develop in the future, we elicited projections from experts in fisheries and related fields. Experts provided assessments on variables relating to US and Canadian commercial (pounds landed) and sport (participation and expenditures) fisheries for the years 2006 and 2025. We measured each expert's ability to quantify their uncertainty, producing performance-weighted combinations of expert estimates. All experts expected commerical fisheries to decline from 2006 to 2025, with greater declines in the US (25%) than in Canada (9%). Expectations for sport fishing differed more between lakes and less between countries, with median expected declines ranging from 1% to 13%. Experts attributed expected declines primarily to changes in economic market demands and shifts in societal interests. Increased attention to social and economic trends could aid Laurentian Great Lakes fishery policy and management.
23034443|Escalating concern over the state of coastal marine ecosystems highlights the need for a better understanding of how such systems are structured by physical, biological, and chemical processes, and how human activities interact with these processes. Marine protected area (MPA) networks are being established around the world, in an effort to protect marine populations, communities, and ecosystems. Concurrently, ocean observing systems (OOSs) are being developed and implemented to identify and describe changes in the coastal oceans. Because marine ecosystems are strongly influenced by oceanographic processes, proper interpretation of ecological data to assess MPA performance requires information generated by coastal OOSs. At the same time, OOSs designed with the goal of identifying ecosystem responses to climate change require information from long-term ecological monitoring studies of MPAs. Collaborative integration between ecological and oceanographic monitoring programs is central to elucidating both the role of MPAs for conservation and the influence of climate change on marine ecosystems.
10.2307/3868334|The application of new molecular and genomic techniques to the ocean is driving a scientific revolution in marine microbiology. Discoveries range from previously unknown groups of organisms and novel metabolic pathways to a deeper appreciation of the fundamental genetic and functional diversity of oceanic microbes. The "oceanic genotype" represents only the potential biological capacity and sets an upper constraint on possible pathways and ecosystem rates. The realized structure and functioning of marine ecosystems, the "oceanic phenotype", reflects the complex interactions of individuals and populations with their physical and chemical environment and with each other. A comprehensive exploitation of the wealth of new genomic data therefore requires a close synergy with interdisciplinary ocean research. Incorporating the information from environmental genomics, targeted process studies, and ocean observing systems into numerical models will improve predictions of the ocean's response to environmental perturbations. Integrating information from genes, populations, and ecosystems is the next great challenge for oceanography.
25741272|Wind erosion and associated dust emissions play a fundamental role in many ecological processes and provide important biogeochemical connectivity at scales ranging from individual plants up to the entire globe. Yet, most ecological studies do not explicitly consider dust-driven processes, perhaps because most relevant research on aeolian (wind-driven) processes has been presented in a geosciences rather than an ecological context. To bridge this disciplinary gap, we provide a general overview of the ecological importance of dust, examine complex interactions between wind erosion and ecosystem dynamics from the scale of plants and surrounding space to regional and global scales, and highlight specific examples of how disturbance affects these interactions and their consequences. It is likely that changes in climate and intensification of land use will lead to increased dust production from many drylands. To address these issues, environmental scientists, land managers, and policy makers need to consider wind erosion and dust emissions more explicitly in resource management decisions.
43188514|Scientists are increasingly called upon to engage in policy formulation, but the literature on engagement is strong on speculation and weak on evidence. Using a survey administered at several broadly "ecological" conferences, we investigated: (1) the extent to which respondents engage in policy-related activities (including reporting scientific results, interpreting science for policy makers, integrating science into decision making, taking a position on a policy issue, and acting as a decision maker); (2) what factors best explain these types of engagement; and (3) whether respondents' activity levels match their stated beliefs on such activities. Different factors explain different forms of participation. Past negative experience was identified as a barrier to taking part in policy, while self-perceived competence in navigating the science-policy interface was consistently important in explaining activity across all engagement types, highlighting the importance of training programs linking scientists to policy. Many respondents believed that scientists should interpret, integrate, and advocate, which contrasts with previous research and relatively low levels of self-reported participation in policy.
25595171|We quantify the relationships between riverine nitrate-nitrogen (NN) concentration and agricultural land use in the continental United States - from the early 1900s through the end of the last century - on spatial scales ranging from the entire Mississippi River Basin to 1000-km watersheds. Cropland cover is linearly related to the NN concentration that exits a watershed at both the beginning and end of the 20th century. In addition, the slope of the relationship is higher at the end of the century, and the intercept of the regression analysis is not different from zero. These findings imply that agriculture was already affecting NN export by the early 1900s, that intensive management practices in modern agriculture have significantly increased the NN export per hectare of cropland, and that the baseline of exported NN has not shifted. We identify agricultural practices, principally associated with corn cultivation, that contribute substantially to NN concentrations and suggest that increasing cropland diversity and perennial plant cover can reduce NN loading.
10.2307/3868407|Rising CO
10.2307/3868429|Global energy use projections predict that biomass will be an important source of renewable energy in the coming decades. Short-rotation woody crops will be the prime source of this biomass. However, the sustainability of woody crops has been questioned. Using internationally accepted forest sustainability criteria, an assessment of willow biomass crops indicates that they are sustainable compared to agricultural land and the fossil fuel-based energy systems they will replace. Assessing each criterion also reveals aspects of willow crop systems that should be addressed to further improve sustainability. Biological characteristics and management of willow create a structurally diverse habitat for an array of species and protect soil and water resources. Biomass from willow crops can be used to produce energy with no net addition of CO
23034491|Wild ungulates are the primary prey for wolves in North America, but livestock predation is a concern in areas where wolves and livestock overlap. Using clusters of global positioning system telemetry relocations and scat analysis, we investigated wolf diets year-round in southwestern Alberta, where seasonal cattle grazing is the predominant land use and wolfcattle conflicts have increased in recent years. Both methods indicated a seasonal shift in wolf diets, from wild prey during the non-grazing season to cattle in the grazing season. Wolves scavenged more frequently during the non-grazing season than during the grazing season; 85% of all scavenging events occurred at ranchers' boneyards (where livestock carcasses are dumped), where wolves fed on dead livestock. Cattle represent a higher proportion of wolf diets than previously thought; we recommend the sanitary disposal of dead livestock to prevent wolves from becoming accustomed to feeding on livestock, and the development of management plans aimed at reducing predation on cattle if humans and wolves are to coexist on landscapes that are dominated by livestock ranching.
3868710|Professional aquarists and hobbyists are thought to be the source of invasions of the aquarium strain of the green macroalga Caulerpa taxifolia in the Mediterranean, southern California, and Australia. The US Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) restricted interstate commerce and importation of the Mediterranean clone of C taxifolia prior to the California invasion and is currently deciding if it should strengthen regulation of this genus as more species of Caulerpa are being described as invasive. Here we document the importance of e-commerce as a mode of dispersal for many species of Caulerpa in the United States. We purchased Caulerpa from 30 internet retailers and 60 internet auction sites representing 25 states and Great Britain. Twelve different Caulerpa species were confirmed using DNA sequencing. Only 10.6% of sellers provided the correct genus and species names with their shipments. Thirty purchases of "live rock" provided four species of Caulerpa, as well as 53 additional marine species. Our results confirm the extensive e-commerce availability of this invasive genus and its high dispersal potential via postal services and hobbyists. We recommend that both eBay and the USDA maximize regulation of Caulerpa.
10.2307/3868140|With the oceans covering almost two-thirds of our planet, it is important that we be able to measure whether the seafloor ecosystem is healthy. One way to do this is to create a framework that could reduce the problems of applying "objective based" management to seafloor systems. This paper examines the ability of the available indicators to serve as management targets. Most of the currently available metrics of ecosystem health are only weakly tied to manageable activities. The approach advocated here involves the measurement of some general measures of "health" and the use of targeted assessment of measures of specific human impacts. The former need to be monitored at relatively frequent intervals over the entire area of concern. For seafloor communities, we have some metrics that can perform this role, although there are fewer that directly track manageable activities. Development of these performance metrics is an important challenge for ecologists.
10.2307/3868216|Designing an optimal nature reserve for the protection of biological diversity has been a long-standing challenge in conservation biology. A fundamental question has always been, which areas of land should be set aside. During the past two decades, quantitative methods from the field of operations research have been applied to the problem of selecting reserve sites. Here, we trace the development of decision models for systematic reserve design, from the iterative methods developed in the 1980s to the sophisticated spatial models being formulated today. Collaborations among ecologists, conservation biologists, and operations researchers have been key to the progress made thus far. We expect that mathematical reserve design models will become more widely used, in response to a growing need to identify effective alternatives for complex conservation problems worldwide.
25741223|Environmental policies and actions can be improved when environmental scientists engage in science-based advocacy, by calling attention to relevant scientific information and ensuring that policies and their implementation are consistent with the best available science. There are many models for scientist-advocates within and outside of advocacy organizations, and the roles they play may vary, depending on career stage. Here, we discuss the challenges and rewards for scientific staff in science-based advocacy organizations, as well as for an academic working with an advocacy organization, as a consultant, collaborator, or member of an advisory board. We identify some best practices for science-based advocacy and encourage the environmental science community to recognize the importance of the scientist-advocate's role in strengthening environmental policy.
41811855|Citizen scientists have the potential to play a crucial role in the study of rapidly changing lady beetle (Coccinellidae) populations. We used data derived from three coccinellid-focused citizen-science programs to examine the costs and benefits of data collection from direct citizen-science (data used without verification) and verified citizen-science (observations verified by trained experts) programs. Data collated through direct citizen science overestimated species richness and diversity values in comparison to verified data, thereby influencing interpretation. The use of citizen scientists to collect data also influenced research costs; our analysis shows that verified citizen science was more cost effective than traditional science (in terms of data gathered per dollar). The ability to collect a greater number of samples through direct citizen science may compensate for reduced accuracy, depending on the type of data collected and the type(s) and extent of errors committed by volunteers.
20440873|Exotic invasions are viewed as a major threat to global biodiversity, but predicting potential invaders is still a difficult task. Here, we highlight a hitherto unnoticed link between the increasing demand for pet birds in developed countries and avian invasions. Paradoxically, it is not the most common caged bird species that seem to be the most successful invaders, but those that are caught in the wild and traded on the pet market. Captive-bred species appear to have lost their ability to return to nature. Thus, the risk of biological invasion in importing countries should inform the current debate over potential bans on the wild-bird trade worldwide. This is a new piece of an already complex puzzle, in which the social, economic, and environmental aspects of both the importing and exporting countries must be weighed before any policy or resource-management measure can be instituted.
10.2307/3868488|Restoration of aquatic ecosystems is a high priority regionally and globally, yet only recently have such efforts adopted holistic approaches that include the restoration of streams and rivers flowing to coastal areas. As the largest estuary in the US, the Chesapeake Bay has been the focus of one of the most high-profile restoration programs ever undertaken in North America. While the primary emphasis has been on tidal waters, fresh-water tributary clean-up strategies have recently been developed. We have compiled the first comprehensive database of over 4700 existing river and stream restoration projects in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed (CBW) to examine where dollars are being spent, what issues motivate restoration, and what approaches are used. By conservative estimates, in excess of $400 million has been invested in restoration projects since 1990. The majority of projects were implemented to restore forest vegetation in riparian areas and improve water quality. Although the CBW has an extremely high density of restoration activities relative to other regions of the US, only 5.4% of the project records indicated that related monitoring of project performance has occurred. To provide cost-effective management solutions, we recommend that a centralized tracking system be developed that includes restoration projects associated with both tidal and non-tidal waterways, along with a substantial increase in investment in the comprehensive monitoring of individual projects following implementation.
10.2307/3868312|Biological reserves are set aside to conserve species in dynamic, human-dominated landscapes; however, most reserve systems protect only small, potentially biased samples of environmental conditions across the range of individual species or habitat types. Such biases can result in counter-intuitive distributions of environmental conditions under combinations of climate change and habitat loss. This study outlines the potential range of interactions and presents a case study investigating vernal pool wetlands in California, USA. The results indicate that future distributions of environmental conditions will be determined as much by landuse decisions as by atmospheric emissions.
20440767|Desert springs are fragile ecosystems that often harbor endemic species of fishes and other taxa. Historically, these springs experienced major disturbances from Pleistocene megafauna, aboriginal humans, and livestock. However, management practices to preserve and restore spring ecosystems and biota have led to the removal of livestock. We document changes in spring habitats and extinctions of fish populations due to management practices at two spring reserves: Ash Meadows in the southwestern United States and Dalhousie in central Australia. After springs were fenced and livestock removed, these ecosystems experienced increases in riparian vegetation, reduction of open-water habitat, and extinction of fish populations. Despite manual removal of vegetation to maintain open-water habitat, at least one pupfish population went extinct in Ash Meadows, and 18 populations, representing four of the five species native to desert springs in the Dalhousie reserve, also went extinct. To maintain the diversity of aquatic habitats and endemic biota, management of small desert springs must include substantial disturbance.
23034490|Current markets and international agreements for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD) rely on carbon (C) monitoring techniques. Combining field measurements, airborne light detection and ranging (LiDAR)-based observations, and satellite-based imagery, we developed a 30-meter-resolution map of aboveground C density spanning 40 vegetation types found on the million-hectare Island of Hawaii. We estimate a total of 28.3 teragrams of C sequestered in aboveground woody vegetation on the island, which is 56% lower than Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that do not resolve C variation at fine spatial scales. The approach reveals fundamental ecological controls over C storage, including climate, introduced species, and land-use change, and provides a fourfold decrease in regional costs of C measurement over field sampling alone.
20440939|As the demands on agricultural lands to produce food, fuel, and fiber continue to expand, effective strategies are urgently needed to balance biodiversity conservation and agricultural production. "Land sparing" and "wildlife-friendly farming" have been proposed as seemingly opposing strategies to achieve this balance. In land sparing, homogeneous areas of farmland are managed to maximize yields, while separate reserves target biodiversity conservation. Wildlife-friendly farming, in contrast, integrates conservation and production within more heterogeneous landscapes. Different scientific traditions underpin the two approaches. Land sparing is associated with an island model of modified landscapes, where islands of nature are seen as separate from human activities. This simple dichotomy makes land sparing easily compatible with optimization methods that attempt to allocate land uses in the most efficient way. In contrast, wildlife-friendly farming emphasizes heterogeneity, resilience, and ecological interactions between farmed and unfarmed areas. Both social and biophysical factors influence which approach is feasible or appropriate in a given landscape. Drawing upon the strengths of each approach, we outline broad policy guidelines for conservation in agricultural landscapes.
41149671|At the 2009 Annual Meeting of the Ecological Society of America, investigators of ecosystem science and biogeochemistry gathered in a series of sessions sponsored by the National Science Foundation to examine what is known about the coupling of chemical elements in biochemistry and thus in global biogeochemical cycles. As an introduction to the topic, this paper offers some philosophical thoughts about the origins and implications of coupled biogeochemical cycles on Earth. The chemical characteristics of Earth have carried the imprint of biology since the first appearance of life more than 3.5 billion years ago. Movements of about 30 chemical elements essential to life are coupled, so that the behavior of one element can often be used to predict the behavior of other elements -in both the natural and human-perturbed settings of the world. The coupling of biochemical elements stems from basic stoichiometry (the relative quantities of chemical elements in living biomass), the oxidation-reduction or "redox" reactions (in which one substance is oxidized [loses electrons] and another is reduced [gains electrons]) of metabolic activity, and chelation (in which a metal ion binds to an organic compound). Many anthropogenic environmental problems - climate change, eutrophication, acid precipitation, metal pollution -originate from the release of non-stoichiometric and toxic quantities of chemical elements to the environment. Geoengineering proposals as solutions to certain global environmental problems must be consistent with the underlying constraints of coupled biogeochemical cycles. Biogeochemistry has much to offer to policy makers, and biogeochemists must contribute to current deliberations about how to solve environmental problems.
43187879|In the face of rapid environmental and cultural change, orthodox concepts in restoration ecology such as historical fidelity are being challenged. Here we re-examine the diverse roles played by historical knowledge in restoration, and argue that these roles remain vitally important. As such, historical knowledge will be critical in shaping restoration ecology in the future. Perhaps the most crucial role in shifting from the present version of restoration ecology ("v1.0") to a newer formulation ("v2.0") is the value of historical knowledge in guiding scientific interpretation, recognizing key ecological legacies, and influencing the choices available to practitioners of ecosystem intervention under conditions of open-ended and rapid change.
10.2307/3868215|Molecular techniques can be used to address questions of conservation significance. At the individual level, these questions concern how kinship affects reproduction, group structure, dispersal, and cooperation which leads to social group assembly rules such that populations can be genetically managed and restored. Furthermore, inbreeding can now be measured at the individual level in natural populations, and, in combination with field studies, can be used to assess fitness declines that might require active management to arrest. We discuss genetic units for conservation and attempt to integrate data on phenotype and the environment into an evaluation that includes genetic data. To a limited extent, genetic surveys can now include genes that may influence fitness, as well as those not under selection. We discuss the use of animal and plant remains to monitor current populations and to determine directly the demographic changes that have occurred in the past.
41480672|This is the first continent-wide overview of insect diversity and status sufficiently fine-scaled to be used in conservation planning. We analyze patterns of richness and the conservation status of African dragonflies and damselflies (Insecta: Odonata), commonly referred to as dragonflies, to determine threats to species and freshwater habitats, location of diversity hotspots, necessary conservation actions, and research gaps. Major centers of dragonfly diversity in Africa are tropical forest areas that include highlands. Most threatened species -as classified by the International Union for Conservation of Nature global Red List -are concentrated in highlands from Kenya to South Africa (together with the Cape Floristic Region), western Africa (including mountains on the Cameroon-Nigeria border), and Ethiopia. Currently available knowledge can be applied throughout Africa's freshwater systems to help minimize or mitigate the impact of future development actions, allowing dragonflies to act as "guardians of the watershed". The private sector can be advised to safeguard sensitive habitats and species when selecting sites for development. Key sites and species for monitoring can be identified by checking the distribution of threatened species at www.iucnredlist.org.
20440990|Every year, millions of households provide huge quantities of supplementary food to wild birds. While alteration of the natural dynamics of food supply represents a major intervention in avian ecology, we have a remarkably limited understanding of the impacts of this widespread pastime. Here, we examine the many and varied responses of birds to supplementary feeding at backyard feeders -- in large-scale management projects and in focused academic studies -- and evaluate population responses to the bird-feeding phenomenon. Our review encompasses a wide range of species, from songbirds to raptors, and compares provisioning with a variety of foods, at different times of year and in different locations. We consider positive impacts, such as aiding species conservation programs, and negative ones, such as increased risk of disease transmission. It seems highly likely that natural selection is being artificially perturbed, as feeding influences almost every aspect of bird ecology, including reproduction, behavior, demography, and distribution. As the effects of bird feeding cascade through ecosystems and interact with processes of environmental change, we suggest areas for future research and highlight the need for large-scale experiments, with a particular focus on the backyards of an increasingly urban and generous, but sometimes fickle, human population.
10.2307/3868092|Riparian areas are hotspots of interactions between plants, soil, water, microbes, and people. While urban land use change has been shown to have dramatic effects on watershed hydrology, there has been surprisingly little analysis of its effects on riparian areas. Here we examine the ecology of urban riparian zones, focusing on work done in the Baltimore Ecosystem Study, a component of the US National Science Foundation's Long Term Ecological Research network. Research in the Baltimore study has addressed how changes in hydrology associated with urbanization create riparian "hydrologic drought" by lowering water tables, which in turn alters soil, vegetation, and microbial processes. We analyze the nature of past and current human interactions with riparian ecosystems, and review other urban ecosystem studies to show how our observations mirror those in other cities.
20440729|Closing the gaps in the water budget of forested ecosystems is a first-order challenge, with immediate implications for regional water supply, ecosystem function, and landscape biogeochemistry. Rainfall interception by vegetated canopies can be as great as 50% of total rainfall. There is considerable uncertainty in predicting this ecosystem property, which makes it one of the primary constraints in spatial water budgeting. Interception is largely controlled by vertical structure and canopy gaps on a relatively small scale. Emerging remote sensing technologies, such as lidar (light detection and ranging), now offer an unprecedented opportunity to quantify canopy architecture in three dimensions across the landscape. Use of such high-resolution spatial data, along with improved rainfall interception models, will aid in ecosystem process studies and the development of tools and incentives that could influence land-use policy and decision making in the future.
20440608|Range shifts due to climate change may cause species to move out of protected areas. Climate change could therefore result in species range dynamics that reduce the relevance of current fixed protected areas in future conservation strategies. Here, we apply species distribution modeling and conservation planning tools in three regions (Mexico, the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa, and Western Europe) to examine the need for additional protected areas in light of anticipated species range shifts caused by climate change. We set species representation targets and assessed the area required to meet those targets in the present and in the future, under a moderate climate change scenario. Our findings indicate that protected areas can be an important conservation strategy in such a scenario, and that early action may be both more effective and less costly than inaction or delayed action. According to our projections, costs may vary among regions and none of the three areas studied will fully meet all conservation targets, even under a moderate climate change scenario. This suggests that limiting climate change is an essential complement to adding protected areas for conservation of biodiversity.
41811398|Many citizen-science programs - including the Monarch Larva Monitoring Project and the Great Sunflower Project - are managed by university researchers, and this connection has facilitated the involvement of undergraduate students in project design, data collection and management, and independent research. Here, we describe the benefits of undergraduate involvement, and encourage citizen-science coordinators and college faculty to increase the use of citizen science and citizen-science data in undergraduate training.
10.2307/3868291|Road removal is being used to mitigate the physical and ecological impacts of roads and to restore both public and private lands. Although many federal and state agencies and private landowners have created protocols for road removal and priorities for restoration, research has not kept pace with the rate of removal. Some research has been conducted on hydrologic and geomorphic restoration following road removal, but no studies have directly addressed restoring wildlife habitat. Road removal creates a short-term disturbance which may temporarily increase sediment loss. However, long-term monitoring and initial research have shown that road removal reduces chronic erosion and the risk of landslides. We review the hydrologic, geomorphic, and ecological benefits and impacts of three methods of road removal, identify knowledge gaps, and propose questions for future research, which is urgently needed to quantify how effectively road removal restores terrestrial, riparian, and aquatic habitat and other ecosystem processes.
43187676|The emergence of macrosystems ecology (MSE), which focuses on regional-to continental-scale ecological patterns and processes, builds upon a history of long-term and broad-scale studies in ecology. Scientists face the difficulty of integrating the many elements that make up macrosystems, which consist of hierarchical processes at interacting spatial and temporal scales. Researchers must also identify the most relevant scales and variables to be considered, the required data resources, and the appropriate study design to provide the proper inferences. The large volumes of multi-thematic data often associated with macrosystem studies typically require validation, standardization, and assimilation. Finally, analytical approaches need to describe how cross-scale and hierarchical dynamics and interactions relate to macroscale phenomena. Here, we elaborate on some key methodological challenges of MSE research and discuss existing and novel approaches to meet them.
41149700|Early-successional forest ecosystems that develop after stand-replacing or partial disturbances are diverse in species, processes, and structure. Post-disturbance ecosystems are also often rich in biological legacies, including surviving organisms and organically derived structures, such as woody debris. These legacies and postdisturbance plant communities provide resources that attract and sustain high species diversity, including numerous early-successional obligates, such as certain woodpeckers and arthropods. Early succession is the only period when tree canopies do not dominate the forest site, and so this stage can be characterized by high productivity of plant species (including herbs and shrubs), complex food webs, large nutrient fluxes, and high structural and spatial complexity. Different disturbances contrast markedly in terms of biological legacies, and this will influence the resultant physical and biological conditions, thus affecting successional pathways. Management activities, such as post-disturbance logging and dense tree planting, can reduce the richness within and the duration of early-successional ecosystems. Where maintenance of biodiversity is an objective, the importance and value of these natural early-successional ecosystems are underappreciated.
41149697|Effective protection and management of groundwater-dependent ecosystems (GDEs) are hindered by inadequate information on their locations and the condition of associated groundwater supplies. We addressed this knowledge gap by developing a methodology that uses existing datasets to locate GDEs (including groundwater-dependent springs, lakes, rivers, wetlands, and species) and assess threats to groundwater quantity and quality. Here we report on the application of this method across the US state of Oregon. Nearly 40% of watersheds in Oregon contain two or more types of GDEs - termed "GDE clusters'' - indicating the widespread importance of groundwater to ecosystems. Documented problems may underestimate the threat to ecosystems from altered groundwater supply or quality. Although documented occurrences of water-table declines are limited, high densities of permitted wells (for irrigation or other commercial purposes) pose a threat to groundwater availability in 18% of GDE clusters. Furthermore, although only 5% of GDE clusters have known groundwater contamination, our assessment indicates that 30% of GDE clusters are threatened with groundwater contamination by nitrates, 30% by industrial chemicals, and 70% by pesticides. This initial assessment of GDEs and threats to their groundwater supply highlights the ecological importance of groundwater and the need to incorporate protection of GDEs in water management policy.
25595145|Phenology is the study of recurring life-cycle events, classic examples being the flowering of plants and animal migration. Phenological responses are increasingly relevant for addressing applied environmental issues. Yet, challenges remain with respect to spanning scales of observation, integrating observations across taxa, and modeling phenological sequences to enable ecological forecasts in light of future climate change. Recent advances that are helping to address these questions include refined landscape-scale phenology estimates from satellite data, advanced, instrument-based approaches for field measurements, and new cyberinfrastructure for archiving and distribution of products. These breakthroughs are improving our understanding in diverse areas, including modeling land-surface exchange, evaluating climate-phenology relationships, and making land-management decisions.
3868820|The restoration of New Orleans and the rest of the Mississippi delta after Hurricane Katrina can become another disaster waiting to happen, or it can become a model of sustainable development. Sea level is rising, precipitation patterns are changing, hurricane intensity is increasing, energy costs are predicted to soar, and the city is continuing to sink. Most of New Orleans is currently from 0.6 to 5 m (2-15 feet) below sea level. The conventional approach of simply rebuilding the levees and the city behind them will only delay the inevitable. If New Orleans, and the delta in which it is located, can develop and pursue a new paradigm, it could be a truly unique, sustainable, and desirable city, and an inspiration to people around the world. This paper discusses the underlying causes and implications of the Katrina disaster, basic goals for a sustainable redevelopment initiative, and seven principles necessary for a sustainable vision for the future of New Orleans and the Mississippi delta.
41149679|Organisms require about 30 essential elements to sustain life. The cycles of these elements are coupled to one another through the specific physiological requirements of the organisms. Here, I contrast several approaches to modeling coupled biogeochemical cycles using an example of carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus accumulation in a Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forest ecosystem and the response of that forest to elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations and global warming. Which of these approaches is most appropriate is subject to debate and probably depends on context; nevertheless, this question must be answered if scientists are to understand ecosystems and how they might respond to a changing global environment.
10.2307/3868033|Marine reserves are an emerging management tool, and can serve as examples of the practical application of basic marine ecology. Although some aspects of reserve science are well known, new information is badly needed in at least two major areas: the impact that reserves have on their surrounding ecosystems, and how we can use complex ecological and environmental data to inform management decisions. We describe the application of four new tools being used in oceanography and marine ecology to help design ocean reserves. Ocean sensing charts the dynamics of ocean environments, allowing us to see physical connections between protected and non-protected areas. The indirect monitoring of species dispersal through chemical tags and genetic comparisons can help us to map population movements and measure the spread of species. Computer-based mapping programs enable us to use GIS databases in management decisions, and give multiple stakeholders access to powerful decision-making tools. Together, these methods describe ecosystem patterns over spatial and temporal scales that are directly relevant to conservation and ecosystem management.
41811419|As a consequence of the decline of numerous commercial fish populations, an ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management, which includes the protection of essential fish habitat (EFH), has emerged. Cold-water coral (CWC) sites are recognized as biodiversity hotspots, but numerous examples of CWC destruction and degradation as a result of anthropogenic activities are well documented. However, although functional connections between CWCs and fish stocks are suspected, based on correlative evidence, proof of any close or direct relationship identifying CWCs as EFH is still lacking. Here, we provide evidence of the utilization of CWCs by fish larvae, mainly those of redfish (Sebastes spp). In multiyear surveys, fish larvae were consistently found closely associated with five species of sea pen (Octocorallia: Pennatulacea) in April and May. Prevalence and/or yields of fish larvae varied with coral host species, depth, location, and colony size. Evidence of the role of CWCs in the early life history of some fish species provides the strongest argument yet for the categorization of CWCs as EFH in the design of management programs.
41811494|In recent years, plastic greenhouse vegetable cultivation (PGVC) has expanded worldwide, particularly in China, where it accounts for more than 90% of all global PGVC operations. As compared with conventional agricultural methods, PGVC has doubled crop yields by extending growing seasons and intensifying agriculture. PGVC also offers more ecosystem services relative to conventional approaches, including greater soil carbon sequestration, lower water consumption, and improved soil protection at regional scales. The economic benefits of this easily implemented agricultural method are attractive to small-holder farmers. However, greater environmental impacts (eg greenhouse-gas emissions, generation of large amounts of plastic waste) are associated with PGVC than with conventional approaches. Here, we review what is currently known about PGVC and identify future research priorities that will comprehensively assess the ecosystem services offered by this method of cultivation, as well as its environmental impacts and socioeconomic benefits.
41480053|Temporary rivers and streams that naturally cease to flow and dry up can be found on every continent. Many other water courses that were once perennial now also have temporary flow regimes due to the effects of water extraction for human use or as a result of changes in land use and climate. The dry beds of these temporary rivers are an integral part of river landscapes. We discuss their importance in human culture and their unique diversity of aquatic, amphibious, and terrestrial biota. We also describe their role as seed and egg banks for aquatic biota, as dispersal corridors and temporal ecotones linking wet and dry phases, and as sites for the storage and processing of organic matter and nutrients. In light of these valuable functions, dry riverbeds need to be fully integrated into river management policies and monitoring programs. We also identify key knowledge gaps and suggest research questions concerning the values of dry riverbeds.
43187835|Restoration of floodplain ecosystems through the reinstatement of floods is often hampered by insufficient water as a result of competing human demands. An emerging alternative approach relies on floodplain infrastructure - such as levees, weirs, regulators, and pumps - to control water levels within floodplains without requiring landscapescale overbank floods. This technique, albeit water efficient and capable of achieving some ecological targets, does not mimic the hydraulics, hydrodynamics, and lateral connectivity of natural floods. Engineering approaches like this may risk detrimental ecological outcomes, including reductions in biotic connectivity, river-floodplain productivity, and water quality, and thus may fail to support the range of ecological processes required to sustain healthy river-floodplain systems. Here, we review the potential benefits, risks, and mitigation options associated with engineered artificial flooding. Given the growing challenge of equitable water allocation, further research on and monitoring of engineered floods as a tool to sustain floodplain ecosystems are urgently required.
25741251|Within the next 50100 years, the warming climate will have major effects on boreal and northern hardwood forests situated near the prairieforest border of central North America. This biome boundary shifted to the northeast during past episodes of global warming, and is expected to do so again. The climate of the future will likely lead to higher mortality among mature trees, because of the greater frequency of droughts, fires, forest-leveling windstorms, and outbreaks of native and exotic insect pests and diseases. In addition, increasing populations of native deer and European earthworm invasions will inhibit the establishment of tree seedlings. The expected net impact of these factors will be a "savannification" of the forest, owing to the loss of adult trees at a rate faster than that at which they can be replaced. This will cause a greater magnitude and more rapid northeastward shift of the prairieforest border, as compared with a shift solely attributable to the direct effects of temperature change.
10.2307/3868064|Sudden oak death is a new disease affecting tanoak (Lithocarpus densiflora) and oaks (Quercus spp) in California and Oregon, caused by the recently described pathogen Phytophthora ramorum. It has reached epidemic proportions in several counties in central California, leading to the death of tens of thousands of trees. In addition to oaks and tanoak, P ramorum has been found in nearly all woody plant species in mixed evergreen and redwood forests from central California to southern Oregon. Plant species that are not killed appear to serve as a reservoir for the pathogen. The high susceptibility of tanoak to infection and death suggests that P ramorum is an exotic pathogen, but its origins, and most details of its biology and ecology, remain unknown. Our limited knowledge only compounds our concern over the long-term implications of this epidemic for the ecology of coastal forests.
41480050|Industrialization has greatly affected the biogeochemistry of northern forests by increasing the atmospheric deposition of acid and nitrogen (N). In 1990, the US Congress amended the Clean Air Act to include tighter emissions regulations; this reduced acid deposition (by > 50% in this study), but did not effectively lower N deposition. Here, we demonstrate that since this legislation was enacted, there have been marked decreases in sulfur (-16%), calcium (-17%), and aluminum (-42%) concentrations in sugar maple (Acer saccharum) foliage across the Upper Great Lakes region of the US, signaling a declining influence of acid deposition. In contrast, N deposition has persistently been over 75% greater than the amount of N needed to offset annual plant N sequestration, creating increases in N availability and soil N leaching. Recent emissions regulations will reduce N deposition somewhat, but further increases in soil N availability and leaching are likely. Policy decisions regarding N deposition will have to weigh increased carbon storage against negative impacts on water quality and species diversity.
41811492|Older, economically troubled urban neighborhoods present multiple challenges to environmental quality. Here, we present results from an initiative in Baltimore, Maryland, where water-quality improvements were rooted in a socioecological framework that highlighted the interactions between biogeophysical dynamics and social actors and institutions. This framework led to implementation of best management practices followed by assessment of changes in human perception, behavior, and education programs. Results suggest that such an initiative can improve both water quality (eg reductions in nitrogen and phosphorus runoff) and quality of life (eg increased involvement in outdoor recreation by residents and improvements in student environmental literacy and performance) in urban neighborhoods. However, proposed solutions to the water-quality problems in such neighborhoods have (1) typically emphasized the need for stormwater facilities that are difficult to build and maintain and (2) comprehensively addressed neither the issues related to aging infrastructure and hydrologic complexity nor the benefits derived from linkages between resident perception of environmental improvements and behavior and water-quality outcomes.
10.2307/3868384|Production agriculture, with its implied ecosystem simplification, pesticide and fertilizer use, and emphasis on yield, often appears to be at odds with conservation biology. From a farmer's perspective, the weight conservation biology places on wildlife may seem overly idealistic and naive, detached from economic and sociopolitical reality. In fact, these endeavors are two sides of the same coin, with a shared heritage in decades of population and community ecological theory and experimentation. Better integration of the two disciplines requires acknowledging their various goals and working to produce mutually beneficial outcomes. The best examples of this type of integrated approach result from careful implementation of sustainable agriculture practices that support biological conservation efforts via habitat amelioration or restructuring. Successful integrated approaches take into account both the environmental and economic costs of different farming schemes and compensate farmers for the costs they incur by implementing environmentally friendly farming strategies. Drawing primarily from examples in insect population dynamics, this paper highlights some innovative programs that are leading the way towards a more holistic integration.
20440870|High-resolution, image-based methods can increase the speed and accuracy of ecological monitoring while reducing monitoring costs. We evaluated the efficacy of systematic aerial and ground sampling protocols to detect stocking-rate differences across 130 ha of shortgrass prairie. Manual (SamplePoint) and automated (spectral) image-analysis methods were compared for both aerial and ground data. Vegetative cover changes due to grazing were detectable from 1-mm ground sample distance (GSD, a measure of resolution) digital aerial photography with as few as 30 samples yielding enough data to predict bare ground within  5%. We found poor agreement between automated and manual image-analysis methods, but good agreement between manual analyses of imagery from the air (100 m above ground level [AGL]) and from the ground (2 m AGL). We conclude that cover measurements made using SamplePoint from 1-mm GSD images (from 2 or 100 m AGL) can detect ecologically important changes in key indicators such as bare ground. The costs of ground and aerial methods differ markedly, and we suggest that aerial imagery is most cost effective for areas larger than 200 ha.
20440731|DNA barcoding has been promoted as the holy grail of biodiversity conservation. Its proponents envision a time when anyone will be able to use a portable Life Barcoder to identify a fragment of an organism to the species level within seconds. While several critics have questioned whether DNA barcoding will work technically, claims about its social benefits have not been scrutinized. Here, I focus on two prevalent assumptions about the Life Barcoder: that it will democratize access to biodiversity and that it will increase appreciation for it. I argue that neither of these assumptions is well supported, since a Life Barcoder will prioritize one way of knowing over others, and create a technological distance between people and organisms. Consequently, DNA barcoding may not benefit conservation as much as its proponents assume.
20440746|Millennial-scale records of forest fire provide important baseline information for ecosystem management, especially in regions with too few recent fires to describe the historical range of variability. Charcoal records from lake sediments and soil profiles are well suited for reconstructing the incidence of past fire and its relationship to changing climate and vegetation. We highlight several records from western North America and their relevance in reconstructing historical forest dynamics, fire-climate relationships, and feedbacks between vegetation and fire under climate change. Climatic effects on fire regimes are evident in many regions, but comparisons of paleo-fire records sometimes show a lack of synchrony, indicating that local factors substantially affect fire occurrence, even over long periods. Furthermore, the specific impacts of vegetation change on fire regimes vary among regions with different vegetation histories. By documenting the effects on fire patterns of major changes in climate and vegetation, paleo-fire records can be used to test the mechanistic models required for the prediction of future variations in fire.
20440557|This paper summarizes the history and current status of efforts to implement macroinvertebrate biomonitoring protocols for surface water pollution in China, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Mongolia, Russia (Far East), and Thailand. Impediments to biomonitoring in some of these countries include: (1) lack of knowledge about macroinvertebrate fauna and their tolerance values, especially during the aquatic, immature stages; (2) the scarcity of research programs and formal training opportunities for biomonitoring offered in universities; (3) the shortage of high-quality microscopes and other necessary equipment; and (4) limited government understanding and support for biomonitoring, few skilled regulatory staff, and the persistence of old and unusable biomonitoring protocols. A recently established regional network, the Aquatic Entomological Society of East Asia (AESEA), and several major recent publications are helping to coordinate and promote science and technology in East Asia.
20440912|The increasing isolation of protected areas poses a serious threat to the long-term viability of many wildlife populations and migrations in Africa. While ecologists have debated the impact of isolation on wildlife populations in reserves, field studies conducted over the past decade now provide a much clearer understanding of the effects. The primary drivers of isolation of protected areas are habitat loss, fences and roads, overhunting, and disease. These drivers restrict the movement of wildlife into and out of reserves and create sinks in the increasingly human-dominated matrix that surrounds most reserves. Post-establishment patterns of extinction of large mammal species in African reserves indicate that area and edge effects are important determinants of species persistence. Interactions and feedbacks between reserve isolation, human-related activities, and natural processes within and outside reserves can occur, yet are poorly understood. The problem of reserve isolation must therefore be addressed with a multi-pronged conservation strategy.
25595197|Global poverty, defined in almost any way, is disproportionately concentrated in the arid, semiarid, and dry subhumid regions - the drylands - of the world. We suggest that the intrinsic biophysical features of these environments, interacting with some social systems that are now no longer appropriate for the changing environment, lead to widespread situations where people living in such areas are trapped in a downward spiral of environmental degradation and loss of well-being. Externally driven changes in both the social and physical environment, ranging from trade rules to global climate change, contribute to this syndrome. The resultant destabilization of regional climates, ecosystems, hydrological systems, and the social fabric has consequences for neighboring lands as well as the global community. A more holistic set of interventions, that engages both local and global actors, is needed to reverse these negative trends.
41480006|The Mekong River is the longest watercourse in Southeast Asia. Although China has an extensive hydropower program underway on the Upper Mekong, as yet there are no dams on the river's lower mainstream. However, as many as 12 additional projects, which would generate substantial energy and wealth especially for Cambodia and Laos, are currently in the proposal stage for the Lower Mekong (LM). The cumulative effects of the LM hydropower projects -if built, and together with existing Chinese dams -will transform the Mekong by altering natural flow patterns and disrupting fisheries and other ecosystem services, to the detriment of the millions of people who depend on the river for their livelihoods. Proposals for new dam construction are driven by several factors, including changing human demographics and development needs, energy and food security concerns, economic cooperation, and climate change. We link these social, ecological, economic, and political forces to ongoing regional governance issues and discuss how to improve the quality of Mekong hydropower decision making in a complex, transboundary setting.
43187678|Collaborative research teams are a necessary and desirable component of most scientific endeavors. Effective collaborative teams exhibit important research outcomes, far beyond what could be accomplished by individuals working independently. These teams are made up of researchers who are committed to a common purpose, approach, and performance goals for which they hold themselves mutually accountable. We call such collaborations "high-performing collaborative research teams". Here, we share lessons learned from our collective experience working with a wide range of collaborative teams and structure those lessons within a framework developed from literature in business, education, and a relatively new discipline, "science of team science". We propose that high-performing collaborative research teams are created and maintained when team diversity (broadly defined) is effectively fostered and interpersonal skills are taught and practiced. Finally, we provide some strategies to foster team functioning and make recommendations for improving the collaborative culture in ecology.
41811395|Ecologically oriented citizen-science experiences engage the public in learning while facilitating the achievement of robust scientific program goals. Evaluation of learning outcomes has become increasingly prioritized, requiring citizen-science program managers to understand key issues in evaluation. We argue that citizen science can have other, more far-reaching community-level outcomes, which have received less attention but warrant consideration for continued programmatic improvement.
43187838|Analyses of published research can provide a realistic perspective on the progress of science. By analyzing more than 18 000 articles published by the preeminent ecological societies, we found that (1) ecological research is becoming increasingly statistically complex, reporting a growing number of P values per article and (2) the value of reported coefficient of determination (R) has been falling steadily, suggesting a decrease in the marginal explanatory power of ecology. These trends may be due to changes in the way ecology is studied or in the way the findings of investigations are reported. Determining the reason for increasing complexity and declining marginal explanatory power would require a critical review of the scientific process in ecology, from research design to dissemination, and could influence the public interpretation and policy implications of ecological findings.
23034515|Understanding the reasons for disagreements about conservation issues can facilitate effective engagement between the people involved. Invasive species are often central to such debates, with researchers and members of the public frequently disagreeing about the nature and magnitude of problems posed by the invaders, and the best ways to deal with them. The spread of non-native cane toads (Rhinella marina) throughout Australia has stimulated research on toad impact and control, and has mobilized local communities to reduce cane toad numbers through direct action. Biologists and community groups have disagreed about many toad-related topics, providing an instructive case history about impediments to consensus. Debates about the ecological impacts of cane toads mostly reflect poor communication of available research results (ie scientists have been largely unsuccessful in transmitting their findings to community groups), whereas disagreements about toad control reflect an information vacuum about the effectiveness of alternative methods, such as trapping, biocontrol, and predator training to induce toad aversion, among others. Many other disagreements have arisen from the differing motivations of scientists and community groups. Although the debates are superficially about evidence, the deeper divergence reflects differing social pressures, the ways that information is transmitted, and how people evaluate the validity of information.
20440742|We live in a constantly changing environment, yet tracking ecological change is often very difficult. Long-term monitoring data are frequently lacking and are especially sparse from Arctic ecosystems, where logistical difficulties limit most monitoring programs. Fortunately, lake and pond sediments contain important archives of past limnological communities that can be used to reconstruct environmental change. Here, we summarize some of the paleolimnological studies that have documented recent climate warming in Arctic lakes and ponds. Several hypotheses have been evaluated to determine if warming, resulting in changes in ice cover and related variables (eg increased habitat availability), was the factor most strongly influencing recent diatom and other biotic changes. Striking and often unprecedented community changes were evident in post-1850 sediments, and could be linked to ecological shifts consistent with warming. Because future temperature increases are predicted to be greatly amplified in polar regions, the ecological integrity of these sensitive ecosystems will be further imperiled.
20696432|Agriculture and livestock grazing threaten biodiversity around the world. In the grazing landscapes of eastern Australia, a common conservation strategy has been to exclude livestock from large patches of trees (typically > 5 ha). This has major local benefits, but is unlikely to stem regional biodiversity loss. Using a case study from the Upper Lachlan catchment in New South Wales, we show that (1) approximately 30% of tree cover occurs as very small patches or scattered trees; (2) large patches have disappeared from 90% of the landscape; and (3) large patches are 3.5 times more likely to be in unproductive upland areas than in lowland areas of high conservation concern. Given the limitations of focusing on large patches of trees to achieve regional conservation outcomes, the next generation of conservation initiatives should consider a new suite of additional measures that could deliver biodiversity benefits across broad areas of the region. Two key measures that must be considered are new incentives for farmers to alter livestock grazing practices and reduce fertilizer use.
25595036|The valuation of ecosystem services can play an important role in conservation planning and ecosystem-based management. Unfortunately, gathering primary, site-specific data is costly. As a result, a popular alternate method is to conduct a "benefit transfer" (applying economic value estimates from one location to a similar site in another location). Among the potential pitfalls of such an approach, the correspondence (or lack thereof) between the locations is probably the most important for evaluating the probable validity of the benefit transfer. A common type of benefit transfer in ecosystem service valuation applies an estimate of value per hectare to all areas having the same land-cover or habitat type, and is particularly susceptible to errors resulting from lack of correspondence. Enhancing the use of benefit transfers in this and other ecosystem service applications requires paying closer attention to simple guidelines, developed by economists, for improving validity and accuracy.
25595063|Biodiversity has been called a form of ecosystem insurance. According to the "insurance hypothesis", the presence of many species protects against system decline, because built-in redundancies guarantee that some species will maintain key functions even if others fail. The hypothesis might have merit, but calling it "insurance" promotes an ambiguous understanding of risk management strategies and underlying theories of risk. Instead, such redundancy suggests a strategy of diversification. A clearer understanding of risk includes comprehending the important distinction between risk assessment and risk management, acknowledging the existence of undiversifiable risk, and recognizing that risk and uncertainty are not synonymous. A better grasp of risk management will help anyone interested in assessing the merits of different biodiversity conservation strategies. At stake is the adequacy of conservation strategies for mitigating human-caused biodiversity losses.
25595174|Eradication is an important concept in the management of biological invasions, but it is rarely considered in practice. This may be because managers commonly work with incomplete data and little or no practical guidance. Past eradication frameworks provide some useful criteria, but do not provide quantitative guidelines. Here, we argue that eradication is not always adequately considered, and we develop a framework for rapid assessment of its feasibility, despite limited data. This quantitative model offers criteria to rapidly assess the potential for eradication and provide estimates of the necessary effort and timing, and of the size of the target area. This framework is applied to a recent tunicate (Ciona intestinalis) invasion around Prince Edward Island, Canada, which is causing considerable economic damage to harvesters of blue mussels (Mytilus edulis). Our framework suggests that eradication may be feasible and, based on a cost-benefit analysis, could require only a  16% chance of success to constitute a worthwhile risk.
25595033|Ecosystem services can bridge biodiversity conservation and development needs, but there is little information available on how conservation organizations implement such projects. We documented 103 ecosystem service projects - from 37 countries - implemented by The Nature Conservancy (TNC) and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). These projects commonly involved traditional conservation tactics, such as land purchase and restoration, but also adopted new approaches, such as targeting working landscapes, using new financial tools, and drawing new funding and partners from the corporate sector. We identified nine specific project types, characterized by consistent combinations of tools and activities. TNC and WWF used project types differently; TNC focused more on land purchase, whereas WWF concentrated more on developing markets. Both organizations showed some alignment of project type with socioeconomic conditions. For example, land purchases were used in countries with relatively secure property rights, while access to clean water or food was targeted when these human needs were unmet.
41479960|Plant breeding programs primarily focus on improving a crop's environmental adaptability and biotic stress tolerance in order to increase yield. Crop improvements made since the 1950s-coupled with inexpensive agronomic inputs, such as fertilizers, pesticides, and water-have allowed agricultural production to keep pace with human population growth. Plant breeders, particularly those at public institutions, have an interest in reducing agriculture's negative impacts and improving the natural environment to provide or maintain ecosystem services (eg clean soil, water, and air; carbon sequestration), and in creating new agricultural paradigms (eg perennial polycultures). Here, we discuss recent developments in, as well as the goals of, plant breeding, and explain how these may be connected to the specific interests of ecologists and naturalists. Plant breeding can be a powerful tool to bring "harmony" between agriculture and the environment, but partnerships between plant breeders, ecologists, urban planners, and policy makers are needed to make this a reality.
3868758|This paper presents a national-scale map of habitat suitability for tamarisk (Tamarix spp, salt cedar), a high-priority invasive species. We successfully integrate satellite data and tens of thousands of field sampling points through logistic regression modeling to create a habitat suitability map that is 90% accurate. This interagency effort uses field data collected and coordinated through the US Geological Survey and nationwide environmental data layers derived from NASA's MODerate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS). We demonstrate the use of the map by ranking the 48 continental US states (and the District of Columbia) based on their absolute, as well as proportional, areas of "highly likely" and "moderately likely" habitat for Tamarix. The interagency effort and modeling approach presented here could be used to map other harmful species, in the US and globally.
20440611|The role of positive interactions in structuring biological communities is recognized throughout the field of ecology, but has yet to be well integrated into the restoration and conservation of aquatic systems. Here, we use examples of success in terrestrial restoration to (1) describe how a broader perspective on the scale and nature of positive interactions is necessary if we are to take full advantage of their conservation potential and (2) explain why and when positive interactions should be considered in restoration and conservation of marine, estuarine, and freshwater habitats. Such goals can be accomplished without considering positive interactions, and situations certainly exist in which positive interactions should play a minor role in restoration plans. However, a more explicit recognition of these interactions will make restoration and conservation more successful. In some cases, restoration activities may fail if these interactions are not included.
10.2307/3868513|The negative impacts of invasive alien plants on the biodiversity, water supplies, and economy of South Africa are severe. Thousands of people are employed to clear the landscape of these invasive alien species, particularly trees, from conservation and riparian areas. The long-term suppression of the most virulent invasive plants in South Africa will never be possible without the intervention of biological control. Furthermore, the use of specially selected and carefully tested plant-feeding insects, mites, and pathogens as biological control agents is very safe, albeit never completely risk free. We present examples and data from South Africa to support these assertions and to show that biological control is often extremely successful and highly cost effective.
20440789|Charcoal represents a super-passive form of carbon (C) that is generated during fire events and is one of the few legacies of fire recorded in the soil profile; however, the importance of this material as a form of C storage has received only limited scientific attention. Here, we review the formation of charcoal in temperate and boreal forest ecosystems, discuss some of its desirable properties, and estimate the potential contribution of charcoal to long-term C sequestration in forest ecosystems. Charcoal deposition over the course of several millennia probably accounts for a substantial proportion of the total soil C pool in fire-maintained forest ecosystems. Forest management processes that interfere with natural fire processes eliminate the formation of this passive form of C. We recommend that charcoal be considered in C storage budgets and modeling of forest ecosystems, especially in light of climate change and increasing occurrence of wildfire.
10.2307/3868115|Designing appropriate management institutions for the successful integration of conservation and development has proven very difficult. It appears that these activities and interventions often fail to meet either ecological or social objectives. But does this mean that we should abandon our attempts? This paper explores the concept of institutional fit to explain these problems, using an example of a protected area in the Terai region of Nepal. Integration of conservation and development goals is constrained by a lack of fit between the institutions and ecosystems, and between sets of stakeholders. To succeed, we need innovative institutions based on adaptive management, as well as more equitable and inclusionary decision making.
41480675|Sustainability demands changes in human behavior. To this end, priority areas include reforming formal institutions, strengthening the institutions of civil society, improving citizen engagement, curbing consumption and population growth, addressing social justice issues, and reflecting on value and belief systems. We review existing knowledge across these areas and conclude that the global sustainability deficit is not primarily the result of a lack of academic knowledge. Rather, unsustainable behaviors result from a vicious cycle, where traditional market and state institutions reinforce disincentives for more sustainable behaviors while, at the same time, the institutions of civil society lack momentum to effectively promote fundamental reforms of those institutions. Achieving more sustainable behaviors requires this cycle to be broken. We call on readers to contribute to social change through involvement in initiatives like the Ecological Society of America's Earth Stewardship Initiative or the nascent Millennium Alliance for Humanity & the Biosphere.
3868884| In the past decade, many studies have investigated the occurrence, and associated biological effects, of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) in China's aquatic environments. Here, we summarize the exposure levels of butyltins and other EDCs in major Chinese river watersheds and coastal waters and review their biological consequences. High concentrations of butyltins were found in seawater from the coasts of Dalian, Tianjin, Qingdao, Shanghai, and the Guangxi North Sea, and in sediments from Daya, Haimen, and Guangao Bays. In areas with high butyltin concentrations, there was an increased incidence of imposex (in which male sexual characteristics are found in female gastropods). We discuss the effects of EDCs on other wildlife, including night herons, Chinese sturgeon, and crucian carp, and propose a number of ways to limit the release of EDCs and reduce their effects. /// ??????????????????????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ????????????????????????????????? 128 ng.Sn/L, ?? 3.1-1273 ng.Sn/L????????????????????????????????????? 84 ng Sn/g ????? 0.16-380 ???? ?????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ???????????????????????????????????????????????? 
25595090|The vulnerability of distant peoples and places to global change in environment and society is nested and teleconnected. Here, we argue that such vulnerabilities are linked through environmental change process feedbacks, economic market linkages, and flows of resources, people, and information. We illustrate these linkages through the examples of the global transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the interdependent vulnerabilities and adaptations of coffee farmers in Vietnam and Mexico. These cases demonstrate that the vulnerability of specific individuals and communities is not geographically bounded but, rather, is connected at different scales, so that the drivers of their exposure and sensitivity are inseparable from large-scale processes of sociocultural change and market integration. Aggregate outcomes of government policies, trends in global commodity markets, and even decisions by individuals to improve livelihood security can have negative repercussions, not only locally, through transformations of ecological systems and social relations, but also at larger scales.
20440936|Freshwater ecosystems are at the forefront of the global biodiversity crisis, with more declining and extinct species than in terrestrial or marine environments. Hydrologic alterations and biological invasions represent two of the greatest threats to freshwater biota, yet the importance of linkages between these drivers of environmental change remains uncertain. Here, we quantitatively test the hypothesis that impoundments facilitate the introduction and establishment of aquatic invasive species in lake ecosystems. By combining data on boating activity, water body physicochemistry, and geographical distribution of five nuisance invaders in the Laurentian Great Lakes region, we show that non-indigenous species are 2.4 to 300 times more likely to occur in impoundments than in natural lakes, and that impoundments frequently support multiple invaders. Furthermore, comparisons of the contemporary and historical landscapes revealed that impoundments enhance the invasion risk of natural lakes by increasing their proximity to invaded water bodies, highlighting the role of human-altered ecosystems as "stepping-stone" habitats for the continued spread of freshwater invaders.
25595088|In the 20 years since zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) first appeared in North America, they have become one of our most widespread and abundant freshwater animals, and have fundamentally transformed freshwater food webs and biogeochemistry. Indeed, few human impacts on North American fresh waters have been greater or more far-reaching than the arrival of this single species. Nevertheless, ecological research has been uneven, and important research questions remain unanswered, especially concerning the long-term, large-scale effects of the invasion. Economic impacts have also been incompletely estimated, although they already exceed $100 million. We know little about the extent to which large outreach programs about zebra mussels have changed public knowledge, attitudes, or behaviors, and there are still substantial gaps in policies to curb the establishment, spread, and impacts of species like zebra mussels. Scientific, educational, and policy responses to the zebra mussel invasion highlight our successes and limitations concerning alien species in general.
23470526|Road reclamation has emerged as an integral part of ecological restoration strategies, particularly on public lands. However, there are no consistent techniques for how road reclamation should be implemented to restore ecosystem structure and function. Resource managers are hindered by critical research gaps regarding the linkages between, as well as the effects of different restoration actions on, above- and belowground ecological and hydrological properties. In the western US, we examined how two road reclamation methods (recontouring and abandonment) affect ecosystem properties relative to "never-roaded" areas. Recontoured and abandoned sites displayed similar aboveground properties but exhibited notable differences in belowground properties, including soil hydraulic conductivity, organic matter, total carbon, and total nitrogen, among others. Our findings suggest that recontouring can dramatically accelerate recovery of above- and belowground properties so they resemble never-roaded reference conditions. In contrast, abandoning roads generates above- and belowground properties that follow a different path to recovery.
25595060|All is not well for biodiversity in the tropics. Despite recent debate over the extent of future tropical extinctions and the effectiveness of reserve systems, the continued disappearance of habitat, soaring human population, and loss of vital ecosystem services demand immediate action. This crisis is worrying, given that tropical regions support over two-thirds of all known species and are populated by some of the world's poorest people, who have little recourse to lower environmental-impact lifestyles. Recent evidence has shown that - in addition to unabated rates of forest loss - coastal development, overexploitation of wildlife, catchment modification, and habitat conversion are threatening human well-being. We argue that the recent technical debate about likely extinctions masks the real issue - that, to prevent further loss of irreplaceable tropical biodiversity, we must err on the side of caution. We need to avoid inadvertently supporting political agendas that assume low future extinction rates, because this will result in further destruction of tropical biodiversity.
41149698|Because of their capacity for long-range movement, birds may play an important role in the spread and range expansion of zoonotic pathogens and their vectors. The black-legged tick (Ixodes scapularis) is the principal vector for the Lyme disease bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, and commonly parasitizes a wide variety of vertebrate hosts, including at least 71 species of North American birds. Although the role of birds in B burgdorferi transmission dynamics is often discounted, data compiled from published studies indicate that the majority (58.6%) of bird species that have been evaluated are capable of infecting larval /scapularis with B burgdorferi. We estimated - for two bird species - that the number of individual birds required to produce one infected /scapularis larva is as low as three, and we conclude that bird-mediated tick movement is an important factor in the range expansion of both I scapularis and B burgdorferi.
25595116|Beneficial arthropods, including native bees, predators, and parasitoids, provide valuable ecosystem services worth $8 billion to US agriculture each year. These arthropod-mediated ecosystem services (AMES) include crop pollination and pest control, which help to maintain agricultural productivity and reduce the need for pesticide inputs. Maximizing survival and reproduction of beneficial arthropods requires provision of pollen and nectar resources that are often scarce in modern agricultural landscapes. Increasingly, native plants are being evaluated for this purpose. Native plants can outperform recommended non-natives and also provide local adaptation, habitat permanency, and support of native biodiversity. We predict that the success of insect conservation programs using flowering plants to increase AMES on farmland will depend on landscape context, with the greatest success in landscapes of moderate complexity. Reintegration of native plants into agricultural landscapes has the potential to support multiple conservation goals, and will require the collaboration of researchers, conservation educators, and native plant experts.
43187705|Assessment of animal internal "state" - which includes hormonal, disease, nutritional, and emotional states - is normally considered the province of laboratory work, since its determination in animals in the wild is considered more difficult. However, we show that accelerometers attached externally to animals as diverse as elephants, cockroaches, and humans display consistent signal differences in micro-movement that are indicative of internal state. Originally used to elucidate the behavior of wild animals, accelerometers also have great potential for highlighting animal actions, which are considered as responses stemming from the interplay between internal state and external environment. Advances in accelerometry may help wildlife managers understand how internal state is linked to behavior and movement, and thus clarify issues ranging from how animals cope with the presence of newly constructed roads to how diseased animals might change movement patterns and therefore modulate disease spread.
29546161|Tamarisk species (genus Tamarix), also commonly known as saltcedar, are among the most successful plant invaders in the western United States. At the same time, tamarisk has been cited as having enormous economic costs. Accordingly, local, state, and federal agencies have undertaken considerable efforts to eradicate this invasive plant and restore riparian habitats to pre-invasion status. Traditional eradication methods, including herbicide treatments, are now considered undesirable, because they are costly and often have unintended negative impacts on native species. A new biological control agent, the saltcedar leaf beetle (Diorhabda elongata), has been released along many watersheds in the western US, to reduce the extent of tamarisk cover in riparian areas. However, the use of this insect as a biological control agent may have unintended ecological, hydrological, and socioeconomic consequences that need to be anticipated by land managers and stakeholders undertaking restoration efforts. Here, we examine the possible ramifications of tamarisk control and offer recommendations to reduce potential negative impacts on valued riparian systems in the western US.
10.2307/3868383|Connectivity is an important but inconsistently defined concept in spatial ecology and conservation biology. Theoreticians from various subdisciplines of ecology argue over its definition and measurement, but no consensus has yet emerged. Despite this disagreement, measuring connectivity is an integral part of many resource management plans. A more practical approach to understanding the many connectivity metrics is needed. Instead of focusing on theoretical issues surrounding the concept of connectivity, we describe a data-dependent framework for classifying these metrics. This framework illustrates the data requirements, spatial scales, and information yields of a range of different connectivity measures. By highlighting the costs and benefits associated with using alternative metrics, this framework allows practitioners to make more informed decisions concerning connectivity measurement.
20440937|In June of 2006, the US Supreme Court ruled in two cases concerning jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act (CWA). The decisions suggest that hydrological permanence of non-navigable streams and adjacent wetlands (NNSAWs) and their effects on the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of navigable waters ("significant nexus") are relevant in determining CWA jurisdiction. This has increased the need for scientific information to support regulatory determinations and to inform future policies, rule making, and legislation. Here, we propose an approach for addressing these science needs. We define a metric -- maximum duration of continuous flow -- to assess hydrological permanence. We also define two metrics to evaluate significant nexus: proportion of total benefit to the navigable water contributed by an NNSAW class, and proportion of time that a navigable water receives benefit from an NNSAW. These metrics could be useful in implementing the Court's new legal standards.
25595196|The diatom Didymosphenia geminata is a single-celled alga found in lakes, streams, and rivers. Nuisance blooms of D geminata affect the diversity, abundance, and productivity of other aquatic organisms. Because D geminata can be transported by humans on waders and other gear, accurate spatial prediction of habitat suitability is urgently needed for early detection and rapid response, as well as for evaluation of monitoring and control programs. We compared four modeling methods to predict D geminata's habitat distribution; two methods use presence-absence data (logistic regression and classification and regression tree [CART]), and two involve presence data (maximum entropy model [Maxent] and genetic algorithm for rule-set production [GARP]). Using these methods, we evaluated spatially explicit, bioclimatic and environmental variables as predictors of diatom distribution. The Maxent model provided the most accurate predictions, followed by logistic regression, CART, and GARP. The most suitable habitats were predicted to occur in the western US, in relatively cool sites, and at high elevations with a high base-flow index. The results provide insights into the factors that affect the distribution of D geminata and a spatial basis for the prediction of nuisance blooms.
20440814|How frequently and in what manner are evolution, creationism, and intelligent design taught in public high schools? Here, I analyze the answer to this question, as given by nearly 600 students from major public universities nationwide in a survey conducted during the spring of 2006. Although almost all recent public high-school graduate respondents reported receiving evolution instruction, only about three-quarters perceived that evolution was taught as a "credible scientific theory". Creationism and intelligent design were reportedly presented almost one-third and one-fifth of the time, respectively, though respondents recalled that both concepts were presented as lacking scientific credibility much more often than not. The survey results are presented in composite form and also disaggregated with respect to the strength of evolution-related state standards, red state-blue state divisions, and the regional location of states within the country.
41480051|Community ecologists generally recognize the importance of species - such as pollinators - that have clear positive effects within ecosystems. However, parasites - usually regarded in terms of their detrimental effects on the individuals they infect - can also have positive impacts on other species in the community. We now recognize that parasites influence species coexistence and extirpation by altering competition, predation, and herbivory, and that these effects can, in turn, influence ecosystem properties. Parasites and pathogens act as ecosystem engineers, alter energy budgets and nutrient cycling, and influence biodiversity. Equally, because ecosystem properties - such as biodiversity - affect parasite populations, there is the potential for feedback between parasitism and ecosystem states. Using examples from animal and plant systems, we examine this potential bidirectional interdependence and challenge the conventional wisdom that parasites have only negative or inconsequential impacts on ecological communities.
41811865|Climate change could alter terrestrial ecosystems, which are important sources and sinks of the potent greenhouse gases (GHGs) nitrous oxide (NO) and methane (CH), in ways that either stimulate or decrease the magnitude and duration of global warming. Using manipulative field experiments, we assessed how NO and CH soil fluxes responded to a rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) concentration and to increased air temperature. Nitrous oxide and CH responses varied greatly among studied ecosystems. Elevated CO often stimulated NO emissions in fertilized systems and CH emissions in wetlands, peatlands, and rice paddy fields; both effects were stronger in clayey soils than in sandy upland soils. Elevated temperature, however, impacted NO and CH emissions inconsistently. Thus, the effects of elevated CO concentrations on NO and CH emissions may further enhance global warming, but it remains unclear whether increased temperature generates positive or negative feedbacks on these GHGs in terrestrial ecosystems.
10.2307/3868212|This year's catastrophic wildfires in southern California highlight the need for effective planning and management for fire-prone landscapes. Fire frequency analysis of several hundred wildfires over a broad expanse of California shrublands reveals that there is generally not, as is commonly assumed, a strong relationship between fuel age and fire probabilities. Instead, the hazard of burning in most locations increases only moderately with time since the last fire, and a marked age effect of fuels is observed only in limited areas. Results indicate a serious need for a re-evaluation of current fire management and policy, which is based largely on eliminating older stands of shrubland vegetation. In many shrubland ecosystems exposed to extreme fire weather, large and intense wildfires may need to be factored in as inevitable events.
10.2307/3868381|Increasing numbers of non-native species threaten the values of wildland ecosystems. As a result, interest in and research on invasive plant species in wildland settings has accelerated. Nonetheless, the ecological and economic impacts of non-native species continue to grow, raising the question of how to best apply science to the regulation and management of invasive plants. A major constraint to controlling the flow of potentially undesirable plant species is the lack of a strong regulatory framework concurrent with increases in trade volume. To address this, ecologists have been developing models to predict which species will be harmful to wildland values and are working with the horticultural industry to apply this information to the sale of species. The management of established invasive plants is hampered by conflicting goals, a lack of information on management outcomes, and a lack of funding. Ecologists and weed scientists can provide a scientific basis for prioritizing species for control and for managing species composition through the application of control technology, which can take place simultaneously with the manipulation of the ecological processes that influence community susceptibility to invasion. A stronger scientific basis for land management decisions is needed and can be met through nationally funded partnerships between university and agency scientists and land managers.
20440623|The value of biodiversity is often expressed in an abstract manner, while land-use decisions are typically made at the local level, on an economic basis, to meet the immediate needs of local communities. In Mexico, recent legislation has created new economic incentives for biodiversity conservation by allowing landowners and managers to benefit directly from the exploitation of wildlife. This bold move toward market-based approaches has proven popular, but implementation is hindered by a lack of scientific rigor in planning and monitoring requirements that, in some cases, has led to unintended and undesirable consequences. Because the program is expanding rapidly across Mexico and may serve as a model for similar efforts in other countries, the goal of the workshop described here was to review the policy and its on-the-ground effects, and to offer an initial set of recommendations for improving implementation and enhancing conservation outcomes. /// El valor de la biodiversidad es frecuentemente expresado de una manera abstracta, mientras que las decisiones de uso del suelo son tpicamente hechas a escala local, sobre una base econmica, a menudo considerando las necesidades inmediatas de las comunidades locales. Legislacin reciente en Mxico ha creado nuevos incentivos econmicos para la conservacin de la biodiversidad permitiendo a los propietarios de la tierra y a los encargados beneficiarse directamente de la explotacin de la vida silvestre. Este audaz movimiento hacia las estrategias basadas en el mercado han resultado populares, pero la implementacin se ha entorpecido por la falta de rigor cientfico en los requerimientos de planeacin y monitoreo que, en algunos casos, ha conducido a consecuencias involuntarias e indeseables. Debido a que el programa se est ampliando rpidamente a travs de Mxico, y que puede servir como modelo para los esfuerzos similares en otros pases, el objetivo del taller reportado aqu fue revisar las polticas y sus efectos sobre el terreno, y ofrecer un conjunto inicial de recomendaciones para reforzar la implementacin y aumentar los resultados para la conservacin.
20441020|Most ecosystems are now sufficiently altered in structure and function to qualify as novel systems, and this recognition should be the starting point for ecosystem management efforts. Under the emerging biogeochemical configurations, management activities are experiments, blurring the line between basic and applied research. Responses to specific management manipulations are context specific, influenced by the current status or structure of the system, and this necessitates reference areas for management or restoration activities. Attempts to return systems to within their historical range of biotic and abiotic characteristics and processes may not be possible, and management activities directed at removing undesirable features of novel ecosystems may perpetuate or create such ecosystems. Management actions should attempt to maintain genetic and species diversity and encourage the biogeochemcial characteristics that favor desirable species. Few resources currently exist to support the addition of proactive measures and rigorous experimental designs to current management activities. The necessary changes will not occur without strong input from stakeholders and policy makers, so rapid information transfer and proactive research-management activities by the scientific community are needed.
25595089|Invasion ecology has traditionally focused on exotic plant species with early successional life-history traits, adapted to colonize areas following disturbance. However, the ecological importance of these traits may be overstated, in part because most invasive plants originate from intentional introductions. Furthermore, this focus neglects the types of plants most likely to invade established communities, particularly forests - namely shade-tolerant, late-successional species. In invasion ecology, it is generally assumed that undisturbed forests are highly resistant to plant invasions. Our review reveals that this assumption is not justified: in temperate and tropical regions around the world, at least 139 exotic plant species are known to have invaded deeply shaded forest understories that have not undergone substantial disturbance. These exotics present a particular management challenge, as they often increase in abundance during succession. While forest invasions may develop comparatively slowly under natural disturbance regimes, anthropogenic processes, including the spread of exotic pests and pathogens, can be expected to accelerate the rate of invasion.
20440583|Urban areas are heterogeneous. Transitions in architecture and building density, vegetation, economic activity, and culture can occur at the scale of city blocks. Ecologists have been criticized for treating the city as homogeneous and urbanization as one-dimensional. To develop ecological understanding of integrated human-natural systems, the fine-scale heterogeneity of their built and natural components must be quantified. There have been calls for the integration of the biophysical and human components of systems, but here we provide a new tool to quantify this integrated heterogeneity by reconceptualizing urban land-use and land-cover classification approaches. This new tool, High Ecological Resolution Classification for Urban Landscapes and Environmental Systems (HERCULES), balances detail and efficiency and is flexible, allowing it to be used for interdisciplinary research, with ancillary datasets, and across urban systems.
43187620|Both coral-dominated and degraded reef ecosystems can be resistant to change. Typically, research and management have focused on maintaining coral dominance and avoiding phase shifts to other species compositions, rather than on weakening the resilience of already degraded reefs to re-establish coral dominance. Reversing degraded coral-reef states will involve reducing local chronic drivers like fishing pressure and poor water quality. Reversals will also require management of key ecological processes  such as those performed by different functional groups of marine herbivores  that both weaken the resilience of the degraded state and strengthen the coral-dominated state. If detrimental human impacts are reduced and key ecological processes are enhanced, pulse disturbances, such as extreme weather events, and ecological variability may provide opportunities for a return to a coral-dominated state. Critically, achieving these outcomes will necessitate a diverse range of integrated approaches to alter human interactions with reef ecosystems.
41479985|The Deepwater Horizon oil spill threatened many coastal ecosystems in the Gulf of Mexico during the spring and summer of 2010. Mitigation strategies included the construction of barrier sand berms, the restriction or blocking of inlets, and the diversion of freshwater from rivers to the coastal marshes and into the ocean, in order to flush away the oil, on the premise that these measures could reduce the quantity of oil reaching sensitive coastal environments such as wetlands or estuaries. These projects result in changes to the ecosystems that they were intended to protect. Long-term effects include alterations of the hydrological and ecological characteristics of estuaries, changes in sediment transport along the coastal barrier islands, the loss of sand resources, and adverse impacts to benthic and pelagic organisms. Although there are no easy solutions for minimizing the impacts of the Deepwater Horizon disaster on coastal ecosystems, we recommend that federal, state, and local agencies return to the strategic use of long-term restoration plans for this region.
10.2307/3868290|Zoonotic diseases, caused by pathogens transmitted to people from vertebrate reservoirs, take an enormous toll on human health worldwide. Many of these disease agents are harbored in rodent populations, and humans are victims of "accidental" transmission. Here we explore the idea that predatory vertebrates indirectly protect human health by reducing population size of rodent reservoirs of human disease. Research frontiers include the importance of rodent population density to the incidence of human disease, as opposed to behavior or age structure effects; the roles of different types of predators in determining both population dynamics and rodent density per se; and the effects of human-caused environmental change on predators and their rodent prey. A better understanding of these basic ecological issues will inform both environmental and health policy.
43187795|Environmental certification and consumer awareness programs are designed to create market incentives for implementing fisheries and aquaculture practices that are more sustainable. Typically focused on particular species and activities, such programs have so far triggered few changes to improve seafood sustainability. Here, we present a conceptual, system-wide fisheries and aquaculture certification program designed to recognize and promote change toward more sustainable and resilient seafood production systems. In contrast to previous efforts, this program concentrates on both ecosystems and various human stakeholders, relies on an adaptive management approach (termed "continual improvement") to enhance outcomes, and considers socioeconomic factors. The goal of this program is to support the restoration and maintenance of healthy ecosystem states and thriving human communities as well as the improvement of whole social-ecological systems.
20440991|Although invasive species are widely recognized as a major threat to marine biodiversity, there has been no quantitative global assessment of their impacts and routes of introduction. Here, we report initial results from the first such global assessment. Drawing from over 350 databases and other sources, we synthesized information on 329 marine invasive species, including their distribution, impacts on biodiversity, and introduction pathways. Initial analyses show that only 16% of marine ecoregions have no reported marine invasions, and even that figure may be inflated due to under-reporting. International shipping, followed by aquaculture, represent the major means of introduction. Our geographically referenced and publicly available database provides a framework that can be used to highlight the invasive taxa that are most threatening, as well as to prioritize the invasion pathways that pose the greatest threat.
10.2307/3868090|Real and apparent conflicts between ecosystem and human needs for fresh water are contributing to the emergence of an alternative model for conducting river science around the world. The core of this new paradigm emphasizes the need to forge new partnerships between scientists and other stakeholders where shared ecological goals and river visions are developed, and the need for new experimental approaches to advance scientific understanding at the scales relevant to whole-river management. We identify four key elements required to make this model succeed: existing and planned water projects represent opportunities to conduct ecosystem-scale experiments through controlled river flow manipulations; more cooperative interactions among scientists, managers, and other stakeholders are critical; experimental results must be synthesized across studies to allow broader generalization; and new, innovative funding partnerships are needed to engage scientists and to broadly involve the government, the private sector, and NGOs.
10.2307/3868012|Technical and economic factors hinder effective ecological restoration, especially in developing countries. Three examples show how social policy, economic threats and opportunities, and national and international development policy are driving the restoration of degraded landscapes in southern Africa. First, new opportunities in nature tourism, together with the declining profitability of traditional ranching, have led to diversification into game farming, tourism, and hunting, all initiatives that rely on properly functioning ecosystems. Second, new environmental legislation is forcing industries, particularly mining, to restore land upon termination of their activities. Third, through South Africa's "Working for Water" program, an elegant solution to problems of excessive water use, local residents are developing skills in clearing alien plants and restoring rangelands.
10.2307/3868432|When introduced to new habitats by humans, some plant species become much more dominant. This is primarily attributed to escape from specialist consumers. Release from these specialist enemies is also thought by some to lead to the evolution of increased competitive ability, driven by a decrease in the plant's resource allocation to consumer defense and an increase in allocation to size or fecundity. Here, we discuss a new theory for invasive success -- the "novel weapons hypothesis". We propose that some invaders transform because they possess novel biochemical weapons that function as unusually powerful allelopathic agents, or as mediators of new plant--soil microbial interactions. Root exudates that are relatively ineffective against their natural neighbors because of adaptation, may be highly inhibitory to newly encountered plants in invaded communities. In other words, the novel weapons of some plant invaders provide them with an advantage that may arise from differences in the regional coevolutionary trajectories of plant communities. Furthermore, the selective advantage of possessing a novel weapon may result in rapid evolution of that weapon -- for example, the production of greater quantities of allelopathic or antimicrobial root exudates. Direct selection of competitive traits provides an alternative to the "grow versus defend" trade-offs that underpin the theory of the evolution of increased competitive ability.
10.2307/3868565|Ecological research during winter has historically been a low priority in northeastern North America, an oversight that stems from the commonly accepted notion that there is little biological activity when temperatures drop below freezing. However, recent research has shown that winter can be an especially important period for ecological processes, providing evidence that "dormant season" is a misnomer. Uncertainties about the effects of climate change on ecosystems are highlighting the need for a more thorough understanding of winter ecology. The failure to collect winter data in northeastern North America has meant that researchers are illequipped to make predictions about how ecosystems will respond to future climate change. A more focused, integrative ecological winter monitoring and research effort will enable us to better prepare for, and respond to, future climate change.
41149772|Emerging infectious diseases are economically, socially, medically, and environmentally costly, as evidenced by the HlNl influenza pandemic. Their broad consequences demand interdisciplinary solutions. One such solution, known as the One Health approach, is a growing global strategy that is being adopted by health organizations and policy makers in response to this need. It recognizes the interconnected nature of human, animal, and environmental health in an attempt to inform health policy, expand scientific knowledge, improve healthcare training and delivery, and address sustainability challenges. Education will play a particularly important role in realizing the One Health concept; however, a shortage of collaborative student programs, insufficient environmental training for health professionals, and a lack of institutional support impede progress. As a group of students from ecology, medicine, veterinary medicine, and global public health, we offer a vision for improving tertiary education to prepare environmental and health professionals to address a changing world. We outline the need for, and challenges facing, One Health and suggest ways to implement a collaborative educational network, both within the US and internationally. We also emphasize training opportunities and highlight potential hotspots of One Health excellence in the US, which are poised to use existing educational resources to train a new generation of One Health professionals.
25595221|Most studies of invasive species have been in highly modified, lowland environments, with comparatively little attention directed to less disturbed, high-elevation environments. However, increasing evidence indicates that plant invasions do occur in these environments, which often have high conservation value and provide important ecosystem services. Over a thousand non-native species have become established in natural areas at high elevations worldwide, and although many of these are not invasive, some may pose a considerable threat to native mountain ecosystems. Here, we discuss four main drivers that shape plant invasions into high-elevation habitats: (1) the (pre-)adaptation of non-native species to abiotic conditions, (2) natural and anthropogenic disturbances, (3) biotic resistance of the established communities, and (4) propagule pressure. We propose a comprehensive research agenda for tackling the problem of plant invasions into mountain ecosystems, including documentation of mountain invasion patterns at multiple scales, experimental studies, and an assessment of the impacts of non-native species in these systems. The threat posed to high-elevation biodiversity by invasive plant species is likely to increase because of globalization and climate change. However, the higher mountains harbor ecosystems where invasion by non-native species has scarcely begun, and where science and management have the opportunity to respond in time.
43187701|Climate-related environmental changes have increasingly been linked to emerging infectious diseases in wildlife. The Arctic is facing a major ecological transition that is expected to substantially affect animal and human health. Changes in phenology or environmental conditions that result from climate warming may promote novel species assemblages as host and pathogen ranges expand to previously unoccupied areas. Recent evidence from the Arctic and subarctic suggests an increase in the spread and prevalence of some wildlife diseases, but baseline data necessary to detect and verify such changes are still lacking. Wild birds are undergoing rapid shifts in distribution and have been implicated in the spread of wildlife and zoonotic diseases. Here, we review evidence of current and projected changes in the abundance and distribution of avian diseases and outline strategies for future research. We discuss relevant climatic and environmental factors, emerging host-pathogen contact zones, the relationship between host condition and immune function, and potential wildlife and human health outcomes in northern regions.
41811870|Nitrous oxide (NO) is often the largest single component of the greenhouse-gas budget of individual cropping systems, as well as for the US agricultural sector as a whole. Here, we highlight the factors that make mitigating NO emissions from fertilized agroecosystems such a difficult challenge, and discuss how these factors limit the effectiveness of existing practices and therefore require new technologies and fresh ideas. Modification of the rate, source, placement, and/or timing of nitrogen fertilizer application has in some cases been an effective way to reduce NO emissions. However, the efficacy of existing approaches to reducing NO emissions while maintaining crop yields across locations and growing seasons is uncertain because of the interaction of multiple factors that regulate several different NO-producing processes in soil. Although these processes have been well studied, our understanding of key aspects and our ability to manage them to mitigate NO emissions remain limited.
43188449|The emerging field of climate-change adaptation has experienced a dramatic increase in attention as the impacts of climate change on biodiversity and ecosystems have become more evident. Preparing for and addressing these changes are now prominent themes in conservation and natural resource policy and practice. Adaptation increasingly is viewed as a way of managing change, rather than just maintaining existing conditions. There is also increasing recognition of the need not only to adjust management strategies in light of climate shifts, but to reassess and, as needed, modify underlying conservation goals. Major advances in the development of climate-adaptation principles, strategies, and planning processes have occurred over the past few years, although implementation of adaptation plans continues to lag. With ecosystems expected to undergo continuing climate-mediated changes for years to come, adaptation can best be thought of as an ongoing process, rather than as a fixed endpoint.
41811835|Schemes that reward developing countries for mitigating greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions through forest preservation and restoration are becoming more common. However, efforts to reduce GHG emissions must also consider food production. This creates an apparent conflict, given that agricultural production  a key driver of GHG emissions as a consequence of forest clearance  will increase as human populations continue to grow. We propose that a mosaic of small patches of forest mixed with cropland enables sustainable inten-sification of agriculture by minimizing soil degradation. Economic analyses of this mixed land-use concept suggest an improvement of long-term economic performance of 19-25% relative to conventional industrial agriculture with large-scale monocropping. Adopting this approach requires farm management plans, land-scape zoning, and new instruments to finance sustainable agriculture. We conclude that climate policy and food production can be reconciled through an integrative landscape concept that combines this more sustainable method of agricultural intensification with the reforestation of abandoned lands.
41149699|The concept of sustainable resource management can be applied at multiple scales. Monitoring is an essential component of sustainable natural resource management schemes, and as we begin to confront the need to manage natural resources at the global scale, the importance of monitoring at the global scale is also growing. The combination of satellite remote sensing, in situ measurements, and simulation modeling has the potential to deliver an annual assessment of status and trends for several measures of terrestrial biosphere structure and function relevant to sustainability. However, there is, as yet, no internationally coordinated effort in place to perform that analysis. Synthesis activity of that kind would support the development of global environmental governance institutions, including both non-governmental organizations and international bodies.
10.2307/3868014|Climate change is occurring at the same time as another problem of global and historical proportions -- the sixth mass species extinction crisis in the history of life on earth. Wide-scale deforestation is fueling climate change and biodiversity loss, and is expected to greatly accelerate biodiversity loss and species extinctions. Recognizing the intimate interconnection between these two global problems and designing resilient actions that address both simultaneously is more important than ever; humanity has neither the time nor the financial resources to treat these challenges separately and sequentially. We must establish an international frame-work to encourage synergistic actions that capture multiple benefits while avoiding negative trade-offs. The Kyoto Protocol, as currently written, does little to advance such convergent solutions, and in many ways could unwittingly promote further biodiversity loss. Here we outline the risks associated with this climate treaty and suggest possible approaches that could capture otherwise lost opportunities.
23034441|Mechanisms that mitigate greenhouse-gas emissions via forest conservation have been portrayed as a cost-effective approach that can also protect biodiversity and vital ecosystem services. However, the costs of conservation  including opportunity costs  are spatially heterogeneous across the globe. The lowland rainforests of Southeast Asia represent a unique nexus of large carbon stores, imperiled biodiversity, large stores of timber, and high potential for conversion to oil-palm plantations, making this region one where understanding the costs of conservation is critical. Previous studies have underestimated the gap between conservation costs and conversion benefits in Southeast Asia. Using detailed logging records, cost data, and species-specific timber auction prices from Borneo, we show that the profitability of logging, in combination with potential profits from subsequent conversion to palm-oil production, greatly exceeds foreseeable revenues from a global carbon market and other ecosystem-service payment mechanisms. Thus, the conservation community faces a massive funding shortfall to protect the remaining lowland primary forests in Southeast Asia.
23034469|The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List is arguably the most popular measure of relative species threat, but its threat categories can be ambiguous (eg "Endangered" versus "Vulnerable") and subjective, have weak quantification, and do not convey the threat status of species in relation to a minimum viable population target. We propose a heuristic measure that describes a "species' ability to forestall extinction", or the SAFE index. We compare the abilities of the SAFE index with those of another numerically explicit metric  percentage range loss  to predict IUCN threat categories using binary and ordinal logistic regression. Generalized linear models showed that the SAFE index was a better predictor of IUCN threat categories than was percentage range loss. We therefore advocate use of the SAFE index, possibly in conjunction with IUCN threat categories, because the former indicates the "distance from extinction" of a species, while implicitly incorporating population viability as a variable.
20440703|Adaptive capacity is increasingly recognized as essential for maintaining the resilience of social-ecological systems and for coping with environmental change. Four main requirements enable societies to successfully adapt to change: (1) the will and intention to maintain social-ecological resilience, (2) knowledge about current problems and the desired direction of change, (3) proactive behavior, and (4) the capacity to change existing patterns of behavior. The adaptive capacity of societies can be greatly enhanced by fostering the adaptive capacity of their individual members. Considerable knowledge about how to foster the adaptability of individuals exists in the science of education and in cognitive and social psychology. Developing the ability to learn flexibly in a variety of ways, contexts, and circumstances is an important element of developing adaptive capacity. The widespread implementation of modern teaching approaches in the education sector could make a substantial contribution to building and maintaining social-ecological resilience.
23034516|There has been great interest in carbon (C) storage in terrestrial landscapes and the potential for trading C released during fossil-fuel combustion for C stored in agricultural landscapes. This is particularly important in the Great Plains of North America, where increased C storage under conservation tillage represents millions of dollars in C credits. However, we contend that the logic behind such trading is imperfect on multiple levels. We suggest that increased C storage in Great Plains soils with conservation tillage can, at best, only partially replenish what was previously emitted by tillage of native prairies. Furthermore, there is disagreement on whether reduced tillage actually does increase C storage in prairie soils. Use of alternative agricultural practices that emulate natural prairie diversity, processes, and function, as well as the establishment of permanent prairie reserves, will aid in recovery of previously lost C and provide for increased biodiversity and resilience in the face of changing climate conditions.
3868682|The Indian Ocean tsunami disaster of December 2004 has increased interest in replanting degraded and deforested mangrove areas in Asia to improve coastal protection. Evidence from Thailand suggests that concern over mangrove deforestation by shrimp farms is an important motivation for many coastal households to participate in mangrove rehabilitation. However, successful re-establishment and management of mangroves as effective coastal barriers will require developing new institutions and policies, and must involve coastal communities in Thailand and other Indian Ocean countries in the conservation and protection of their local mangrove forests.
43187769|Unprecedented growth in human populations has required the intensification of agriculture to enhance crop productivity, but this was achieved at a major cost to biodiversity. There is abundant local-scale evidence that both pollinator diversity and pollination services decrease with increasing agricultural intensification. This raises concerns regarding food security, as two-thirds of the world's major food crops are pollinator-dependent. Whether such local findings scale up and affect crop production over larger scales is still being debated. Here, we analyzed a country-wide dataset of the 54 major crops in France produced over the past two decades and found that benefits of agricultural intensification decrease with increasing pollinator dependence, to the extent that intensification failed to increase the yield of pollinator-dependent crops and decreased the stability of their yield over time. This indicates that benefits from agricultural intensification may be offset by reductions in pollination services, and supports the need for an ecological intensification of agriculture through optimization of ecosystem services.
20440989|As consensus grows regarding the unprecedented global environmental challenges we currently face, so too does the notion that publicly funded science has a duty to dedicate resources toward overcoming these challenges. In order for scientists to shift attention and resources to the most pressing global problems, we must first enumerate these issues and establish consensus across academia as to the importance and feasibility of solving them. To this end, we have applied concept mapping to a large and diverse pool of disciplinary experts -- the entire faculty of Cornell University -- to empirically assess their opinions on what our most pressing global crises are, how they relate to one another, and how feasible it would be to solve them. We (1) define what Cornell University faculty see as the most pressing problems of our day, (2) sort them into relevant, modern "disciplines", and (3) rate them according to both their importance and the feasibility of solving them. This study reveals broad consensus across disciplines, groups global crises into seven thematic clusters that cross disciplinary boundaries, and rates issues relevant to all disciplines on a scale of importance and solvability. We believe that this provides a structured framework for both the scientific community and the global community to address global crises.
10.2307/3868267|Invasive alien tree species in Puerto Rico often form monospecific stands on deforested lands that were previously used for agriculture and then abandoned. Most native pioneer species are incapable of colonizing these sites, and thus introduced species have little competition from native trees. Alien trees may dominate sites for 30 to 40 years, but by that time native species begin to appear in the understory. By 60 to 80 years, unique communities comprising both alien and native species are found on these sites. This phenomenon is a response to a change in the disturbance regime of Puerto Rico's landscape, brought about by intensive agricultural land use and abandonment. The invasion of a site and the formation of an alien-dominated forest serve important ecological functions, such as repairing soil structure and fertility, and restoring forest cover and biodiversity at degraded sites.
41811831|We combine data collected from the past 40 years to estimate the indirect effects of sea otters (Enhydra lutris) on ecosystem carbon (C) production and storage across their North American range, from Vancouver Island to the western edge of Alaska's Aleutian Islands. We find that sea otters, by suppressing sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus spp) populations, allow kelp (Order Laminariales) ecosystems to develop with a net primary productivity (NPP) of 313-900 grams C per square meter per year (g C m 2 yr) and biomass density of 101-180 grams C per square meter (g C m). In the absence of sea otters, these areas would have an NPP of 25-70 g C m yr and biomass density of 8-14 g C m. Over an ecosystem area of approximately 5.1  10 m, the effect of sea otter predation on living kelp biomass alone represents a 4.4- to 8.7-teragram increase in C storage. At 2012 prices (US$47 per ton of C), this stored C would be valued at US$205 million-$408 million on the European Carbon Exchange. Although questions remain concerning the pathways and compartments of kelp C flux and storage, sea otters undoubtedly have a strong influence on these elements of the C cycle. Predator-induced trophic cascades likely influence the rates of C flux and storage in many other species and ecosystems.
25595146|Constructed wetlands (CWs) are an emerging, environmentally friendly engineering system employed in China. They require lower investment and operation costs while providing higher treatment efficiency and more ecosystem services than conventional wastewater treatment methods. Introduced to China in 1987, CW systems used for wastewater treatment have rapidly increased in number, particularly since the late 1990s. This review summarizes the state-of-the-art application of CW systems for water pollution treatment by reviewing the basics of the technology and its historical development and performance efficiency. Current progress, limitations, future concerns, and the challenges of CW technologies are also discussed. Also highlighted is the need for sufficient and appropriate data to assist in the further development of CW systems and the implementation of integrated "bottom-up" and "top-down" approaches by both the public in general and government bodies in particular.
43188494|In light of human population growth, global food insecurity is an escalating concern. To meet increasing demand for food, leading scientists have called for "sustainable intensification", defined as the process of enhancing agricultural yields with minimal environmental impact and without expanding the existing agricultural land base. We argue that this definition is inadequate to merit the term "sustainable", because it lacks engagement with established principles that are central to sustainability. Sustainable intensification is likely to fail in improving food security if it continues to focus narrowly on food production ahead of other equally or more important variables that influence food security. Sustainable solutions for food security must be holistic and must address issues such as food accessibility. Wider consideration of issues related to equitable distribution of food and individual empowerment in the intensification decision process (distributive and procedural justice) is needed to put meaning back into the term "sustainable intensification".
25741252|Ecology has entered into a dynamic period, driven by both the urgency of large-scale ecological problems and startling new ecological findings that are being shared broadly beyond the scientific community. Both of these factors are well represented by observational approaches to ecology, which are re-emerging after a long period of deference to manipulative experimental approaches. These approaches examine ecological patterns and processes through data gathered in situations where nature has not been purposefully manipulated. The use of unmanipulated observational data reflects on the work of early naturalists, but is greatly enhanced by technological advances in remote sensing, microscopy, genetics, animal-borne sensors, and computing. Once dismissed as merely "exploratory", strictly observational approaches to ecology have demonstrated capability in testing hypotheses by correlating variables, comparing observed patterns to output from existing models, exploiting natural experiments, and simulating experiments within large datasets. These approaches can be used in a stand-alone fashion, but are strengthened when reconciled with experimental manipulations to isolate fine-scale ecological mechanisms.
20696405|Freshwater forested wetlands are often found just upslope from mangrove forests in both high- and low-rainfall areas in the tropics. A case study on the island of Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia, demonstrates how important both wetland types are to each other hydrologically and to local economies as well. Together, these wetlands form a landscape that provides goods worth the equivalent of nearly two-thirds the median household income in the region. Elsewhere around the world, similar contiguous pairs of wetlands are extensively used by local populations. However, while the importance of mangroves is well recognized, goods and services provided by freshwater wetlands  which are also much threatened by coastal development  are not nearly so well documented. Because such landscapes provide sustenance for millions of people, the natural and socioeconomic roles that both types of wetlands play must be better understood and protected as plans for coastal development proceed.
43187770|Some ecologists have claimed that non-native species are no more likely to cause ecological or economic harm than native species. We evaluated this claim by testing whether the pest status of a species is independent of its origin, using data on freshwater plants and animals established in North America and Europe. Pests were defined as those whose presence resulted in socioeconomic damage. All species were classified on the basis of whether they were native to the continent, transplanted beyond their native range within the continent (transplant invaders), or non-native to the continent (foreign invaders). Non-native species comprised the majority (60%) of aquatic pests in North America and Europe and were six times as likely to be pests as compared with native species. The incidence of pest species was greatest among foreign invaders. These results counter the assertion that the potential for a species to cause socioeconomic damage is independent of its biogeographic origin.
41149771|Agricultural and urban development alters nitrogen and other biogeochemical cycles in rivers worldwide. Because such biogeochemical processes cannot be measured empirically across whole river networks, simulation models are critical tools for understanding river-network biogeochemistry. However, limitations inherent in current models restrict our ability to simulate biogeochemical dynamics among diverse river networks. We illustrate these limitations using a river-network model to scale up in situ measures of nitrogen cycling in eight catchments spanning various geophysical and land-use conditions. Our model results provide evidence that catchment characteristics typically excluded from models may control river-network biogeochemistry. Based on our findings, we identify important components of a revised strategy for simulating biogeochemical dynamics in river networks, including approaches to modeling terrestrial-aquatic linkages, hydrologie exchanges between the channel, floodplain/riparian complex, and subsurface waters, and interactions between coupled biogeochemical cycles.
3868899|In February 2006, the US Supreme Court heard cases that may affect whether intermittent streams are jurisdictional waters under the Clean Water Act. In June 2006, however, the cases were remanded to the circuit court, leaving the status of intermittent streams uncertain once again. The presence of commercial species, such as coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch), can be an important consideration when determining jurisdiction. These salmon spawn in the upper portions of Oregon coastal stream networks, where intermittent streams are common. In our study of a coastal Oregon watershed, we found that intermittent streams were an important source of coho salmon smolts. Residual pools in intermittent streams provided a means by which juvenile coho could survive during dry periods; smolts that overwintered in intermittent streams were larger than those from perennial streams. Movement of juvenile coho into intermittent tributaries from the mainstem was another way in which the fish exploited the habitat and illustrates the importance of maintaining accessibility for entire stream networks. Loss of intermittent stream habitat would have a negative effect on coho salmon populations in coastal drainages, including downstream navigable waters.
10.2307/3868239|Emerging research on human-modified ecosystems can better inform land-use planning by integrating information from ecological and social science. In particular, low-density land use beyond the urban fringe (exurban) has been poorly defined and under-studied. Here I develop the human modification framework that characterizes landscapes by the degree to which natural processes are free or controlled and landscape patterns are natural or artificial. Ecologists are encouraged to explicitly place their research within such a framework using quantitative metrics. As society's concern over ecological degradation and loss of biodiversity grows, ecologists must recognize that research on human-modified landscapes, particularly beyond the urban fringe, is not just an unexploited opportunity, but is critical to protecting biodiversity on private land.
10.2307/3868360|Blanket condemnation of alien species in restoration efforts is counterproductive. Where their presence does not unduly threaten surrounding ecosystems, alien species can be tolerated or even used to good advantage, if they provide essential ecological or socioeconomic services. By speeding restoration or making it more effective, non-native species can provide economic and ecological payoffs. Risk is always an issue when alien species are involved, but greater risk taking is warranted where environmental conditions have been severely modified through human activity than where reassembly of a biological community is the sole goal of restoration.
23034413|Mediterranean cork oak savannas, which are found only in southwestern Europe and northwestern Africa, are ecosystems of high socioeconomic and conservation value. Characterized by sparse tree cover and a diversity of understory vegetation  ranging from shrub formations to grasslands  that support high levels of biodiversity, these ecosystems require active management and use by humans to ensure their continued existence. The most important product of these savannas is cork, a non-timber forest product that is periodically harvested without requiring tree felling. Market devaluation of, and lower demand for, cork are causing a decline in management, or even abandonment, of southwestern Europe's cork oak savannas. Subsequent shrub encroachment into the savanna's grassland components reduces biodiversity and degrades the services provided by these ecosystems. In contrast, poverty-driven overuse is degrading cork oak savannas in northwestern Africa. "Payment for ecosystem services" schemes, such as Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification or Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation and enhancement of carbon stocks (REDD+) programs, could produce novel economic incentives to promote sustainable use and conservation of Mediterranean cork oak savanna ecosystems in both Europe and Africa.
10.2307/3868382|As yet, nobody knows what effects climate change will have on soil carbon reserves, or how those changes will affect the global carbon cycle. Soils are the primary terrestrial repository for carbon, so minor changes in the balance between belowground carbon storage and release could have major impacts on greenhouse gases. Soil fauna, roots, fungi, and microbes interact with mineral and organic matter to process soil carbon. Studies have been hampered by the difficulty of observing processes beneath the earth's surface, but advances in science and technology are improving our ability to understand belowground ecosystems.
25595035|Natural processes tend to vary over time and space, as well as between species. The ecosystem services these natural processes provide are therefore also highly variable. It is often assumed that ecosystem services are provided linearly (unvaryingly, at a steady rate), but natural processes are characterized by thresholds and limiting functions. In this paper, we describe the variability observed in wave attenuation provided by marshes, mangroves, seagrasses, and coral reefs and therefore also in coastal protection. We calculate the economic consequences of assuming coastal protection to be linear. We suggest that, in order to refine ecosystem-based management practices, it is essential that natural variability and cumulative effects be considered in the valuation of ecosystem services.
23034440|Determining the native geographic range or origin of alien invasive species is crucial to developing invasive species management strategies. However, the necessary historical dimension is often lacking. The origin of the highly invasive horse-chestnut leaf-mining moth Cameraria ohridella has been controversial since the insect was first described in 1986 in Europe. Here, we reveal that herbarium collections across Europe indicate a Balkan origin for C ohridella. We successfully amplified nuclear DNA and mitochondrial DNA barcode fragments from larvae pressed within leaves of herbarium samples collected as early as 1879. These archival sequences confirm an identity of C ohridella and set back its history in Europe by more than a century. The herbarium samples uncovered previously unknown mitochondrial haplotypes and locally undocumented alleles, showing local outbreaks of C ohridella back to at least 1961 and dynamic frequency changes that may be associated with road development. This case history demonstrates that herbaria are greatly underutilized in studies of insectplant interactions, herbivore biodiversity, and invasive species' origins.
10.2307/3868609|There is an increasing need to find alternatives to high-intensity agriculture. Intensively managed agrosystems are inefficient and lead to reduced ecosystem functioning and environmental degradation. These effects are predicted to magnify under the warmer, drier climate of the future. Plant growth-promoting microbes promise to replace or supplement many destructive, high-intensity practices. Symbiotic fungi, such as arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in particular, may be useful in agrosystems, but their use has languished for decades. The benefits of using AMF are undeniable, so why haven't they been incorporated into cropping systems? Research shows that AMF functioning may be much more complex than previously thought. Until we can elucidate their functional variation, and classify it on a useful taxonomic level, practical applications of AMF cannot move forward.
43188516|Greater scientific knowledge, changing societal values, and legislative mandates have emphasized the importance of implementing large-scale flow experiments (FEs) downstream of dams. We provide the first global assessment of FEs to evaluate their success in advancing science and informing management decisions. Systematic review of 113 FEs across 20 countries revealed that clear articulation of experimental objectives, while not universally practiced, was crucial for achieving management outcomes and changing dam-operating policies. Furthermore, changes to dam operations were three times less likely when FEs were conducted primarily for scientific purposes. Despite the recognized importance of riverine flow regimes, four-fifths of FEs involved only discrete flow events. Over three-quarters of FEs documented both abiotic and biotic outcomes, but only one-third examined multiple taxonomic responses, thus limiting how FE results can inform holistic dam management. Future FEs will present new opportunities to advance scientifically credible water policies.
23470547|Alteration of rivers for human use has resulted in substantial biodiversity declines, particularly for species restricted to the largest rivers. Conservation and restoration efforts on large rivers often focus on the mainstem, but societal reliance on benefits derived from these alterations generally prevents complete restoration of the river. We propose that certain tributaries, by virtue of their lower degree of alteration, offer underappreciated opportunities for conserving large-river biota. Using the distribution patterns of large-river specialist fishes from the Mississippi River Basin, we identify a threshold discharge (166 cubic meters per second) beyond which tributaries support all or most of these species. We merge our macroecological analysis of assemblage structure with data on dam locations to identify tributaries where restoration efforts offer the highest potential conservation gains for 60 of the 68 large-river specialist fish species that are of state, federal, or international conservation concern. Given the highly altered state of many mainstem rivers, this analytical approach could be used to select tributaries that will aid in the conservation of large-river species worldwide.
41811391|Members of the public have for centuries recorded their observations of the natural world, including plant and animal distribution and phenology, water quality, weather data, and astronomical phenomena. Given the relatively recent growth of ecological research as a professional field of study, the historical contributions of amateurs to ecology can be easily overlooked. To better understand long-term changes in ecosystems, researchers are now revisiting many of these historical datasets collected by non-professionals. Over the past 100 years, scientific organizations have increasingly included volunteers in large-scale monitoring projects to broaden the geographical extent and sample size of observations. We believe that a renewed interest in citizen science, enriched with the perspective and data provided by the long tradition of public participation in science, will broaden the engagement of the public in ecological research and lead to new scientific insights.
10.2307/3867987|Climate change and biological invasions, two of the hottest topics in ecology, both have ecological and societal implications, but they have developed on separate and parallel paths. Both are likely to have global impacts, yet researchers seldom explicitly consider their interaction. We argue that changes in atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide (CO
43187633|Religious communities are playing an increasingly important role in advancing Earth Stewardship. We Briefly summarize the potential of religions and religious values to support this initiative, characterizing its development and acknowledging the inherent tensions between the problems and promise of religious influences. Mobilizing religious believers to contribute to responsible stewardship of the Earth requires a critical appreciation of the complexity of religious traditions and the ways that religious communities view nature, as well as the cultural and spiritual resources that religious teachings provide in confronting change and human suffering. We emphasize religious virtues that favor sustainable resource use and key developments that have prompted fruitful dialogue between ecologists and religious believers. We also describe promising alliances between scientists and spiritual leaders that may help to encourage cooperative Earth Stewardship. Religions have great potential to transform cultures toward improved Earth Stewardship, in collaboration with key scientific, economic, public policy, and education partners.
41811422|The term "invader" is typically paired with adjectives such as "non-native" and "alien", yet native species can also cause ecological and economic impacts that rival those of well-known invasive species. By spreading within their historical range, attaining extreme abundances, and exerting severe per-capita effects as a result of predation or competition, native invaders can create an unusual set of challenges for science, management, policy, and society. Identifying when, where, and why species become invaders in their native ranges requires additional scientific inquiry, outside the current focus of invasion biology. Management strategies often mitigate the symptoms rather than address the causes of problematic native species invasions. Convincing stakeholders to comply with management actions aimed at controlling native invaders creates societal challenges and policy makers must prioritize goals from varied and often conflicting human interests. We illustrate these challenges by highlighting native species that adversely affect threatened and endangered Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp).
25595117|Managing a complex ecosystem to balance delivery of all of its services is at the heart of ecosystem-based management. But how can this balance be accomplished amidst the conflicting demands of stakeholders, managers, and policy makers? In marine ecosystems, several common ecological mechanisms link biodiversity to ecosystem functioning and to a complex of essential services. As a result, the effects of preserving diversity can be broadly beneficial to a wide spectrum of important ecosystem processes and services, including fisheries, water quality, recreation, and shoreline protection. A management system that conserves diversity will help to accrue more "ecoservice capital" for human use and will maintain a hedge against unanticipated ecosystem changes from natural or anthropogenic causes. Although maintenance of biodiversity cannot be the only goal for ecosystem-based management, it could provide a common currency for evaluating the impacts of different human activities on ecosystem functioning and can act as a critical indicator of ecosystem status.
10.2307/3868264|The Three Gorges Dam in China is the largest dam ever built. Its impacts on the biodiversity and ecological processes in the region are causing concern to ecologists worldwide. The dam and associated environmental alterations may result in a number of regional changes in terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity, as well as in ecosystem structure and functioning. The dam may also provide a rare opportunity for a grandscale experiment in habitat fragmentation, allowing ecologists to develop and test a series of hypotheses concerning the dynamics of biodiversity and biotic communities and their responses to disturbances. Such research can help improve conservation practices, stimulate international collaborations, and promote public education on the environment.
25595087|We examined Coleoptera and Lepidoptera assemblages feeding on two different groups of plants: one in which plants were active against cancer cell lines and/or protozoan parasites responsible for tropical parasitic diseases, and a second group that was inactive in the same bioassays. Aposematic species were found on nine of the ten active plant species, but on only four of the ten inactive plant species. Non-aposematic insects did not show a significant difference in their association with active versus inactive plants. Our results suggest that the presence of aposematic, herbivorous insects can be used to facilitate the identification of plants with compounds active against important human diseases.
10.2307/3868336|Global positioning system (GPS) technology is rapidly replacing tape, compass, and traditional surveying instruments as the preferred tool for estimating the positions of environmental research sites. One important problem, however, is that it can be difficult to estimate the uncertainty of GPS-derived positions. Sources of error include various satellite- and site-related factors, such as forest canopy and topographic obstructions. In a case study from the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire, hand-held, mapping-grade GPS receivers generally estimated positions with 1-5 m precision in open, unobstructed settings, and 20-30 m precision under forest canopy. Surveying-grade receivers achieved precisions of 10 cm or less, even in challenging terrain. Users can maximize the quality of their GPS measurements by "mission planning" to take advantage of high-quality satellite conditions. Repeated measurements and simultaneous data collection at multiple points can be used to assess accuracy and precision.
20696463|Quantitative measurements of changes in tropical biodiversity are sparse, despite wide agreement that maintaining biodiversity is a key conservation goal. Pan-tropical networks to systematically measure plot-level biodiversity are currently being developed to close this gap. We propose that a key component of such networks is the monitoring of human activities at broader scales around plots, to enable interpretation of biodiversity trends. This monitoring goal raises questions about the spatial extent and variables needed to capture interactions between human activities and biodiversity at multiple scales. We suggest a pragmatic approach to delineate and monitor a "zone of interaction" around biodiversity measurement sites to bridge across these scales. We identify the hydrologic, biological, and human interactions that connect local-scale measurements with broader-scale processes. We illustrate the concept with case studies in the Udzungwa Mountains in Tanzania and Ranomafana National Park in Madagascar; however, the framework applies to other biodiversity measurement sites and monitoring networks as well.
41149676|Microbial metabolism couples elemental reactions, driving biogeochemical cycles. Assimilatory coupling of elemental cycles, such as the carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus cycles, occurs when these elements are incorporated into biomass or released through its decomposition. In addition, many microbes are capable of dissimilatory coupling, catalyzing energy-releasing reactions linked to transformations in the oxidation state of elements, and releasing the transformed elements to the environment. Different inorganic elements provide varying amounts of energy yield, and the interaction of these processes creates a microbial energy economy. Dissimilatory reactions involving C, N, iron, and sulfur provide particularly important examples where microbially mediated oxidation-reduction (redox) transformations affect nutrient availability for net primary production, greenhouse-gas emissions, levels of contaminants and natural toxic factors, and other ecosystem dynamics. Recent discoveries of previously unrecognized microbial dissimilatory processes are leading to reevaluation of traditional perceptions of biogeochemical cycles.
3868881| City clusters are made up of groups of large, nearly contiguous cities with many adjoining satellite cities and towns. Over the past two decades, such clusters have played a leading role in the economic growth of China, owing to their collective economic capacity and interdependency. However, the economic boom has led to a general decline in environmental quality. This paper will review the development and current status of the major environmental problems caused by city clusters, focusing on water and air pollution, and suggest possible strategies for solving these problems. Currently, deteriorating water quality is of major concern to the public and decision makers alike, and more than three-quarters of the urban population are exposed to air quality that does not meet the national ambient air quality standards of China. Furthermore, this pollution is characterized by high concentrations of both primary and secondary pollutants. Environmental pollution issues are therefore much more complex in China than in western countries. China is expected to quadruple its GDP by 2020 (using 2000 as the base year for comparison) and, consequently, will face even more serious environmental challenges. Improving energy efficiency and moderating the consumption of natural resources are essential if China is to achieve a balance between economic development and environmental health. /// ????????????????????????????????? ?? 20 ???????????????????????????????????????????????? ???????????????????? ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ??????????????????????????? 3/4 ?????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ? 2020 ????? GDP ?? 2000 ??????? 4 ????????????????? ???????????????????????????????????????????????????? 
41149674|Urban green space is purported to offset greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions, remove air and water pollutants, cool local climate, and improve public health. To use these services, municipalities have focused efforts on designing and implementing ecosystem-services-based "green infrastructure" in urban environments. In some cases the environmental benefits of this infrastructure have been well documented, but they are often unclear, unquantified, and/or outweighed by potential costs. Quantifying biogeochemical processes in urban green infrastructure can improve our understanding of urban ecosystem services and disservices (negative or unintended consequences) resulting from designed urban green spaces. Here we propose a framework to integrate biogeochemical processes into designing, implementing, and evaluating the net effectiveness of green infrastructure, and provide examples for GHG mitigation, stormwater runoff mitigation, and improvements in air quality and health.
23470548|As the world enters the Anthropocene  a new geologic period, defined by humanity's massive impact on the planet  the Earth's rapidly changing environment is putting critical ecosystem services at risk. To understand and forecast how ecosystems will change over the coming decades, scientists will require an understanding of the sensitivity of species to environmental change. The current distribution of species and functional groups provides valuable information about the performance of various species in different environments. However, when the rate of environmental change is high, information inherent in the ranges of many species will disappear, since that information exists only under more or less steady-state conditions. The amount of information about species' relationships to climate declines as their distributions move farther from steady state. New remote-sensing technologies can map the chemical and structural traits of plant canopies and will allow for the inference of traits and, in many cases, species' ranges. Current satellite remote-sensing data can only produce relatively simple classifications, but new techniques will produce data with dramatically higher biological information content.
10.2307/3868588|The recovery (delisting) of a threatened or endangered species is often accompanied by the expectation that conservation management of the species will no longer be necessary. However, the magnitude and pace of human impacts on the environment make it unlikely that substantial progress will be made in delisting many species unless the definition of "recovery" includes some form of active management. Preventing delisted species from again being at risk of extinction may require continuing, species-specific management actions. We characterize such species as "conservation-reliant", and suggest that viewing "recovery" as a continuum of states rather than as a simple "recovered/not recovered" dichotomy may enhance our ability to manage such species within the framework of the Endangered Species Act. With ongoing loss of habitat, disruption of natural disturbance regimes, and the increasing impacts of non-native invasive species, it is probable that the number of conservation-reliant species will increase. We propose the development of "recovery management agreements", with legally and biologically defensible contracts that would provide for continuing conservation management following delisting. The use of such formalized agreements will facilitate shared management responsibilities between federal wildlife agencies and other federal agencies, and with state, local, and tribal governments, as well as with private entities that have demonstrated the capability to meet the needs of conservation-reliant species.
10.2307/3868113|Recent research makes clear that much of the Everglade's flora and fauna have evolved to tolerate or require frequent fires. Nevertheless, restoration of the Everglades has thus far been conceptualized as primarily a water reallocation project. These two forces are directly linked by the influence of water flows on fire fuel moisture content, and are indirectly linked through a series of complex feedback loops. This interaction is made more complex by the alteration and compartmentalization of current water flows and fire regimes, the lack of communication between water and fire management agencies, and the already imperiled state of many local species. It is unlikely, therefore, that restoring water flows will automatically restore the appropriate fire regimes, leaving the prospect of successful restoration in some doubt. The decline of the Cape Sable seaside sparrow, and its potential for recovery, illustrates the complexity of the situation.
20440554|This comparative analysis shows that population size and affluence are the principal drivers of anthropogenic environmental stressors, while other widely postulated drivers (eg urbanization, economic structure, age distribution) have little effect. Similarly, increased education and life expectancy do not increase environmental stressors, suggesting that some aspects of human well-being can be improved with minimal environmental impact. Projecting to 2015, we suggest that increases in population and affluence will likely expand human impact on the environment by over one-third. Countering these driving forces would require increases in the efficiency of resource use of about 2% per year.
20441017|To mitigate extinction of tropical forest biota, it is becoming increasingly important to focus on the role of agriculture-dominated landscapes in preserving biodiversity. Previous studies have focused on the importance of native trees for improving forest species conservation in the agroecological matrix, but we show that a cultivated crop (coffee) may also be important. In Ethiopia, coffee's place of origin, home garden coffee shrubs functioned as a substrate for a large number of epiphytic rainforest bryophytes and vascular plants and were of the same or higher importance in terms of harboring forest biota than shade trees in the same system. Our results highlight the potential for shade-coffee agroecosystems to serve as a conservation and restoration tool for both tree and shrub-layer biodiversity in densely populated and heavily deforested regions.
20440609|Expansion of farmland is recognized as one of the most important human alterations to the environment around the globe. Using field investigations and socioeconomic data in combination with thematic mapper images taken in 1986 and 2000, we analyze farmland area changes and factors correlated with those changes in Liangzhou and Minqin oases, located near the middle and lower reaches of the Shiyang River basin in Gansu province, northwestern China. Between 1986 and 2000, farmland area increased in both oases, but the increase was greater at Minqin oasis. Population growth was positively correlated with farmland area expansion in both locations, as were improved agricultural techniques and economic development. In Liangzhou oasis, farmland expansion was closely linked to the amount of surface water present, while in Minqin oasis, farmed area growth was affected by environmental and weather conditions. These results suggest that economic development at Liangzhou oasis may be leading to environmental degradation downstream, at Minqin oasis.
20440619|Globalization of labor and capital can increase the rate and extent of global environmental degradation, while enhancing the ability of ecologists to respond rapidly and collaboratively to mitigate these impacts. Nevertheless, ecological research remains focused at local and regional levels, with collaboration limited by national borders and funding. New initiatives are required to increase the utility and availability of environmental research to natural resource owners, managers, and policy makers in the public and private sectors, whose decisions affect land and other forms of natural capital. We propose a four-part strategy to increase the effectiveness of ecological science in addressing environmental issues in an era of globalization: (1) develop an Ecological Knowledge System, (2) increase our ability to anticipate, identify, and rapidly address new research needs, (3) increase the number and diversity of participants in all phases of research and decision-making processes, and (4) increase the flexibility of funding sources. /// La globalizacin de la fuerza de trabajo y del capital puede aumentar el ndice y el grado de degradacin ambiental global y al mismo tiempo mejorar la capacidad de los eclogos para mitigar sus efectos negativos. Sin embargo, la investigacin ecolgica sigue enfocada a una escala local fuera del contexto global, y la colaboracin profesional y de investigacin est seriamente limitada por fronteras nacionales y por falta de financiamiento. Se requieren nuevas iniciativas para aumentar la utilidad y la disponibilidad de la investigacin ambiental a los dueos, a los encargados y a los polticos a cargo del manejo y conservacin de recursos naturales en los sectores pblicos y privados, cuyas decisiones afectan las tierras y otras formas del capital natural de un pas. Con el fin de aumentar la eficacia de las ciencias ecolgicas para tratar con los temas ambientales en una era de globalizacin, proponemos una estrategia compuesta por cuatro partes: (1) El desarrollo de un Sistema de Conocimientos Ecolgicos (EKS), (2) El incremento de nuestra capacidad de anticipar, identificar y atender rpidamente nuevas necesidades dentro de la investigacin, (3) El aumento del nmero y la diversidad de participantes en todas las fases de los procedimientos de la investigacin y la toma de decisiones, y (4) El aumento de la sensibilidad y la flexibilidad de las fuentes de financiamiento hacia este tipo de investigacin ecolgica enfocada a resolver problemas multidisciplinarios concretos.
25595032|Nature provides a wide range of benefits to people. There is increasing consensus about the importance of incorporating these "ecosystem services" into resource management decisions, but quantifying the levels and values of these services has proven difficult. We use a spatially explicit modeling tool, Integrated Valuation of Ecosystem Services and Tradeoffs (InVEST), to predict changes in ecosystem services, biodiversity conservation, and commodity production levels. We apply InVEST to stakeholder-defined scenarios of land-use/land-cover change in the Willamette Basin, Oregon. We found that scenarios that received high scores for a variety of ecosystem services also had high scores for biodiversity, suggesting there is little tradeoff between biodiversity conservation and ecosystem services. Scenarios involving more development had higher commodity production values, but lower levels of biodiversity conservation and ecosystem services. However, including payments for carbon sequestration alleviates this tradeoff. Quantifying ecosystem services in a spatially explicit manner, and analyzing tradeoffs between them, can help to make natural resource decisions more effective, efficient, and defensible.
20441018|Despite decades of work on implementing best management practices to reduce the movement of excess nitrogen (N) to aquatic ecosystems, the amount of N in streams and rivers remains high in many watersheds. Stream restoration has become increasingly popular, yet efforts to quantify N-removal benefits are only just beginning. Natural resource managers are asking scientists to provide advice for reducing the downstream flux of N. Here, we propose a framework for prioritizing restoration sites that involves identifying where potential N loads are large due to sizeable sources and efficient delivery to streams, and when the majority of N is exported. Small streams (1st-3rd order) with considerable loads delivered during low to moderate flows offer the greatest opportunities for N removal. We suggest approaches that increase in-stream carbon availability, contact between the water and benthos, and connections between streams and adjacent terrestrial environments. Because of uncertainties concerning the magnitude of N reduction possible, potential approaches should be tested in various landscape contexts; until more is known, stream restoration alone is not appropriate for compensatory mitigation and should be seen as complementary to land-based best management practices.
20440872|Anthropogenic acceleration of global nitrogen cycling has doubled "reactive" nitrogen levels, degrading air and water quality and affecting human health. Denitrification is the primary process by which reactive nitrogen is recycled to inert N. Unfortunately, past attempts to estimate denitrification at scales relevant to pollution and health problems have been associated with uncertainties, arising mainly from large variability in rates, difficulty measuring N fluxes over background levels, and the involvement of multiple reactants and products in other nitrogen-cycling processes. New approaches to quantifying broad-scale denitrification address some of these issues. Novel techniques allow detection of small changes in levels of N arising from denitrification. Recent models creatively identity "hot spots" of denitrification in the landscape. New remote-sensing products improve inputs to denitrification models. These developments, and others, hold promise for advancing our understanding of denitrification and its potential to mitigate the environmental impacts of reactive nitrogen.
23470507|Despite growing interest and investment in ecosystem services across global science and policy arenas, it remains unclear how ecosystem services  and particularly changes in those services  should be measured. The social and ecological factors, and their interactions, that create and alter ecosystem services are inherently complex. Measuring and managing ecosystem services requires a sophisticated systems-based approach that accounts for how these services are generated by interconnected socialecological systems (SES), how different services interact with each other, and how changes in the total bundle of services influence human well-being (HWB). Furthermore, there is a need to understand how changes in HWB feedback and affect the generation of ecosystem services. Here, we outline an SES-based approach for measuring ecosystem services and explore its value for setting policy targets, developing indicators, and establishing monitoring and assessment programs.
3868842|Markets in ecosystem services are now commonly considered by policy makers to be effective ways of achieving the goals of federal environmental protection laws. However, little empirical data currently informs policy development around such markets. Can a market-like arrangement solve the problems of compensatory wetland replacement under the Clean Water Act? This research examines the dynamics of the Chicago, Illinois market in wetland credits over a 9-year period, and shows that, although successful in many ways, it is prone to regulatory turbulence and may not fully address losses of wetland function. Market-based approaches to environmental policy problems will proliferate as more policy makers become convinced of the power of markets to achieve effective environmental conservation. Due to the new challenges of standardized commodity measurement that are present in these markets, environmental scientists are likely to be increasingly drawn into policy development and evaluation. This article is intended to alert ecosystem scientists and the environmental policy community to issues involved in evaluating the success of ecosystem service markets in achieving environmental policy goals.
10.2307/3867961|In the past, environmental managers could behave as if they were managing a "natural" system to which they were external; criteria for successful management could be derived from historical data or from current pristine systems elsewhere in the world. With a few localized exceptions, this approach is no longer viable. Most of the ecosystems for which critical and urgent decisions need to be made are best seen as complex ecosocial systems, with people firmly embedded as an integral element. We can no longer manage ecosystems per se, but rather we must learn to manage our interactions within our ecological context. This view, which incorporates notions of multiple, interacting, nested hierarchies, feedback loops across space and time, and radical uncertainty with regard to prediction of system behavior, requires rethinking. How should we now think about science and science-based management? Post-normal science, complex systems theories, and the creation of collective narratives offer the best hope for making progress in this field. We use several ecosystem management and community health programs in Peru, Kenya, and Nepal to demonstrate the characteristics necessary for this kind of "inside-out" approach.
25595220|Sea-level rise presents an imminent threat to freshwater-dependent ecosystems on small oceanic islands, which often harbor rare and endemic taxa. Conservation of these assemblages is complicated by feedbacks between sea level and recurring pulse disturbances (eg hurricanes, fire). Once sea level reaches a critical level, the transition from a landscape characterized by mesophytic upland forests and freshwater wetlands to one dominated by mangroves can occur suddenly, following a single storm-surge event. We document such a trajectory, unfolding today in the Florida Keys. With sea level projected to rise substantially during the next century, ex-situ actions may be needed to conserve individual species of special concern. However, within existing public conservation units, managers have a responsibility to conserve extant biodiversity. We propose a strategy that combines the identification and intensive management of the most defensible core sites within a broader reserve system, in which refugia for biota facing local extirpation may be sought.
10.2307/3868463|River damming has dramatic environmental impacts and while changes due to reservoir flooding are immediate, downstream impacts are more spatially extensive. Downstream environments are influenced by the pattern of flow regulation, which also provides an opportunity for mitigation. We discuss impacts downstream from dams and recent case studies where collaborative efforts with dam operators have led to the recovery of more natural flow regimes. These restoration programs, in Nevada, USA, and Alberta, Canada, focused on the recovery of flow patterns during high flow years, because these are critical for riparian vegetation and sufficient water is available for both economic commitments and environmental needs. The restoration flows were developed using the "Recruitment Box Model", which recommends high spring flows and then gradual flow decline for seedling survival. These flow regimes enabled extensive recruitment of cottonwoods and willows along previously impoverished reaches, and resulted in improvements to river and floodplain environments. Such restoration successes demonstrate how instream flow management can act as a broadly applicable tool for the restoration of floodplain forests.
20696461|Recent comprehensive data provided through the DAISIE project (www.europe-aliens.org) have facilitated the development of the first pan-European assessment of the impacts of alien plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates  in terrestrial, freshwater, and marine environments  on ecosystem services. There are 1094 species with documented ecological impacts and 1347 with economic impacts. The two taxonomic groups with the most species causing impacts are terrestrial invertebrates and terrestrial plants. The North Sea is the maritime region that suffers the most impacts. Across taxa and regions, ecological and economic impacts are highly correlated. Terrestrial invertebrates create greater economic impacts than ecological impacts, while the reverse is true for terrestrial plants. Alien species from all taxonomic groups affect "supporting", "provisioning", "regulating", and "cultural" services and interfere with human well-being. Terrestrial vertebrates are responsible for the greatest range of impacts, and these are widely distributed across Europe. Here, we present a review of the financial costs, as the first step toward calculating an estimate of the economic consequences of alien species in Europe.
3868792|We review and analyze the historical development and challenges facing ecology as a science in Mexico, a country with limited financial and human (one scientist per 5000 inhabitants) resources and numerous environmental problems. We outline a set of research, collaborative, and financial strategies that could help to strengthen the role of ecological science in decision-making processes, and increase cutting-edge research, thus helping to foster economic sustainability and human well-being in the country. Both curiosity driven and applied research will be important in this context. Interdisciplinary and inter-institutional approaches, as well as international collaborations, are also key elements in the continued development of ecology in Mexico. Ecological knowledge is predicted to play an increasingly important role in promoting the conservation and sustainable use of Mexico's natural resources and rich biodiversity. As the history and development of ecology in Mexico parallels other Latin American countries, some of our recommendations for the future of ecology in Mexico may apply elsewhere in Central and South America.
23470529|The lack of a clear framework identifying data to link ecosystems to analyses of human well-being has been highlighted in numerous studies. To address this issue, we applied a recently developed economic theory termed "final" ecosystem goods and services  the biophysical features and qualities that people perceive as being directly related to their well-being. The six-step process presented here enabled us to identify metrics associated with streams that can be used in the analysis of human well-being; we illustrate these steps with data from a regional stream survey. Continued refinement and application of this framework will require ongoing collaboration between natural and social scientists. Framework application could result in more useful and relevant data, leading to more informed decisions in the management of ecosystems.
43187880|The importance of positive interactions between species within natural ecosystems and species associated with traditional agriculture is well recognized. However, modern agriculture generally depends on monocultures, where positive interactions between cultivated species (ie in which the presence of one species facilitates the survival, growth, or reproduction of other species) are largely ignored. Here, we review recent studies focused on the positive interactions between cultivated species, consider how three traditional agricultural systems (legume-cereal intercropping, rice-fish co-culture, and agroforestry) have benefited from such interactions, and examine how these benefits are affected by climate, planting patterns, and field management. Finally, we propose a framework to illustrate how these interactions may improve modern agriculture through: the selection of speciesspecies partnerships; the development of specialized field machinery (in each case); field structure and configuration; field management; and farmer and societal acceptance.
23034514|No-take marine reserves are an increasingly popular conservation and management tool. Assessing reserve performance in an adaptive management framework ideally involves predicting the response of populations and communities to reserves (typically in the design process) and testing predicted outcomes against observations. Here we compare existing modeling and empirical studies on no-take marine reserves, and provide a prospectus for their future integration. Numerical models of ecological responses to reserves typically project long-term, steady-state interactions over the relatively broad spatial scales of larval dispersal, reserve configuration, fishing effort, and fish movement. Existing empirical studies focus on short-term outcomes over small scales, typically aggregated over many explanatory factors. Linking models and empirical data together for the adaptive management of marine reserves requires adjusting the spatial and temporal scales of models to match empirically feasible tests, and adjusting the metrics and scale of empirical studies to account for the interacting biological and human factors affecting reserve outcomes.
41149677|Streams, rivers, lakes, and other inland waters are important agents in the coupling of biogeochemical cycles between continents, atmosphere, and oceans. The depiction of these roles in global-scale assessments of carbon (C) and other bioactive elements remains limited, yet recent findings suggest that C discharged to the oceans is only a fraction of that entering rivers from terrestrial ecosystems via soil respiration, leaching, chemical weathering, and physical erosion. Most of this C influx is returned to the atmosphere from inland waters as carbon dioxide (CO) or buried in sedimentary deposits within impoundments, lakes, floodplains, and other wetlands. Carbon and mineral cycles are coupled by both erosion-deposition processes and chemical weathering, with the latter producing dissolved inorganic C and carbonate buffering capacity that strongly modulate downstream pH, biological production of calcium-carbonate shells, and CO outgassing in rivers, estuaries, and coastal zones. Human activities substantially affect all of these processes.
10.2307/3868187|The size and severity of the fires in Yellowstone National Park in 1988 surprised ecologists and managers alike. Much has been learned about the causes and consequences of crown fires from studies of the Yellowstone fires, and some results were surprising. Plant cover in burned areas was restored rapidly by native species, making post-fire rehabilitation generally unnecessary and possibly even counterproductive. While 20th-century fire suppression has affected systems like Yellowstone far less than other ecosystems, managing forests, people, and property in wildfire areas is an ongoing challenge. Insights gained and lessons learned from the Yellowstone fires may be applied elsewhere and can help inform fire policy.
41811401|The Earthwatch Institute is an international non-profit organization that works with scientists and scientific institutions to develop citizen-science-based research and environmental monitoring programs. Each year, Earthwatch supports close to 80 different projects in more than 30 countries and recruits over 3000 volunteers to aid scientists in collecting data. Participants recruited by Earthwatch seek to tap into their passion for learning about science by volunteering to act as assistants for authentic research projects.
43187632|Earth Stewardship requires a repositioning of ecological science in society to promote social-ecological change. This may place ecologists in situations that are largely unfamiliar to them, such as playing a role in the process of urban design. "Designed Experiments'' - defined as projects that embed ecological research into urban design to study and shape buildings, landscapes, and the infrastructure of human settlements - are intended to enhance the impact of ecologists working in these new situations. Designed Experiments provide a framework for organizing relationships among ecologists, urban designers, decision makers, and citizens; an opportunity for testing ecological hypotheses; and a platform for experiential learning among multiple participants - all of which have the potential to aid in overcoming barriers to the goals of Earth Stewardship. Here we explore the capacity of Designed Experiments to facilitate progress toward Earth Stewardship through realworld case studies.
27809088|In May 2008, a major earthquake struck Sichuan Province, in southwestern China. In addition to catastrophic loss of human life and destruction of towns and villages, the earthquake severely damaged ecosystems that support some of the last remaining giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) populations in the wild. To measure the extent of this destruction, we analyzed panda habitat loss and fragmentation across the South Minshan Mountains, using Thematic Mapper (TM) images and field data collected before and after the earthquake. Results show that 354 km2 (23%) of panda habitat in this region was destroyed, 249 km2 of which was inside nature reserves. The remaining habitat was fragmented by landslides and mudflows, thereby threatening the giant panda's long-term survival. Furthermore, the mean patch size of the remaining habitat inside reserves was only 23% of that outside, indicating markedly higher habitat fragmentation inside reserves compared to outside. To assist in regional conservation efforts for the giant panda and its habitat, we propose the creation of a conservation management unit that would include key areas, corridors, and current reserves, to encourage the dispersal/movement of pandas between isolated habitat patches. Other measures include human disturbance alleviation and "ecological compensation", which would increase the efficacy of the conservation management unit.
20440765|Species diversity can have important effects on disease dynamics. While these effects are often considered with respect to alternate hosts and predators, the influence of diversity may also be seen at the level of the parasite or pathogen. Pathogenic microbes face an array of abiotic and biotic challenges, both within their host and, often, in the external environment. Here, we examine the role of microbial ecology in maintaining health and in contributing to disease. As suggested by some medical scientists and others, we argue that placing pathogens in an ecological context can contribute to our understanding of emerging infectious diseases in natural systems. In addition, we suggest that this view could provide important insights for the conservation of species, including many amphibians, that are threatened by disease outbreaks.
25595172|"Ecological integrity" provides a useful framework for ecologically based monitoring and can provide valuable information for assessing ecosystem condition and management effectiveness. Building on the related concepts of biological integrity and ecological health, ecological integrity is a measure of the composition, structure, and function of an ecosystem in relation to the system's natural or historical range of variation, as well as perturbations caused by natural or anthropogenic agents of change. We have developed a protocol to evaluate the ecological integrity of temperate zone, forested ecosystems, based on long-term monitoring data. To do so, we identified metrics of status and trend in structure, composition, and function of forests impacted by multiple agents of change. We used data, models, and the scientific literature to interpret and report integrity using "stoplight" symbology, ie "Good" (green), "Caution" (yellow), or "Significant Concern" (red). Preliminary data indicate that forested ecosystems in Acadia National Park have retained ecological integrity across a variety of metrics, but that some aspects of soil chemistry and stand structure indicate potential problems. This protocol was developed for the National Park Service Vital Signs Monitoring Program and holds promise for application in the temperate zone, forested ecosystems of eastern North America.
20440648|In order to investigate long-term food web linkages and trophic cascades, we conducted a retrospective analysis of large carnivores, wild and domestic ungulates, human settlement, and hardwood trees from the late 1800s to the present at Wind Cave National Park in southwestern South Dakota. We measured diameters of all cottonwood (Populus spp) and bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa) trees within a large portion of the Park to assess long-term patterns of recruitment (growth of sprouts or seedlings into tall saplings or trees). Increment cores from a subset of these trees were used to determine tree age and to develop relationships between age and diameter. Resulting age structures indicated a lack of cottonwood and bur oak recruitment for more than a century, beginning in the 1880s and continuing to the present. This is attributable to high levels of browsing, initially by livestock and subsequently by wild ungulates, in the absence of large carnivores. Conversely, we found that hardwood trees had recruited to areas protected from browsing, such as inside fenced exclosures and within a small browsing refuge. Results indicate that Great Plains ecosystems may have been profoundly altered by mounting levels of ungulate herbivory following the removal of large carnivores.
10.2307/3868406|Staghorn coral (Acropora cervicornis) and elkhorn coral (Acropora palmata), are important reef builders in the Caribbean. In the early to middle Holocene (10000-6000 years ago), when sea temperatures were warmer than today, Acropora-dominated reefs were common along the east coast of Florida as far north as Palm Beach County. The fossil record shows that the northern limits of these two cold-sensitive species subsequently contracted to Biscayne Bay, south of Miami, apparently as a result of climatic cooling. This response of the Acropora species to climate provides a context for interpreting recent shifts in their geographic distribution. Despite recent disease-induced mass mortalities throughout the Caribbean and western Atlantic, the two species are now re-expanding their ranges northward along the Florida Peninsula and into the northern Gulf of Mexico, coincident with increasing sea temperatures. In the face of continued global warming, the northernmost limit of this range expansion will ultimately be determined by a combination of temperature and other physical constraints.
20440625|Quantitative investigations on invasive alien species (IAS) across multiple spatial scales are needed because biological invasions often encompass enormous expanses in both donor and invaded ranges and because the immigrants may be carried great distances between these ranges. Although invasion biology is rich in anecdotes, translation of this information into generalizations remains limited by technical shortcomings in data acquisition, inconsistent data assembly, and the continuing search for meaningful indices of the impact of IAS. Much better justification of and greater opportunities to combat IAS could be achieved by distilling all information for IAS into spatially explicit case histories and synthetic predictions on the epidemiology and consequences of biological invasions for public review, discussion, and action. /// Las investigaciones cuantitativas sobre las especies exticas invasoras (EEI) a travs de numerosas escalas espaciales son necesarias porque las invasiones biolgicas abarcan a menudo enormes extensiones, tanto en las reas de distribucin originales como en las reas invadidas, y porque estos inmigrantes pueden ser transportados a travs de grandes distancias entre estas reas. Aunque la biologa de las invasiones es rica en ancdotas, la conversin de esta informacin en generalizaciones todava est limitada por deficiencias tcnicas en la adquisicin de los datos, inconsistencias en el ensamblaje de los datos, y la bsqueda continua de ndices significativos del impacto de las EEI. Se podra alcanzar una mejor justificacin y mejores oportunidades de combatir a las EEI destilando toda la informacin de las EEI en estudios de caso espacialmente explcitos y predicciones sintticas sobre la epidemiologa y las consecuencias de las invasiones biolgicas para la revisin pblica, la discusin y la accin.
27809111|The objective of this review is to give ecologists and policy makers a better understanding of forest carbon dynamics and recent policy and management activities in this arena. The ecology of forest carbon is well understood, but measurement and projection of carbon sequestration at small scales can be costly. Some forest management activities qualify as offsets in various carbon markets. To promote wider use, a system is needed that will provide inexpensive and standardized approaches to forest carbon accounting that are not prone to dishonest handling. The prospects are fairly promising for development of such a system, but first, technical and organizational constraints must be overcome. In contrast, the benefits  in terms of greenhouse-gas reduction  of substituting wood for other building materials, and in displacing fossil fuel energy, could be realized immediately, if standards for calculations can be developed.
23470506|For many terrestrial organisms in the Northern Hemisphere, winter is a period of resource scarcity and energy deficits, survivable only because a seasonal refugium  the "subnivium"  exists beneath the snow. The warmer and more stable conditions within the subnivium are principally driven by snow duration, density, and depth. In temperate regions, the subnivium is important for the overwintering success of plants and animals, yet winter conditions are changing rapidly worldwide. Throughout the Northern Hemisphere, the impacts of climate change are predicted to be most prominent during the winter months, resulting in a shorter snow season and decreased snow depth. These climatic changes will likely modify the defining qualities of the subnivium, resulting in broad-scale shifts in distributions of species that are dependent on these refugia. Resultant changes to the subnivium, however, will be spatially and temporally variable. We believe that ecologists and managers are overlooking this widespread, crucial, and vulnerable seasonal refugium, which is rapidly deteriorating due to global climate change.
41149768|Wind-turbine operations are associated with bat mortality worldwide; minimizing these fatalities is critically important to both bat conservation and public acceptance of wind-energy development. We tested the effectiveness of raising wind-turbine cut-in speed - defined as the lowest wind speed at which turbines generate power to the utility system, thereby reducing turbine operation during periods of low wind speeds - to decrease bat mortality at the Casselman Wind Project in Somerset County, Pennsylvania, over a 2-year period. Observed bat mortality at fully operational turbines was, on average, 5.4 and 3.6 times greater than mortality associated with curtailed (ie non-operating) turbines in 2008 and 2009, respectively. Relatively small changes to wind-turbine operation resulted in nightly reductions in bat mortality, ranging from 44% to 93%, with marginal annual power loss (< 1% of total annual output). Our findings suggest that increasing turbine cut-in speeds at wind facilities in areas of conservation concern during times when active bats may be at particular risk from turbines could mitigate this detrimental aspect of wind-energy generation.
23034414|Community ecologists have long recognized the importance of phenology (the timing of periodic life-history events) in structuring communities. Phenological differences between exotic and native species may contribute to the success of invaders, yet a general theory for how phenology may shape invasions has not been developed. Shifts toward longer growing seasons, tracked by plant and animal species worldwide, heighten the need for this analysis. The concurrent availability of extensive citizen-science and long-term datasets has created tremendous opportunities to test the relationship between phenology and invasion. Here, we (1) extend major theories within community and invasion biology to include phenology, (2) develop a predictive framework to test these theories, and (3) outline available data resources to test predictions. By creating an integrated framework, we show how new analyses of long-term datasets could advance the fields of community ecology and invasion biology, while developing novel strategies for invasive species management. Although we focus here on terrestrial plants, our framework has clear extensions to animal communities and aquatic ecosystems as well.
25741250|Twenty-first-century ecology requires statistical fluency. Ecological observations now include diverse types of data collected across spatial scales ranging from the microscopic to the global, and at temporal scales ranging from nanoseconds to millennia. Ecological experiments now use designs that account for multiple linear and non-linear interactions, and ecological theories incorporate both predictable and random processes. Ecological debates often revolve around issues of fundamental statistical theory and require the development of novel statistical methods. In short, if we want to test hypotheses, model data, and forecast future environmental conditions in the 21st century, we must move beyond basic statistical literacy and attain statistical fluency: the ability to apply statistical principles and adapt statistical methods to non-standard questions. Our prescription for attaining statistical fluency includes two semesters of standard calculus, calculus-based statistics courses, and, most importantly, a commitment to using calculus and post-calculus statistics in ecology and environmental science courses.
10.2307/3868489|Nutrition is typically discussed in terms of maintaining a proper diet and avoiding nutrient deficiency diseases. However, nutrition can also be viewed from an ecological standpoint: mammalian hosts and their pathogens share a wide range of resource needs that are required to support normal metabolism and growth. The development of an infectious disease within a host involves the processes of invasion and resource consumption. Competition for growth-limiting resources can potentially occur between the invading pathogen and the cellular components of the host. Experimental studies confirm that nutrients can have profound effects on a host's response to an infection, and taking an ecological view of host nutrition may help to further inform biomedical practice.
43187622|Socioecological theory, developed through the study of urban environments, has recently led to a proliferation of research focusing on comparative analyses of cities. This research emphasis has been concentrated in the more developed countries of the Northern Hemisphere (often referred to as the Global North), yet urbanization is now occurring mostly in the developing world, with the fastest rates of growth in sub-Saharan Africa. Countries like South Africa are experiencing a variety of land-cover changes that may challenge current assumptions about the differences between urban and rural environments and about the connectivity of these dynamic socioecological systems. Furthermore, questions concerning ecosystem services, landscape preferences, and conservation  when analyzed through rural livelihood frameworks  may provide insights into the social and ecological resilience of human settlements. Increasing research on urban development processes occurring in Africa, and on patterns of kinship and migration in the less developed countries of the Global South, will advance a more comprehensive worldview of how future urbanization will influence the progress of sustainable societies.
10.2307/3868240|Work on the impacts of herbivores on ecosystems has traditionally focused on aboveground effects, but a growing number of ecologists are beginning to consider how herbivores affect belowground organisms and processes. Human activity has caused considerable changes in densities of mammalian herbivores throughout the world, through the introduction of herbivores to new regions, the creation of conditions that promote high herbivore densities, and the reduction of their population sizes, sometimes to the point of extinction. These human influences on high mammal densities can have major effects on the decomposer subsystem. Whether these effects are positive or negative depends on the mechanisms involved: for example, whether the changes are in the quantity or quality of the decomposers' resources or in the pathway of vegetation succession. In turn, these belowground effects may influence aboveground biota by altering the supply of available nutrients from the soil. Changes in large mammal densities through human activity may represent an important, though frequently underappreciated, element of global change.
25595198|The mutually beneficial interactions between plants and their animal pollinators and seed dispersers form complex networks of species interdependence. Until very recently, the complexity of these networks precluded a community-wide approach to the investigation of mutualism. However, recent studies using tools and concepts from physics and sociology have allowed the exploration of this complexity within a rational framework. Regardless of differences across sites or species composition, networks of mutual benefit have a similar structure. Describing these network patterns is important for understanding both the generation of biodiversity and its responses to anthropogenic disturbances, such as habitat loss and species extinctions. This network approach is currently being applied to restoration ecology, biological invasions, and the conservation of endangered species.
10.2307/3868313|Biological invasions cause billions of dollars in economic damage each year and are a serious threat to native biodiversity. Introduced animals and plants may escape 75% or more of the parasite and pathogen species from their native range. While they do accumulate novel parasite species from their new location, this number is generally only a fraction of the number lost. Individual plants and animals are also generally less frequently infected (prevalence minus percent individuals infected) in introduced compared to native conspecific populations. In conjunction with other biological and physical factors, release from parasites helps explain the increased demographic performance of invasive species, potentially accounting for much of the damage they cause.
10.2307/3868362|The roots of ecology are historically extremely diverse, with contributions from many fields of science. A sampling of ways of thinking ecologically, ranging from the early 19th to the early 20th century, reveals the richness of ecological science. By examining historical examples from biogeography, natural history, the science of energy, and biomedical sciences, we can appreciate the many different contexts in which ecological thinking has evolved, whether as part of larger projects to systematize and unify knowledge of the world, or in response to particular problems that were solved by taking a fresh approach. It is important, when educating students and the public, to convey this diversity of ecological thought and the nature of ecology as an integrative discipline.
27809089|In 2005, news media widely reported the discovery that a native Australian frog species, Litoria dahlii, could consume the normally toxic tadpoles of invasive cane toads (Bufo marinus) without ill effects, and might therefore be helpful in controlling these troublesome pests. Our experimental studies show that, contrary to the story, L dahlii is just as vulnerable to toad toxins as are other native frog species. So, why did the story spread so widely, and what does this tell us about the power of myth in public debates about conservation issues?
43187859|Loss of forests due to non-native invasive pests (including insects, nematodes, and pathogens) is a global phenomenon with profound population, community, ecosystem, and economic impacts. We review the magnitude of pest-associated forest loss worldwide and discuss the major ecological and evolutionary causes and consequences of these invasions. After compiling and analyzing a dataset of pest invasions from 21 countries, we show that the number of forest pest invasions recorded for a given country has a significant positive relationship with trade (as indicated by gross domestic product) and is not associated with the amount of forested land within that country. We recommend revisions to existing international protocols for preventing pest entry and proliferation, including prohibiting shipments of non-essential plants and plant products unless quarantined. Because invasions often originate from taxa that are scientifically described only after their introduction, current phytosanitary regulations -which target specific, already named organisms -are ineffective.
3868761|Astonishing as it may seem, one organism's waste is often ideal food for another. Many waste products generated by human activities are routinely degraded by microorganisms under controlled conditions during waste-water treatment. Toxic pollutants resulting from inadvertent releases, such as oil spills, are also consumed by bacteria, the simplest organisms on Earth. Biodegradation of toxic or particularly persistent compounds, however, remains problematic. What has escaped the attention of many is that bacteria exposed to pollutants can adapt to them by mutating or acquiring degradative genes. These bacteria can proliferate in the environment as a result of the selection pressures created by pollutants. The positive outcome of selection pressure is that harmful compounds may eventually be broken down completely through biodegradation. The downside is that biodegradation may require extremely long periods of time. Although the adaptation process has been shown to be reproducible, it remains very difficult to predict.
3868883| The Central Yangtze ecoregion in China includes a number of lakes, but these have been greatly affected by human activities over the past several decades, resulting in severe loss of biodiversity. In this paper, we document the present distribution of the major lakes and the changes in size that have taken place over the past 50 years, using remote sensing data and historical observations of land cover in the region. We also provide an overview of the changes in species richness, community composition, population size and age structure, and individual body size of aquatic plants, fishes, and waterfowl in these lakes. The overall species richness of aquatic plants found in eight major lakes has decreased substantially during the study period. Community composition has also been greatly altered, as have population size and age and individual body size in some species. These changes are largely attributed to the integrated effects of lake degradation, the construction of large hydroelectric dams, the establishment of nature reserves, and lake restoration practices. /// ???????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????????? ????????????????????????????????????? 50 ?????????????????????????????????????????????? 50 ????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ??????????????????????????????????????????????? 
20440763|Past policies of excluding all wildfires from forests throughout the US are giving way to new strategies that incorporate naturally ignited fires into forest and fire management. In this paper, we evaluate the effects of long-standing natural fire programs (now referred to as wildland fire use or WFU) in two Sierra Nevada wilderness areas. We present reconstructions of historical fire occurrence using tree ring proxies, along with chronologies of tree recruitment, to infer the effects of WFU programs on forest structure. Historically, fires burned every 6 to 9 years, which moderated tree recruitment. Fire suppression policies established in the early 1900s successfully excluded fire and allowed for unprecedented tree recruitment. Despite the substantial changes in forest structure and composition, the frequency and extent of fires during the current WFU period (1972--present) approach historical levels. This information can provide some necessary insight in implementing WFU policy and developing management plans for similar forest types throughout the western US.
10.2307/3868316|Environmental scientists and financial experts have recently been asking whether the damage costs imposed on the environment by industrial resource uses (often referred to as externalities) can be reflected in financial markets. We examine this question by summarizing work on mechanisms for including the damage to (or recovery of) ecosystem services directly in the price of a company's stocks and bonds and call this concept "environmental value creation through investment" (EVCI). Ten functions and 36 ecosystem services are presented that can benefit from good corporate environmental performance. Rating publicly traded companies requires collaboration between ecosystem scientists and business analysts. Metrics are being developed for reporting the impact of business practices on the value of ecosystem services within regions across the US.
3868870|Quality and quantity of publications are among the most important measures determining the success of ecologists. The past 50 years have seen a steady rise in the number of researchers and collaborative manuscripts, and a corresponding increase in multi-authored articles. Despite these increases, there remains a shortage of useful and definitive guidelines to aid ecologists in addressing authorship issues, leading to a lack of consistency in what the term "author" really means. Deciding where to draw the line between those who have earned authorship and those who are more appropriately credited in the acknowledgments may be one of the more challenging aspects of authorship. Here, we borrow ideas from other scientific disciplines and propose a simple solution to help ecologists who are making such decisions. We recommend improving communication between co-authors throughout the research process, and propose that authors publish their contributions to a manuscript in a separate byline.
43187857|Recent evidence highlights the value of wild-insect species richness and abundance for crop pollination worldwide. Yet, deliberate physical importation of single species (eg European honey bees) into crop fields for pollination remains the mainstream management approach, and implementation of practices to enhance crop yield (production per area) through wild insects is only just beginning. With few exceptions, studies measuring the impacts of pollinator-supporting practices on wild-insect richness and pollination service success - particularly in relation to long-term crop yield and economic profit -are rare. Here, we provide a general framework and examples of approaches for enhancing pollinator richness and abundance, quantity and quality of pollen on stigmas, crop yield, and farmers' profit, including some benefits detected only through long-term monitoring. We argue for integrating the promotion of wild-insect species richness with single-species management to benefit farmers and society.
20696490|Control of biological invasions depends on the collective decisions of resource managers across invasion zones. Regions with high land-use diversity, which we refer to as "management mosaics", may be subject to severe invasions, for two main reasons. First, as land becomes increasingly subdivided, each manager assumes responsibility for a smaller portion of the total damages imposed by invasive species; the incentive to control invasives is therefore diminished. Secondly, managers opting not to control the invasion increase control costs for neighboring land managers by allowing their lands to act as an invader propagule source. Coordination among managers can help mitigate these effects, but greater numbers  and a wider variety  of land managers occupying a region hinder collective action. Here, we discuss the challenges posed by management mosaics, using a case study of the yellow starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis) invasion in the Sierra Nevada foothills of California. We suggest that the incorporation of management mosaic dynamics into invasive species research and management is essential for successful control of invasions, and provide recommendations to address this need.
10.2307/3868011|Changes to the global nitrogen cycle affect human health well beyond the associated benefits of increased food production. Many intensively fertilized crops become animal feed, helping to create disparities in world food distribution and leading to unbalanced diets, even in wealthy nations. Excessive air- and water-borne nitrogen are linked to respiratory ailments, cardiac disease, and several cancers. Ecological feedbacks to excess nitrogen can inhibit crop growth, increase allergenic pollen production, and potentially affect the dynamics of several vector-borne diseases, including West Nile virus, malaria, and cholera. These and other examples suggest that our increasing production and use of fixed nitrogen poses a growing public health risk.
10.2307/3868315|Wastewater treatment engineering and ecology have complementary goals and need to interact much more closely. Wastewater engineers and ecologists share strong interests in the structure and function of biological communities, yet rarely engage in extensive interdisciplinary dialogue. Wastewater (bioprocess) engineers focus on solving practical environmental problems and typically do not work forward from ecological principles to test specific theories. Ecologists, on the other hand, have focused primarily on the collection and analysis of data in order to test specific scientific hypotheses; only recently have they emphasized ecological applications as well. Wastewater engineers should use the fundamentals of ecological theory to help guide future system design and ecologists should view engineered biosystems as valuable new platforms for ecological research.
43187654|Research quantifying ecosystem services (ES)  collectively, the benefits that society obtains from ecosystems  is rapidly increasing. Despite the seemingly straightforward definition, a wide variety of methods are used to measure ES. This methodological variability has largely been ignored, and standard protocols to select measures that capture ES provision have yet to be established. Furthermore, most published papers do not include explicit definitions of individual ES. We surveyed the literature on pollination ES to assess the range of measurement approaches, focusing on three essential steps: (1) definition of the ES, (2) identification of components contributing to ES delivery, and (3) selection of metrics to represent these components. We found considerable variation in how pollination as an ES  a relatively well-defined service  is measured. We discuss potential causes of this variability and provide suggestions to address this issue. Consistency in ES measurement, or a clear explanation of selected definitions and metrics, is critical to facilitate comparisons among studies and inform ecosystem management.
41811491|Ocean acidification is a direct consequence of increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations and is expected to compromise the structure and function of coral reefs within this century. Research into the effects of ocean acidification on coral reefs has focused primarily on measuring and predicting changes in seawater carbon (C) chemistry and the biological and geochemical responses of reef organisms to such changes. To date, few ocean acidification studies have been designed to address conservation planning and management priorities. Here, we discuss how existing marine protected area design principles developed to address coral bleaching may be modified to address ocean acidification. We also identify five research priorities needed to incorporate ocean acidification into conservation planning and management: (1) establishing an ocean C chemistry baseline, (2) establishing ecological baselines, (3) determining species/habitat/community sensitivity to ocean acidification, (4) projecting changes in seawater carbonate chemistry, and (5) identifying potentially synergistic effects of multiple Stressors.
25595219|Modern urban development provides an excellent laboratory for examining the interplay among socioecological relationships. We analyzed how the rapidly urbanizing Phoenix, Arizona metropolis has affected plant species diversity and community composition at a regional scale. Species diversity and plant density probably result from abiotic sorting in undeveloped desert sites, but not in urban sites. We found that species richness at the plot scale was higher for desert as opposed to urban sites; however, the estimated total species pool in the urban ecosystem is higher than that in the desert, as a result of the increased importation of introduced species through the nursery trade. Ordination of plant communities suggests three unique groupings of species based on land-use type of the site (desert, urban, and agriculture) and two unique groupings of urban sites based on landscaping aesthetics (mesic or xeric). We therefore recognize both bottom-up and top-down controls of plant biodiversity within the urban ecosystem.
20440584|The removal of nitrogen (N) in aquatic ecosystems is of great interest because excessive nitrate in groundwater and surface water is a growing problem. High nitrate loading degrades water quality and is linked to eutrophication and harmful algal blooms, especially in coastal marine waters. Past research on nitrate removal processes has emphasized plant or microbial uptake (assimilation) or respiratory denitrification by bacteria. The increasing application of stable isotopes and other tracer techniques to the study of nitrate removal has yielded a growing body of evidence for alternative, microbially mediated processes of nitrate transformation. These include dissimilatory (the reduction of nitrogen into other inorganic compounds, coupled to energy producing processes) reduction of nitrate to ammonium (DNRA), chemoautotrophic denitrification via sulfur or iron oxidation, and anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox), as well as abiotic nitrate removal processes. Here, we review evidence for the importance of alternative nitrate removal pathways in aquatic ecosystems and discuss how the possible prevalence of these pathways may alter views of N cycling and its controls. These alternative pathways are of particular importance for the management of excess N in the environment, especially in cases where nitrate is transformed to ammonium, a biologically available and less mobile N form, rather than to dinitrogen gas.
41149747|Policies that encourage greenhouse-gas emitters to mitigate emissions through terrestrial carbon (C) offsets -C sequestration in soils or biomass -will promote practices that reduce erosion and build soil fertility, while fostering adaptation to climate change, agricultural development, and rehabilitation of degraded soils. However, none of these benefits will be possible until changes in C stocks can be documented accurately and cost-effectively. This is particularly challenging when dealing with changes in soil organic C (SOC) stocks. Precise methods for measuring C in soil samples are well established, but spatial variability in the factors that determine SOC stocks makes it difficult to document change. Widespread interest in the benefits of SOC sequestration has brought this issue to the fore in the development of US and international climate policy. Here, we review the challenges to documenting changes in SOC stocks, how policy decisions influence offset documentation requirements, and the benefits and drawbacks of different sampling strategies and extrapolation methods.
20440886|We identify a continental-scale network of sites to evaluate how two aspects of climate change -- sea-level rise and intensification of windstorms -- will influence the structure, function, and capacity of coastal and inland forest ecosystems to deliver ecosystem services (eg carbon sequestration, storm protection, pollution control, habitat support, food). The network consists of coastal wetland and inland forest sites across the US and is representative of continental-level gradients of precipitation, temperature, vegetation, frequency of occurrence of major windstorms, value of insured properties, tidal range, watershed land use, and sediment availability. The network would provide real-time measurements of the characteristics of sea-level rise and windstorm events and would allow an assessment of the responses of wetlands, streams, and inland forests at spatial and temporal scales associated with sustainability of ecosystem services. We illustrate the potential of this approach with examples of hypotheses that could be tested across the network.
10.2307/3868541|The shape and configuration of branched networks influence ecological patterns and processes. Recent investigations of network influences in riverine ecology stress the need to quantify spatial structure not only in a two-dimensional plane, but also in networks. An initial step in understanding data from stream networks is discerning non-random patterns along the network. On the other hand, data collected in the network may be spatially autocorrelated and thus not suitable for traditional statistical analyses. Here we provide a method that uses commercially available software to construct an empirical variogram to describe spatial pattern in the relative abundance of coastal cutthroat trout in headwater stream networks. We describe the mathematical and practical considerations involved in calculating a variogram using a non-Euclidean distance metric to incorporate the network pathway structure in the analysis of spatial variability, and use a non-parametric technique to ascertain if the pattern in the empirical variogram is non-random.
41479981|Climate change affects ecological systems across various spatiotemporal scales and disrupts the life cycles of resident organisms. Little is known about the environmental drivers of mushroom productivity and phenology, partially because the life cycle of fungi is mostly belowground. Here, we present results from a field survey, in which a total of 65 631 unique individual mycorrhizal mushrooms-representing 273 species-were recorded during weekly intervals from 1975 to 2006 in a nature reserve in Switzerland. The average annual number of observed mushrooms increased from 1313 (pre-1991) to 2730 (1991 and thereafter), while average fruiting time during the latter period was delayed by 10 days as compared with that of the former. Precipitation amounts and temperature means determined fungal activity. Reconstructed intra-annual timing of mushroom fruiting for the 20th century paralleled contemporary Swiss wine harvest dates, providing independent evidence of climateinduced ecosystem change. Enhanced growth conditions and extended growing seasons appear beneficial to fungi from both a socioeconomic and an ecological perspective, because most vascular plants interact with mycorrhizal fungi to generate biomass.
20440652|Feral ungulates, such as pigs, are highly destructive to island ecosystems and are therefore often the target of eradication efforts. To succeed in eradication, however, managers must address a question made formidable by the great difficulty of detecting animals at very low levels of abundance: how will we know when elimination has been achieved? We developed and tested a framework to address this problem in a program to remove feral pigs from Santa Cruz Island, California. In an unprecedented timeframe for an island of this size, the program has progressed to a point at which pigs can no longer be detected. We describe seven key attributes of our approach, and how they have increased the likelihood that our inability to detect additional pigs indicates successful eradication, rather than the pigs having become better at escaping detection. This approach represents an important advance in the practice of eradication that can serve as a model for increasing the pace and scale of island restoration around the world.
20440677|Globally, fisheries catch of non-target species has major environmental impacts, resulting in social conflict, litigation, and fisheries closures. We use a bio-economic approach to demonstrate that compensatory mitigation -- an innovative, market-influenced approach to fishery--conservation conflicts -- can facilitate high-value uses of biological resources and cost-effective conservation gains for species of concern. We illustrate the strategy with a seabird example: levying fishers for their bycatch and using the funds to remove invasive mammals from breeding islands. Removal of invasive predators is 23 times more effective from a return-on-investment perspective (ie percent increase in population growth per dollar invested) in comparison to fisheries closures, and is more socio-politically feasible. A bycatch levy, which would increase with endangerment, provides an individual incentive for avoiding bycatch, the most effective mechanism for sustainable management of fisheries. Compensatory mitigation provides an opportunity to address a global concern, optimize conservation interventions, and forge an alliance between conservation and fisheries organizations.
20696488|Sensor networks promise to transform and expand environmental science. However, many technological difficulties must be overcome to achieve this potential. Partnerships of ecologists with computer scientists and engineers are critical in meeting these challenges. Technological issues include promoting innovation in new sensor design, incorporating power optimization schemes, integrating appropriate communication protocols, streamlining data management and access, using innovative graphic and statistical analyses, and enabling both scientists and the public to access the results. Multidisciplinary partnerships are making major contributions to technological advances, and we showcase examples of this exciting new technology, as well as new approaches for training researchers to make effective use of emerging tools.
25741270|Many carbon dioxide (CO) emission-reduction strategies currently under consideration rely on terrestrial carbon (C) sequestration to offset substantial proportions of CO emissions. We estimated C sequestration rates and potential land areas for a diverse array of land-cover changes in the Upper Midwest of the US, a "best case" region for this study because of its relatively modest CO emissions and the large areas of cropland potentially available for conversion. We then developed scenarios that apply some of the most widespread mitigation strategies to the region: the first, which aimed to offset 29% of regional CO emissions, required the unrealistic loss of two-thirds of working cropland; the second, which estimated the emission offset attainable by conversion of 10% of harvested croplands (5.8% of the US total), resulted in <5% CO emissions reduction for the region (<1.1% of total US emissions). There is limited capacity for terrestrial C sequestration, so strategies should aim to directly reduce CO emissions to mitigate rising atmospheric CO concentrations.
23470527|An overabundance of reactive nitrogen (N) as a result of anthropogenic activities has led to multiple human health and environmental concerns. Efforts to address these concerns require an accurate accounting of N inputs. Here, we present a novel synthesis of data describing N inputs to the US, including the range of estimates, spatial patterns, and uncertainties. This analysis shows that human-mediated N inputs are ubiquitous across the country but are spatially heterogeneous, ranging from < 0.1 to 34.6 times the background N input for individual water-resource units (8-digit Hydrologic Unit Codes). The Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, central California, and portions of the Columbia River valley currently receive the highest N loads. Major opportunities to advance our understanding of N sources can be achieved by: (1) enhancing the spatial and temporal resolution of agricultural N input data, (2) improving livestock and human waste monitoring, and (3) better quantifying biological N fixation in non-cultivated ecosystems.
20440621|Human life is ultimately dependent on ecosystem services supplied by the biosphere. These include food, disease regulation, and recreational opportunities. Over the past 50 years, humans have changed ecosystems more rapidly and extensively than at any other time in human history, primarily to meet our growing demands for provisioning ecosystem services (eg food, freshwater, and timber). These changes have impacted other ecosystem services (eg climate regulation and erosion control). Current demand for ecosystem services is growing rapidly. How these demands are met will play a major role in determining the ecological, economic, and cultural future of the planet. While much is known about improving management of production systems to be more sustainable, research gaps remain. Challenges for ecologists include understanding the connection between management regimes, ecosystem structures and provision of multiple types of ecosystem services, understanding interactions among ecosystem services, and exploring the role of thresholds and resilience in production systems. Understanding these systems and how to manage them to ensure resilient provision of multiple ecosystem services is a key challenge for ecology. /// La vida humana depende en ltima instancia de los servicios ecosistmicos que proporciona la biosfera. stos incluyen alimento, control de enfermedades y oportunidades recreativas. En los ltimos 50 aos los humanos han alterado los ecosistemas mas rpida y extensamente que durante cualquier otro periodo de la historia, principalmente para satisfacer la creciente demanda de servicios de aprovisionamiento (e.g., alimento, agua potable y madera). Estos cambios han alterado a otros servicios de los ecosistemas (e.g., regulacin del clima y control de erosin). La demanda de servicios de los ecosistemas est creciendo rpidamente. La manera como esta demanda sea cubierta determinar el futuro ecolgico, econmico y cultural del planeta. Aunque se conocen maneras de mejorar los sistemas de produccin para hacerlos sostenibles, an existen muchos vacos en la investigacin. Los retos para los eclogos incluyen el poder entender la conexin entre diferentes regmenes de manejo, las estructuras de los ecosistemas y la dotacin de diversos tipos de servicios del ecosistema, la exploracin de los umbrales y la resiliencia de los sistemas de produccin. La comprensin de estos sistemas y su manejo para asegurar la resiliencia en la dotacin de mltiples servicios ecosistmicos es un reto clave para la ecologa.
41149701|Ecosystems provide multiple benefits to people, including climate regulation. Previous efforts to quantify this ecosystem service have been either largely conceptual or based on complex atmospheric models. Here, we review previous research on this topic and propose a new and simple analytical approach for estimating the physical regulation of climate by ecosystems. The proposed metric estimates how land-cover change affects the loading of heat and moisture into the atmosphere, while also accounting for the relative contribution of wind-transported heat and moisture. Although feedback dynamics between land, atmosphere, and oceans are not modeled, the metric compares well with previous studies for several regions. We find that ecosystems have the strongest influence on surface climatic conditions in the boreal and tropical regions, where temperature and moisture changes could substantially offset or magnify greenhouse-forced changes. This approach can be extended to estimate the effects of changing land cover on local, physical climate processes that are relevant to society.
23470481|Payments for ecosystem services (PES) can improve environmental quality by aligning the incentives of individual landowners with societal interests in providing valuable ecosystem services such as carbon storage, water quality, flood control, and wildlife habitat. However, for this potential to be realized, many institutional details and technical challenges must be addressed. In this review, we discuss six critical issues for creating effective PES markets: using the appropriate type of market institution, defining suitable spatial and temporal scales for the market, promoting additionality (avoiding payments for services that would have been provided even in the absence of payments) so that payments result in increased services, offering incentives for projects that generate multiple ecosystem services, considering practice-based versus performance-based payments, and eliminating opportunities for strategic behavior aimed at "gaming the system". We illustrate these issues with an example of how PES could be applied to floodplain restoration.
20440624|Selective logging is an extensive land-use practice in South America. Governments in the region have enacted policies to promote the establishment and maintenance of economically productive and sustainable forest industries. However, both biological and policy constraints threaten to limit the viability of the industry over the long term. Biological constraints, such as slow tree growth rates, can be overcome somewhat by management practices. In order to improve the likelihood of success for sustainable management, it is important to accept that forests change over time and that managed forests may be different than those of the present. Furthermore, education campaigns must convince decision makers and the public of the value of forest resources. We recommend that the forest sector be governed by simple, understandable regulations, based on sound science and consistent enforcement, and that governments work with, instead of against, industry. Problems of tropical forest management are far from being solved, so biological and social scientists should continue to generate new knowledge to promote effective management. /// El aprovechamiento selectivo es una prctica extensiva del uso del suelo en Sudamrica. Los gobiernos de la regin han establecido polticas para promover el establecimiento y mantenimiento de industrias forestales econmicamente productivas y sostenibles. Sin embargo, tanto restricciones biolgicas como polticas amenazan con limitar la viabilidad a largo plazo de esta industria. Las limitaciones biolgicas, tales como una baja tasa de crecimiento de los rboles, pueden ser superadas parcialmente a travs de prcticas de manejo. Para aumentar la probabilidad de xito del manejo sostenible es importante reconocer que los bosques cambian en el tiempo y que los bosques manejados podran ser differentes a los bosques actuales. Asimismo las campaas de educacin deben convencer a los tomadores de decisiones y al pblico en general del valor que tienen los recursos forestales. Recomendamos que el sector forestal est regido por regulaciones sencillas y comprensibles, basadas en una ciencia slida y con aplicacin consistente, y que los gobiernos trabajen con, y no en contra de, la industria. Los problemas de manejo de los bosques tropicales estn lejos de ser resueltos, por lo que los cientficos de las reas biolgicas y sociales deben continuar generando nuevo conocimiento para promover un manejo forestal efectivo.
20696459|Marine species and their habitats are facing widespread overexploitation and degradation, respectively. In response to urgent calls for their protection, the international community agreed to establish representative networks of marine protected areas by 2012 that would conserve and protect 1030% of specific habitats. To achieve these goals will require reliable estimates of the total area occupied by each habitat. We evaluated this assumption for coral reefs by generating estimates of coral reef area from high-spatial-resolution, remotely sensed imagery (30-m resolution Landsat data), and comparing these with existing published data (usually >1-km resolution). Discrepancies between previous estimates and our values ranged from +1316% to 64%. This uncertainty is incompatible with realistic achievement of the 1030% conservation targets. We conclude that currently available estimates of the global extent of most coastal marine habitats are based on data that are too poorly resolved to be useful in evaluating progress toward the 2012 targets. Most countries will therefore be unable to demonstrate that they have fulfilled their commitments to marine biodiversity conservation. We urge that accurate inventories be conducted, in a cost-effective fashion, through analyses of available high-spatial-resolution satellite imagery.
10.2307/3868543|Doctoral education in the natural sciences has traditionally focused on training students as researchers. However, this is no longer sufficient to provide students with the range of skills needed to succeed in academic and non-academic employment. Based on a review of national studies and current literature, we recommend a shift from the current model, with its focus on dissertation research, to a broader conception of doctoral education that includes training and mentoring that will be relevant to future careers. We also highlight some of the national initiatives that have made progress in these areas. Doctoral education programs cannot remain static if they are to continue to create marketable graduates. Instead, partnerships should be formed with hiring institutions, so that doctoral programs can evolve in parallel with the dynamics of the job market.
10.2307/3868634|Biological invasions are a major and increasing agent of global biodiversity change. Theory and practice indicate that invasion risk can be diminished by reducing propagule pressure, or the quantity, quality, and frequency of introduced individuals. For aquatic invasions, the primary global invasion pathway is ballast-water transport, and the primary risk reduction strategy is currently open-ocean exchange. Exchange was developed with shipping between freshwater ports in mind, but the majority of shipping connects brackish and marine ports. A worldwide convention, adopted in 2004 by the International Maritime Organization, now mandates ballast-water exchange (or equivalent management) for its 164 member states. Will exchange be as effective in reducing invasion risk for euryhaline species (those capable of tolerating a wide range of salinity levels) in salt-water ports? Here we develop a simple mathematical framework for optimizing ballast-water exchange in terms of exchange level, timing, and species salinity tolerance. Our model shows that when species survival is worse in the post-exchange than in the pre-exchange water, exchange is always effective. However, when survival is equal or better following exchange, a critical level and timing are required for effective exchange. We illustrate the model's applications with a variety of introduced marine and estuarine organisms.
10.2307/3868516|Debates about the benefits and risks of genetically modified (GM) crops need to acknowledge two realities: (1) the movement of transgenes beyond their intended destinations is a virtual certainty; and (2) it is unlikely that transgenes can be retracted once they have escaped. Transgenes escape via the movement of pollen and seeds, and this movement is facilitated by the growing number of incidents involving human error. Re-examination of our risk management policies and our assumptions about containment is essential as genes coding for pharmaceutical and industrial proteins are being inserted into the second generation of GM food crops. Even the best designed risk management can be foiled by human error, a reality that is underestimated by most GM crop-risk analyses. Thus, our evaluation of risk should assume that whatever transgene is being examined has a good chance of escaping.
10.2307/3868116|Biological diversity appears to enhance the resilience of desirable ecosystem states, which is required to secure the production of essential ecosystem services. The diversity of responses to environmental change among species contributing to the same ecosystem function, which we call response diversity, is critical to resilience. Response diversity is particularly important for ecosystem renewal and reorganization following change. Here we present examples of response diversity from both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems and across temporal and spatial scales. Response diversity provides adaptive capacity in a world of complex systems, uncertainty, and human-dominated environments. We should pay special attention to response diversity when planning ecosystem management and restoration, since it may contribute considerably to the resilience of desired ecosystem states against disturbance, mismanagement, and degradation.
20440702|Intensification of weather extremes is currently emerging as one of the most important facets of climate change. Research on extreme events ("event-focused" in contrast to "trend-focused") has increased in recent years and, in 2004, accounted for one-fifth of the experimental climate-change studies published. Numerous examples, ranging from microbiology and soil science to biogeography, demonstrate how extreme weather events can accelerate shifts in species composition and distribution, thereby facilitating changes in ecosystem functioning. However, assessing the importance of extreme events for ecological processes poses a major challenge because of the very nature of such events: their effects are out of proportion to their short duration. We propose that extreme events can be characterized by statistical extremity, timing, and abruptness relative to the life cycles of the organisms affected. To test system response to changing magnitude and frequency of weather events, controlled experiments are useful tools. These experiments provide essential insights for science and for societies that must develop coping strategies for such events. Here, we discuss future research needs for climate-change experiments in ecology. For illustration, we describe an experimental plan showing how to meet the challenge posed by changes in the frequency or magnitude of extreme events.
10.2307/3867959|Observations from islands, small-scale experiments, and mathematical models have generally supported the paradigm that habitats of low plant diversity are more vulnerable to plant invasions than areas of high plant diversity. We summarize two independent data sets to show exactly the opposite pattern at multiple spatial scales. More significant, and alarming, is that hotspots of native plant diversity have been far more heavily invaded than areas of low plant diversity in most parts of the United States when considered at larger spatial scales. Our findings suggest that we cannot expect such hotspots to repel invasions, and that the threat of invasion is significant and predictably greatest in these areas.
10.2307/3868162|Problems with fisheries are usually associated with overfishing; in other words, with the deployment of "too many" fishing gears. However, overfishing is not the only problem. Collateral impacts of fishing methods on incidental take (bycatch) and on habitats are also cause for concern. Assessing collateral impacts, through integrating the knowledge of a wide range of fisheries stakeholders, is an important element of ecosystem management, especially when consensual results are obtained. This can be demonstrated using the "damage schedule approach" to elicit judgments from fishers, scientists, and managers on the severity of fishing gear impacts on marine ecosystems. The consistent ranking of fishing gears obtained from various respondents can serve as a basis for formulating fisheries policies that will minimize ecosystem impacts. Such policies include a shift to less damaging gears and establishing closed areas to limit collateral impacts.
41480054|As natural resource management and conservation goals expand and evolve, practitioners and policy makers are increasingly seeking options that optimize benefits among multiple, often contradictory objectives. Here, we describe a simple approach for quantifying the consequences of alternative management options in terms of benefits and trade-offs among multiple objectives. We examine two long-term forest management experiments that span several decades of stand (forest tree community) development and identify substantial trade-offs among carbon cycling and ecological complexity objectives. In addition to providing improved understanding of the long-term consequences of various management options, the results of these experiments show that positive benefits resulting from some management options are often associated with large trade-offs among individual objectives. The approach to understanding benefits and trade-offs presented here provides a simple yet flexible framework for quantitatively assessing the consequences of different management options.
3868713|Many ecosystems can be viewed as lying within a continuum between grassland and forest, where ground coverage by woody plants (trees and shrubs) ranges from non-existent to complete. Patterns of energy, water, and biogeochemistry are often heterogeneous between canopy patches beneath woody plants and the intercanopy patches that separate them. Notably, connectivity between patch types is produced by processes such as shading, root uptake of resources, and redistribution of runoff. Patch-scale connectivity is hypothesized to influence trends in energy, water, and biogeochemistry as a function of woody plant canopy coverage. When connectivity is strong, the mean for an ecosystem property is expected to change in a more curvilinear than linear fashion along the continuum. Associated variance is expected to be greatest not midway along the continuum, as might be expected, but rather at a site with substantially less than 50% canopy coverage. These hypotheses collectively provide a framework for future research and are directly applicable to numerous, seemingly disparate environmental issues associated with encroachment, xerification (desertification), deforestation, die-off, fire, and restoration.
25595199|Controlled experiments have substantially advanced our understanding of the links between changing biodiversity and ecosystem functioning (BEF) in recent years. However, controversy continues regarding the relevance of BEF experiments to the complex ecosystems and large spatial and temporal scales of interest in conservation and management. Here, I address some of the persistent criticisms regarding experimental BEF research and argue that these have been overstated. Contrary to some suggestions, many putative artifacts attributed to experiments render their conclusions about BEF links stronger, rather than weaker. Like other broad ecological concepts, BEF focuses on general patterns, rather than looking at species-level, applied conservation problems. Nevertheless, insights from BEF experiments conducted to date are likely to underestimate, rather than overestimate, the importance of biodiversity to ecosystem functioning and the provision of ecosystem services in the real world. These experiments suggest that managing ecosystems to promote biodiversity can have important practical benefits.
20440622|Globalization facilitates the spread of invasive alien species (IAS) as international commerce develops new trade routes, markets, and products. New technologies increase the pace at which humans and commodities can move around the world. Recent research on IAS at the global scale has examined commerce and travel in order to inform predictions, risk analyses, and policy. Due to limited data, regional-scale studies have primarily focused on invasion patterns rather than impacts. Local-scale experimental research can identify mechanisms and impacts of biological invasions, but the results may not be applicable at larger spatial scales. However, the number of information networks devoted to IAS is increasing globally and may help integrate IAS research at all scales, particularly if data sharing and compatibility can be improved. Integrating ecological and economic factors with trade analysis to explore the effectiveness of different approaches for preventing invasions is a promising approach at the global scale. /// La globalizacin facilita la extensin de especies invasoras no-nativas (EIN) por medio del aumento del comercio internacional en nuevas rutas, mercados y productos. Nuevas tecnologas incrementan la tasa de movimiento de seres humanos y sus comodidades alrededor del mundo. Investigaciones recientes sobre las EIN a la escala mundial han examinado el comercio y la transportacin para poder informar predicciones, riesgos ecolgicos y polticas. Debido a los datos limitados, los estudios a la escala regional se han concentrado en los patrones de invasin de las EIN en lugar de sus impactos. Los estudios experimentales a la escala local pueden identificar mecanismos e impactos de estas invasiones biolgicas, pero los resultados no pueden ser aplicados a grandes escalas. Sin embargo, el nmero de redes de informacin dedicados a las EIN esta incrementando a nivel mundial y podrn ayudar integrar este tema de investigacin a todas las escalas, particularmente si se mejora la accesibilidad y la compatibilidad de los datos. La integracin de factores ecolgicos y econmicos con el anlisis de patrones de comercio es un mtodo prometedor para explorar la eficacia de diferentes estrategias diseadas para prevenir invasiones a la escala global.
10.2307/3868514| Managing the remnants of the ocean's resources is a critical issue worldwide, but evidence for what constitutes a healthy fish population remains controversial. Here, we use historical sources to understand ecosystem trends and establish a biomass estimate for a key marine species prior to the industrialization of fishing. Declining trajectories have been described for predatory fishes and complex coral reef systems globally, but few numerical estimates of past abundance exist. We combined historical research methods and population modeling to estimate the biomass of cod on Canada's Scotian Shelf in 1852. Mid 19th-century New England fishing logs offer geographically specific daily catch records, describing fleet activity on fishing grounds with negligible incentive to falsify records. Combined with ancillary fishery documents, these logs provide a solid, reliable basis for stock assessment. Based on these data we estimate a biomass for cod of 1.26  10
3868865|Measuring environmental variables at appropriate temporal and spatial scales remains an important challenge in ecological research. New developments in wireless sensors and sensor networks will free ecologists from a wired world and revolutionize our ability to study ecological systems at relevant scales. In addition, sensor networks can analyze and manipulate the data they collect, thereby moving data processing from the end user to the sensor network itself. Such embedded processing will allow sensor networks to perform data analysis procedures, identify outlier data, alter sampling regimes, and ultimately control experimental infrastructure. We illustrate this capability using a wireless sensor network, the Sensor Web, in a study of microclimate variation under shrubs in the Chihuahuan Desert. Using Sensor Web data, we propose simple analytical protocols for assessing data quality "on-the-fly" that can be programmed into sensor networks. The ecological community can influence the evolution of environmental sensor networks by working across disciplines to infuse new ideas into sensor network development.
23034466|Despite the recognized importance of reservoirs and dams, global datasets describing their characteristics and geographical distribution are largely incomplete. To enable advanced assessments of the role and effects of dams within the global river network and to support strategies for mitigating ecohydrological and socioeconomic costs, we introduce here the spatially explicit and hydrologically linked Global Reservoir and Dam database (GRanD). As of early 2011, GRanD contains information regarding 6862 dams and their associated reservoirs, with a total storage capacity of 6197 km 3 . On the basis of these records, we estimate that about 16.7 million reservoirs larger than 0.01 ha  with a combined storage capacity of approximately 8070 km 3  may exist worldwide, increasing Earth's terrestrial surface water area by more than 305 000 km 2 . We find that 575 900 river kilometers, or 7.6% of the world's rivers with average flows above 1 cubic meter per second (m 3 s 1 ), are affected by a cumulative upstream reservoir capacity that exceeds 2% of their annual flow; the impact is highest for large rivers with average flows above 1000 m 3 s 1 , of which 46.7% are affected. Finally, a sensitivity analysis suggests that smaller reservoirs have substantial impacts on the spatial extent of flow alterations despite their minor role in total reservoir capacity.
20440869|We used calcium concentration data from over 3000 stream and river sites across the contiguous United States to classify ecoregions relative to their risk for Dreissena species invasion. We defined risk based on calcium concentrations as: very low (&lt; 12 mg L), low (12-20 mg L), moderate (20-28 mg L), and high (&gt;28 mg L). Ecoregions comprising 9.4% and 11.3% of land area were classified as very low risk and low risk, respectively. These areas included New England, most of the southeast, and western portions of the Pacific Northwest. Highrisk ecoregions comprised 58.9% of land area. Ecoregions with highly variable calcium concentrations comprised 19.8% of land area; none could be classified as moderate risk. The majority of Dreissena occurrences (excluding the Great Lakes) were located in high-risk ecoregions, and most exceptions occurred in highly variable ecoregions. In low-risk ecoregions, mussels occurred in large rivers flowing from high-calcium regions. Our map provides guidance for the allocation of management resources.
41149672|Tropical ecosystems dominate the exchange of carbon dioxide between the atmosphere and terrestrial biosphere, yet our understanding of how nutrients control the tropical carbon (C) cycle remains far from complete. In part, this knowledge gap arises from the marked complexity of the tropical forest biome, in which nitrogen, phosphorus, and perhaps several other elements may play roles in determining rates of C gain and loss. As studies from other ecosystems show, failing to account for nutrient-C interactions can lead to substantial errors in predicting how ecosystems will respond to climate and other environmental changes. Thus, although resolving the complex nature of tropical forest nutrient limitation - and then incorporating such knowledge into predictive models - will be difficult, it is a challenge that the global change community must address.
10.2307/3868584|Much of America's coastline is threatened by overdevelopment and coastal erosion, driven by global sea-level rise, a problem that is attracting the attention of researchers around the world. Although we have now acknowledged the impending risks, little is known about the response of spatially dependent dune plant communities to the loss or restriction of their habitat. In order to study this development, a spatially explicit model of sand dune plant succession on Galveston Island, Texas, was created, using sea-level rise as the primary mechanism causing local erosion. Simulations of sea-level rise scenarios developed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change demonstrated that beach erosion constrained plants to a narrow area, resulting in a breakdown of the successional process. The loss of late-succession plants along coastlines, their dependent faunal species, and possible solutions are discussed. This model and example serves as a harbinger of the future for many of the US's sandy beaches and coastal communities.
25595118|The opportunity exists to improve intensively managed landscapes (urban and agricultural areas dominated by human activities) through greater engagement of ecologists in the process of ecological landscape design. This approach encourages exploration of multifunctional solutions to meet the needs of growing populations in many areas around the world, while minimizing the negative impacts of human activities on the environment. This is achieved by incorporating theoretical and applied principles from the fields of landscape ecology, agroecology, and ecological design. Multifunctional landscapes can be designed to provide a range of environmental, social, and economic functions, while considering the interests of landowners and users. Here, we propose a process for designing multifunctional landscapes, guided by ecological principles in the following steps: (1) defining the project site and landscape context, (2) analyzing landscape structure and function, (3) master planning using an ecosystem approach, (4) designing sites to highlight ecological functions, and (5) monitoring ecological functions. The development of a framework for ecological design of landscapes demonstrates the importance of a multi-scale approach for connecting sites to their surroundings, the benefits of a multifunctional design for sustainability, and the value of involving ecologists throughout the entire design process. The ecological design approach is explored for the University of Illinois Field Research Station.
43187882|Despite playing a central role in the regulation of ecosystem services, microorganisms are often neglected when evaluating feedbacks between social and ecological systems. A social-ecological framework is a tool for evaluating how social factors affect ecosystems through human actions and how ecological factors in turn affect social systems through ecosystem services. Here, we consider linkages and trade-offs between social and biophysical factors that arise when unique microbial attributes such as complexity, dispersal, and rapid evolution are integrated into a social-ecological framework. Using case studies from food production systems, wastewater treatment facilities, and synthetic biology, we show that unintended dis-services can arise when microbial information is limited or is ignored as a result of socioeconomic policies and practices. In contrast, when knowledge about microorganisms is integrated into a social-ecological framework, we can identify how to best maximize microbial services. New scientific tools used to characterize microbial traits, communities, and functions will enhance our ability to monitor microorganisms in diverse systems. However, communication and collaboration among stakeholders - including policy makers, landowners, resource managers, and scientists - are also needed to foster more effective "micromanagement" of microbial services.
10.2307/3868442|Through the work of international public health organizations and advancements in the biological and technological sciences, substantial progress has been made in our ability to prevent, control, locally eliminate, and in one case eradicate infectious diseases. Yet each successful control or local elimination has been met with the emergence of new pathogens, the evolution of novel strains, or different epidemiological circumstances that have limited or reversed control methods. To respond to the increasing threat of emerging infectious diseases and bioterrorism it is vital that we design and implement efficient programs that prevent and control infectious pathogen transmission. The theoretical tools of ecology and epidemiology may be the cornerstone in constructing future programs aimed at preventing and controlling infectious diseases throughout the world.
20440764|Non-indigenous species are both economically and ecologically costly. Invasions are occurring at an accelerating rate worldwide and therefore present a critical challenge to natural resource managers. The aquarium trade is commonly recognized as a pathway for non-indigenous plants, but few regulations exist to curb such introductions. In addition, very few studies have attempted to quantify the number of propagules introduced through the aquarium trade each year, probably because it is difficult to directly measure the number of propagules introduced. Here, we use a novel approach to quantify propagule numbers by analyzing each step in the path to introduction and synthesizing this information to calculate propagule pressure for each species. We used the aquarium plant trade in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, as our study system and found that thousands of non-indigenous plant propagules are introduced to the St Lawrence Seaway each year, through the Montreal aquarium trade alone. Two known invaders are among those species with the highest measured propagule pressure.
43187836|The distributions of many species are dynamic in space and time, and movements made by individuals range from regular and predictable migrations to erratic, resource-driven nomadism. Conserving such mobile species is challenging; the effectiveness of a conservation action taken at one site depends on the condition of other sites that may be geographically and politically distant (thousands of kilometers away or in another jurisdiction, for example). Recent work has shown that even simple and predictable linkages among sites caused by "to-and-fro" migration can make migratory species especially vulnerable to habitat loss, and substantially affect the results of conservation prioritizations. Species characterized by more erratic or nomadic movements are very difficult to protect through current conservation planning techniques, which typically view species distributions as static. However, collaborations between migration ecologists, conservation planners, and mathematical ecologists are paving the way for improvements in conservation planning for mobile species.
41811490|The National Science Foundation (NSF) has tried to narrow the gap between science and society with its Broader Impacts criterion. We analyzed the proposed Broader Impacts (ie the activities that benefit society through teaching, broadening participation, enhancing infrastructure, and disseminating research) of proposals funded by NSF's Ecosystem Studies Program. We obtained abstracts from 296 funded proposals from NSF's website and characterized the scope of the proposed Broader Impacts (2000-2009). Only 65% of abstracts included a Broader Impacts statement and, of those, 57 (19%) included just one of five NSF broader impacts activities (BIAs). The most frequent component was teaching and training (37%), followed by broad dissemination (22%), infrastructure enhancement (18%), benefits to society (13%), and underrepresented groups (11%). Most proposed audiences were small (61%) to medium-sized (32%) and were closely associated with academics. NSF as a whole, and Program Officers in the Ecosystem Studies Program in particular, are generally reinforcing the importance of BIAs, but improvements are required within the academic culture. NSF needs to create new mechanisms that make grantees accountable for BIAs and provide positive feedback for those efforts.
41479983|Global financial donors have invested billions of dollars in "Sustainable Forest Management" to conserve forests and the ecosystem services they provide. A major contributing mechanism, community forest management (CFM), aims to provide global environmental benefits (reduce deforestation, maintain biodiversity), while also improving local human welfare (alleviate poverty). We have systematically reviewed available evidence of CFM effectiveness and consider the implications of our findings for future investment in CFM programs. There is evidence of CFM being associated with greater tree density and basal area but not with other indicators of global environmental benefits. We found no data on local human welfare amenable to meta-analysis. Poor study design, variable reporting of study methodology or context, and lack of common indicators make evidence synthesis difficult. Given the policy interest in and the planned donor expenditure on CFM, evaluation must be improved so that informed decisions can be made about appropriate investment in this approach.
25595222|Critical conservation decisions have been made based on the spurious belief that "no statistically significant difference between two groups means the groups are the same". We demonstrate this using the case of the Preble's meadow jumping mouse (Zapus hudsonius preblei), an endangered species in the US. Such faulty statistical logic has been recognized before, but ecologists have typically recommended assessing post hoc statistical power as a remedy. Statisticians, however, have shown that observed power will necessarily be low when no differences are found between two populations. Alternatives to assessments of statistical power include equivalence testing (a method rarely used by ecologists) and Bayesian or likelihood methods. Although scientists play a central role in ameliorating this problem, the courts could also assist by requiring litigated federal agency decisions to consider the risks of both Type I and Type II errors.
23034412|The US National Fire Plan (NFP) is among the largest forest-restoration initiatives worldwide, removing wildland fuels on about 11 million hectares and costing over $6 billion. We evaluated the extent to which areas treated under the NFP  from 2004 to 2008, in forest ecosystems outside the wildlandurban interface in 11 western states ("West")  were predicted to need restoration, due to disruption of fire regimes and expected fuels buildup. Fuel-reduction treatments were implemented on about 1% of the West's forested areas. Forty-three percent of the treated area was predicted to have high-restoration need  almost twice as much as expected, given the distribution of these forests. However, an equal amount was in mixed- or uncertain-need forests, and 14% occurred in low-need forests, suggesting that managers need additional information on fire-regime disruptions in some forest ecosystems to help prioritize restoration activities. Only one-quarter of the West's forested area shows strong evidence of uncharacteristic fuels buildup, which is often emphasized as the primary cause of current wildfire problems, potentially directing attention away from other important drivers such as climate change and an expanding wildlandurban interface.
43187727|We introduce a framework - based on experiences from oceanic islands - for conserving biodiversity in the Anthropocene. In an increasingly human-dominated world, the context for conservation-oriented action is extremely variable, attributable to three largely independent factors: the degree of anthropogenic change, the importance of deliberate versus inadvertent human influence on ecosystems, and land-use priorities. Given this variability, we discuss the need to integrate four strategies, often considered incompatible, for safeguarding biodiversity: maintaining relicts of historical biodiversity through intensive and continuous management; creating artificial in situ, inter situ, and ex situ conservation settings that are resilient to anthropogenic change; co-opting novel ecosystems and associated "opportunistic biodiversity" as the wildlands of the future; and promoting biodiversity in cultural landscapes by adapting economic activities.
43187682|Ecologists are increasingly discovering that ecological processes are made up of components that are multiscaled in space and time. Some of the most complex of these processes are cross-scale interactions (CSIs), which occur when components interact across scales. When undetected, such interactions may cause errors in extrapolation from one region to another. CSIs, particularly those that include a regional scaled component, have not been systematically investigated or even reported because of the challenges of acquiring data at sufficiently broad spatial extents. We present an approach for quantifying CSIs and apply it to a case study investigating one such interaction, between local and regional scaled land-use drivers of lake phosphorus. Ultimately, our approach for investigating CSIs can serve as a basis for efforts to understand a wide variety of multi-scaled problems such as climate change, land-use/land-cover change, and invasive species.
3868823|Over the past decade, scientific publishing has shifted from a paper-based distribution system to one largely built upon electronic access to journal articles. Despite this shift, the basic patterns of journal pricing have remained largely unchanged. The large commercial publishers charge dramatically higher prices to institutions than do professional societies and university presses. These price differences do not reflect differences in quality as measured by citation rate. We discuss the effect of price and citation rate of a journal on library subscriptions and offer an explanation for why competition has not been able to erode the price differences between commercial and non-profit journals.
10.2307/3868490|The number of marine species at risk of extinction is rising. Understanding the threats that contribute to extinction risk in the seas is thus critical to conservation. When major threats to marine, estuarine, and diadromous species on the US Endangered Species Act and IUCN Red lists were ranked according to the number of species they affect, strong consensus in the ranking of threats across species and between institutions emerged. Overexploitation is the most frequent threat to vulnerable marine species, with approximately half of threatened species caught as bycatch in fisheries. Habitat degradation, the primary threat to terrestrial species, ranks second in impact on marine species. Loss of listed marine species would probably affect ecosystem function and delivery of ecosystem services because many of these species are strong interactors, including ecosystem engineers, taxa that provide important nutrient links between terrestrial and marine ecosystems, and a disproportionate number of high trophic-level predators.
10.2307/3868037|Overfishing persists in many of the world's fisheries, despite the fact that scientists have clearly identified overexploitation as a problem. The solution seems straightforward -- reduce fishing pressure -- and the benefits are clear and often obtained rapidly, if action is taken before stocks are driven to very low levels. The problem persists, however, because the politics of fishery management favor continued exploitation. How stocks will recover and who will be able to reap the benefits is uncertain, so the political incentive is to maintain the status quo. Management immediately tries to capitalize on any apparent stock increase or marginal fishing opportunity, but only slowly responds to apparent decreases in the stock. This approach inevitably results in resource declines, and therefore cannot succeed in conserving public resources. We need to change this perspective and view the oceans as a system to be managed wisely, rather than a resource to be exhausted.
20440884|Invasive species, disease vectors, and pathogens affect biodiversity, ecosystem function and services, and human health. Climate change, land use, and transport vectors interact in complex ways to determine the spread of native and non-native invasive species, pathogens, and their effects on ecosystem dynamics. Early detection and in-depth understanding of invasive species and infectious diseases will require an integrated network of research platforms and information exchange to identify hotspots of invasion or disease emergence. Partnerships with state and federal agencies that monitor the spread and impacts of invasive species and pathogens will be critical in developing a national data and research network that can facilitate a full understanding of the resulting effects on ecosystems and society. Citizen science can also play a role; individuals can report new invasions, record phenological changes associated with invasions or disease outbreaks, and can participate in efforts such as the Breeding Bird Survey, which may reveal long-term biotic change following species invasions and disease spread. The ecological and societal impacts of invasive species and pathogens differ across gradients of climate and land use, and in the presence of global climate change may exacerbate both their propagation and impacts. Understanding the interactions of invasive species, disease vectors, and pathogens with other drivers of ecosystem change is critical to human health and economic well-being.
10.2307/3868544| The biotic integrity of the Florida Everglades, a wetland of immense international importance, is threatened as a result of decades of human manipulation for drainage and development. Past management of the system only exacerbated the problems associated with nutrient enrichment and disruption of regional hydrology. The Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) now being implemented by Federal and State governments is an attempt to strike a balance between the needs of the environment with the complex management of water and the seemingly unbridled economic growth of southern Florida. CERP is expected to reverse negative environmental trends by "getting the water right", but successful Everglades restoration will require both geochemical and hydrologic intervention on a massive scale. This will produce ecological trade-offs and will require new and innovative scientific measures to (1) reduce total phosphorus concentrations within the remaining marsh to 10 g/L or lower; (2) quantify and link ecological benefits to the restoration of depths, hydroperiods, and flow velocities; and (3) compensate for ecological, economic, and hydrologic uncertainties in the CERP through adaptive management. 
23470480|Increasing catch rates are considered the main impact of dynamic fisheries practices on marine ecosystems, but other effects can be equally important and are often ignored. Here we quantify a major, previously unknown source of shark mortality: entanglement in drifting fish aggregating devices, now widely used in the global tropical tuna purse-seine fishery. Using satellite tagging and underwater observational data, we developed two novel, independent, and complementary approaches, which quantify and highlight the scale of this problem. Entanglement mortality of silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) in the Indian Ocean was 510 times that of the known bycatch of this imperiled species from the region's purse-seine fleet. More importantly, these estimates from a single ocean (480 000960 000 silky sharks) mirror those from all world fisheries combined (400 0002 million silky sharks), a situation that clearly requires immediate management intervention and extensive monitoring.
41811864|North America is both a source and sink of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO). Continental sources - such as fossil-fuel combustion in the US and deforestation in Mexico - and sinks - including most ecosystems, and particularly secondary forests - add and remove CO from the atmosphere, respectively. Photosynthesis converts CO into carbon as biomass, which is stored in vegetation, soils, and wood products. However, ecosystem sinks compensate for only ~35% of the continent's fossil-fuel-based CO emissions; North America therefore represents a net CO source. Estimating the magnitude of ecosystem sinks, even though the calculation is confounded by uncertainty as a result of individual inventory- and model-based alternatives, has improved through the use of a combined approach.
20440818|The year 2007 was the first year in which more than half of humanity lived in cities. Over the next 25 years, the world will see the addition of nearly one million km of urban area, occurring in tens of thousands of cities around the globe. The form these new neighborhoods take will affect our planet's ecology profoundly. Here, I highlight the connection between urban form and ecosystem service generation and consumption. I also discuss how urban form controls energy use, and hence oil security and climate change. I argue that only by directly addressing the implications of urban growth as a research subject will ecologists meet their responsibility to provide a foundation for a sustainable biosphere, a mandate of the Ecological Society of America.
41149675|The understanding of biogeochemical cycles has benefited from technological advances facilitating new kinds of measurements and observations. Satellite-borne ocean-color sensors that assess the physiological status of phytoplankton have led to improved estimates of oceanic productivity, as have micrometeorological approaches measuring terrestrial photosynthesis and respiration. The advent of satellites fitted with synthetic aperture radar (a specialized sensor used to determine inundation extent and vegetation types in wetlands) has revealed large fluxes of carbon dioxide and methane from these areas. Advances in the measurement of chemical constituents and turbulence have allowed the detection of high-resolution coupling between physical and biogeochemical processes. Genomics and proteomics - the study of genes and of an organism's complement of proteins, respectively - have revolutionized our understanding of the types of cells present in the environment and their ability to transform elements by allowing direct assessment of gene and protein sequences.
25595245|Only a small proportion of exotic species invasions give rise to hyper-successful nuisance species, but those that do have dramatic negative impacts on ecosystems, such as the displacement of native species and disruption of native food webs. For a native predator, such changes may mean a major transformation in its resource base and a decline in its fitness. However, native predators may adapt to become more effective at feeding on exotic prey, either rapidly, via existing phenotypic plasticity, or more slowly, via natural selection. Despite a rapidly growing number of publications on the importance of species invasions as a driver of contemporary evolution in both invading and native species, we know little about how the arrival of exotic prey affects native predators. We propose that native predators could be important in regulating the long-term dynamics of invading species and, consequently, that the overexploitation of predators could facilitate biological invasions.
41480004|Since the identification and imprisonment of "Typhoid Mary", a woman who infected at least 47 people with typhoid in the early 1900s, epidemiologists have recognized that "superspreading" hosts play a key role in disease epidemics. Such variability in transmission also exists among species within a community and among habitat patches across a landscape, underscoring the need for an integrative framework for studying transmission heterogeneity, or the differences among hosts or locations in their contribution to pathogen spread. Here, we synthesize literature on human, plant, and animal diseases to evaluate the relative influence of host, pathogen, and environmental factors in producing highly infectious individuals, species, and landscapes. We show that host and spatial heterogeneity are closely linked and that quantitatively assessing the contribution of infectious individuals, species, or environmental patches to overall transmission can aid management strategies.We conclude by posing hypotheses regarding how pathogen natural history influences transmission variability and highlight emerging frontiers in this area of study.
10.2307/3868441|The depletion of many marine fisheries has created a new impetus to expand seafood production through fish farming, or aquaculture. Marine aquaculture, especially of salmon and shrimp, has grown considerably in the past two decades, and aquaculturists are also beginning to farm other marine species. Production data for salmon and shrimp indicate that farming supplements, rather than substitutes for fishing. Since most farmed marine fish are carnivores, farming them relies on the capture of finite supplies of wild fish for use in fish feeds. As aquaculture is not substituting for wild fisheries, heavy dependence on wild fish inputs is a concern as marine aquaculture grows. Other likely impacts include escapes of farmed fish and large-scale waste discharges from fish farms. A viable future for marine ecosystems will require incorporation of ecological perspectives into polices that integrate fishing, aquaculture, and conservation.
3868868| Individual differences in behavior and social status can determine the rate of population change and thus the threat that imperiled species face in the real world. One way that behavior may be manifested in terms of an annualized population growth rate (?) is through the effects of sex ratio biases. A population's operational sex ratio (OSR) typically deviates from the actual sex ratio (ASR), leading to pronounced sexual dimorphism in fecundity. This paper provides a framework for integrating behavioral estimates of OSR into population models used for conservation. Male and female fertility is estimated at six island study sites for California sea lions (Zalophus californianus), using population census data (ASR) and behavioral data (OSR). These estimates are used to construct alternate projection matrices to examine the impacts on ?. Inclusion of behavioral data in population models not only allows for explicit analysis of the effects of behaviors on viability, but may also help to identify behavioral attributes that could be used as an early indicator of population decline. 
25741221|The exchange of information between researchers, resource managers, decision makers, and the general public has long been recognized as a critical need in environmental science. We examine the challenges in using ecological knowledge to inform society and to change societal actions, and identify a set of options and strategies to enhance this exchange. Our objectives are to provide background information on societal knowledge and interest in science and environmental issues, to describe how different components of society obtain information and develop their interests and values, and to present a framework for evaluating and improving communication between science and society. Our analysis strongly suggests that the interface between science and society can only be improved with renewed dedication to public outreach and a wholesale reconsideration of the way that scientists communicate with society. Ecologists need to adopt new models of engagement with their audiences, frame their results in ways that are more meaningful to these audiences, and use new communication tools, capable of reaching large and diverse target groups.
10.2307/3868091|Despite their high profile and potentially devastating consequences, bioterrorist acts are relatively unpredictable, rare, and thus far small-scale events. In contrast, biological invasions are occurring daily in the US and have significant impacts on human health, agriculture, infrastructure, and the environment, yet they receive far less attention and fewer resources. Scientists and the US government must work together to implement a comprehensive approach to biosecurity that addresses not only bioterrorism, but also the more common incursions of invasive alien species. This approach should also address the potential for the deliberate use of invasive alien species as agents of bioterrorism. To achieve these goals, it will be necessary for the relevant government institutions to acknowledge and include prevention, early detection, and rapid response to species incursions as central mission themes. In addition, the scientific community, industry, and the public must work together to ensure that the necessary technology and information systems are readily available.
20440815|Local fishers' knowledge (LFK) obtained from 49 fishers in the upper Gulf of California indicates that fishery resources have declined by at least 60% over the past 50 years, most likely due to overfishing and environmental changes associated with upstream damming of the Colorado River. LFK can provide supporting evidence of trends and changes. In marine ecosystems, for example, relative abundances obtained from LFK for several commercial and non-target species are closely correlated with stock assessment biomass, fishing effort, and landings reported by the Mexican Government. Rapid shifts in perception of the degree of degradation of this ecosystem, as well as greatly reduced nutrients and river flows (over just a few decades), should act as a red flag to the Mexican Government and management agencies. It is crucial for the restoration of this ecosystem that young fishers and the Mexican public are able to visualize previous states of their local ecosystems.
43187619|Bioenergy development can offer beneficial ecological and economic synergies through the expansion of ecological restoration projects. Such synergies are demonstrated by means of a case study conducted in central Washington State, where a 52.4-ha ecological restoration site on the Yakama Reservation generated 34 megagrams (Mg) of invasive tree biomass per hectare, costing $988 ha. A geospatial model of transportation costs estimated that extracted invasive tree biomass can generate revenues throughout 1 103 803 ha when delivered to a proposed bioenergy facility in White Swan, Washington, providing 53 000-180 000 Mg of biomass per year for several decades. Thermochemical analyses revealed that the elevated nitrogen, sulfur, and ash content in two prolific invasive trees  Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia) and salt cedar (Tamarix spp)  will limit demand for either of these invasive species. We compare our regional data to national estimates, and show the broader potential for expanding ecological restoration activities and biomass supplies through the revenues generated by the sale of invasive tree wood-waste into bioenergy markets.
25595223|The level of ecological literacy among the general population in the US and other countries is not known, although there is widespread concern that it is too low to enable effective social responses to current problems. Here, we describe a framework for conceptualizing ecological literacy. This framework combines ideas and approaches from the social sciences with content deemed critical by ecology professionals. We conclude with key contentions and questions that should initiate a dialogue aimed at improving ecological literacy among the public. As ecological literacy was the theme of the 93rd Annual Meeting of the Ecological Society of America in 2008, we believe it is time for this discussion to be expanded, increased in priority, and brought to fruition.
23470504|The recent expansion of the global wildlife trade, both within and between countries, has many potentially negative ecological impacts. Emerging economies, in particular, have a largely overlooked potential for rapid internal growth in this trade. An analysis of 17 000 wildlife transportation permits  issued in South Africa primarily for commercial purposes by the Western Cape Province's local government  provides insights into this trend. During the past decade, a total of 912 amphibian, bird, mammal, and reptile species were transported to and from locations in the province; 60% of translocated vertebrate species were non-native. Network analysis of the data indicated that the numbers of participants within local trade networks are increasing rapidly. Static and dynamic structural differences emerged between the networks for selected vertebrate Classes. Changes in density and degree were pronounced for mammal and reptile networks but were more constant for birds over the observed time period. All translocation networks exhibited "small-world", scale-free properties, which would facilitate the rapid propagation of negative influences through the system.
10.2307/3868034|Vibrio cholerae, the bacterium that causes cholera, is a fascinating microorganism that occupies two distinct habitats: aquatic environments and human intestines. Although its activity in human hosts has received a great deal of attention because of its effect on human health, the microbe's behavior in natural ecosystems has received much less consideration. In this paper we briefly review the microbiology and ecology of V. cholerae, before highlighting four important areas for further research. First, V. cholerae acts as a typical heterotrophic bacterium while in aquatic environments, mineralizing organic matter for reuse within the food web. In addition, three key processes affect the microorganism's population dynamics and therefore its role in ecosystem processes: a viable-but-non-culturable (VBNC) state, attachment to environmental substrates, and bacterivory. Several factors link V. cholerae in its human and aquatic habitats, especially human activities that influence its growth conditions while outside the body. These activities create feedbacks between humans and the environment that are at present not well understood, but which are likely to alter the persistence and spread of the resulting disease.
3868901|Over the past decade, policy makers, management agencies, and academic scientists have shown increasing interest in ecosystem-based management (EBM). Yet, the extent that EBM principles, deemed important by scientists, are adopted by managers is still uncertain. Here, we review scientific definitions of EBM and management plans for eight marine and coastal ecosystems to determine if management agencies and academics are approaching EBM in a similar manner. Although the scientific literature outlines specific ecological and social principles of EBM, we find that these details are only loosely incorporated into management plans and actions. Our results indicate that some principles of EBM are being put into practice, but the gap between the scientific literature and management plans suggests that these concepts need to be more effectively translated. Our results also reveal a need for operational tools to make scientific principles easier to put into practice, to further the implementation of EBM.
20440766|Many services provided by coastal and marine ecosystems are in decline. Awareness of these declines and the need to improve existing management has led to a shift toward ecosystem-based approaches to marine management and conservation, both in the US and elsewhere. Marine ecosystem-based management (EBM) involves recognizing and addressing interactions among different spatial and temporal scales, within and among ecological and social systems, and among stakeholder groups and communities interested in the health and stewardship of coastal and marine areas. We discuss some overarching principles of marine EBM and highlight key challenges facing implementation. We then recommend ways in which natural and social scientists can advance implementation of ecosystem-based approaches in the oceans by addressing key research needs, building interdisciplinary scientific capacity, and synthesizing and communicating scientific knwoledge to policy makers, managers, and other stakeholders.
20696408|Two major shortcomings of the US Endangered Species Act have led to inefficient use of conservation dollars: (1) it only provides conservation protection to distressed or rapidly declining species, and (2) it does not take full advantage of the market to reduce costs in conservation. New, derivative-based insurance products (financial instruments designed to allow the commoditization and sale of risk) have been developed that allow investors to insure risk in exchange for fixed payments. Modifications to these financial derivatives, which are used to distribute risk and stabilize forecasts across many corporate and social scenarios, could allow purchasers to take preventative action to simultaneously protect their investment and decrease the likelihood of the insured event. We propose that governments issue modified derivative contracts to sell species' extinction risk to market investors and stakeholders. Using the endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) in the US as an example, we show how a biodiversity derivatives program could proactively generate new funding, result in more cost-effective conservation, align stakeholders' interests, and create incentives for private conservation efforts.
20440745|Climate extremes that cause droughts, floods, or large temperature fluctuations can complicate ecosystem restoration efforts focused on local and regional human disturbance. Restoration targets are often based primarily on monitoring data and modeling simulations, which provide information on species' short-term response to disturbance and environmental variables. Consequently, the targets may be unsustainable under the spectrum of natural variability inherent in the system or under future climate change. Increasingly, ecologists and restoration planners recognize the value of the long temporal perspective provided by paleoecological data. Advances in paleoclimatology, including better climate proxy methods and temporal resolution, contribute to our understanding of ecosystem response to anthropogenic and climatic forcing at all time scales. We highlight paleoecological research in the Chesapeake Bay and the Florida Everglades and summarize the resulting contributions to restoration planning. Integration of paleoecological, historic, monitoring, and modeling efforts will lead to the development of sustainable, adaptive management strategies for ecosystem restoration.
3868843|The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1996 requires an end to overfishing and the rebuilding of depleted fishery resources. Nine years later, the progress towards rebuilding overexploited marine fisheries in the United States is reviewed here. Despite the statutory mandate, overfishing and depletion of important fish stocks remains a widespread problem in the US. Sixty-seven fish stocks are currently under rebuilding plans mandated by law. Overfishing, where the fishing mortality rate exceeds the level that should support the maximum sustainable yield (
10.2307/3868661|Environmental science has traditionally focused on conservation of natural resources. However, there is a second, little known, branch of environmental science that deals with the conservation of cultural resources. Many historic stone structures, archeological sites, and objects are at risk, and in need of protection, as a result of physical, chemical, and biological weathering. Because these structures are often large and located outdoors, they pose particular conservation challenges that require collaborative efforts between conservators and scientists. Historic stone supports large and diverse communities of microorganisms that colonize both the stone surface and the porous interior. In many cases, microbial processes have been implicated in the deterioration of the stone. The study of the role of microorganisms in this process is in its infancy, but recent findings have important implications for the preservation of cultural resources and for our understanding of weathering in natural systems.
23470503|Floodplain and riparian ecosystems are noteworthy for their biodiversity conservation value as well as for their widespread conversion to agriculture. Recent evidence indicates that the conversion of remaining habitat may be accelerating because of a new threat: on-farm practices meant to promote food safety. Nationwide, US fruit and vegetable farmers report being pressured by commercial produce buyers to engage in land-use practices that are not conducive to wildlife and habitat conservation, in a scientifically questionable attempt to reduce food-borne illness risk. We measured the extent of impacts from some of these practices in a leading produce-growing region of California. Over a 5-year period following an outbreak of toxic Escherichia coli from spinach, a crop grown extensively in the region, 13.3% of remaining riparian habitat was eliminated or degraded. If these practices were implemented statewide, across all crops, up to 40% of riparian habitat and 45% of wetlands in some counties would be affected. This study highlights the importance of managing farms for both food safety and ecological health through the use of an evidence-based, adaptive management approach. Ongoing biodiversity loss and global integration of the food supply make these findings relevant wherever produce is grown.
23034494|Information we collect about our planet depends, in part, on the questions scientists ask regarding the natural world. Asking other questions might lead to different innovations and alternative understandings of policy problems and their potential solutions. With a seemingly infinite number of potential study subjects but limited resources with which to study them, why have we chosen to focus on the topics that we have? Here, I present a Q-method study that explores ecologists' thought processes as they evaluate the merits of potential research topics. The participants, ecologists attending the Ecological Society of America's 2008 Annual Meeting, nominally agreed with one another that their discipline should contribute to solving environmental problems, but they interpreted that goal differently. This study uncovers four competing visions that ecologists have for their discipline. On the basis of these findings, I contend that ecology might be more effective in informing policy if priority setting were a more deliberative process and open to insights from individuals and institutions outside of ecology.
20440843|Soils are a vital substrate for agricultural production, play a central role in regulating the global carbon budget, and are a valuable source of biodiversity. Yet estimates of the global area affected by soil and land degradation are continuing to increase. For decades, soil scientists have called for a legally binding, international policy framework to guide the sustainable use of soils, but a piecemeal legislative approach has prevailed instead. With over 200 international environmental agreements currently in force, there is political reluctance for another one. Here, I suggest that one way of ending this impasse would be for the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) to focus more explicitly on soil ecosystems and degradation processes, both within and beyond the drylands. This could promote synergy among the international conventions on desertification, biodiversity, and climate change, and could yield multiple global benefits for social-environmental systems.
10.2307/3868066|Mistletoes are aerial, hemiparasitic plants found on trees throughout the world. They have unique ecological arrangements with the host plants they parasitize and the birds that disperse their seeds. Similar in many respects to vector-borne macroparasites, mistletoes are often detrimental to their hosts, and can even kill them. Coevolution has led to resistance mechanisms in hosts and specialization by mistletoes. Birds act as "disease vectors" for the mistletoe host in a mutualistic relationship. To disperse their seeds, mistletoes attract and manipulate their avian vectors in ways that are typical of both plants (offering a fruit reward) and parasites (changing vector behavior once they have been ingested). Mistletoes are important elements of the landscape that influence the spatial distribution of ecosystem resources. Their patchy distribution and complex interactions make their biology intriguing and their management and conservation challenging.
10.2307/3867962|One of the most spectacular phenomena in nature is the annual return of millions of salmon to spawn in their natal streams and lakes along the Pacific coast of North America. The salmon die after spawning, and the nutrients and energy in their bodies, derived almost entirely from marine sources, are deposited in the freshwater ecosystems. This represents a vital input to the ecosystems used as spawning grounds. Salmon-derived nutrients make up a substantial fraction of the plants and animals in aquatic and terrestrial habitats associated with healthy salmon populations. The decline of salmon numbers throughout much of their southern range in North America has prompted concern that the elimination of this "conveyor belt" of nutrients and energy may fundamentally change the productivity of these coastal freshwater and terrestrial ecosystems, and consequently their ability to support wildlife, including salmon. If progress is to be made towards understanding and conserving the connection between migratory salmon and coastal ecosystems, scientists and decision-makers must explore and understand the vast temporal and spatial scales that characterize this relationship.
10.2307/3868659|Land use, watershed processes, and coastal biodiversity are often intricately linked, yet land--sea interactions are usually ignored when selecting terrestrial and marine reserves with existing models. Such oversight increases the risk that reserves will fail to achieve their conservation objectives. The conceptual model underlying existing reserve selection models presumes each site is a closed ecological system, unaffected by inputs from elsewhere. As a short-term objective, we recommend extending land-conservation analyses to account for effects on marine biodiversity by considering linkages between ecosystems. This level of integration seems feasible and directly relevant to agencies and conservancies engaged in protecting coastal lands. We propose an approach that evaluates terrestrial sites based on whether they benefit or harm marine species or habitats. We then consider a hypothetical example involving estuarine nurseries. Whether this approach will produce more effective terrestrial reserves remains to be seen.
10.2307/3868660|Animal-attached remote sensing, or bio-logging, refers to the deployment of autonomous recording tags on free-living animals, so that multiple variables can be monitored at rates of many times per second, thereby generating millions of data points over periods ranging from hours to years. Rapid advances in technology are allowing scientists to use data-recording units to acquire huge, quantitative datasets of behavior from animals moving freely in their natural environment. In other words, scientists can examine wild animals in the field, behaving normally, with the same rigor that is normally used in the laboratory. The flexibility of such recording systems means that bio-logging science operates at the interface of several biological disciplines, looking at a wide array of aquatic, airborne, and terrestrial species, monitoring not only the physical characteristics of the environment, but also the animal's reactions to it. This approach is critically important in an era when global change threatens the survival of species and where habitat loss is leading to widespread extinctions.
10.2307/3868405|Changes in land use and the development of coastal regions around the world have markedly increased rates of sediment input into estuarine and coastal habitats. Field studies looking at the consequences of terrestrial sediment deposition, water-borne sediment, and long-term changes in habitats indicate that increasing rates of sediment loading adversely affect the biodiversity and ecological value of estuarine and coastal ecosystems. Managing this threat requires means with which to convey the magnitude of the problem, forecast long-term trends, and assess the risks associated with changes in land use. Here we focus on approaches for assessing the risks of changes in land use, which include combining biological effect studies with catchment and hydrodynamic modeling, using statistical models that forecast the distribution and abundance of species relative to changes in habitat type, and using sensitive species that play important ecological roles as indicators of change.
41811832|Recent, large-scale outbreaks of bark beetle infestations have affected millions of hectares of forest in western North America, covering an area similar in size to that impacted by fire. Bark beetles kill host trees in affected areas, thereby altering water supply, carbon storage, and nutrient cycling in forests; for example, the timing and amount of snow melt may be substantially modified following bark beetle infestation, which impacts water resources for many western US states. The quality of water from infested forests may also be diminished as a result of increased nutrient export. Understanding the impacts of bark beetle outbreaks on forest ecosystems is therefore important for resource management. Here, we develop a conceptual framework of the impacts on coupled biogeophysical and biogeochemical processes following a mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae) outbreak in lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta Douglas var latifolia) forests in the weeks to decades after an infestation, and highlight future research needs and management implications of this widespread disturbance event.
10.2307/3868515|Irrespective of geography, forest destruction and fragmentation lead to lower avian species richness. The underlying mechanisms causing local extirpations have been studied most thoroughly in northern temperate landscapes, where higher levels of brood parasitism, nest predation, and possibly decreased food availability are responsible for the loss of some species. Tropical landscapes are being similarly altered, but studies of responses by tropical birds remain relatively scarce. Predicting how tropical birds respond to habitat loss and fragmentation should not be extended directly from the results of temperate investigations. Tropical birds possess different evolutionary and life histories, which make them vulnerable to a different suite of threats than those normally considered for birds from temperate regions. These same traits, including greater physiological and sensory specialization, reduced dispersal capabilities, and much lower local and regional population densities, indicate that strategies for conserving bird diversity will be different in tropical landscapes than those for temperate regions.
3868684|The answer to the title question is uncertain, as very few manipulative experiments have been conducted to test how deep-sea scleractinians (stony corals) react to changes in seawater chemistry. Ocean pH and calcium carbonate saturation are decreasing due to an influx of anthropogenic CO
25741274|There have been surprisingly few analyses of how the international trade in amphibians for food affects the conservation status of this group. We analyzed information from the UN Commodity Trade Statistics Database and found that, by volume, Indonesia supplied nearly half of the animals entering the world's US$40 million per year international frog legs trade, and that  collectively  France, Belgium, and the US imported more than 75% of all frog legs traded internationally. Nonetheless, a close examination of available information from 1996 through 2006 revealed that most countries throughout the world participated in the frog legs trade at some level. These extensive international amphibian trade networks could facilitate the spread of pathogens, including Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, which has been identified as a threat connected with the disappearance and possible extinction of over 90 amphibian species around the world. Given the size and extent of the international trade in frog legs, we advocate for the rigorous implementation of clear policies regulating the domestic and international movement of amphibians for food.
10.2307/3868636|Studies of large infrequent disturbances, such as the Mount St Helens volcanic eruption, the 1988 Yellowstone National Park fires, and Hurricane Hugo, show that such events leave a heterogeneous imprint on a landscape, and that this imprint subsequently influences ecological response. But what imprint does a large infrequent flood disturbance leave on a river landscape, and how does the imprint influence river ecosystem response to disturbance? We used a landscape ecological framework to examine the associations between the imprint of an extreme flood and the response of woody riparian vegetation in the Sabie River (Kruger National Park, South Africa) landscape. We found that the flood left a heterogeneous imprint, consisting of remnant vegetated patches, remnant physical patches, and newly created physical patches. The structure and composition of riparian vegetation assemblages subsequently differed among these patches. Heterogeneity of the river landscape mosaic may result in multiple trajectories of ecological response to the flood, with important consequences for biodiversity conservation in Kruger National Park.
10.2307/3868010|Wildfires result in important ecological benefits to many ecosystems, but have costs associated with fire fighting and property loss. Accurate, timely forecasts of the severity of upcoming wildfire seasons could facilitate wildfire management, limiting the most destructive aspects of fires, while preserving their ecological benefits. We demonstrate an approach where time series models are used to predict the severity of the wildfire season in Everglades National Park in southern Florida 3 months and 1 year beforehand. Model predictions contained all obserations within a 90% credible interval and also anticipated severe wildfire seasons. These models may be used to implement more ecologically sound wildfire management.
43188517|Ecosystem service markets are increasingly used as a policy solution to environmental problems ranging from endangered species to climate change. Such markets trade in ecosystem credits created at restoration sites where conservation projects are designed and built to compensate for regulated environmental impacts. "Credit stacking" occurs when multiple, spatially overlapping credits representing different ecosystem services are sold separately to compensate for different impacts. Discussion of stacking has grown rapidly over the past three years, and it will generate increasing interest given the growing multibillion-dollar international market in carbon, habitat, and water-quality credits. Because ecosystem functions at compensation sites are interdependent and integrated, stacking may result in net environmental losses. Unless stacked compensation sites and impact sites are treated symmetrically in the accounting of environmental gains and losses, stacking may also cause environmental gains at compensation sites to be more fully accounted for than losses at impact sites. Stacking should be used with caution until science-based methods, which can account for the ecological relationships between distinct ecosystem credits present at a conservation site, are developed and deployed.
10.2307/3867986|Transport energy, particularly that derived from fossil fuels, is causing increasing problems worldwide. Hydrogen as a transport fuel offers solutions to many of these issues. Produced from renewable resources, hydrogen could cut greenhouse gas emissions to zero, and the use of some fossil sources could even reduce emissions. Air quality and noise problems would also be addressed. Although developments are underway, and many countries see hydrogen as part of a sustainable energy future, implementation is being hindered by social and economic considerations and immature technology. To ensure that expectations are met, support is needed from policy makers, industry, and the public.
3868734|Over the past five decades, ecologists and archaeologists have dismantled two longstanding theoretical constructs. Ecologists have rejected the "balance of nature" concept and archaeologists have dispelled the myth that indigenous people were "in harmony with nature". Rejection of these concepts poses critical challenges to both fields as current disciplinary approaches are inadequate to grapple effectively with real-world complexities of socioecological systems. In this review, we focus on the relationship between human action and ecosystem change by examining some of the long-term impacts of prehistoric agriculture. Using an interdisciplinary approach, we present results from two studies that suggest that even relatively non-intensive and short-term agriculture can transform ecological systems for a very long time. It is therefore imperative that ecologists and archaeologists work more closely together, creating a truly cross-disciplinary alliance that will help to advance the fields of archaeology and ecology.
20440871|Globally, 75% of fish stocks are fully exploited or overexploited, and fishing pressure continues to threaten marine ecosystems and the cultures and economies that depend on them. Decades of government regulation have largely failed to stem the ecological damage associated with fishing. Designated access privilege (DAP) systems such as individual fishing quotas (IFQs) and harvest cooperatives are one attempt to realign incentives so that fishers no longer race to maximize catches. IFQs are not appropriate for many fisheries. Fortunately, the IFQ debate has drawn attention to the link between incentives that fishers face and the ecological consequences of fishing. Despite important social concerns, preliminary evidence suggests that IFQs encourage cooperation, fisher stewardship, and a slower pace of fishing. This review points to the need to improve the metrics of marine ecosystem health and pursue quantitative methods for assessing the ecological impacts of different management approaches.
25741269|An understanding of the extent of land degradation and recovery is necessary to guide land-use policy and management, yet currently available land-quality assessments are widely known to be inadequate. Here, we present the results of the first statistically based application of a new approach to national assessments that integrates scientific and local knowledge. Qualitative observations completed at over 10 000 plots in the United States showed that while soil degradation remains an issue, loss of biotic integrity is more widespread. Quantitative soil and vegetation data collected at the same locations support the assessments and serve as a baseline for monitoring the effectiveness of policy and management initiatives, including responses to climate change. These results provide the information necessary to support strategic decisions by land managers and policy makers.
41811399|Plants of Concern, a program administered by the Chicago Botanic Garden, relies on citizen scientists to monitor rare plant populations in the greater Chicago, Illinois, region. Over 650 volunteers monitor 990 populations of 233 endangered, threatened, and rare plant species. Volunteers attend a day-long workshop to learn a variety of monitoring techniques and also receive one-on-one mentoring in the field to help them apply the appropriate methodology for the species and sites they choose to monitor.
20440610|We propose research to fill key gaps in the areas of population and community ecology, based on a National Science Foundation workshop identifying funding priorities for the next 5-10 years. Our vision for the near future of ecology focuses on three core areas: predicting the strength and context-dependence of species interactions across multiple scales; identifying the importance of feedbacks from individual interactions to ecosystem dynamics; and linking pattern with process to understand species coexistence. We outline a combination of theory development and explicit, realistic tests of hypotheses needed to advance population and community ecology.
20696487|An online survey of ecology and evolution editors was conducted to assess the characteristics of journal editors and describe manuscript-handling practices. A total of 450 respondents  representing 155 ecology and evolution journals  participated. The following patterns were detected: (1) there are more male than female editors; (2) the greater the number of manuscripts handled per year by editors, the lower the proportion are rejected without review; and (3) previous review time, scientific status, and seniority of reviewers are factors that editors consider when selecting a reviewer. This research highlights the potential importance of editor characteristics in the peer-review process; we suggest that increased transparency promotes both recognition of the editor population and more equitable reviewing practices.
41811856|The world's grassland ecosystems are shaped in part by a key functional group of social, burrowing, herbivorous mammals. Through herbivory and ecosystem engineering they create distinctive and important habitats for many other species, thereby increasing biodiversity and habitat heterogeneity across the landscape. They also help maintain grassland presence and serve as important prey for many predators. However, these burrowing mammals are facing myriad threats, which have caused marked decreases in populations of the best-studied species, as well as cascading declines in dependent species and in grassland habitat. To prevent or mitigate such losses, we recommend that grasslands be managed to promote the compatibility of burrowing mammals with human activities. Here, we highlight the important and often overlooked ecological roles of these burrowing mammals, the threats they face, and future management efforts needed to enhance their populations and grassland ecosystems.
25595034|Over the past decade, efforts to value and protect ecosystem services have been promoted by many as the last, best hope for making conservation mainstream - attractive and commonplace worldwide. In theory, if we can help individuals and institutions to recognize the value of nature, then this should greatly increase investments in conservation, while at the same time fostering human well-being. In practice, however, we have not yet developed the scientific basis, nor the policy and finance mechanisms, for incorporating natural capital into resource- and land-use decisions on a large scale. Here, we propose a conceptual framework and sketch out a strategic plan for delivering on the promise of ecosystem services, drawing on emerging examples from Hawai'i. We describe key advances in the science and practice of accounting for natural capital in the decisions of individuals, communities, corporations, and governments.
27809091|Genetic analysis adds a novel dimension to paleoecology that is becoming increasingly important for elucidating vegetational dynamics in relation to climate change. Because past vegetational changes have often left distinct genetic imprints on current plant populations, genetic analysis can add detail to fossil-based reconstructions. Recent surveys of DNA polymorphisms yield new insights into past vegetational changes and address long-standing paleoecological questions. These studies reveal that small tree populations survived in mid- to high-latitude refugia throughout the Quaternary glacial episodes. They further reveal migration pathways and demographic processes during postglacial range expansion. These results challenge previous notions regarding tree species responses to climate change and help to identify genetic conservation targets. Here, we review these recent advances and outline research prospects at the interface between paleoecology and genetics.
43187634|Because environmental degradation has the potential to negatively affect mental and social well-being, environmental sustainability is highly relevant to psychologists, who have a tradition of interventions designed to change behavior. Although many psychologists are already using psychological knowledge and tools to protect environmental resources, their efforts are neither widely known nor extensively utilized in applied conservation settings. Here, we describe some barriers to effective conservation interventions adopted by psychologists and conservation professionals alike, and provide suggestions to both disciplines for more productive engagement. We also present an illustrative example of psychological science applied to promote environmental conservation in a zoological park setting. Our aim is to raise awareness of the possibilities for such collaboration and to urge conservation professionals and psychologists to work together in order to proactively address pressing environmental challenges.
23470484|Invasive plant species should be evaluated and prioritized for management according to their impacts, which include reduction in native diversity, changes to nutrient pools, and alteration of fire regimes. However, the impacts of most invasive species have not been quantified and, when measured, those impacts are based on a limited number of response metrics. As a result, invasion ecology has been overwhelmed by speculation and bias regarding the ecological consequences of invasive plants. We propose a quantitative mathematical framework that integrates any number of impact metrics as a function of groundcover and geographic extent. By making relative comparisons between invaded and uninvaded landscapes at the population scale, which results in a percent change for each metric, we overcome previous limitations that confounded the integration of metrics based on different units. Our model offers a quantitative approach to ecological impact that may allow identification of the transition from benign introduction to impactful invader, while also allowing empirical comparisons at the species and population levels that will be useful for management prioritization.
43187772|Wetlands in the remote mountains of the western US have undergone two massive ecological "experiments'' spanning the 20th century. Beginning in the late 1800s and expanding after World War II, fish and wildlife managers intentionally introduced millions of predatory trout (primarily Oncorhynchus spp) into fishless mountain ponds and lakes across the western states. These new top predators, which now occupy 95% of large mountain lakes, have limited the habitat distributions of native frogs, salamanders, and wetland invertebrates to smaller, more ephemeral ponds where trout do not survive. Now a second "experiment"  anthropogenic climate change  threatens to eliminate many of these ephemeral habitats and shorten wetland hydroperiods. Caught between climate-induced habitat loss and predation from introduced fish, native mountain lake fauna of the western US  especially amphibians  are at risk of extirpation. Targeted fish removals, guided by models of how wetlands will change under future climate scenarios, provide innovative strategies for restoring resilience of wetland ecosystems to climate change.
10.2307/3868035|Many amphibian populations have disappeared or are in decline throughout the world. In addition, more than 60 different species of amphibians with severe abnormalities have been found in the US and several other countries. These complex, perhaps interrelated phenomena are associated with important current challenges in conservation biology. Although intense research, beginning in the early 1990s, has led to a better understanding of why amphibian populations are declining, there is still a basic lack of knowledge about the causes and implications of amphibian deformities.
20440676|At a time of growing concern over the rising costs and long-term environmental impacts of the use of fossil fuels and nuclear energy, wind energy has become an increasingly important sector of the electrical power industry, largely because it has been promoted as being emission-free and is supported by government subsidies and tax credits. However, large numbers of bats are killed at utility-scale wind energy facilities, especially along forested ridgetops in the eastern United States. These fatalities raise important concerns about cumulative impacts of proposed wind energy development on bat populations. This paper summarizes evidence of bat fatalities at wind energy facilities in the US, makes projections of cumulative fatalities of bats in the Mid-Atlantic Highlands, identifies research needs, and proposes hypotheses to better inform researchers, developers, decision makers, and other stakeholders, and to help minimize adverse effects of wind energy development.
20440964|Despite awareness that disease emergence may be related to ecological change, few studies have rigorously analyzed the underlying environmental drivers of the dynamics of disease emergence. This may be due to the fact that ecological change and disease emergence are often mediated through complex and large-scale processes that are not amenable to traditional reductionist approaches to causal inference. Here, we suggest strategies assembled from diverse disciplines, including ecology, epidemiology, and the social sciences, to analyze complex relationships, promote cooperation, increase efficiency, and minimize bias when investigating the ecological drivers of disease emergence. These techniques, which complement traditional hypothesis testing, include epidemiologic causal criteria, strong inference, causal diagrams, model selection, and triangulation. We also present several examples from recent emerging infectious disease investigations, including Hendra virus, Nipah virus, coral diseases, and avian influenza, where these techniques were successfully applied. Here, we outline some of the barriers to advancing our understanding of causation in disease ecology and offer some solutions for investigating large-scale ecological drivers, such as global warming, pollution, and land-use change.
10.2307/3868214|Sugar maple (Acer saccharum) is the most dominant and widely distributed tree species of the northern hardwood forests of the northeastern US and southeastern Canada. Recent studies have shown that sugar maple is also a unique and critical species with regard to nitrogen cycling in forest ecosystems, because forest stands dominated by sugar maple tend to have high rates of nitrification and nitrate leaching to surface waters. In some areas, sugar maple populations may be increasing due to reduction of one of their main competitors, American beech (Fagus grandifolia). However, several factors threaten populations of sugar maple in the near future, including acid deposition, climate change, and the introduction of a new insect pest. Changes in the abundance of sugar maple could lead to major alterations in nitrogen retention by forested watersheds in eastern North America.
20696433|Harmful algal blooms (HABs) are natural freshwater and marine hazards that impose substantial adverse impacts on the human use of coastal and marine resources. The socioeconomic and health impacts of HABs can be considerable, thereby making a case for "human dimensions" research to support HAB response. Human dimensions research is multidisciplinary, integrating social science, humanities, and other fields with natural science to enhance resource management by addressing human causes, consequences, and responses to coastal environmental problems. Case studies reported here illustrate the importance of human dimensions research. Incorporating such research into the scientific agenda  as well as into management decisions of public agencies concerned with natural resource management, environmental protection, and public health and welfare  requires the development of both strategic guidance and institutional capacity. The recent development of a multi-agency research strategy for HAB response and a strategic plan for human dimensions research represent two important steps in this direction.
25595246|Many introduced species have become established throughout large areas of the world, causing millions of dollars in damages. The introduction of such pest species is universally condemned, and science and management efforts are geared toward eradication, containment, or prevention of future infestations. Meanwhile, other organisms are actively traded around the world for consumption, as well as recreational and aesthetic purposes, providing examples of the conflict between human development and conservation. When dealing with such species, are there ways to balance the competing goals of economic production and protection of nature? How can science help to identify suitable compromises? We address these questions by analyzing three case studies dealing with exotic salmonids in Patagonia: trout aquaculture in shallow, fishless lakes; trout recreational fisheries; and marine net-pen salmon aquaculture. We propose that three interrelated properties of these case studies (scale, connectivity, and incentives for conservation) determine our ability to identify and promote situations that balance production and the integrity of nature.
20440883|The global environment is changing rapidly, as the result of factors that act at multiple spatial and temporal scales. It is now clear that local processes can affect broad-scale ecological dynamics, and that broad-scale drivers can overwhelm local patterns and processes. Understanding these cross-scale interactions requires a conceptual framework based on connectivity in material and information flow across scales. In this introductory paper to Frontiers' Special Issue on Continental-scale ecology in an increasingly connected world, we (1) discuss a multi-scale framework, including the key drivers and consequences of connectivity acting across spatial and temporal scales, (2) provide a series of testable hypotheses, predictions, and an approach, and (3) propose the development of a "network of networks", which would take advantage of existing research facilities and cyberinfrastructure. This unique framework and associated technology will enable us to better forecast global environmental change at multiple spatial scales, from local sites to regions and continents.
20440965|With the rise of organic farming in the United States and worldwide, ecologists are being presented with new opportunities to link basic and applied ecology through research on biodiversity and ecosystem services. We present evidence from our own research and a review of the literature to assess the evidence for enhanced insect pest control as a consequence of greater biodiversity on organic farms. Despite the frequency of claims in the literature that biodiversity is beneficial, we found that few studies have measured biodiversity effects on pest control and yield on organic farms compared to conventional farms. Relevant studies in agricultural or natural settings suggest that an increase in the diversity of insect predators and parasitoids can have positive or negative effects on prey consumption rates. We therefore call for a stronger scientific basis for evaluating pest suppression effects due to enhanced natural enemy diversity. We suggest several avenues of research to assess the relationship between biodiversity and effective biological control, to obtain the information needed to manage natural enemy diversity, and to estimate the value-added component of on-farm biodiversity in terms of pest control services.
41811402|CoralWatch, launched in 2002, is a citizen-science program that seeks to integrate education and global reef monitoring by examining coral bleaching and uses a monitoring network to educate the public about reef biology, climate change, and environmental stewardship. The organization's development from research and monitoring to education and ecotourism has presented a number of challenges.
25741248|Protected areas are an effective tool for reducing biodiversity loss. Current legislation distinguishes various types of marine protected areas, each allowing different levels of resource extraction. However, almost all of the theory for spatial conservation planning is focused on identifying no-take reserves. The current approaches to zoning for multiple types of protected areas could result in suboptimal plans in terms of protecting biodiversity and minimizing negative socioeconomic impacts. We overcame these limitations in the first application of the multizone planning tool, Marxan with Zones, to design a network of four types of protected areas in the context of California's Marine Life Protection Act. We have produced a zoning configuration that entails mean value losses of less than 9% for every fishery, without compromising conservation goals. We also found that a spatial numerical optimization tool that allows for multiple zones outperforms a tool that can identify one zone (ie marine reserves) in two ways: first, the overall impact on the fishing industry is reduced, and second, a more equitable impact on different fishing sectors is achieved. Finally, we examined the tradeoffs between representing biodiversity features and impacting fisheries. Our approach is applicable to both marine and terrestrial conservation planning, and delivers an ecosystem-based management outcome that balances conservation and industry objectives.
20440992|Management of forests for carbon uptake is an important tool in the effort to slow the increase in atmospheric CO and global warming. However, some current policies governing forest carbon credits actually promote avoidable CO release and punish actions that would increase long-term carbon storage. In fire-prone forests, management that reduces the risk of catastrophic carbon release resulting from stand-replacing wildfire is considered to be a CO source, according to current accounting practices, even though such management may actually increase long-term carbon storage. Examining four of the largest wildfires in the US in 2002, we found that, for forest land that experienced catastrophic stand-replacing fire, prior thinning would have reduced CO release from live tree biomass by as much as 98%. Altering carbon accounting practices for forests that have historically experienced frequent, low-severity fire could provide an incentive for forest managers to reduce the risk of catastrophic fire and associated large carbon release events.
10.2307/3868608|Weeds typically occur in patches rather than uniformly across a field; however, conventional management practices rely on whole-field management. Site-specific weed management (SSWM), applying control measures only where weeds are located at densities greater than those that cause economic losses, has tremendous potential for economic and environmental benefits. Current commercially available systems can detect green vegetation and activate a herbicide spray nozzle. Researchers are actively exploring how ground-based, aerial, or satellite sensor systems can be further developed to delineate weeds from crops during the growing season. Aerial and satellite systems can provide large-area coverage on a regular basis, but typically do not have the spatial resolution necessary to detect small weeds among agricultural crops, which is necessary if effective control and minimized crop yield losses are to be achieved. Ground-based systems overcome spatial resolution issues and can analyze plant shape characteristics as well as spectral profiles for weed detection. The primary limitation for ground-based sensors is the highly complex computational capabilities and the relatively slow speeds required to allow image processing and sprayer activation in a single operation. To date, economic and technical limitations for SSWM have not favored widespread adoption. However, as research continues and technology advances, the opportunities for site-specific control of weeds will greatly increase.
3868791|Implementation of marine conservation strategies lags far behind terrestrial conservation efforts. Quantifying what is protected and what is not, or "gap analysis", helps to show just how much work there is to do; systematic conservation planning provides guidance on how to best fill those gaps. We conducted the first marine gap analysis for California by comparing distributions of major ecosystems and habitats with existing marine protected areas. Less than 0.3% of state and federal waters (to the bottom of the continental slope) are within no-take or limited-take marine protected areas (MPAs). With few exceptions, less than 5% of marine habitats are within no-take or limited-take MPAs that afford a high level of ecosystem protection. Efforts to create new MPAs to include representative habitats will help to fill some gaps, but additional conservation strategies, such as ocean zoning and ecosystem-based management of fisheries, are needed to balance protection and sustainable use of marine biodiversity.
10.2307/3868540|Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is the major form of organic matter transported by large rivers and represents an important movement of carbon from terrestrial to coastal systems. Concentrations of DOC in New York's Hudson River have doubled over the past 16 years, implying a substantial increase in net movement of organic carbon from the watershed to New York Harbor and Bight. During the same time period there has been a decline in net consumption of DOC during travel through the tidal freshwater portion of the Hudson. This reduced removal of DOC amplifies the apparent increased load of DOC from the Hudson's watershed, resulting in an overall doubling of DOC delivery to the lower reaches. Either factor changing in isolation could cause a substantial increase in carbon delivery, but the two acting in concert suggest a fundamental change in processes supplying carbon to surface waters. Temperature, water yield, and land cover have not changed in ways that would make these viable causes for the altered DOC. One plausible mechanism driving both of these changes is a soil microbial response to nitrogen deposition, resulting in greater export of humic material. Other surface waters draining regions receiving continued high rates of nitrogen deposition may be undergoing similar, currently undetected shifts in quantity and composition of carbon in transport.
10.2307/3868265|Conversion of land to grow crops, raise animals, obtain timber, and build cities is one of the foundations of human civilization. While land use provides these essential ecosystem goods, it alters a range of other ecosystem functions, such as the provisioning of freshwater, regulation of climate and biogeochemical cycles, and maintenance of soil fertility. It also alters habitat for biological diversity. Balancing the inherent trade-offs between satisfying immediate human needs and maintaining other ecosystem functions requires quantitative knowledge about ecosystem responses to land use. These responses vary according to the type of land-use change and the ecological setting, and have local, short-term as well as global, long-term effects. Land-use decisions ultimately weigh the need to satisfy human demands and the unintended ecosystem responses based on societal values, but ecological knowledge can provide a basis for assessing the trade-offs.
41479959|Recent research has highlighted the valuable role that coastal and marine ecosystems play in sequestering carbon dioxide (CO). The carbon (C) sequestered in vegetated coastal ecosystems, specifically mangrove forests, seagrass beds, and salt marshes, has been termed "blue carbon". Although their global area is one to two orders of magnitude smaller than that of terrestrial forests, the contribution of vegetated coastal habitats per unit area to long-term sequestration is much greater, in part because of their efficiency in trapping suspended matter and associated organic during tidal inundation. Despite the value of mangrove forests, seagrass beds, and salt marshes in sequestering C, and the other goods and services they provide, these systems are being lost at critical rates and action is urgently needed to prevent further degradation and loss. Recognition of the sequestration value of vegetated coastal ecosystems provides a strong argument for their protection and restoration; however, it is necessary to improve scientific understanding of the underlying mechanisms that control sequestration in these ecosystems. Here, we identify key areas of uncertainty and specific actions needed to address them.
41811869|The potential for mitigating increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations through the use of terrestrial biological carbon (C) sequestration is substantial. Here, we estimate the amount of C being sequestered by natural processes at global, North American, and national US scales. We present and quantify, where possible, the potential for deliberate human actions - through forestry, agriculture, and use of biomass-based fuels - to augment these natural sinks. Carbon sequestration may potentially be achieved through some of these activities but at the expense of substantial changes in land-use management. Some practices (eg reduced tillage, improved silviculture, woody bioenergy crops) are already being implemented because of their economic benefits and associated ecosystem services. Given their cumulative greenhouse-gas impacts, other strategies (eg the use of biochar and cellulosic bioenergy crops) require further evaluation to determine whether widespread implementation is warranted.
43187655|Riparian ecosystems support mosaics of terrestrial and aquatic plant species that enhance regional biodiversity and provide important ecosystem services to humans. Species composition and the distribution of functional traits  traits that define species in terms of their ecological roles  within riparian plant communities are rapidly changing in response to various global change drivers. Here, we present a conceptual framework illustrating how changes in dependent wildlife communities and ecosystem processes can be predicted by examining shifts in riparian plant functional trait diversity and redundancy (overlap). Three widespread examples of altered riparian plant composition are: shifts in the dominance of deciduous and coniferous species; increases in drought-tolerant species; and the increasing global distribution of plantation and crop species. Changes in the diversity and distribution of critical plant functional traits influence terrestrial and aquatic food webs, organic matter production and processing, nutrient cycling, water quality, and water availability. Effective conservation efforts and riparian ecosystems management require matching of plant functional trait diversity and redundancy with tolerance to environmental changes in all biomes.
41811868|Human activities have substantially elevated the atmospheric deposition of reactive nitrogen (N) onto terrestrial ecosystems of North America. Some of this N can stimulate carbon (C) storage in terrestrial ecosystems, but the fertilization effect of added N can be diminished by elevated concentrations of tropospheric ozone (O) and by chronically high N deposition. In this review, we discuss spatial patterns and effects of N deposition and tropospheric O on net greenhouse-gas fluxes in North American forest and grassland ecosystems. While projected rates of ammonia emissions and deposition are expected to remain unchanged, projected declines in nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions within the US will likely lead to reductions in total N deposition and O. The net effect of these changes in N deposition onto forests and grasslands will likely initiate declines in C sequestration attributed to N deposition over the next 40 years.
43188448|Ecosystems around the world are already threatened by land-use and land-cover change, extraction of natural resources, biological disturbances, and pollution. These environmental Stressors have been the primary source of ecosystem degradation to date, and climate change is now exacerbating some of their effects. Ecosystems already under stress are likely to have more rapid and acute reactions to climate change; it is therefore useful to understand how multiple stresses will interact, especially as the magnitude of climate change increases. Understanding these interactions could be critically important in the design of climate adaptation strategies, especially because actions taken by other sectors (eg energy, agriculture, transportation) to address climate change may create new ecosystem stresses.
3868879| Since China's economic reform in the late 1970s, Shanghai, the country's largest and most modern city, has experienced rapid expansion and urbanization. Here, we explore its land-use and land-cover changes, focusing on the impacts of the urbanization process on air and water quality, local climate, and biodiversity. Over the past 30 years, Shanghai's urban area and green land (eg urban parks, street trees, lawns) have increased dramatically, at the expense of cropland. Concentrations of major air pollutants (eg SO<sub>2</sub>, NO<sub>x</sub>, and total suspended particles) were higher in urban areas than in suburban and rural areas. Overall, however, concentrations have decreased (with the exception of NO<sub>x</sub>), due primarily to a decline in coal consumption by industry and in private households. Increased NO<sub>x</sub> pollution was mainly attributed to the huge increase in the number of vehicles on the roads. Water quality changes showed a pattern similar to that of air quality, with the most severe pollution occurring in urban areas. Differences in mean air temperatures between urban and rural areas also increased, in line with the rapid pace of urban expansion, indicating an accelerating "urban heat island" effect. Urban expansion also led to a decrease in native plant species. Despite its severe environmental problems, Shanghai has also seen major economic development. Managing the tradeoffs between urbanization and environmental protection will be a major challenge for Chinese policy makers. /// ???? 1970 ?????????????????????? ????????????????????? 30 ?????????????? ??????????? 1975-2005 ????????/?????, ??????????????????????????????????????????? ??? 30 ?????????????????????????????? ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ???????????????????????????? ??????????????????????????? ?? 30 ???????????????????????????????? ??????????????????????????? ???????????????????????????????????????? ???????????????????????????????? 
10.2307/3868440|Introduced species represent an accelerated global change, and current efforts to manage them, though effective in particular situations, are not controlling the general problem. In the US, this failure is the result of insufficient policy, inadequate research and management funding, and gaps in scientific knowledge. Comparative policy analysis is urgently needed; the main US shortcoming is the absence of a coherent set of policies to address the entire issue, rather than individual invaders. Deliberate introductions should be more stringently regulated and risk assessments must become more predictive. Monitoring and attempts to identify new invasions (both deliberate and inadvertent) are technically feasible but not sufficiently funded and coordinated. Techniques to manage established invaders have often succeeded, but have been hamstrung by inconsistent funding. All of these problems could be improved by more fundamental research, ranging from basic natural history and simple advances in control technologies to more sophisticated ecological modeling and remote sensing techniques.
25595091|Many approaches to rare species management formulated by academics lack practicality and meaning for managers. Here, we propose an approach, which we refer to as population viability management (PVM), that is based on linking monitoring and management models with population models. By closely coordinating biological analyses with the range of decisions and actions considered by managers, the PVM approach ensures that population models reflect realistic management options and risk tolerances, and that adaptive conservation systems remain focused on population viability rather than statistical targets indirectly tied to population persistence. We summarize our use of PVM to formulate draft recovery criteria for the endangered island fox and to generate specific guidance for conserving this species. We argue that PVM can be widely adapted to provide more biologically justified and focused management and monitoring recommendations than those typically emerging from conventional population viability analyses. Overall, PVM represents an effective and understandable tool that enables managers to optimize monitoring effort and better control risk for species of concern.
41479982|Many non-native plants in the US have become problematic invaders of native and managed ecosystems, but a new generation of invasive species may be at our doorstep. Here, we review trends in the horticultural trade and invasion patterns of previously introduced species and show that novel species introductions from emerging horticultural trade partners are likely to rapidly increase invasion risk. At the same time, climate change and water restrictions are increasing demand for new types of species adapted to warm and dry environments. This confluence of forces could expose the US to a range of new invasive species, including many from tropical and semiarid Africa as well as the Middle East. Risk assessment strategies have proven successful elsewhere at identifying and preventing invasions, although some modifications are needed to address emerging threats. Now is the time to implement horticulture import screening measures to prevent this new wave of plant invasions.
3868841|Populations of endangered Caribbean sea turtles are far more depleted than realized because current conservation assessments do not reflect historic nesting data. We used historical sources to analyze changes in the numbers of nesting populations and population sizes for green and hawksbill turtles on all known nesting beaches in the Caribbean over the past millennium. We present the first maps of historic nesting populations, which provide the basis for an objective measure of changes in distribution and abundance. Our results indicate that 20% of historic nesting sites have been lost entirely and 50% of the remaining nesting sites have been reduced to dangerously low populations. Recent conservation efforts have resulted in large population increases at several nesting sites, but loss of widespread nesting throughout the Caribbean and reductions in the Caribbean-wide population since human hunting began indicate that Caribbean turtles are far from recovered. Focusing attention on a small number of nesting populations is a risk-prone strategy; conservation programs should instead broaden their scope to protect both large and small nesting populations throughout the Caribbean.
41811396|Aligning the goals of scientists and participants becomes more challenging when citizen science moves into middle-and high-school classrooms. Here, we describe a logic model developed in association with the Acadia Learning Project, a collaboration among scientists, teachers, and students that successfully meets both research and educational needs. The logic model is intended to assist other classroom-based citizen-science initiatives with project design and evaluation.
43187725|Mega-fires are often defined according to their size and intensity but are more accurately described by their socioeconomic impacts. Three factors - climate change, fire exclusion, and antecedent disturbance, collectively referred to as the "mega-fire triangle" -likely contribute to today's mega-fires. Some characteristics of mega-fires may emulate historical fire regimes and can therefore sustain healthy fire-prone ecosystems, but other attributes decrease ecosystem resiliency. A good example of a program that seeks to mitigate mega-fires is located in Western Australia, where prescribed burning reduces wildfire intensity while conserving ecosystems. Crown-fire-adapted ecosystems are likely at higher risk of frequent mega-fires as a result of climate change, as compared with other ecosystems once subject to frequent less severe fires. Fire and forest managers should recognize that mega-fires will be a part of future wildland fire regimes and should develop strategies to reduce their undesired impacts.
43187773|The frequency and extent of human-induced land-cover changes is escalating worldwide. Recurrent turnover of land-cover types will affect ecosystems over and above major, one-time changes (eg deforestation). Here, we show how a deeper appreciation of the temporal dynamics of land-cover change is needed to understand its effects on ecosystems. We distinguish between four key components of land-change regimes: (1) frequency of land-cover changes over a period of time, (2) the sequence of land-cover types, (3) the time span over which each land-cover type extends, and (4) the magnitude of difference between land-cover types. We synthesize the impacts of these four components on ecological communities, showing that frequent land-cover changes are likely to favor species that are habitat and dietary generalists. Greater attention to the complex dynamics of land-cover changes is critical for a better understanding of the future impacts that human-generated land-use changes will have on global biodiversity.
25595247|Developers of native plant propagation materials for wildland restoration may emphasize naturally occurring genetic patterns or, in contrast, the material's empirical performance in comparative field trials. We contend that both approaches have value and need not be mutually exclusive. Anthropogenic influences have pushed many ecosystems across ecological thresholds, to less desirable states, so that actively managing for "domesticated nature" - nature as modified, either intentionally or inadvertently, by humans - is more realistic and more likely to succeed than recreating the original ecosystem. Furthermore, when domesticated nature is the most reasonable objective, empirical performance, together with geographical origin, are plausible criteria for choosing restoration plant material. For altered ecosystems, we suggest that evolution should be assisted by the inclusion of plants that (1) reflect general historical evolutionary patterns, (2) are particularly suited to the modified environment, (3) are able to adapt to contemporary selection pressures, and (4) contribute to the restoration of ecosystem structure and function.
3868683|Biological control of invasive species using co-evolved natural enemies has long been considered a safe, cost effective, and environmentally benign tool for pest management. However, recent work has questioned the extent to which these imported natural enemies have negative impacts on populations of non-target species. The result has been a vociferous debate about the safety and proper role of biological control, often without convincing evidence on either side. The issues are particularly well focused in Hawaii, with its high numbers of both endemics and invasive pest species. We review the data concerning environmental impacts from past biocontrol projects, discuss the patterns and generalizations that emerge from retrospective analyses, and consider some new techniques for risk assessment. We then emphasize the need for a federal regulatory framework that is rational, efficient, transparent, and ecologically meaningful.
41149769|Global interest in biofuels is driving a continuous expansion of agroindustrial production in tropical countries, bringing a substantial share of the world's biodiversity into contact with hundreds of potentially hazardous pesticides. We reviewed the hazards imposed by all 784 pesticides currently registered for use on biofuel crops in Brazil. We detected compounds that have been suspended by international conventions, as well as over 80 compounds included in lists of priority concern for exhibiting environmental persistence and/or having the potential to elicit neurotoxic, reprotoxic, carcinogenic, or endocrine-disrupting effects in humans and wildlife. These chemicals will be used at increased rates, or for the first time, across large expanses of agroindustrially converted pastures and native (ie pristine) habitat in the cerrado (tropical savanna) and Amazonian rainforest biomes. If human and environmental health are to be balanced with productivity to achieve a sustainable agriculture, bolder initiatives on pesticide restriction and control must be implemented in tropical countries.
43187680|Riverine macrosystems are described here as watershed-scale networks of connected and interacting riverine and upland habitat patches. Such systems are driven by variable responses of nutrients and organisms to a suite of global and regional factors (eg climate, human social systems) interacting with finer-scale variations in geology, topography, and human modifications. We hypothesize that spatial heterogeneity, connectivity, and asynchrony among these patches regulate ecological dynamics of whole networks, altering system sensitivity, resistance, and resilience. Long-distance connections between patches may be particularly important in riverine macrosystems, shaping fundamental system properties. Furthermore, the type, extent, intensity, and spatial configuration of human activities (eg land-use change, dam construction) influence watershed-wide ecological properties through effects on habitat heterogeneity and connectivity at multiple scales. Thus, riverine macrosystems are coupled social-ecological systems with feedbacks that influence system responses to environmental change and the sustainable delivery of ecosystem services.
20440790|Provision of clean freshwater is an essential ecosystem service that is under increasing pressure worldwide from a variety of conflicting demands. Water yields differ in relation to land-cover type. Successful resource management therefore requires accurate information on yields from alternative vegetation types to adequately address concerns regarding water production. Of particular importance are upper watersheds/catchments, regardless of where water is extracted. Research in New Zealand has shown that, when in good condition, indigenous tall tussock grasslands can maximize water yield relative to other vegetation cover types. A long-term hydrological paired-catchment study revealed reductions (up to 41% after 22 years) in water yielded annually from an afforested catchment relative to adjacent indigenous grassland. Furthermore, a stable isotope assessment showed that water from fog may substantially contribute to yield in upland tussock grasslands. The tall tussock life-form and its leaf anatomy and physiology, which minimize transpiration loss, appear to be the differentiating factors. Thus, maintaining dominance of such cover is important for water production, especially in upland catchments. Ecological analogues and integrated land-use planning are discussed in the context of this essential ecosystem service. Water management programs in other countries are reviewed and that of South Africa is commended as a model.
43187860|The term "environmental flows" describes the quantities, quality, and patterns of water flows required to sustain freshwater and estuarine ecosystems and the ecosystem services they provide. Environmental flows may be achieved in a number of different ways, most of which are based on either (1) limiting alterations from the natural flow baseline to maintain biodiversity and ecological integrity or (2) designing flow regimes to achieve specific ecological and ecosystem service outcomes. We argue that the former practice is more applicable to natural and semi-natural rivers where the primary objective and opportunity is ecological conservation. The latter "designer" approach is better suited to modified and managed rivers where return to natural conditions is no longer feasible and the objective is to maximize natural capital as well as support economic growth, recreation, or cultural history. This permits elements of ecosystem design and adaptation to environmental change. In a future characterized by altered climates and intensive regulation, where hybrid and novel aquatic ecosystems predominate, the designer approach may be the only feasible option. This conclusion stems from a lack of natural ecosystems from which to draw analogs and the need to support broader socioeconomic benefits and valuable configurations of natural and social capital.
10.2307/3868635|In many forested ecosystems, the architecture and functional ecology of certain tree species define forest structure and their species-specific traits control ecosystem dynamics. Such foundation tree species are declining throughout the world due to introductions and outbreaks of pests and pathogens, selective removal of individual taxa, and over-harvesting. Through a series of case studies, we show that the loss of foundation tree species changes the local environment on which a variety of other species depend; how this disrupts fundamental ecosystem processes, including rates of decomposition, nutrient fluxes, carbon sequestration, and energy flow; and dramatically alters the dynamics of associated aquatic ecosystems. Forests in which dynamics are controlled by one or a few foundation species appear to be dominated by a small number of strong interactions and may be highly susceptible to alternating between stable states following even small perturbations. The ongoing decline of many foundation species provides a set of important, albeit unfortunate, opportunities to develop the research tools, models, and metrics needed to identify foundation species, anticipate the cascade of immediate, short- and long-term changes in ecosystem structure and function that will follow from their loss, and provide options for remedial conservation and management.
20440728|While the literature can tell us something about the number of people from underrepresented populations in science, there is scant evidence to explain why ecology in particular has among the lowest proportions of underrepresented students and professionals of any science. We conducted a case study of 39 African-American students from ESA's Strategies for Ecology Education, Development, and Sustainability program, focusing on the factors that influenced their choice of an ecology career pathway. Although the case study includes only African-American students, we review the literature pertaining to all minority groups in science. Our results indicate that family support in particular, along with research experience and a positive view of an ecology career, are important factors in a student's decision to pursue this career path.
41811857|Concern about the collapse of overexploited fish populations and the safety of consuming seafood can complicate determining what types of fish are best to eat. In recent years, public attention has become increasingly focused on oceanic environmental contaminants, which may be toxic to seafood consumers in sufficient doses. Laudable education campaigns have been established to inform consumers about seafood choices that are sustainable, and to provide information on which fish are deemed safe for human consumption. We found that unsustainable seafood items also present higher health risks (as indexed by mercury concentrations) and do not necessarily provide greater health benefits (as indexed by omega-3 fatty acid concentrations) as compared with sustainable seafood items. Our results have broad implications for identifying effective approaches for informing consumers about the health risks and benefits of different seafood choices, while simultaneously addressing the ecological consequences of fishing and fish farming.
20696435|White-nose syndrome (WNS) is a mysterious condition affecting populations of hibernating bats in the northeastern US. Little is known about its physiological effects on bats and no intervention has so far been proposed to slow associated mortality. We use an individual-based population model to examine how disruption of normal hibernation or pre-hibernation physiology could lead to the pattern of mortality that has been observed. We present evidence that artificial warming of localized areas within hibernacula could increase survival of WNS-affected bats during winter by lessening the energetic costs of periodic arousals. The model suggests that localized thermal refugia of 28C could improve survival by up to 75%, depending on how WNS acts to disrupt energy balance. This approach has yet to be tested, but it could serve as a stop-gap measure to slow population declines until a solution is found, or to preserve remnant bat populations if WNS becomes ubiquitous throughout the ranges of affected species.
20440674|Sustainable tropical forest management using selective logging, like any natural resource management system, requires reliable estimates of future yields. Commonly, timber yield predictions are calculated using the average of diameter growth rates in the population and thus ignore variation among trees. Using tree-ring analysis for three Amazonian timber species, we show that strong and persistent growth differences exist among individual trees. These differences substantially affect predictions of future timber yield. After incorporating realistic growth variation, we calculated timber yields that were 36-50% higher than those calculated using average growth rates. Even so, the regrowth of timber volume in a 20-year interval between logging events is low (18-24%) due to the old age of trees that are logged at first harvest. Improved yield estimates are important to evaluate the economic viability of sustainable forest management, a hotly debated issue in conservation circles.
20440581|In the study of fragmented populations, genetic diversity has received a good deal of attention, whereas traits that are not genetically inherited have been generally overlooked. We analyzed variation in cultural traditions (song and call repertoire) of a small songbird, Dupont's lark (Chersophilus duponti), with respect to landscape and demographic parameters associated with anthropogenic habitat fragmentation. As patch size, male population, and mean dispersal distance decrease, individual and population song repertoires pass through a cultural bottleneck and significantly decline in variety. Similarly, isolation is associated with impoverishment of population call pools. That declining populations face problems of cultural erosion, possibly anticipating extinction, suggests cultural diversity should be taken into account when dealing with the conservation of species in which social learning is important. Cultural elements could be viewed as a novel, fourth level of biodiversity that may complement the traditional dimensions of ecosystem, species, and genetic diversity.
25741273|Conservation decisions often involve uncertainty about the underlying ecological and social systems and, in particular, how these systems will respond to the implementation of conservation actions. Future decision making can be improved by learning more about these systems and their responses to past conservation actions, by evaluating the performance of the actions being undertaken. This is a "passive" adaptive management approach to conservation. However, the purposeful and experimental application of different conservation actions can yield greater knowledge through more rapid and targeted learning. This is an "active" adaptive management approach to conservation. Improving future management decisions through learning should be viewed as essential to all conservation plans. Unfortunately, the incorporation of explicit learning processes within the greater framework of conservation planning processes is rare. Here, we provide an overview of factors to consider when attempting the implementation of an adaptive approach to conservation planning, along with ideas for future research.
23034513|Mainland China has 2538 nature reserves, covering approximately 15% of its total land area. However, little is known of their effectiveness in capturing the country's ecological diversity. We calculated the degree of representation of terrestrial ecoregions, biodiversity priority areas, and vegetation types within 2217 of these reserves for which spatial data were available. Of the total area set aside as nature reserves, almost 56% was concentrated in the three western provinces of Tibet, Qinghai, and Xinjiang. Of the 53 ecoregions found in China, 29 had over 10% of their land protected through the reserve system; in addition, most (81%) of China's natural vegetation communities were represented in at least one nature reserve. On the basis of these findings, we recommend that China should (1) conduct a nationwide ecoregional biodiversity assessment; (2) establish a georeferenced (spatially referenced) database of nature reserves and other types of protected areas; (3) increase efforts to improve international cooperation regarding management of cross-border ecoregions; and (4) create or expand reserves in eastern and southern China, with a focus on protecting ecosystem services to help sustain local communities' economies.
3868759|Salmon runs have declined over the past two centuries in the Pacific Northwest region of North America. Reduced inputs of salmon-derived organic matter and nutrients (SDN) may limit freshwater production and thus establish a negative feedback loop affecting future generations of fish. Restoration efforts use the rationale of declining SDN to justify artificial nutrient additions, with the goal of reversing salmon decline. The forms of nutrient addition include introducing salmon carcasses, carcass analogs (processed fish cakes), or inorganic fertilizers. While evidence suggests that fish and wildlife may benefit from increases in food availability as a result of carcass additions, stream ecosystems vary in their ability to use nutrients to benefit salmon. Moreover, the practice may introduce excess nutrients, disease, and toxic substances to streams that may already exceed proposed water quality standards. Restoration efforts involving nutrient addition must balance the potential benefits of increased food resources with the possible harm caused by increased nutrient and toxin loads.
10.2307/3867960|Dam removal is gaining credibility as a viable management option for dams that have deteriorated physically and are no longer economically practical. However, the decision to remove or repair a dam is often contentious and emotionally charged. Part of the acrimony arises from our limited scientific knowledge of the effects of dam removal. We believe that the ecological consequences are best understood by viewing the removal process as a disturbance. Ecological outcomes will include changes that are both environmentally costly, such as invasion of exotic species, and environmentally beneficial, such as increasing access to spawning habitats for migratory fish. It has also become apparent that the wholesale aging of the US dam infrastructure will make dam removal even more common in the future. The challenge ahead is to better understand and manage the consequences of these removals.
3868737|Plants and their associated microbes can be used in the cleanup and prevention of environmental pollution. This relatively new and growing technology uses natural processes to break down, stabilize, or accumulate pollutants. Knowledge of the biochemical processes involved may lead to the development of more efficient plants and better management practices. One approach for improving the efficiency of phytoremediation includes developing transgenic plants. Here, we give an overview of phytoremediation methods and their associated biological processes, and discuss approaches that have been used successfully to breed transgenic plants with advanced phytoremediation properties. Much is still unknown about the ecological implications of phytoremediation, especially when using transgenic plants. Phytoremediation-related processes can change the location or chemical makeup of contaminants; the question is how those processes will affect the interactions among organisms in the ecosystem, and how transgenic plants might influence these relationships. Continued multidisciplinary studies will result in a better understanding of the ecological interactions that contribute to phytoremediation, the effects of phytoremediation on ecological relationships, and the movement of pollutants through ecosystems.
25741249|Recent technological innovation has opened new avenues in migration research  for instance, by allowing individual migratory animals to be followed over great distances and long periods of time, as well as by recording physiological information. Here, we focus on how technology  specifically applied to bird migration  has advanced our knowledge of migratory connectivity, and the behavior, demography, ecology, and physiology of migrants. Anticipating the invention of new and smaller tracking devices, in addition to the ways that technologies may be combined to measure and record the behavior of migratory animals, we also summarize major conceptual questions that can only be addressed once innovative, cutting-edge instrumentation becomes available.
29546163|The major challenge to stewardship of protected areas is to decide where, when, and how to intervene in physical and biological processes, to conserve what we value in these places. To make such decisions, planners and managers must articulate more clearly the purposes of parks, what is valued, and what needs to be sustained. A key aim for conservation today is the maintenance and restoration of biodiversity, but a broader range of values are also likely to be considered important, including ecological integrity, resilience, historical fidelity (ie the ecosystem appears and functions much as it did in the past), and autonomy of nature. Until recently, the concept of "naturalness" was the guiding principle when making conservation-related decisions in park and wilderness ecosystems. However, this concept is multifaceted and often means different things to different people, including notions of historical fidelity and autonomy from human influence. Achieving the goal of nature conservation intended for such areas requires a clear articulation of management objectives, which must be geared to the realities of the rapid environmental changes currently underway. We advocate a pluralistic approach that incorporates a suite of guiding principles, including historical fidelity, autonomy of nature, ecological integrity, and resilience, as well as managing with humility. The relative importance of these guiding principles will vary, depending on management goals and ecological conditions.
10.2307/3868462| The Jianghan Plain, located in the Central Yangtze area of China, is famous for its freshwater lakes, but these have undergone dramatic changes in area and number as a result of increasing human activity. We analyze the changes in lakes with an area 1 km
41480674|Scientists have called repeatedly for a broader conservation agenda that emphasizes not only protected areas but also the landscapes in which those areas are embedded. We describe key advances in the science and practice of engaging private landowners in biodiversity conservation and propose a conceptual model for integrating conservation management on reserves and privately owned lands. The overall goal of our model is to blur the distinction between land management on reserves and the surrounding landscapes in a way that fosters widespread implementation of conservation practices. Reserves assume a new role as natural laboratories where alternative land-use practices, designed to achieve conservation objectives, can be explored. We articulate the details of the model using a case study from the North American tallgrass prairie ecoregion.
10.2307/3868062|Desert soil surfaces are generally covered with biological soil crusts, composed of a group of organisms dominated by cyanobacteria, lichens, and mosses. Despite their unassuming appearance, these tiny organisms are surprisingly important to many processes in past and present desert ecosystems. Cyanobacteria similar to those seen today have been found as 1.2 billion-year-old terrestrial fossils, and they probably stabilized soils then as they do now. Biological crusts are vital in creating and maintaining fertility in otherwise infertile desert soils. They fix both carbon and nitrogen, much of which is leaked to the surrounding soils. They also capture nutrient-rich dust, and can stimulate plant growth. These organisms are able to tolerate extreme temperatures, drought, and solar radiation, despite having relatively little wet time for metabolic activity. Under most circumstances, they are extremely vulnerable to climate change and disturbances such as offroad vehicles and grazing livestock. Recovery times are generally measured in decades or centuries.
23470482|Anthropogenic noise is an important environmental stressor that is rapidly gaining attention among biologists, resource managers, and policy makers. Here we review a substantial literature detailing the impacts of noise on wildlife and provide a conceptual framework to guide future research. We discuss how several likely impacts of noise exposure have yet to be rigorously studied and outline how behavioral responses to noise are linked to the nature of the noise stimulus. Chronic and frequent noise interferes with animals' abilities to detect important sounds, whereas intermittent and unpredictable noise is often perceived as a threat. Importantly, these effects can lead to fitness costs, either directly or indirectly. Future research should consider the range of behavioral and physiological responses to this burgeoning pollutant and pair measured responses with metrics that appropriately characterize noise stimuli. This will provide a greater understanding of the mechanisms that govern wildlife responses to noise and help in identifying practical noise limits to inform policy and regulation.
41479984|The flux of nitrogen (N) to coastal marine ecosystems is strongly correlated with the "net anthropogenic nitrogen inputs" (NANI) to the landscape across 154 watersheds, ranging in size from 16 km 2 to 279 000 km 2 , in the US and Europe. When NANI values are greater than 1070 kg N km yr, an average of 25% of the NANI is exported from those watersheds in rivers. Our analysis suggests a possible threshold at lower NANI levels, with a smaller fraction exported when NANI values are below 1070 kg N km yr. Synthetic fertilizer is the largest component of NANI in many watersheds, but other inputs also contribute substantially to the N fluxes; in some regions, atmospheric deposition of N is the major component. The flux of N to coastal areas is controlled in part by climate, and a higher percentage of NANI is exported in rivers, from watersheds that have higher freshwater discharge.
23034411|Human impacts on watershed hydrology are widespread in the US, but the prevalence and severity of streamflow alteration and its potential ecological consequences have not been quantified on a national scale. We assessed streamflow alteration at 2888 streamflow monitoring sites throughout the conterminous US. The magnitudes of mean annual (19802007) minimum and maximum streamflows were found to have been altered in 86% of assessed streams. The occurrence, type, and severity of streamflow alteration differed markedly between arid and wet climates. Biological assessments conducted on a subset of these streams showed that, relative to eight chemical and physical covariates, diminished flow magnitudes were the primary predictors of biological integrity for fish and macroinvertebrate communities. In addition, the likelihood of biological impairment doubled with increasing severity of diminished streamflows. Among streams with diminished flow magnitudes, increasingly common fish and macroinvertebrate taxa possessed traits characteristic of lake or pond habitats, including a preference for fine-grained substrates and slow-moving currents, as well as the ability to temporarily leave the aquatic environment.
10.2307/3868564|Temperature influences some hormone-governed developmental processes, as do environmental contaminants known as endocrine-disrupting compounds. Although many vertebrates exhibit developmental sensitivity to temperature or contaminants, little research has focused on the potential interaction of these two external influences during development. Here, embryos of the red-eared slider turtle (Trachemys scripta elegans) are used to model the potential interaction of increased temperature and the herbicide atrazine. The atrazine level selected (0.5 parts per billion) was based on common environmental concentrations and is within the range of federally approved drinking-water levels. Sex ratio was the endpoint of population effect in this study, with an increase in females construed as an effect of either temperature, atrazine, or the two together. Mass, carapace length and width, and plastron length were also assessed as endpoints of individual effects of exposure. Results show that increased temperature or atrazine alone do not affect sex ratio, but that the two interact to significantly increase the female fraction. Plastron length, carapace length and width, and mass were higher in atrazine-exposed turtles kept at the lower temperature, a result with fitness implications.
41479958|Woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) and moose (Alces alces) populations in the Alberta oil sands region of western Canada are influenced by wolf (Canis lupus) predation, habitat degradation and loss, and anthropogenic activities. Trained domestic dogs were used to locate scat from caribou, moose, and wolves during winter surges in petroleum development. Evidence obtained from collected scat was then used to estimate resource selection, measure physiological stress, and provide individual. genetic identification for precise mark-recapture abundance estimates of caribou, moose, and wolves. Strong impacts of human activity were indicated by changes in resource selection and in stress and nutrition hormone levels as human-use measures were added to base resource selection models (including ecological variables, provincial highways, and pre-existing linear features with no human activity) for caribou. Wolf predation and resource selection so heavily targeted deer (Odocoileus virginiana or O hemionus) that wolves appeared drawn away from prime caribou habitat. None of the three examined species showed a significant population change over 4 years. However, caribou population estimates were more than double those of previous approximations for this area. Our findings suggest that modifying landscape-level human-use patterns may be more effective at managing this ecosystem than intentional removal of wolves.
10.2307/3868439|Ecological science has contributed greatly to our understanding of the natural world and the impact of humans on that world. Now, we need to refocus the discipline towards research that ensures a future in which natural systems and the humans they include coexist on a more sustainable planet. Acknowledging that managed ecosystems and intensive exploitation of resources define our future, ecologists must play a greatly expanded role in communicating their research and influencing policy and decisions that affect the environment. To accomplish this, they will have to forge partnerships at scales and in forms they have not traditionally used. These alliances must act within three visionary areas: enhancing the extent to which decisions are ecologically informed; advancing innovative ecological research directed at the sustainability of the planet; and stimulating cultural changes within the science itself, thereby building a forward-looking and international ecology. We recommend: (1) a research initiative to enhance research project development, facilitate large-scale experiments and data collection, and link science to solutions; (2) procedures that will improve interactions among researchers, managers, and decision makers; and (3) efforts to build public understanding of the links between ecosystem services and humans.
43187675|Macrosystems ecology is the study of diverse ecological phenomena at the scale of regions to continents and their interactions with phenomena at other scales. This emerging subdiscipline addresses ecological questions and environmental problems at these broad scales. Here, we describe this new field, show how it relates to modern ecological study, and highlight opportunities that stem from taking a macrosystems perspective. We present a hierarchical framework for investigating macrosystems at any level of ecological organization and in relation to broader and finer scales. Building on well-established theory and concepts from other subdisciplines of ecology, we identify feedbacks, linkages among distant regions, and interactions that cross scales of space and time as the most likely sources of unexpected and novel behaviors in macrosystems. We present three examples that highlight the importance of this multiscaled systems perspective for understanding the ecology of regions to continents.
20696406|The public view of tree plantations is somewhat ambiguous. While planting a single tree is generally considered good for the environment, planting a million trees raises concerns in some circles. Although plantations are often used to compensate for bad forestry practices, to willingly simplify otherwise complex forest ecosystems, or as a strategy for allowing the current petroleum-based economy to continue on its course, we believe plantations have a legitimate place in the sustainable management of forests. Multi-purpose plantations, designed to meet a wide variety of social, economic, and environmental objectives, can provide key ecosystem services, help preserve the world's remaining primary forests, and sequester an important proportion of the atmospheric carbon released by humans over the past 300 years.
23034467|Extraction of natural gas from hard-to-reach reservoirs has expanded around the world and poses multiple environmental threats to surface waters. Improved drilling and extraction technology used to access low permeability natural gas requires millions of liters of water and a suite of chemicals that may be toxic to aquatic biota. There is growing concern among the scientific community and the general public that rapid and extensive natural gas development in the US could lead to degradation of natural resources. Gas wells are often close to surface waters that could be impacted by elevated sediment runoff from pipelines and roads, alteration of streamflow as a result of water extraction, and contamination from introduced chemicals or the resulting wastewater. However, the data required to fully understand these potential threats are currently lacking. Scientists therefore need to study the changes in ecosystem structure and function caused by natural gas extraction and to use such data to inform sound environmental policy.
10.2307/3868657|Only about 15% of the known species in the United States have been studied in sufficient detail to determine whether or not they are imperiled. Any estimate of the total number of imperiled species in this country must therefore rely on extrapolations from this small number of comparatively well-studied species to a much larger number of poorly studied ones. We review the best available data on the status of plants, animals, and fungi in the US and conclude that the actual number of known species threatened with extinction is at least ten times greater than the number protected under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The key to developing a more accurate picture of the extent of species endangerment is to obtain more data on the following groups (in decreasing order of priority): (1) invertebrate animals; (2) fungi; and (3) marine organisms. However, given the slow pace at which species are being protected under the ESA, and the rapid rate at which natural areas are being destroyed, a more urgent task is to develop and refine approaches to conservation that complement species-by-species protection, most notably the use of coarse filters.
23470550|There is a growing realization among scientists and policy makers that an increased understanding of today's environmental issues requires international collaboration and data synthesis. Meta-analyses have served this role in ecology for more than a decade, but the different experimental methodologies researchers use can limit the strength of the meta-analytic approach. Considering the global nature of many environmental issues, a new collaborative approach, which we call coordinated distributed experiments (CDEs), is needed that will control for both spatial and temporal scale, and that encompasses large geographic ranges. Ecological CDEs, involving standardized, controlled protocols, have the potential to advance our understanding of general principles in ecology and environmental science.
23470505|Insect pollinators of crops and wild plants are under threat globally and their decline or loss could have profound economic and environmental consequences. Here, we argue that multiple anthropogenic pressures  including land-use intensification, climate change, and the spread of alien species and diseases  are primarily responsible for insect-pollinator declines. We show that a complex interplay between pressures (eg lack of food sources, diseases, and pesticides) and biological processes (eg species dispersal and interactions) at a range of scales (from genes to ecosystems) underpins the general decline in insect-pollinator populations. Interdisciplinary research on the nature and impacts of these interactions will be needed if human food security and ecosystem function are to be preserved. We highlight key areas that require research focus and outline some practical steps to alleviate the pressures on pollinators and the pollination services they deliver to wild and crop plants.
41149749|The application of ecosystem-based management (EBM) in marine environments has been widely supported by scientists, managers, and policy makers, yet implementation of this approach is difficult for various scientific, political, and social reasons. A key, but often overlooked, challenge is how to account for multiple and varied human activities and ecosystem services and incorporate ecosystem-level thinking into EBM planning. We developed methods to systematically identify the natural and human components of a specific ecosystem and to qualitatively evaluate the strength of their interactions. Using the Gulf of Maine marine ecosystem as a case study, we show how these methods may be applied, in order to identify and prioritize the most important components to be included in an EBM plan -particularly the human activities that are the strongest drivers of ecosystem change and the ecosystem services most threatened by cumulative and indirect effects of these activities.
25595144|In ecological cross compliance, farmers have to meet environmental standards in order to qualify for area-related direct payments. Because this is a strong financial incentive, cross compliance is a potentially powerful policy instrument. We monitored the effectiveness of cross compliance in promoting biodiversity on grassland and on arable land in Switzerland over 8 years. We observed measurable benefits for flora, butterflies, ground beetles, and spiders, in terms of species numbers and/or community composition. However, populations of threatened species showed no signs of benefit. While cross compliance has been in force in Switzerland for almost a decade, it has only recently been introduced in the neighboring European Union. We argue that - provided the environmental standards relating to biodiversity are increased in the future - common farmland biodiversity could be enhanced at the continental scale under cross compliance. The Swiss example shows that appropriate cross-compliance standards benefit farmland biodiversity at field and farm scales, while the conservation of threatened species needs to be addressed by specific programs, acting at the scale of agricultural landscapes.
43187656|Increasing concerns over global climate change and sustainable fuel procurement are driving the search for new ways to derive energy from the seas. Globally, the offshore wind energy sector has progressed rapidly, and wave and tidal-current energy converters are now approaching deployment at commercial scales. To date, most studies of the ecological effects of marine renewable energy development have concentrated on birds and marine mammals. Here, we focus on the consequences for benthic flora and fauna, and for benthic habitats across a variety of scales. We use a "Benthic Footprint" concept to discuss the potential for species-specific environmental responses, and to consider the poorly understood cumulative effects of wind, wave, and tidalcurrent energy operations on marine ecosystems. Collaborations between cologiste, industry specialists, and government bodies, as well as better designs for devices, arrays, and developments consisting of multiple arrays, can contribute to the goal of reducing the Benthic Footprint of marine renewable energy, thereby facilitating large-scale implementation of these technologies.
20440846|Framing the effects of air pollutants on ecosystems in terms of a "critical load" provides a meaningful approach for research scientists to communicate policy-relevant science to air-quality policy makers and natural resource managers. A critical-loads approach has been widely used to shape air-pollutant control policy in Europe since the 1980s, yet has only rarely been applied in the US. Recently, however, interest in applying a critical-loads approach to managing sulfur and nitrogen air pollutants in the US has been growing, as evidenced by several recent conferences, a new critical-loads sub-committee within the National Atmospheric Deposition Program, and nascent efforts by several federal agencies to apply critical loads to land management. Here, we describe the critical-loads concept, including some of its limitations, and indicate how critical loads can better inform future air-pollutant control policy in the US.
41149770|Specialization is a concept based on a broad theoretical framework developed by evolutionary biologists and ecologists. In the past 10 years, numerous studies have reported that - in many contexts - generalist species are "replacing" specialist species. We review recent research on the concept of the ecological niche and species specialization, and conclude that (1) the observed worldwide decline in specialist species is predicted by niche theory, (2) specialist declines cause "functional homogenization" of biodiversity, and (3) such homogenization may be used to measure the impact of disturbance on communities. Homogenization at the community level could alter ecosystem functioning and productivity, as well as result in the deterioration of ecosystem goods and services. We propose community-level specialization as an indicator of the impact of global changes (habitat and climate disturbances) on biodiversity.
10.2307/3868114|Evidence is mounting that evolutionary change can occur rapidly and may be an important means by which species escape extinction in the face of global chane. Consequently, biologists need to incorporate evolutionary thinking into management decisions in conservation and restoration ecology. Here, we review the genetic and demographic properties that influence the ability of populations to adapt to rapidly changing selective pressures. To illustrate how evolutionary thinking can influence conservation and restoration strategies, we compare the potential of two California plant communities (vernal pools and blue oak woodlands) to evolve in response to gloval change. We then suggest ways in which restoration biologists can manipulate the genetic architecture of target populations to increase their ability to adapt to changing conditions. While there may not be any universal rules regarding the adaptive potential of species, an understanding of the various processes involved in microevolution will increase the short- and long-term success of conservation and restoration efforts.
43188515|Biofoulers accumulate on underwater surfaces and adversely affect human activities and infrastructure. Freshwater biofoulers are much less well-known than their marine counterparts but can be economically important: we estimate the potential global cost of freshwater biofouling to be ~ US$277 million per year. They include several groups of organisms, all of which have the potential to be ecosystem engineers with strong effects on the physical and chemical properties of freshwater habitats. Nevertheless, ecological and economic research on freshwater biofoulers has been limited. We predict that freshwater biofouling will become worse in the future as a result of human activities, such as anthropogenic introductions of exotic species, eutrophication, construction of artificial habitats, and climate change. Increasing demand for energy and water may raise the costs associated with freshwater biofouling prevention and damage repair. More research and better policies and technologies are needed to prevent escalation of biofouler impacts and their related costs.
10.2307/3867985|Forest insects and pathogens are the most pervasive and important agents of disturbance in North American forests, affecting an area almost 50 times larger than fire and with an economic impact nearly five times as great. The same attributes that result in an insect herbivore being termed a "pest" predispose it to disruption by climate change, particularly global warming. Although many pest species have co-evolved relationships with forest hosts that may or may not be harmful over the long term, the effects on these relationships may have disastrous consequences. We consider both the data and models necessary to evaluate the impacts of climate change, as well as the assessments that have been made to date. The results indicate that all aspects of insect outbreak behavior will intensify as the climate warms. This reinforces the need for more detailed monitoring and evaluations as climatic events unfold. Luckily, we are well placed to make rapid progress, using software tools, databases, and the models that are already available.
20440727|For ecologists to develop robust generalizations and principles, a broad taxonomic and geographic spread of research is required, but, in practice, most generalizations are based on the research of individual scientists and groups, and their choice of study organism is affected by many different factors. We analyzed researchers' choice to assess potential biases. In particular, by comparing the relative representation of species in the scientific literature and on the Internet, we explored how the choice of study organism is influenced by societal interests. While there is a strong positive correlation between output in the scientific literature and on the web, deviations from this general pattern suggest that, when compared with societal biases, research agendas are more directly influenced by economic priorities and practical limitations, and less by geographical and sociopolitical barriers. Although the range of biological research reflects the needs of society, there are still large taxonomic and geographic gaps. By focusing on specific groups, we are developing an in-depth knowledge of certain taxa, but if ecologists are to develop generalizations, we may need to widen our research scope.
43187630|Rangelands encompass 30-40% of Earth's land surface and support 1 to 2 billion people. Their predominant use is extensive livestock production by pastoralists and ranchers. But rangelands are characterized by ecological, economic, and political marginality, and higher value, more intensive land uses are impinging on rangelands around the world. Earth Stewardship of rangelands must address both livestock management and the broader socioecological dynamics that promote land-use changes, fragmentation, and degradation. We identify specific gradients on which human-rangeland systems can be arrayed, including issues of variability, adaptation to disturbance, commercialization, land-use change, land-tenure security, and effective governance, and we illustrate the gradients' interactions and effects in sites worldwide. The result is a synthetic framework to help in understanding how rangeland Earth Stewardship can be achieved in the face of marginality, globalization, and climate change.
43187724|We used carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) stable isotopes derived from the tissues of American black bears (Ursus americanus) to estimate the proportion of human-derived foodstuffs and food waste ("human foods") in the diets of human food-conditioned bears over the past century in Yosemite National Park, located in central-eastern California. Our goal was to understand how the foraging ecology of bears responded to changing management strategies. We found that the proportion of human foods increased in bear diets when park personnel and visitors fed bears intentionally in 1923-1971, remained relatively high and constant after artificial feeding areas were closed, and declined drastically in 1999-2007, following a $ 500 000 annual government appropriation used to mitigate human-bear conflicts in the park. This reduction in the amount of human foods in bear diets suggests that Yosemite managers have been successful in reducing the availability of human foods to bears. Yosemite bears currently consume human foods in the same proportion as they did in 1915-1919. This result indicates a notable management achievement in the park, considering that thousands of people visited Yosemite annually in the early 1900s while about four million people visit each year today.
41480005|It has been suggested that thinning trees and other fuel-reduction practices aimed at reducing the probability of high-severity forest fire are consistent with efforts to keep carbon (C) sequestered in terrestrial pools, and that such practices should therefore be rewarded rather than penalized in C-accounting schemes. By evaluating how fuel treatments, wildfire, and their interactions affect forest stocks across a wide range of spatial and temporal scales, we conclude that this is extremely unlikely. Our review reveals high losses associated with fuel treatment, only modest differences in the combustive losses associated with high-severity fire and the low-severity fire that fuel treatment is meant to encourage, and a low likelihood that treated forests will be exposed to fire. Although fuel-reduction treatments may be necessary to restore historical functionality to firesuppressed ecosystems, we found little credible evidence that such efforts have the added benefit of increasing terrestrial stocks.
20440963|The application of general successional theory to stream ecosystems has not been widely addressed due to a lack of long-term studies on stream channels at sufficiently large spatial scales. Wolf Point Creek in Glacier Bay, Alaska, a lake-fed stream that began to emerge from under glacial ice in the mid-1940s, offers an opportunity to address this imbalance. We examine the stream's development from 1977 to 2005, with reference to concepts of succession and community assembly. Dispersal constraints have influenced the succession, as non-insect taxa required at least 20 years to colonize. We suggest that tolerance is a major mechanism of macroinvertebrate community assembly. Most taxa, with the exception of the cold-tolerant first colonizers, have persisted within the community following colonization, although relative abundance has changed markedly with time. However, biotic processes do influence colonization and succession. Redd (nest) digging by spawning salmon creates disturbed patches that facilitate the persistence of some early colonizers, and riparian vegetation facilitates colonization by caddisflies and chironomids. We further suggest that both deterministic and stochastic elements influence succession and community assembly in streams. Our study highlights the importance of re-establishing riparian vegetation during stream restoration programs and of increased in-stream habitat complexity from inputs of coarse woody debris to improve nutrient retention, particularly of salmon carcasses.
25595170|In the United States alone, over 7400 bird-aircraft collisions (birdstrikes) were reported in 2007. Most of these strikes occurred during takeoff or landing of the flight, and it is during these flight phases that aircraft experience their highest risk of substantial damage after colliding with birds. Birdstrikes carry enormous potential costs in terms of lives and money. Using feather remains and other tissue samples collected from the engines of US Airways Flight 1549, which crash landed in the Hudson River in New York City on 15 January 2009 after a birdstrike, we apply molecular tools and stable hydrogen isotopes to demonstrate that migratory Canada geese were responsible for the crash. Determining whether the geese involved in this birdstrike event were resident or migratory is essential to the development of management techniques that could reduce the risk of future collisions. Currently, the US civil aviation industry is not required to report birdstrikes, yet information on frequency, timing, and species involved, as well as the geographic origin of the birds, is critical to reducing the number of birdstrikes. Integrating this information with bird migration patterns, bird-detecting radar, and bird dispersal programs at airports can minimize the risk of such collisions in the future.
43187683|A visually apparent but scientifically untested outcome of land-use change is homogenization across urban areas, where neighborhoods in different parts of the country have similar patterns of roads, residential lots, commercial areas, and aquatic features. We hypothesize that this homogenization extends to ecological structure and also to ecosystem functions such as carbon dynamics and microclimate, with continental-scale implications. Further, we suggest that understanding urban homogenization will provide the basis for understanding the impacts of urban land-use change from local to continental scales. Here, we show how multi-scale, multidisciplinary datasets from six metropolitan areas that cover the major climatic regions of the US (Phoenix, AZ; Miami, FL; Baltimore, MD; Boston, MA; Minneapolis-St Paul, MN; and Los Angeles, CA) can be used to determine how household and neighborhood characteristics correlate with land-management practices, land-cover composition, and landscape structure and ecosystem functions at local, regional, and continental scales.
41811866|Accurately estimating biogenic methane (CH) and nitrous oxide (NO) fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems is critical for resolving global budgets of these greenhouse gases (GHGs) and continuing to mitigate climate warming. Here, we assess contemporary biogenic CH and NO budgets and probable climate-change-related impacts on CH and NO emissions in terrestrial North America. Multi-approach estimations show that, during 1990-2010, biogenic CH emissions ranged from 0.159 to 0.502 petagrams of carbon dioxide (CO) equivalents per year (Pg COeq yr, where 1 Pg = 1  10 g) and NO emissions ranged from 0.802 to 1.016 Pg CO eq yr, which offset 47-166% of terrestrial CO sequestration (0.915-2.040 Pg CO eq yr, as indicated elsewhere in this Special Issue). According to two future climate scenarios, CH and NO emissions are projected to continue increasing by 137-151% and 157-227%, respectively, by the end of this century, as compared with levels during 2000-2010. Strategies to mitigate climate change must account for non-CO GHG emissions, given their substantial warming potentials.
41811394|To become more widely accepted as a valuable research tool, citizen-science projects must find ways to ensure that data gathered by large numbers of people with varying levels of expertise are of consistently high quality. Here, we describe a data validation protocol developed for Project FeederWatch, a continent-wide bird monitoring program, that is designed to increase researchers' and participants' confidence in the data being collected.
3868790|Extremely long seed dispersal distances occur as a result of processes such as ocean drift and tornadoes. However, we have found that large numbers of seeds with different morphologies (Trifolium angustifolium, Daucus carota, Hordeum murinum, and Plantago lagopus) are frequently dispersed equivalent distances while attached to migrating ungulates. We determined experimentally that seeds attached to the fleece of traditional nomadic ("transhumant") sheep are transported distances of up to several hundred kilometers in substantial numbers (ranging from 5-47% of the initial seed population). Given the current and historical importance of migrating herds of sheep (wild and domestic) on different continents, the results of this study highlight the role of adhesion in long-distance dispersal and support the inclusion of migrating ungulates among forces responsible rapid plant migrations (eg following glaciations, invasion events, or in a future global change scenario). Our results also highlight an unexplored ecological consequence of abandoning nomadism.
41811808|Silica (Si) is of great concern to agronomists because it has a beneficial effect on plant resistance to various stresses, enabling yield optimization in economically important crop species. Yet biogenic silica (BSi) cycling in soils controls a large part of the Si export fluxes to rivers and oceans. Despite the importance of agricultural-harvest-related Si removal, previous studies have not addressed this topic thoroughly. By performing a detailed quantification of agricultural Si export in Western Europe's Scheldt River basin, we show that harvest not only disrupts BSi cycling but also introduces an agricultural Si pathway, with major export Si fluxes as compared with BSi production in climax forest communities and grasslands. Harvesting substantially changes terrestrial Si cycling because reconstitution of BSi to soils in litter fall is prevented. The agricultural Si loop clearly constitutes an important flow of BSi out of terrestrial ecosystems - one that is currently unrecognized in global biogeochemical Si cycling.
25595062|Building trust through collaboration, institutional development, and social learning enhances efforts to foster ecosystem management and resolve multi-scale society-environment dilemmas. One emerging approach aimed at addressing these dilemmas is adaptive co-management. This method draws explicit attention to the learning (experiential and experimental) and collaboration (vertical and horizontal) functions necessary to improve our understanding of, and ability to respond to, complex social-ecological systems. Here, we identify and outline the core features of adaptive co-management, which include innovative institutional arrangements and incentives across spatiotemporal scales and levels, learning through complexity and change, monitoring and assessment of interventions, the role of power, and opportunities to link science with policy.
10.2307/3868361|Prescribed fire is widely viewed as a useful but risky ecosystem management tool, and liability is a crucial issue for prescribed burning on private and public land. Basic liability rules motivate landowners to reduce risk when making choices about the use of fire. Liability therefore influences land use through incentives, and so has important consequences for the larger ecological landscape. Strict liability rules may lead to too little prescribed fire use, while negligence rules may, under certain circumstances, lead to too much. Although prescribed fire provides broad public benefits, such as reduction of wild-fire risk or enhanced ecosystem health, the application of liability rules by courts often discourages its use as a vegetation management option. Various approaches exist for improving the laws and regulations surrounding prescribed fire.
20696407|Climate change is altering ecological systems throughout the world. Managing these systems in a way that ignores climate change will likely fail to meet management objectives. The uncertainty in projected climate-change impacts is one of the greatest challenges facing managers attempting to address global change. In order to select successful management strategies, managers need to understand the uncertainty inherent in projected climate impacts and how these uncertainties affect the outcomes of management activities. Perhaps the most important tool for managing ecological systems in the face of climate change is active adaptive management, in which systems are closely monitored and management strategies are altered to address expected and ongoing changes. Here, we discuss the uncertainty inherent in different types of data on potential climate impacts and explore climate projections and potential management responses at three sites in North America. The Central Valley of California, the headwaters of the Klamath River in Oregon, and the barrier islands and sounds of North Carolina each face a different set of challenges with respect to climate change. Using these three sites, we provide specific examples of how managers are already beginning to address the threat of climate change in the face of varying levels of uncertainty.
25595115|Ecological systems can change substantially in response to small shifts in environmental conditions. Such changes are characterized by a non-linear relationship between the value of the response variable and one or more explanatory variables. Documenting the magnitude of change and the environmental conditions that give rise to these threshold responses is important for both the scientific community and the agencies charged with ecosystem management. A threshold is defined as a substantial change in a response variable, given a marginal change in environmental conditions. Here, we demonstrate the usefulness of a derivative-based method for detecting ecological thresholds along a single explanatory variable. The "significant zero crossings" (SiZer) approach uses a non-parametric method to approximate the response function and its derivatives and then examines how those functions change across the range of the explanatory variable. SiZer makes fewer assumptions than conventional threshold models and explores a full range of smoothing functions. We believe SiZer is a useful technique for the exploratory analysis of many ecological datasets.
20440675|Communication among managers, the public, and scientists is the key to successful ecosystem management; however, the varied perspectives and interests of these groups can make such communication difficult. One way to achieve effective communication is to develop a common knowledge base by combining syntheses of key scientific results with information-rich visual elements. Within a management landscape, integrated environmental assessments provide a useful framework for evaluating resources and directing management efforts. The integrated assessment process involves (1) initial investigation, (2) development of a conceptual framework, (3) data navigation, (4) environmental report cards, and (5) science communication. Each step requires the synthesis and visualization of information on the status and trends connected with multiple natural resources. We provide a case study, using examples from selected National Park Service sites in the mid-Atlantic region of the United States. Visual elements (conceptual diagrams, maps, graphs, tables, and photographs) were used to facilitate comparative assessments and to provide a more visual, or "eye-opening", approach to effective environmental decision making.
20441019|Biologists have long known that predators play a key role in structuring ecological communities, but recent research suggests that predator richness - the number of genotypes, species, and functional groups that comprise predator assemblages - can also have cascading effects on communities and ecosystem properties. Changes in predator richness, including the decreases resulting from extinctions and the increases resulting from exotic invasions, can alter the composition, diversity, and population dynamics of lower trophic levels. However, the magnitude and direction of these effects are highly variable and depend on environmental context and natural history, and so are difficult to predict. This is because species at higher trophic levels exhibit many indirect, non-additive, and behavioral interactions. The next steps in predator biodiversity research will be to increase experimental realism and to incorporate current knowledge about the functional role of predator richness into ecosystem management.
20440966|Humans have fundamentally altered global patterns of biodiversity and ecosystem processes. Surprisingly, existing systems for representing these global patterns, including biome classifications, either ignore humans altogether or simplify human influence into, at most, four categories. Here, we present the first characterization of terrestrial biomes based on global patterns of sustained, direct human interaction with ecosystems. Eighteen "anthropogenic biomes" were identified through empirical analysis of global population, land use, and land cover. More than 75% of Earth's ice-free land showed evidence of alteration as a result of human residence and land use, with less than a quarter remaining as wildlands, supporting just 11% of terrestrial net primary production. Anthropogenic biomes offer a new way forward by acknowledging human influence on global ecosystems and moving us toward models and investigations of the terrestrial biosphere that integrate human and ecological systems.
10.2307/3868610|Humans depend on ecosystem services, yet our ecological understanding of them is quite limited. In the classic example, when New York City decided to protect the Catskill Watershed rather than build an expensive water filtration plant, planners reasoned that the protection plan would be the cheaper option, even if they underestimated the area required by half. Such reasoning reflects our inability to predict how to manage lands to provide ecosystem services of sufficient quantity and quality. Human domination of the biosphere is rapidly altering the capacity of ecosystems to provide a variety of essential services; we therefore need to develop a better understanding of their ecological underpinnings, and to integrate this knowledge into a socioeconomic context to develop better policies and plans to manage them. We present a three-part research agenda to create the knowledge base necessary to accomplish this goal.
29546162|Pesticides pose complex threats to the biological integrity of aquatic ecosystems. In the western US, pesticides have contaminated many surface waters that provide habitat for endangered salmon. These iconic species depend on the productivity of rivers, lakes, and estuaries to provide food for juvenile growth, a key determinant of subsequent marine survival. Despite extensive societal investments in salmon habitat restoration in recent years, the role of pesticides as a limiting factor for salmon recovery has received little attention. Pesticides can be toxic to primary producers and macroinvertebrates, thereby limiting salmon population recovery through adverse, bottom-up impacts on aquatic food webs. The integration of toxicology, environmental chemistry, population biology, community ecology, landscape ecology, conservation biology, and environmental policy is needed to better understand these indirect effects of pesticides on endangered species. We highlight key information gaps and discuss how future research on pesticides and food webs can most effectively guide the long-term conservation of imperiled fish species.
41811393|Citizen science creates a nexus between science and education that, when coupled with emerging technologies, expands the frontiers of ecological research and public engagement. Using representative technologies and other examples, we examine the future of citizen science in terms of its research processes, program and participant cultures, and scientific communities. Future citizen-science projects will likely be influenced by sociocultural issues related to new technologies and will continue to face practical programmatic challenges. We foresee networked, open science and the use of online computer/video gaming as important tools to engage non-traditional audiences, and offer recommendations to help prepare project managers for impending challenges. A more formalized citizen-science enterprise, complete with networked organizations, associations, journals, and cyberinfrastructure, will advance scientific research, including ecology, and further public education.
23470528|Jellyfish (Cnidaria, Scyphozoa) blooms appear to be increasing in both intensity and frequency in many coastal areas worldwide, due to multiple hypothesized anthropogenic stressors. Here, we propose that the proliferation of artificial structures  associated with (1) the exponential growth in shipping, aquaculture, and other coastal industries, and (2) coastal protection (collectively, "ocean sprawl")  provides habitat for jellyfish polyps and may be an important driver of the global increase in jellyfish blooms. However, the habitat of the benthic polyps that commonly result in coastal jellyfish blooms has remained elusive, limiting our understanding of the drivers of these blooms. Support for the hypothesized role of ocean sprawl in promoting jellyfish blooms is provided by observations and experimental evidence demonstrating that jellyfish larvae settle in large numbers on artificial structures in coastal waters and develop into dense concentrations of jellyfish-producing polyps.
20440817|Ecologists need data on animal-habitat associations in terrestrial and aquatic environments to design and implement effective conservation strategies. Habitat characteristics used in models typically incorporate (1) field data of limited spatial extent and/or (2) remote sensing data that do not characterize the vertical habitat structure. Remote sensing tools that directly characterize three-dimensional (3-D) habitat structure and that provide data relevant to organism-habitat interactions across a hierarchy of scales promise to improve our understanding of animal-habitat relationships. Laser altimetry, commonly called light detection and ranging (lidar), is a source of geospatial data that can provide fine-grained information about the 3-D structure of ecosystems across broad spatial extents. In this review, we present a brief overview of lidar technology, discuss recent applications of lidar data in investigations of animal-habitat relationships, and propose future applications of this technology to issues of broad species-management and conservation interest.
20440816|Major rivers worldwide have experienced dramatic changes in flow, reducing their natural ability to adjust to and absorb disturbances. Given expected changes in global climate and water needs, this may create serious problems, including loss of native biodiversity and risks to ecosystems and humans from increased flooding or water shortages. Here, we project river discharge under different climate and water withdrawal scenarios and combine this with data on the impact of dams on large river basins to create global maps illustrating potential changes in discharge and water stress for dam-impacted and free-flowing basins. The projections indicate that every populated basin in the world will experience changes in river discharge and many will experience water stress. The magnitude of these impacts is used to identify basins likely and almost certain to require proactive or reactive management intervention. Our analysis indicates that the area in need of management action to mitigate the impacts of climate change is much greater for basins impacted by dams than for basins with free-flowing rivers. Nearly one billion people live in areas likely to require action and approximately 365 million people live in basins almost certain to require action. Proactive management efforts will minimize risks to ecosystems and people and may be less costly than reactive efforts taken only once problems have arisen.
43187679|Interdisciplinary collaboration is essential to understand ecological systems at scales critical to human decision making. Current reward structures are problematic for scientists engaged in interdisciplinary research, particularly early career researchers, because academic culture tends to value only some research outputs, such as primary-authored publications. Here, we present a framework for the costs and benefits of collaboration, with a focus on early career stages, and show how the implementation of novel measures of success can help defray the costs of collaboration. Success measures at team and individual levels include research outputs other than publications, including educational outcomes, dataset creation, outreach products (eg blogs or social media), and the application of scientific results to policy or management activities. Promotion and adoption of new measures of success will require concerted effort by both collaborators and their institutions. Expanded measures should better reflect and reward the important work of both disciplinary and interdisciplinary teams at all career stages, and help sustain and stimulate a collaborative culture within ecology.
43187792|Invasive species policies are often directed at pathways of introduction, yet few analyses have examined risk at the pathway level. We synthesize the best available economic and ecological information surrounding International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures No 15 (ISPM15), a pathway-level international phytosanitary policy for treatment of wood packaging material. We highlight temporal factors for calculation of net benefits, emphasizing that while we cannot stop invasions, even delaying new arrivals results in substantial economic benefits. We show that policy implementation, although costly and yielding only moderate protection, can generate >US$11 billion in cumulative net benefits by 2050, averting the introduction of more pests than currently exist in the US. We also discuss the relative importance of different sources of scientific uncertainty and identify the most crucial data needs. This is the first pathway-level economic risk analysis assessing the current scientific evidence for the net benefits of a phytosanitary policy.
10.2307/3868093|Human well-being depends on ecosystem services such as food and clean water. Yet ecosystems and the services they provide are changing, often in ways we cannot anticipate. How can we cope with surprises and uncertainties when we cannot predict them? One approach is to make decisions that are robust to a number of different futures. Those interested in global environmental issues have used scenarios -- sets of stories about the future -- to help discuss those issues and to identify policy alternatives. To date, most global environmental scenarios have treated ecological dynamics as the product of large-scale anthropogenic drivers and have not considered ecological feedbacks to these drivers. Global scenarios could benefit from the input of ecologists, as this would lead to the incorporation of more realistic ecosystem dynamics. Similarly, ecology could benefit from involvement in scenario planning. Unlike many technical models, scenarios, easily understood as stories, can be used for communication and outreach, to build public appreciation of ecological science and the ecological dilemmas we face.
25595114|Global climate change is projected to produce warmer, longer, and more frequent droughts, referred to here as "global change-type droughts", which have the potential to trigger widespread tree die-off. However, drought-induced tree mortality cannot be predicted with confidence, because long-term field observations of plant water stress prior to, and culminating in, mortality are rare, precluding the development and testing of mechanisms. Here, we document plant water stress in two widely distributed, co-occurring species, pion pine (Pinus edulis) and juniper (Juniperus monosperma), over more than a decade, leading up to regional-scale die-off of pion pine trees in response to global change-related drought. Pion leaf water potentials remained substantially below their zero carbon assimilation point for at least 10 months prior to dying, in contrast to those of juniper, which rarely dropped below their zero-assimilation point. These data suggest that pion mortality was driven by protracted water stress, leading to carbon starvation and associated increases in susceptibility to other disturbances (eg bark beetles), a finding that should help to improve predictions of mortality during drought.
25741222|Many ecologists are interested in communicating science to the public and addressing societal concerns about environmental issues. Individual ecologists need to consider whether, when, and how this should be done. We propose that public outreach activities can be beneficial for ecologists at all stages of their career. There are diverse opportunities for such involvement, and these can vary enormously in terms of time and expertise required. Trends within the science of ecology, especially research focused on socialecological systems, are likely to promote increased interactions with stakeholders and policy makers. To be effective in these interactions, ecologists should consider new approaches to communication and be aware of the potential roles scientists can play in public policy debates. Professional ecologists need to engage with non-scientific audiences; a review of such activities should be included in considerations for promotion, recognition, and awards, while also acknowledging variations in the inclinations and abilities of individual scientists. There are, however, few current standards for how much time ecologists should commit to public outreach, how time allocation might change over a career, or how to evaluate the quality of such activities. We ask ecologists to consider ways to evaluate the quality of interactions with the public and how to reward these efforts appropriately.
20440844|As the amount of information available on the internet has increased, so too has the number of citations to network-accessible information in scholarly research. We searched all papers in four Ecological Society of America journals from 1997 to 2005 for articles containing a citation to material on the internet. We then tested the links to determine whether the information cited in the paper was still accessible. We identified 877 articles that contained at least one link to information on the internet and a total of 2100 unique links. The majority of these citations were based on an object's location (Uniform Resource Locator; 77%), whereas the rest were based on an object's identity (eg Digital Object Identifier, GenBank Accession number). We found that 19-30% of the location-based links were unavailable and that there was a positive relationship between the age of an article and the probability of the link being inactive. Using an internet search engine, we recovered 72-84% of the lost information, leaving a total of 6.2% of the total citations unavailable. Our results highlight the problem of persistence of information stored on the world wide web and we include recommendations for minimizing this problem.
3868882| China's per capita available water is only 2220 m<sup>3</sup>, about a quarter of the world average. As a result, China faces an imbalance between the supply and demand of water for agricultural and general population use. Poor water resource development, wasteful usage, and water pollution are all exacerbating the problem. Water-related issues have seriously hampered economic development in China, especially in recent decades, while the country has undergone rapid economic growth. Implementing a sustainable water resource strategy is therefore vital. To meet the goals of national economic reconstruction and development, and to solve the water shortage problem, China's "Water Agenda 21" was formulated in 1998. This paper focuses on the implementation of this strategy and discusses China's approach to solving its water-shortage problems in order to safeguard sustainable socioeconomic development. /// ????????????? 2220 m<sup>3</sup>????????????? ?????????????????????????? ????????????????????????????? ??? 20 ???????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? 1998 ???? "???? 21 ????"? ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 
25741226|Environmental and ecological research has long been characterized as operating along a continuum, with "basic"  representing "investigator-initiated" research  at one end and "applied"  representing "mission-initiated" research  at the other. While federal agency science programs ideally occupy points along this continuum, the resulting science has not always been relevant to solving environmental problems. Here, we suggest that environmental problem-solving by federal agencies has been less effective than it might have been, because of a need for more effective, long-term strategic planning, cooperation across agencies, and incentives for scientists to participate in policy development and implementation. We make suggestions about what federal agencies can do to improve the integration of science, policy, and natural resource management. First, we refer to agency examples, using regulatory (acid deposition) and land management (national forest) issues to illustrate how environmental research intersects with policy development and its implementation. Second, we discuss the barriers that inhibit the application of scientific knowledge in developing and implementing policy  from the perspective of a federal agency and of an individual scientist. Finally, we generate a series of specific recommendations, targeted at federal agencies, individual scientists, and decision makers.
10.2307/3868032|In the Upper Midwestern region of the US, three ecosystem services (flood abatement, water quality improvement, and biodiversity support) declined when about 60% of the region's historical wetland area was drained, mostly for agriculture. Some of the lost services could potentially be regained through wetland restoration measures authorized in the 2002 Farm Bill. Because no single wetland can provide all ecosystem services indefinitely, ecologists can help to identify combinations of projects that will best restore ecosystem services within watersheds. "Strategic" restoration would use an adaptive management approach, targeting former wetlands with marginal crop production, and prioritizing the location, size, and type of wetland needed for a watershed to provide optimal levels of all three services. Given that the Farm Bill includes over $1 billion per year to conserve natural resources on agricultural lands, we are in an excellent position to increase the effectiveness of wetland restoration.
41480671|We used land-cover maps and active fire detection based on satellite imagery to evaluate the rates and spatial distribution of peatland deforestation in Southeast Asia from 1990 to 2010. Over this time period, the proportion of forest cover in the peatlands of Peninsular Malaysia, Sumatra, and Borneo fell from 77% to 36%. After two decades of extensive deforestation (31000 km ; 4.9% yr) strongly associated with fire activity, Sumatra has been left with just 28% of its historical forested peatlands. If peatland deforestation is allowed to continue at current rates, the Southeast Asian peat swamp forests will disappear by around 2030. This will have serious consequences for the local communities that rely on the environmental services provided by peat swamp forests, will lead to the extinction of peat swamp forest species endemic to this region, and will contribute to global carbon emissions.
20440841|Riverine aquatic biodiversity is rapidly being lost worldwide, but preservation efforts are hampered, in part because studies of these dynamic environments are limited by cost and logistics to small local surveys. Full understanding of stream ecosystems requires precise, high-resolution mapping of entire stream networks and adjacent landforms. We use a narrow-beam, water-penetrating, green lidar system to continuously map 10 km of a mountain stream channel, including its floodplain topography, and wavelet analyses to investigate spatial patterns of channel morphology and salmon spawning. Results suggest the broadest fluvial domains are a legacy of approximately 15 000 years of post-glacial valley evolution and that local pool-riffle channel topography is controlled by contemporary hydraulics operating on this broad template. Salmon spawning patterns closely reflect these hierarchical physical domains, demonstrating how geomorphic history can influence modern distributions of aquatic habitat and organisms. The new terrestrial-aquatic lidar could catalyze rapid advances in understanding, managing, and monitoring of valuable aquatic ecosystems through unprecedented mapping and attendant analyses.
20440701|The vegetation in a high alpine site of the European Alps experienced changes in area between 1953 and 2003 as a result of climate change. Shrubs showed rapid expansion rates of 5.6% per decade at altitudes between 2400 m and 2500 m. Above 2500 m, vegetation coverage exhibited unexpected patterns of regression associated with increased precipitation and permafrost degradation. As these changes follow a sharp increase in both summer and annual temperatures after 1980, we suggest that vegetation of the alpine (2400-2800 m) and nival (above 2800 m) belts respond in a fast and flexible way, contradicting previous hypotheses that alpine and nival species appear to have a natural inertia and are able to tolerate an increase of 1-2C in mean air temperature.
10.2307/3868063|At the 1992 UN Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, nations were asked to adopt new approaches for the protection and sustainable development of marine environments and resources. A decade later, overexploitation continues unabated. Scientists advocate the adoption of ecosystem-based management systems to curtail overexploitation, but we first need to improve our understanding of the functioning of marine ecosystems. If research in the past decade was successful in identifying ocean structures and patterns, particularly at the species level, in the coming years we should concentrate on understanding the functioning of entire ecosystems, moving from an age of exploitation to a new era of sustainability. This review is based on a presentation at the 2001 UNESCO-IOC Global Conference on Oceans and Coasts at the Johannesburg 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development (also known as Rio + 10), aimed at providing a progress assessment on oceans and coasts in the 10 years since the Rio conference, identifying new and continuing challenges, and formulating recommendations for the oceans and coasts agenda of the Johannesburg summit.
43188446|Recent climate-change research largely confirms the impacts on US ecosystems identified in the 2009 National Climate Assessment and provides greater mechanistic understanding and geographic specificity for those impacts. Pervasive climate-change impacts on ecosystems are those that affect productivity of ecosystems or their ability to process chemical elements. Loss of sea ice, rapid warming, and higher organic inputs affect marine and lake productivity, while combined impacts of wildfire and insect outbreaks decrease forest productivity, mostly in the arid and semi-arid West. Forests in wetter regions are more productive owing to warming. Shifts in species ranges are so extensive that by 2100 they may alter biome composition across 5-20% of US land area. Accelerated losses of nutrients from terrestrial ecosystems to receiving waters are caused by both winter warming and intensification of the hydrologic cycle. Ecosystem feedbacks, especially those associated with release of carbon dioxide and methane release from wetlands and thawing permafrost soils, magnify the rate of climate change.
25741225|Despite a growing recognition that the solutions to current environmental problems will be developed through collaborations between scientists and stakeholders, substantial challenges stifle such cooperation and slow the transfer of knowledge. Challenges occur at several levels, including individual, disciplinary, and institutional. All of these have implications for scholars working at academic and research institutions. Fortunately, creative ideas and tested models exist that provide opportunities for conversation and serious consideration about how such institutions can facilitate the dialogue between scientists and society.
41149746|Growing demand for alternative energy sources has contributed to increased biofuel production, but the effects on biodiversity of land-use change to biofuel crops remain unclear. Using a meta-analysis for crops being used or considered in the US, we find that vertebrate diversity and abundance are generally lower in biofuel crop habitats relative to the non-crop habitats that these crops may replace. Diversity effects are greater for corn than for pine and poplar, and birds of conservation concern experience greater negative effects from corn than species of less concern. Yet conversion of row-crop fields to grasslands dedicated to biofuels could increase local diversity and abundance of birds. To minimize impacts of biofuel crops on biodiversity, we recommend management practices that reduce chemical inputs, increase heterogeneity within fields, and delay harvests until bird breeding has ceased. We encourage research that will move us toward a sustainable biofuels economy, including the use of native plants, development of robust environmental criteria for evaluating biofuel crops, and integrated cost-benefit analysis of potential land-use change.
10.2307/3868165|Whether tracking invasive species, assessing water quality, or monitoring the spread of disease, comprehensive data collection is a key component of sustainable natural resource management. Increasingly, fostering community-based monitoring is seen as a valuable way to augment data gathering and enhance public involvement in environmental management. However, growing quantities of data and increasing interest from the public and decision makers create technical data storage and access issues. Although not yet widely used in natural resource management, Web-based Geographic Information Systems (webGIS), a hybrid of GIS and Internet technologies, are a promising option for entering and storing heterogeneous datasets, indexed by location, and making them widely available in a visual, dynamic, and interactive format. Although webGIS has the potential to increase public participation in environmental management, there are technical, institutional, and social challenges to its implementation and usage that need to be addressed, including differential Internet access, training, and privacy.
10.2307/3868065|Dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) is present in soils and streams around the world. We are only now beginning to explore the important roles this chemically heterogeneous mixture of compounds plays in terrestrial nitrogen (N) cycling. Over centuries, DON leaching may represent a significant "leak" of N, which occurs because plants and microbes cannot prevent DON losses, even in times of high N demand. However, in many ecosystems, plants may "short-circuit" the terrestrial N cycle by direct uptake of amino acid DON without microbial mineralization of organic N to ammonium (NH
23034468|After the collective failure to achieve the Convention on Biological Diversity's (CBD's) 2010 target to substantially reduce biodiversity losses, the CBD adopted a plan composed of five strategic goals and 20 "SMART" (Specific, Measurable, Ambitious, Realistic, and Time-bound) targets, to be achieved by 2020. Here, an interdisciplinary group of scientists from DIVERSITAS  an international program that focuses on biodiversity science  evaluates these targets and considers the implications of an ecosystem-services-based approach for their implementation. We describe the functional differences between the targets corresponding to distinct strategic goals and identify the interdependency between targets. We then discuss the implications for supporting research and target indicators, and make several specific suggestions for target implementation.
