3599014|1. Pollinators typically visit more flowers on plants with larger floral displays, which should present such attractive plants with significant pollen transport losses. 2. Many-flowered plants with hermaphrodite flowers might reduce the costs of attractiveness by encouraging fewer sequential flower visits by pollinators. One mechanism that accomplishes this is to produce variable nectar rewards, which will cause risk-averse foragers to leave the plant after visiting fewer flowers. 3. We test the prediction that within-plant variability in nectar production rate increases with the relative number of open flowers on a plant. A field survey of nine herbaceous angiosperm species native to Alberta, Canada revealed a significant positive correlation between nectar variability (measured as standard deviation) and the size of the floral display within species. This relationship existed over and above the null expectation of a positive correlation between mean and SD. 4. Our results suggest that multiflowered plants might maximize the male fitness returns associated with a plant's attraction status (determined by relative display size), by taking advantage of risk-averse foraging by their pollinators.
10.2307/2389631|Field collections of snakes often reveal a correlation between the body size of a snake and the size of its prey. Such a correlation could result from biases in (1) encounter rates with prey items of different sizes (especially in aquatic or crevice-foraging species, in which smaller prey may be inaccessible to larger snakes), (2) prey choice, (3) ability to capture or handle prey, or (4) prey-swallowing ability. Field data showed that larger diamond pythons (Morelia spilota Lacapede, Boidae) took larger mean and maximum prey sizes, whereas prey mass did not correlate significantly with predator size in blacksnakes (Pseudechis porphyriacus Shaw, Elapidae). Minimum prey sizes increased little, if at all, in larger snakes of either species. Blacksnakes generally took much smaller prey items than did sympatric pythons. Laboratory trials with these two species showed that snakes with larger heads could eat larger prey, and eat prey of a given size more rapidly (and using fewer mandibular movements) than could snakes with smaller heads. Large blacksnakes were unable to enter narrow crevices to obtain prey items. Pythons could ingest much larger prey items than could blacksnakes. The rate of food intake for blacksnakes of all body sizes was highest with small prey items, whereas pythons (especially larger specimens) were more efficient with larger prey items. This fits well with field observations showing that blacksnakes of all body sizes eat small prey items, whereas pythons (especially larger specimens) consume larger prey items. The relationships between prey and predator size observed in the field are probably due to a combination of factors. Differential encounter rates, active selection of prey sizes and gape limitation may all be important influences on dietary composition in snakes.
10.2307/2389284|1. Field and laboratory tests explored the response of Sorghum halepense seeds to fluctuations in soil temperature, and whether that response serves as a mechanism for sensing depth and regulating seed germination. 2. Seedling production in the field was severely curtailed when seeds were planted at increasing soil depths. Soil-temperature fluctuations were strongly dependent on depth. When soil columns containing seeds were incubated at alternating temperatures of 20 and 30<sup></sup>C, however, seed germination did not diminish with increasing depth, and an evaluation of how soil-surface shading affects the perception of depth by the seeds indicated that soil cover reduced germination of only those seeds in the upper strata of the profile. 3. These results demonstrate that sensitivity to amplitudes of temperature fluctuations in soil is a major component of the mechanism that enables S. halepense seeds to detect soil depth, but that mechanism may also include other environmental factors associated with depth. 4. In cases where after-ripening had apparently aged the seed population, the depth-detection mechanism failed, and the rate of germination was similar for seeds at different layers within the first 15 cm of the profile. This failure to regulate germination by detecting depth was related to a lower sensitivity to fluctuations in soil temperature. The existence and loss of this mechanism has possible ecological implications.
10.2307/2389647|The distribution, seasonal and diurnal patterns of stomatal conductance, and bulk tissue water relations characteristics were examined in three co-occurring species of alpine willows (Salix spp.) in the central Canadian Rocky Mountains. The species differ in their distribution along a topographic-soil moisture gradient. Correlated to the differences in spatial distribution were differences in water relations among the species. Salix reticulata L. inhabited the most xeric end of the gradient and exhibited the lowest osmotic potentials near full-tissue hydration and turgor loss, had relatively inelastic tissues, was able to adjust osmotically, had low rates of stomatal conductance, and a relatively high tolerance to an increased leaf-to-air vapour pressure gradient ( w). Conversely, S. barrattiana Hook. grew at the wettest end of the gradient and demonstrated comparatively high osmotic potentials near full-tissue hydration and turgor loss, highly elastic tissues, no ability to adjust osmotically, had high rates of stomatal conductance, and a very marked stomatal sensitivity to increased  w. S. arctica Pall. inhabited intermediate sites along the gradient and its tissues demonstrated intermediate osmotic and elastic properties, ability to adjust osmotically, rates of stomatal conductance, and stomatal sensitivity to increased  w. A measure of spatial and physiological overlap was calculated using Pianka's (1974) symmetrical index. Spatial distribution (habitat), maximum stomatal conductance to water vapour (g<sub>max</sub>), stomatal response to increased  w, and four bulk tissue water relations characteristics were used in the calculation of the index. The index values were compared using Mantel's test (1967). The analysis revealed that the null hypothesis, i.e. no association exists between spatial and physiological overlap, must be rejected suggesting a close correspondence between water relations characteristics and spatial distribution along the topographic-soil moisture gradient. The types of ecological and physiological information gathered here, when applied in conjunction with the calculation of Pianka's index, and its statistical analysis, demonstrated that this approach may be useful for examining co-occurrence in multispecies assemblages of plants from an ecophysiological perspective, especially where a limiting resource, such as water, can be identified as a possible factor contributing to differential species distributions.
10.2307/2390068|1. It has been proposed that echolocating bats normally emit one call per wingbeat when searching for prey. The coupling of sound production with flapping makes the production of intense sound pulses cost no more in energetic terms than beating the wings and not calling, whereas calling without flapping would be energetically expensive. The scaling of wingbeat frequency and pulse repetition rate with body mass was investigated in a cross-species analysis to test the hypothesis that calling and flapping are coupled in echolocating bats. 2. For 57 species where measurements of pulse repetition rate were available, most bats (75%) emitted 0.5-2 pulses per predicted wingbeat during search phase. In some fast-flying bats (12% of sample), fewer than the predicted one pulse per beat were produced, perhaps because such bats skipped calling during some wingbeats, or possibly because wingbeat frequencies were very slow when the bats were cruising in open habitats. A few species (12%) appeared to produce several pulses per wingbeat. Such species were gleaners, and often produced low-intensity calls. For bats which emitted intense calls and foraged largely by aerial hawking, pulse repetition rate scaled as body mass (M)<sup>-0.775</sup>. In echolocating bats, wingbeat frequency scaled as M<sup>-0.326</sup>. 3. Aerial feeding bats typically emit intense search phase calls, and it is concluded that such bats normally produce one or fewer pulses per wingbeat during search phase, as predicted by the coupling hypothesis. Coupling may constrain maximal body size in aerial insectivorous bats because very large bats may be unable to echolocate at a sufficiently high rate to catch enough insects to meet the high energetic demands associated with large size. Some bats may be able to trade-off call intensity against repetition rate, however, and produce several low-intensity pulses per wingbeat. These bats were usually gleaners. Bats in the family Hipposideridae appear to have specialized echolocation which allows the production of several high-intensity calls per wingbeat.
2390404|1. The spacing of branches along central stems was related to growth rate and light level in forest saplings and trees in tropical moist forest on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. The study included 14 species with tiers of plagiotropic branches (having planar leaf arrangements) and four species with continuous distributions of plagiotropic branches. 2. All species showed increases in branch spacing with increasing light and growth rate of diameter, similar to the patterns in leaf spacing noted previously in species which initially bear large leaves on unbranched stems. 3. Non-tiered species had shorter internodes than tiered species but because the latter bear more branches per node, both groups had similar numbers of branches per unit stem length, when compared at similar growth rates. 4. Differences in the relationship between internode length and growth rate among tiered species were related to demographic characteristics, suggesting that tree architecture may influence forest composition. 5. The strong correlation observed between branch spacing and growth rate suggests that branch spacing may be used to estimate past growth histories of forest tree species with plagiotropic branches.
3806546|1. Rising concentrations of atmospheric CO
10.2307/2389305|Seeds of four species of Umbelliferae [Anthriscus sylvestris (L.) Hoffm., Conium maculatum L. Daucus carota, L. and Heracleum sphondylium L.] were sown separately into plots of grassland given two types of disturbance treatment, factorially combined with shade in a 4 x 3 x 2 experimental design. All species showed some enhanced recruitment in response to disturbance, the effects of which were still significant 21 months after treatments were applied. The duration of the disturbance, which was different in the two treatments, affected the size and structure of populations at the end of the experiment. All significant effects of shade (but not disturbance) were accompanied by a first-order interaction. The effect of shade on colonization by the four species in this experiment varied with the occurrence of disturbance and its intensity, and varied significantly between species. It is suggested that differences between species in their habitat distributions will most often be due to differences in interactions between disturbance and other factors, rather than due to their response to disturbance alone.
10.2307/2389488|Artemisia tridentata Nutt, is a drought-tolerant shrub that expands inflorescences during summer and autumn, even though xylem pressure potentials may be less than -5.0 MPa. Supplemental watering increased total inflorescence biomass and the biomass of floral heads over 450 and 550%, respectively. Inflorescences displayed positive net photosynthesis until xylem pressure potentials decreased below -5.0 MPa. Growth of inflorescences was not dependent on carbon imported from vegetative leaves; removal of all leaves on vegetative branches did not change inflorescence biomass, and <sup>14</sup>CO<sub>2</sub> fixed by adjacent vegetative branches was not transferred into inflorescences. Expanding inflorescences during summer may enhance competitive ability because biomass can be allocated solely towards vegetative growth during spring, increasing the capacity of Artemisia tridentata to acquire resources when they are most abundant. Conversely, inflorescences that are photosynthetically self-sufficient can better respond to favourable soil moisture or intermittent precipitation during summer, because photosynthesis can be increased without investing resources into further vegetative growth.
2390533|1. Multiple breeding (raising more than one batch of young per breeding season) is a common life-history tactic, but little is known as yet of the accompanying costs and benefits. Second clutches of Great Tits, a facultative multiple breeder, were removed over three years to investigate the costs of rearing a second clutch. 2. Female parents, but not males, survived significantly better than unmanipulated control birds when the second clutch was removed. The difference between the sexes indicates a potential sexual conflict over the decision to start a second clutch. In neither sex were effects found on egg production in the next year. However, birds of both sexes produced more fledglings from first clutches in the following year when the second clutch had been removed. 3. In males, the experimental effect on fledgling production in the next year could be attributed to their mates, because this effect was restricted to males that bred with the same female as in the previous year. In females, this effect was also found among birds that bred with a new mate, which suggests that rearing a second clutch had a long-term effect. Females, but not males, found roosting in the following winter had lower mass when the second clutch had been removed, which supports the conclusion that rearing a second clutch has long-term effects. 4. The experimental effect on female survival was found in two winters with low food availability, but not in a winter with high food availability. This is in agreement with the results of a non-experimental analysis of data collected in the same population. The effect on fledgling production in the next year was also restricted to years with low food availability in the intervening winter. This suggests that the costs of rearing a second clutch depend on food availability in winter. The possibility that the costs of reproduction generally depend on environmental quality and possible mechanisms are discussed. 5. Food availability in winter is probably unpredictable at the time second clutches are started, and therefore Great Tits should `bet-hedge' with regard to the decision to start a second clutch.
41239300|1. Ectotherm organisms are known to be plastic in their responses to temperature. Individuals developing at low temperatures usually achieve a larger body size through a lower growth rate ('Temperature Size Rule', TSR) and, when compared at the adult stage in a common environment, have a higher metabolic rate than those developing at higher temperatures ('Thermal Compensation Hypothesis', TCH). 2. For such plastic individuals, increased metabolic rate may incur a switch in the energetic allocation between competing functions such as maintenance and reproduction. Consequently, this differential allocation is expected to affect the animals' foraging behaviour. 3. This study investigates the effect of developmental temperatures and temperature experienced as adults on metabolic rate, life-history traits and foraging behaviour of females of the parasitic wasp Aphidius rhopalosiphi. For this purpose, individuals were reared at 10, 15, 20 and 25 C. At emergence, we checked if their traits followed the TSR. We then placed all females in a common environment (20 C), measured their metabolic rate and examined if a switch of energetic allocation occurred between longevity and/or egg load. Finally, we examined the physiological consequences of temperature on their host patch exploitation behaviour. 4. First, our results showed that traits at emergence followed the TSR. Second, metabolic rates of individuals developing at low temperatures were higher, following the TCH and leading to a reduction in longevity but an increase in oviposition rate. Finally, we showed that patch exploitation behaviours conformed to the predictions of state-dependent foraging models and that hosts which were not exposed to different temperatures, modified their behavioural defences. 5. To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate adaptive thermal developmental plasticity in metabolic rates and its consequences on thermal plasticity of life-history traits and foraging behaviour in ectotherms.
4139383|1. We tested the generality of global leaf trait relationships among 44 tropical plant species from a broad array of growth forms (trees, lianas and understorey plants) in lowland Panama to determine how leaf trait relationships vary with whole-plant morphology within one site. 2. We observed significant variation among growth forms for seven out of 10 leaf traits. Variation in leaf traits among growth forms was more pronounced per area than per mass. Thirteen bivariate leaf trait relationships that describe how plants allocate resources to photosynthesis were significant across all species. Growth forms showed distinct slopes, intercepts or shifts in the common slope for 12 of the 13 relationships. 3. Trait relationships within trees and lianas showed good agreement with a global leaf trait data set. However, for understorey plants, trait relationships that included specific leaf area (SLA) deviated from the global data set, suggesting that understorey leafallocation patterns optimize SLA, and hence growth. 4. Lianas showed lower values and rates of gas exchange than trees, and longer leaf life span for a given SLA, illustrating variation in leaf traits associated with growth form and canopy geometry. 5. Functional variation in allocation to photosynthetic capacity among tropical forest species is related to microhabitat variations in light availability and whole-plant morphology among growth forms.
2390385|1. Selected body temperatures of female lizards, Sceloporus jarrovi, were measured on a photothermal gradient during late pregnancy and again when postpartum, and pregnant females were subjected to one of three fluctuating temperature regimes that simulated body temperatures of (1) pregnant females, (2) postpartum females or (3) allowed normal thermoregulation. 2. Overall, females selected lower body temperatures when pregnant (mean = 32.0<sup></sup>C) than when postpartum (mean = 33.5<sup></sup>C). 3. Females regulated body temperature more precisely when pregnant than when postpartum as judged by their smaller variances in body temperature throughout the day. 4. When pregnant, females selected a lower mean maximum body temperature (mean: pregnant = 32.8<sup></sup>C; postpartum = 34.5<sup></sup>C) than when postpartum, but selected mean minimum body temperatures did not differ. 5. None of the experimental temperature treatments was detrimental to pregnant females. Female body length increased during pregnancy but the rate of increase did not differ among treatments. Moreover, length-adjusted body mass of postpartum females did not differ among treatments. 6. Pregnant females that experienced postpartum body temperatures produced neonates that were smaller in body mass and length than pregnant females that experienced pregnant body temperatures and females that were allowed to thermoregulate. 7. For neonates resulting from the postpartum body temperature treatment, the disparity in the body length, but not mass, was still observed at 9 days of age, although survival and growth of neonates was high and did not differ among treatments. 8. The results demonstrate that pregnant females could maintain higher postpartum body temperatures without compromising their physical condition, but select relatively low body temperatures, presumably to avoid decrements in offspring fitness.
3599316| 1. Biological capacities to respond to changing environments dictate success or failure of populations and species over time. The major environmental feature in this context is often temperature, and organisms across the planet vary widely in their capacity to cope with temperature variation. With very few exceptions, Antarctic marine species are more sensitive to temperature variation than marine groups elsewhere, having survivable temperature envelopes between 5 C and 12 C above the minimum sea temperature of -2 C. 2. Our findings show that in biological functions important to long-term survival these animals are even more tightly constrained. The Antarctic bivalve mollusc Laternula elliptica and limpet Nacella concinna both survive a few days in experiments at 9-10 C, but suffer 50% failure in essential biological activities at 2-3 C and complete loss at 5 C. The Antarctic scallop Adamussium colbecki is even more sensitive, and loses the ability to swim as temperature approaches 2 C. 3. These failures of activity are caused by a loss of aerobic capacity, and the animals investigated are so sensitive that a 2 C rise in sea temperature could cause population or species removal from the Southern Ocean. 
10.2307/2389445|Plant size varies by two orders of magnitude within populations of Cucurbita foetidissima HBK. a perennial, prostrate vine of deserts and grasslands in the western USA. Differences in plant size in this species growing in a Kansas (USA) brome grassland were most evident in leaf size (10 times greater in larger vs small plants) and taproot mass (c 7000 g in large vs 13 g in small plants). This study examined the influence of plant size on net photosynthetic CO<sub>2</sub> uptake (A), stomatal conductance to water vapour (g), transpiration rate (E), xylem pressure potential () and leaf temperature (T<sub>leaf</sub>). During a period of drought in which co-occurring grasses and forbs experienced significant water stress ( < -2.5 MPa),  in large- and intermediate-sized plants of C. foetidissima was always >-0.6 MPa. In small plants, minimum  was c -1.3 MPa. No substantial diurnal reductions in A or g were measured in the two groups of larger plants, but CO<sub>2</sub> uptake was reduced to zero after midday in small plants, presumably due to water stress. Increased mass of succulent taproots and greater rooting depth may have contributed to greater  in larger vs small individuals of C. foetidissima. Water use efficiency (WUE) was greater in leaves from large- and intermediate sized plants relative to small plants under all environmental conditions. During brief periods of low irradiance due to clouds or artificial shading, 5-10<sup></sup>C reductions in T<sub>leaf</sub> in plants with large leaves resulted in low E, enhancing WUE. Much smaller reductions in T<sub>leaf</sub> and E occurred during shade in the small leaves of small individuals. These results indicate that greater size in C. foetidissima, while not increasing interception of irradiance in this grassland, resulted in greater independence from resource limitations as well as water conservation during periods of variable sunlight.
20142830|1. Stress has pervasive consequences for the well-being of animals. Currently, understanding how individuals cope with stressors is typically accomplished via short-term quantification of blood glucocorticoids released after activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. 2. We investigated whether the amount of corticosterone (CORT) deposited in growing feathers provides a long-term, integrated measure of HPA activity in birds using captive red-legged partridges Alectoris rufa as a model species. 3. We examined CORT levels in primary feathers induced to grow at the same time as stress series were performed with a capture and restraint protocol. Plasma CORT titres after stress-induced stimulation, but not baseline values, correlated with feather CORT. Feather levels showed the same pattern as plasma of decline across the breeding season, but more severely. 4. For females, CORT in naturally moulted flank feathers was highly and positively correlated with the number of eggs laid in the previous few months, but not clutch size of the following year. For males, the amount of black on a feather, known to be a social signal, was positively correlated with its CORT level. 5. The analysis of feather CORT is a novel methodology that allows for meaningful interpretations of how individuals respond to environmental perturbations and adjust to life-history stages. 6. The analysis of feather hormones has the unique advantages of allowing for experimentation and sampling at any time of the year with minimal investigator-induced impacts and artefacts, and shows the HPA activity of an individual with a flexible time frame from days to months depending on the length of time taken to grow the feather. As this technique can be applied to living or dead birds, or feathers picked up after moult, it provides the ultimate non-invasive physiological measure of considerable benefit in terms of animal welfare and sampling effort.
10.2307/2389457|Pollen import and export were assessed for a population of Epipactis helleborine (L.) Crantz. It was found that rates of pollen import and export were positively correlated with the number and density of open flowers borne by an inflorescence. For a given inflorescence size, pollinium export always exceeded pollinium import. It appears that the processes of pollen export and import are temporally disjunct, suggesting that a high level of cross-fertilization occurs in this species. These results are discussed in the light of current sexual resource allocation theory. It is suggested that secondary floral characters have evolved primarily in response to selection for improved levels of pollen export. Thus, in this hermaphrodite angiosperm, secondary floral characters are predominantly male in function.
20142741|1. I synthesize the understanding of the relationship between landscape structure and animal movement in human-modified landscapes. 2. The variety of landscape structures is first classified into four categories: continuous habitat, patchy habitat with high-quality matrix, patchy habitat with low-quality matrix, and patchy, ephemeral habitat. Using this simplification I group the range of evolved movement parameters into four categories or movement types. I then discuss how these movement types interact with current human-caused landscape changes, and how this often results in non-optimal movement. 3. From this synthesis I develop a hypothesis that predicts the relative importance of the different population-level consequences of these non-optimal movements, for the four movement types. 4. Populations of species that have inhabited landscapes with high habitat cover or patchy landscapes with low-risk matrix should have evolved low boundary responses and moderate to high movement probabilities. These species are predicted to be highly susceptible to increased movement mortality resulting from habitat loss and reduced matrix quality. 5. In contrast, populations of species that evolved in patchy landscapes with high-risk matrix or dynamic patchy landscapes are predicted to be highly susceptible to decreased immigration and colonization success, due to the increasing patch isolation that results from habitat loss. 6. Finally, I discuss three implications of this synthesis: (i) 'least cost path' analysis should not be used for land management decisions without data on actual movement paths and movement risks in the landscape: (ii) 'dispersal ability' is not simply an attribute of a species, but varies strongly with landscape structure such that the relative rankings of species' dispersal abilities can change following landscape alteration: and (iii) the assumption that more mobile species are more resilient to human-caused landscape change is not generally true, but depends on the structure of the landscape where the species evolved.
20142754|1. Based on carotenoids' antioxidant and pro-vitamin functions, carotenoid pigmentation, particularly in birds, has been hypothesized to honestly advertize condition and health. As antioxidants, carotenoids protect the body from oxidative damage caused by internal or external stressors (e.g. growth, infection and anthropogenic pollution). However, the relative importance of carotenoids in the avian antioxidant defence has been questioned, and the positive relationship between colouration and health may be a 'red herring'. 2. In the present study, we investigate carotenoid-based plumage colouration and circulating carotenoids in relation to plasma non-enzymatic total antioxidant activity (TAA) in adult and nestling great tits (Parus major). The study was conducted in urban vs. rural populations, with documented differences in oxidative stress level and plumage pigmentation. 3. First, we found that there was no relationship between TAA and plumage pigmentation (carotenoid chroma) or plasma carotenoids. Second, urban environment significantly influenced TAA; old (2+ years) urban birds had higher activity than old rural birds, and also compared to younger (1 year) urban adults. This is likely to be due to the increased demand for plasma antioxidants as a consequence of urban environmental stress. Third, nestlings' TAA showed no difference between urban and rural environments. However, it was highly influenced by brood, but not related to parental levels, therefore most likely due to differences in the nestling environment. 4. We suggest that carotenoids are not significant contributors to extra-cellular antioxidant defence in great tits, and that carotenoid pigmentation may be an overrated health indicator in this respect. Honest carotenoid signalling, when present, is thus likely to be mediated by some other constraint, such as nutrition or uptake, or other health-modulating mechanisms.
3598991|1. Pheromones are chemical signals that function not only as mate attractors, but may also relay important information to prospective mates. In order for the information to be reliable, the signal must be costly to produce and this is likely to result in condition dependent expression of the signal. 2. We present results from two experiments on the grain beetle Tenebrio molitor examining phenotypic condition dependence of pheromones and patterns of female preference for pheromones. We also analysed condition dependence of two measures of immunocompetence: encapsulation response and phenoloxidase activity. 3. By manipulating the nutritional condition of the males we found that the attractiveness of the male pheromones to virgin females was condition-dependent, indicating that the production of the pheromones is affected by the condition of the male. We also found that the phenoloxidase activity of the males was affected by the nutritional condition of the male but that encapsulation rate was not. 4. Our results show that pheromones are condition-dependent signals, the quantity of which females use in their mate choice.
40603049|1. Most small birds inhabiting temperate latitudes in the Holarctic increase basal metabolic rate (BMR) in winter, a pattern thought to reflect the up-regulation of metabolic machinery required for enhanced winter cold tolerance. In contrast, patterns of seasonal BMR variation in birds inhabiting subtropical latitudes are largely unknown. In this study, we investigate seasonal BMR changes in species from subtropical latitudes, and analyse global variation in the direction and magnitude of these responses. 2. We estimated winter and summer BMR in five species resident in the Kalahari Desert, using flow-through respirometry to measure O consumption and CO  production in birds held overnight in a field laboratory. 3. In all five species, mass-specific BMR was significantly lower in winter than in summer, with mean reductions of 23% in African scops-owls (Otus senegalensis), 30% in pearl-spotted owlets (Glaucidiurn perlatum), 35% in fork-tailed drongos (Dicrurus adsimilis), 29% in crimson-breasted shrikes (Laniarius atrococcinneus), and 17% in white-browed sparrow-weavers (Plocepasser mahali). 4. An analysis of global variation in seasonal BMR changes reveals that their magnitude and direction vary with latitude, ranging from pronounced winter increases at high latitudes where winters are extremely cold, to the opposite pattern in warmer, subtropical environments. 5. Our empirical results for five species, taken together with the analysis of global variation, are consistent with the hypothesis that winter metabolism in subtropical environments is driven primarily by the need for energy and/or water conservation rather than cold tolerance.
10.2307/2389352|Single, ovigerous females of Proasellus coxalis Dollfus, collected from a natural population, were experimentally assessed for five characteristics: food niche breadth; ingestion rate; vagility among resource patches; brood size; and body size. Reproductive efficiency was evaluated as brood size divided by ingestion rate. Large individuals had greater mean brood sizes than smaller individuals and generalist individuals had brood sizes greater than specialists. By contrast, the reproductive efficiency of generalists was less than that of specialists and this was ascribed to greater vagility and hence foraging costs associated with the generalist habit.
20142780|1. In organisms with complex life cycles, optimality models predict age and size at transition to translate larval condition into adult fitness. Recent studies, however, revealed that only a proportion of fitness is explained by age and size at transition. Moreover, sexes differ in the linkage of larval condition and adult fitness. 2. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that immune traits may be partly decoupled from age and size at habitat transition and therefore contribute to the sex-specific linkage of larval condition and adult fitness. 3. We reared larvae of the damselfly Coenagrion puella under the threat of predators and cannibals. We then examined sex-specific patterns in two life-history traits as well as two immune traits and tested for independency of the plastic responses among life-history and immune traits. 4. Results revealed immune traits to be partly decoupled from life-history traits. Moreover, the sexes differed in the plasticity of life-history as well as immune traits. Our results give strong evidence that sex-specific translation of larval condition into adult fitness may be linked to immune traits as well as age and size at transition.
40407711|1. Understanding the demographie mechanisms through which climate affects population dynamics is criticai for predicting climate change impacts on biodiversity. In arid habitats, rainfall is the most important forcing climatic factor. Rainfall in arid zones is typically variable and unpredictable, and we therefore hypothesise that its seasonality and variability may be as important for the population ecology of arid zone animais as its total amount. 2. Here we examine the effect of these aspects of rainfall on reproduction and age specifie survival of blue cranes (Anthropoidesparadiseus Lichtenstein) in the semi-arid eastern Nama Karoo, South Africa. We then use our results to predict the effect of changes in rainfall at the population level. 3. Using combined capture-mark-resighting and dead-recovery models, we estimated average survival of cranes to be 0-53 in their first year, 0-73 in their second and third year, and 0-96 for older birds. 4. We distinguished between three seasons, based on the blue cranes' breeding phenology: early breeding season, late breeding season and nonbreeding season. Cranes survived better with increasing rainfall during the late but not early breeding season. Based on road counts and success of monitored nests, reproduction was positively associated with rainfall during the early but not late breeding season. 5. A matrix population model predicted that population growth rate would increase with increasing rainfall. A stochastic analysis showed that variation in early breeding season rainfall increased population growth slightly due to the nonlinear relationship between rainfall and reproduction. This effect was opposed by the effect of variation in late breeding season rainfall on survival and overall, variation in rainfall had a negligible effect on population growth. 6. Our results allow predictions to be made for a range of climate-change scenarios. For example, a shift in seasonality with drier Springs but wetter summers would likely decrease reproduction but increase survival, with little overall effect on population growth.
10.2307/2389285|1. The relationship between the foliar phenology of 43 north temperate tree species and the winter impairment of hydraulic conductivity was investigated. Eight were non-porous conifers of which all but one were evergreen. Thirty-five were broad-leaf, deciduous hardwoods: 21 with diffuse-porous wood anatomy, 11 ring-porous and three semi-ring-porous. 2. The hydraulic conductivity expressed per total mm<sup>2</sup> of the sampled stem or branch cross-section (area specific conductivity) was significantly lower for conifers compared to hardwoods. The conifers had virtually no embolisms in late winter (average of 1% conductivity loss, range 0-8%); in diffuse-porous hardwoods, specific conductivity losses by late winter averaged 17% (range 0-47%) compared to 26% (range 0-60%) for semi-ring-porous hardwoods and 55% (range 0-86%) for ring-porous. 3. Considering all trees without regard to their differences in wood anatomy, species with higher maximum specific conductivity also were significantly more prone to loss of conducting capacity by late winter. The specific conductivity of diffuse-porous hardwoods as a group, however, did not differ significantly from that of the hardwoods with ring- or semi-ring-porous wood. The smaller loss of hydraulic conductivity by late winter for diffuse-porous species was significant. 4. Among the deciduous hardwoods, there was a highly significant correlation between the loss of hydraulic conductivity by late winter and the timing of bud burst in the spring. The diffuse-porous species, which incur less loss of hydraulic conductivity than the ring- and semi-ring-porous species, leafed out significantly earlier; the diffuse-porous species also tended to senesce later in the autumn. Our results substantiate the functional dependence of foliar phenology on tree water relations.
4540058| 1. Predicting the effects of warming and species loss on ecosystems are two significant challenges currently facing ecologists. However, little is known of the interactive effects of these two factors. We hence tested whether or not warming and species loss interact to influence productivity and dissolved nitrogen concentrations in model Antarctic microbial food webs. Food webs, consisting of a uniform bacterial community and mixtures of six, four, two and zero bacterivorous flagellate species, drawn randomly from a pool of six flagellate species isolated from an Antarctic freshwater lake, were grown in soil extract suspension medium held in microcosms for 252 h. Half of the microcosms were kept at 4 C and half were warmed to 8 C over the first 36 h and then held at this temperature. 2. After 252 h there were significant interactive effects of flagellate species loss and warming on the abundance of bacterial prey and the concentration of ammonium in the medium: bacterial abundances were reduced by 75% and NH-N concentrations were doubled in mixtures inoculated with six and four flagellate species, compared with those inoculated with two species, but only in warmed microcosms. This difference in response was apparently largely owing to the absence of Bodo saltans and Spumella putida, species with high grazing activities and growth rates, from most replicates of the warmed two species mixtures. 3. Evidence for an apparent complementarity effect was also found, with B. saltans and Spongomonas uvella growing more rapidly at 4 C in mixtures of six species than in those of four species. 4. Data from a separate experiment, in which the flagellate species were grown in singlespecies culture under food-saturated conditions, confirmed that the logarithmic growth rates of B. saltans and S. putida were the highest of each of the six species at both 4 C and 8 C. 5. We broadly conclude from our data that random species loss from food webs or communities is likely to alter their responses to environmental change, largely owing to interspecific differences in responses to change. 
10.2307/2390215|1. The soil microbial biomass and microbial metabolic quotient (respiration:biomass ratio) was measured in 16 forest and scrubland ecosystems throughout New Zealand, on materials representing successional stages of plant litter and its subsequent incorporation into the F-H and mineral soil layers. 2. Microbial biomass usually peaked in the L<sub>1</sub> layer and then declined. The microbial carbon:organic carbon ratio decreased sharply between the F-H layer and the underlying mineral layer, indicating that a stress factor (possibly pH) reduced the proportion of organic matter immobilized in the microbial biomass at this stage. 3. The microbial respiration:biomass ratio declined between the L<sub>1</sub> and F-H stages. This was then followed by a statistically significant (and sometimes very large) increase in this ratio upon reaching the mineral layer, for 10 of the 16 sites. This increase is in contrast to the predictions of Odum's theory of ecosystem succession and probably occurs because increasing levels of stress (in the absence of disturbance) in the latter stages of this succession reduce microbial efficiency. 4. When the 16 sites were classified according to early- and late-vegetation successional stages, there was no difference between the two categories with regard to microbial biomass, respiration or the metabolic quotient, although the microbial biomass carbon:organic carbon ratio was significantly higher for the early-successional sites. However, the variance for the microbial biomass:carbon ratio and metabolic quotient was substantially lower for the late-successional than early-successional sites, indicating that as vegetation succession proceeds these variables both converge to a narrower range of values.
826615| 1. Larger body size at low temperatures is a commonly observed phenomenon in ectothermic organisms. The mechanisms that lead to this pattern and its possible adaptive significance were studied in laboratory experiments using the parthenogenetically reproducing rotifer Synchaeta pectinata. 2. At low temperatures of 4C mean body volume was 46% larger than in individuals cultured at 12C. Egg volume was 35% larger in low vs high temperatures. 3. Larger body size at low temperatures was caused by two mechanisms. First, when exposed to low temperatures, mothers laid larger eggs and the hatchlings of these eggs developed into larger adults (irrespective of temperature). Second, individuals cultured at low temperatures grew to a larger body size during their juvenile phase. The former mechanism had a greater influence on adult size than the latter. 4. The production of larger eggs at low temperatures seemed to be due to a higher reproductive investment into individual offspring as it occurred independently of differences in maternal size. 5. Life table experiments showed that offspring from small eggs (produced at high temperatures) had a significantly higher population growth rate than offspring from large eggs, when cultured at high temperatures. This was mainly due to an increase in fertility during the first days of adult life. 
826665|1. Ecosystem recovery after decreased input of nitrogen was examined in two different fertilization experiments where the fertilization had been terminated for 9 and 47 years, respectively. 2. The species composition of the understorey vegetation showed no signs of recovery 9 years after the fertilization was terminated. Increased sporocarp production of mycorrhizal fungi was seen on formerly fertilized plots compared with plots still receiving N, but the species composition showed large differences compared to control plots. 3. In the second experiment, examined 47 years after termination of fertilization, N favoured bryophytes such as Brachythecium reflexum (Starke) Schimp., Plagiothecium denticulatum (Hedw.) Schimp. and the leaf-parasitic fungus Valdensia heterodoxa Peyronel (attacking Vaccinium myrtillus L.) was more abundant in the formerly N-treated plots than in controls. The abundance of Hylocomium splendens (Hedw.) Schimp., the most common bryophyte under normal N conditions, showed a contrasting pattern, with less abundance in the formerly N-treated plots than in controls. Sporocarp production of N-sensitive mycorrhizal fungi was lower in the formerly N-treated plots. No difference in plant species composition was noticed for vascular plants. 4. These results contrast with other studies that have interpreted reduced N leakage and nutrient levels in trees after decreased N input as a rapid ecosystem recovery. The present study suggests that the time needed for recovery of the ecosystem biota may be substantial in originally N-limited ecosystems.
3599104| 1. Herbivory and litter decomposition are key controllers of ecosystem carbon and nutrient cycling. We hypothesized that foliar defences of plant species against vertebrate herbivores would reduce leaf digestibility and would subsequently, through 'afterlife effects', reduce litter decomposability. 2. We tested this hypothesis by screening 32 subarctic plant species, belonging to eight types in terms of life form and nutrient economy strategy, for (1) leaf digestibility in cow rumen juice; (2) biochemical and structural traits that might explain variation in digestibility; and (3) litter mass loss during simultaneous incubation in an outdoor subarctic litter bed. 3. Interspecific variation in green-leaf digestibility corresponded significantly with that in litter decomposability; this relationship was strongly driven by overall variation among the eight plant types (r = 092). The same relationship was not detectable within plant types in taxonomic relatedness tests. 4. Several biochemical and structural parameters (phenol-to-N ratio, lignin-to-N ratio) explained a significant part of the variation in leaf digestibility, but again only between and not within plant types. 5. Our results provide further support for the role played by foliar defence in the link between plant and soil via the decomposition pathway. They are also a new example of the potential control of plant functional types over carbon and nutrient dynamics in ecosystems. 
10.2307/2389732|Several papers have suggested that host species with larger geographic ranges tend to harbour a greater number of parasite species than those with smaller ranges. However, few of these investigations have dealt quantitatively with problems related to host sampling and/or phylogeny. This paper describes a positive relationship between the number of helminth parasite species per host and host species geographic range in Holarctic waterfowl. The analysis controls for the effects of differential sampling of host species and for the effects of taxonomic association. Neither host body size, population size, population density, nor social tendency correlate significantly with the number of parasite species per host corrected for number of hosts examined, and therefore association with these variables is unlikely to confound the relationship between parasites and host geographic range. The analysis illustrates the strong correlation between number of parasite species recorded and sampling effort regardless of the methodology used. The number of host individuals examined is clearly the most useful measure of sampling effort in such data sets. The discussion outlines the implications the present findings may have in relation to studies of other taxa. Assessment of parasite richness may depend critically upon the sample size for each host species. Unless sampling effort is controlled for, apparent relationships between parasites and biological variables (such as geographic range) may be spurious.
2390540|1. Because spiders are ectothermic animals, the temperature regime of the microhabitat in which an individual finds itself may affect important performance traits of that individual. The present study examined the effects of temperature on attributes of webs spun by Achaearanea tepidariorum (C. L. Koch), as well as testing temperature preference in this species. The effects of temperature on the amount of silk per web produced by Achaearanea tepidariorum and the prey-capture efficiency of webs produced at different temperatures were determined by using webs constructed at 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 <sup></sup>C. The temperature preferences of A. tepidariorum within a thermal gradient were also determined. 2. Web mass was related to temperature, exhibiting a quadratic relation with a maximum web mass occurring at approximately 20 <sup></sup>C. 3. Number of strands per cm<sup>3</sup> of webs varied directly with web mass; webs with greater strand densities were more efficient at capturing flies. 4. The number of spiders observed in each temperature range in the thermal gradient indicated a non-uniform distribution, with the spiders avoiding temperatures in the highest range (27.32.0 <sup></sup>C). 5. These data suggest an optimal temperature for web construction at which webs produced are more efficient at capturing prey. The data also suggest that this species may avoid sites that do not provide an adequate thermal environment.
4540040|1. Genetic and environmental maternal effects can play an important role in the evolutionary dynamics of a population: they may have a substantial impact on the rate and direction of genetic change in response to selection, and they may generate immediate phenotypic change via phenotypic plasticity. Because of this potential to generate rapid phenotypic change in a population, maternal effects may be particularly important for evolution at ecological time-scales. 2. Despite an increased interest in the prevalence, composition and adaptive benefits of maternal effects, little is still known of their impact on ecological and evolutionary processes in natural populations. We consider here the insights that a quantitative genetic framework provides into the pathways by which maternal effects can influence trait evolution in wild populations. Widespread evidence for a genetic basis of a range of maternal effects traits reinforces the notion that they cannot be treated as purely environmental sources of variation. We also provide an overview of the impact of environmental conditions on the expression and impact of maternal effects, and describe empirical evidence for their impact on evolution at ecological time-scales. 3. We emphasize the need for empirical work to quantify the associations between maternal and offspring phenotype and genotype, and the suite of selection pressures generated by maternal effects, as well as the relationship between maternal effects and environmental variation. Future work should aim to identify the conditions under which maternal effects are likely to play a role in evolution, as well as explicitly test the contribution of maternal effects to evolutionary responses.
10.2307/2389414|1 The growth, fecundity and herbivore communities of 36 trees of Quercus robur L. have been studied for 7 years since 1981, as part of a long term study into the impact of insect herbivory on tree recruitment. 2 Using six phenological categories, assessed daily throughout the spring, it is possible to assign to each tree a unique phenological rank for each year. 3 Trees have consistent phenological ranks from year to year. The same trees are the first into leaf, and the first to shed their leaves in autumn. 4 Contrary to conventional wisdom, early-flushing trees did not suffer significantly higher levels of defoliation. However, the same trees have been consistently the most heavily defoliated, year after year. 5 The date of bud burst in spring can vary by as much as 3 weeks but the time difference between the earliest and latest individuals is almost constant (25 days in our sample of trees). 6 Individuals with different phenology support significantly different herbivore faunas, both in species composition and in relative abundance. 7 The degree of variation between individual plants exhibited in this study is extremely high and emphasizes the need for large sample sizes. It further cautions against generalizations about the composition of herbivore faunas based on samples of few individual plants.
826726|1. Seed flotation, postflooding germination and initial height and expansion rates of seedlings of six terra firme (upland forest) and six seasonally flooded forest (SFF) species from Panama were examined as indicators of their potential for dispersal by water. 2. Compared to terra firme species, SFF species had larger seeds with greater volumes and lower seed specific weights, resulting in greater buoyancy. 3. Across all species, seed specific weight was negatively correlated with initial flotation. 4. After 60 days in water, an average of 53% of the seeds of SFF species remained buoyant. In contrast, no seeds of the terra firme species remained buoyant after 15 days. On average more than half the seeds of SFF species germinated after 60 days, while for the terra firme species germination was reduced by 50% after 13 days. 5. Seedling expansion rates of SFF species were twice as fast as those of terra firme species. Three weeks after germination, seedlings of SFF species were twice the height of those of terra firme species, a trait which may minimize immersion of the photosynthetic tissue. 6. The superior flotation and postflooding germination of SFF relative to terra firme species suggests that dispersal by water is an important adaptation in habitats where flooding is common. Lack of hydrochory among terra firme species may be a key selective filter contributing to the poor species diversity found in SFFs even though saplings and adults may be flood-tolerant.
10.2307/2389751|Few systems have been explored in sufficient detail to link the proximate causes of polyphenism to the ecological factors that favour discontinuous, environmentally induced variation. I examined the developmental and physiological bases underlying polyphenism in southern spadefoot toad tadpoles (Scaphiopus multiplicatus). Scaphiopus often occurs as two discrete trophic morphs: carnivores and omnivores. Carnivores develop from omnivores if the latter are fed macroscopic prey (anostracan shrimp and tadpoles). I found that tadpoles can change to the alternative morphology if their diet was switched. Static allometric analyses indicated that morph determination results from acceleration (or retardation) of certain anatomical features. I hypothesized that morph determination is triggered by the presence of a potent accelerator of amphibian development occurring in the carnivore's prey: thyroid hormone (or its constituents). Omnivores exposed exogenously to thyroxine assumed the carnivore morphology within days. This endocrine response enables tadpoles to develop into the morph with the greater fitness since the rapidly developing carnivores are favoured in highly ephemeral ponds, which contain more shrimp. Carnivores also are more efficient predators of shrimp. This study thus links the underlying physiological causes of a polyphenism to the ecological factors that likely favour the occurrence of alternative morphs. More generally, this study illustrates how an endocrine signal may allow an individual to assess and continuously adapt to a changing environment.
4540097|1. Among the commonest sexual signals of birds are the red-yellow traits pigmented by carotenoids, but how they reliably advertise individual quality remain poorly understood. Here we tested the hypothesis that carotenoid-based signalling is enhanced by testosterone but reduced by parasites, and that the dual action of testosterone on ornament expression and parasite resistance ensures reliable signalling. 2. Tetraonid birds such as the red grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus have bright red combs pigmented by carotenoids, which function in intra- and inter-sexual selection. In separate experiments, we manipulated a main nematode parasite, Trichostrongylus tenuis (using deparasitation and re-infection) and testosterone (using testosterone or combined Flutamide/ATD treatments) in free-living males and investigated effects on plasma carotenoids and comb colour. 3. In untreated males, comb redness positively correlated with plasma carotenoids, testosterone concentration and condition. Plasma carotenoids and comb redness both negatively correlated with T tenuis abundance. 4. Plasma carotenoids decreased in response to a challenge from T tenuis, but increased when parasites were reduced. Testosterone enhanced comb redness, but tended to deplete plasma carotenoids. Combined Flutamide and ATD treatment had no significant effects on comb colour or plasma carotenoids, indicating that testosterone effects might be direct. 5. Our experiments show contrasted effects of testosterone and nematode parasites on carotenoid-based ornamentation. Testosterone and parasites have well documented interactions in the study model. These, together with the opposite effects that testosterone and parasites have on carotenoid availability and use, would shape optimal levels of signalling, depending on individual quality, and might ensure reliable signalling. 6. Carotenoid-based and testosterone-dependent traits have rarely been linked. Our study provides such a connection and shows that investigating how parasites, testosterone and carotenoids interact helps in the understanding of the evolution and maintenance of honest carotenoid-based signals of health.
10.2307/2390237|1. We formulate a simple, physiologically based model to investigate the phenomenon of compensatory growth. 2. The model is based upon two key assumptions. First, that an individual partitions net assimilate between two tissue types: those which can and those which cannot be remobilized once laid down. Second, that the individual modulates its behaviour and physiology in response to the instantaneous ratio of mobilizable to non-mobilizable tissues. 3. The model is parameterized for salmonids from published studies of their energetics. Data from aquaculture studies of fish growth under conditions of fluctuating food are used to test the model. Using a common parameter set, the model successfully reproduces the growth patterns observed in 16 different feeding regimes.
10.2307/2390502|1. Some proximate mechanisms that increase the probability of successful copulation are examined in Brachionus plicatilis Muller (Rotifera), a cyclical parthenogen. By means of behavioural tests, an analysis was performed as to whether male choice exists concerning female age. Second, male direct discrimination of sexual (mictic) and parthenogenetic (amictic) females, on the basis of male behaviour after encountering both kinds of females, was examined. 2. Results showed that the probability of male mating initiation decreases with the age of female, and that males copulate almost exclusively with females less than 24-h old. Preference for sexual females was also found in the probability of mating initiation, but no preference for copulating sexual females was found. 3. As only young, sexual females are fertilizable, these mechanisms would enhance the likelihood of a male copulating with a sexually receptive female, and thus male fitness. 4. A theoretical model shows that the surprisingly low degree of male preference for sexual females can be adaptively explained on the basis of relative frequency of young females and mictic females in the population when the sexual phase occurs.
10.2307/2389577|It has often been proposed that parents could vary the growth rates of nestling birds as an adaptive strategy to maximize reproductive output. Although it has been recognized that a depression of growth rate may result in prolonged nestling times and hence increase the probability of predation, it is often assumed that there is no phenotype-related cost of slow growth. In the present study, we assess the effect of reduced growth rates on body size and on social status of carrion crows (Corvus corone corone L.). Daily weight gain for a group of nestlings was experimentally limited and a control group of siblings and non-siblings was raised under conditions of unlimited food. The growth of body mass and of linear body dimension, fledgling mass and fledgling size were compared for the two groups. Growth forms of the two groups are compared with three proposed growth models. Finally, the relation of social status of these individuals as juveniles to their former feeding group was examined. Nestlings growing with limited food and thus with depressed growth rates reached a significantly lower final weight and reached it later than did birds fed ad libitum. Growth in linear body dimension followed a different pattern; nestlings with depressed growth rates reached a significantly lower tarsus length, but reached it nearly as fast as chicks with unlimited food. As juveniles, the birds of the former experimental group suffered lower social status than the control birds. Both sibling and non-sibling interactions resulted in significantly more wins for control birds. Our results show that the reduction of daily weight gain can affect the phenotype and fitness correlated parameters.
4540085|1. The idea that sets of species may have similar effects on population, community or ecosystem processes is a prevalent theme in many areas of ecology, especially in the context of biodiversity and ecosystem function. If indeed species are functionally equivalent, limiting similarity suggests that it should be closely related, morphologically similar species using similar resources in a similar manner. 2. We assayed the functional equivalence of three congeneric, morphologically similar predatory fish species (genus Enneacanthus). Functional equivalence was evaluated using aspects of both effects of fish on a variety of prey responses and the growth responses of the fish themselves as a measure of energy consumption. Fish were matched by initial size to control for effects of body size. A strict definition of functional equivalence based on niche theory was used to delineate it from the alternative of functional diversity. 3. Based on observed effects on larval anurans, only a single species pair could roughly be judged functionally equivalent, but these two species showed the greatest differences in growth rate and, hence, metabolic demand. Using the criterion of relative yield total, again, only a single pair could roughly be judged equivalent, however, members of this alternative species pair were dramatically different in their effects on larval anurans. Thus, as previously shown for a more diverse set of species, grouping of species by similarity in effects depends upon the specific response variable. 4. Overall range of effects produced on a variety of response variables was surprising, given the similarity in morphology and autecology, strong phylogenetic affinity, and the fact that neither predator size nor growth explained significant variation. Each species appears to be interacting with the environment in a different manner, either as a consequence of differences in metabolic demand or differences in preferences or efficiency with regard to prey types. 5. Observed responses are consistent with the predictions of niche theory and support an alternative explanation for observed relationships between diversity and ecosystem function. Our work suggests that functional equivalence may be uncommon, difficult to predict a priori, and that functional diversity, not functional equivalence, may underlie observed diversity-ecosystem function relationships.
10.2307/2389565|Flightless worker ants of the species complex Iridomyrmex gracilis (Lowne) are effective pollinators of Microtis parviflora R.Br. in the Castlereagh Forest near Sydney. Field and laboratory observations and experiments showed that this orchid is self-compatible but not autogamous and ant pollination results in very high levels of seed set. This is the first study to show that wingless ants can be exclusive pollinators. Ants forage persistently, visiting individual flowers and inflorescences repeatedly for nectar. Foraging patterns most likely result in high levels of selfing, but leptokurtic distributions of pollinator travel distances suggest that some pollen transfers result in cross pollination. Microtis pollen carried by I. gracilis workers is unaffected by antibiotic secretions from the metapleural glands which, in other ant species, may reduce pollen viability drastically. Pollinia are separated from the ant integument by a short stalk and are always carried on the frons, remote from the metapleural glands. This study shows that worker ants, although wingless, can be efficient pollinators and suggests that the presence of metapleural glands is not necessarily inimical to the evolution of ant pollination, particularly if mechanisms, such as stalked pollinia, prevent direct contact between ants and pollen.
826571|1. Plant functional groups are used to describe patterns of community organization. However, they are defined either by suites of correlated traits or by species groupings, and the responses of these two definitions to changing environmental conditions are unknown. 2. We assessed 14 growth and morphological traits under low- and high-resource conditions of 42 annual plant species from two source communities in Israel that differed in resource availability. As current theory predicts, plants growing in the high-resource treatment were larger, had twofold greater relative growth rate (RGR) and thinner leaves, and allocated less biomass to roots than plants grown in the low-resource treatment. Differences in these traits were less consistent between the two source communities. Instead, taxonomic groups (grasses, legumes and a group of other forbs), regardless of source, differed in most characteristics. 3. Three general groups of species (functional groups) were identified in both resource treatments using cluster analysis on all 14 traits. In both resource treatments monocots were almost completely separated into one distinct cluster, regardless of source habitat, while the two other, mainly dicot, clusters were partially separated by habitat. However, the species composition and trait characterization of the dicot clusters differed strongly between treatments. Under low-resource conditions the two dicot clusters were separated by size traits and seed mass, but under high-resource conditions, they were separated by above-ground size, morphology and RGR. 4. Principal components analysis demonstrated inconsistency in relationships among traits and species groupings between treatments. The first two principal components emphasized different aspects of growth depending on the treatment; the third axis was defined by growth rates. As with the cluster analysis, plots of species scores revealed relatively little separation of species by habitat. 5. The response of each species varies for different traits and with growing conditions. Variation may differ among species within a functional group, producing different definitions of functional groups under different experimental conditions. Because most functional group analyses are performed on data collected without manipulation of growing conditions, conclusions concerning the response of species or communities to changes in environmental conditions may be problematic.
40407781|1. Despite considerable interest in the application of plant functional traits to questions of community assembly and ecosystem structure and function, there is no consensus on the appropriateness of sampling designs to obtain plot-level estimates in diverse plant communities. 2. We measured 10 plant functional traits describing leaf and stem morphology and ecophysiology for all trees in nine 1-ha plots in terra firme lowland tropical rain forests of French Guiana (N = 4709). 3. We calculated, by simulation, the mean and variance in trait values for each plot and each trait expected under seven sampling methods and a range of sampling intensities. Simulated sampling methods included a variety of spatial designs, as well as the application of existing data base values to all individuals of a given species. 4. For each trait in each plot, we defined a performance index for each sampling design as the proportion of resampling events that resulted in observed means within 5% of the true plot mean, and observed variance within 20% of the true plot variance. 5. The relative performance of sampling designs was consistent for estimations of means and variances. Data base use had consistently poor performance for most traits across all plots, whereas sampling one individual per species per plot resulted in relatively high performance. We found few differences among different spatial sampling strategies; however, for a given strategy, increased intensity of sampling resulted in markedly improved accuracy in estimates of trait mean and variance. 6. We also calculated the financial cost of each sampling design based on data from our 'every individual per plot' strategy and estimated the sampling and botanical effort required. The relative performance of designs was strongly positively correlated with relative financial cost, suggesting that sampling investment returns are relatively constant. 7. Our results suggest that trait sampling for many objectives in species-rich plant communities may require the considerable effort of sampling at least one individual of each species in each plot, and that investment in complete sampling, though great, may be worthwhile for at least some traits.
3599207|1. Although genetic differentiation among plant populations is well known, its relevance for preserving the integrity of native ecosystems has received little attention. In a series of competition experiments with Andropogon gerardii Vitman, a dominant species of the North American Tallgrass Prairie, plant performance was related to seed provenance and restoration activities. 2. Glasshouse experiments showed plant performance to be a function of seed source. Differential target plant performance relative to competitor identity was observed when plant performance was assessed across a range of competitor densities. Local and non-local plants were larger when competing against non-local plants relative to the local and cultivar plants, while cultivar plants were consistently larger than local and non-local plants regardless of competitor identity or density. The consistency of cultivar performance could reflect directional selection during cultivar development for consistently high fecundity, vigorous vegetative growth and resistance to pathogens. 3. In a field experiment, non-local plants were half the size of local and cultivar plants, supporting recognition of seed provenances of A. gerardii based on differences in plant performance among source populations observed in the glasshouse study, and previous genetic analyses of the same populations. 4. This study establishes that seed provenance and restoration activities influence the competitive ability of a dominant species which, in turn, may affect plant community structure and potential ecosystem function.
2390394|1. The chrysomelid beetle Gastrophysa viridula occurs on Rumex obtusifolius growing in a range of nutrient conditions and also on plants infected with the foliar fungus Uromyces rumicis. In a controlled environment, we investigated the effect of fertilizing plants with eight nitrate and four ammonium concentrations, with or without infection, on leaf nutritional quality. 2. Increasing nitrate fertilization increased leaf oxalate, total nitrogen and nitrate concentrations and water content, and decreased total non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) concentrations. Increasing ammonium fertilization increased leaf nitrogen concentration and water content, decreased nitrate and NSC concentrations, and had no effect on oxalate concentrations. 3. Infection produced a mainly additive effect to fertilization, increasing NSC and oxalate, and decreasing nitrate and nitrogen concentration in whole plants fed nitrate, and increasing nitrate and NSC in whole plants fed ammonium. 4. Young leaves on infected plants remained uninfected and had greater nitrogen and NSC concentrations, and lower oxalate and nitrate concentrations, than infected leaves on the same plant. 5. These results are discussed in relation to changes in C:N and NSC:organic nitrogen ratios, the effect of nitrate and oxalate, and the known feeding and oviposition preferences of the beetle. The results suggest that there is an optimum nitrogen fertilization level for G. viridula development.
3806599|1. Individuals following different strategies such as philopatry or dispersal may also differ in other phenotypic traits, since dispersing individuals have to face novel physical and social environments. There is growing evidence of the use of information obtained from conspecifics in a variety of contexts. It has been demonstrated that before natal dispersal, juveniles of Lacerta vivipara use social information through conspecific chemical cues, and that various phenotypes use this information differently. We hypothesized that, after dispersal, the behavioural responses of yearlings to different social environments assessed through conspecific odours depend on the dispersal status. 2. We tested the response of philopatric and dispersing yearlings of L. vivipara to different types of social cues, controlling for the prenatal and postnatal environment. Each yearling was faced with environments with no conspecific odours, with scent-marks from one or three yearlings that were held isolated during captivity, and from three socially housed yearlings. Thus, we examined the response to the number of donors and to the social environment experienced by donors. We recorded the time spent walking and attempting to escape as indicators of activity and avoidance response, respectively. 3. Philopatric and dispersing individuals reacted differently to the social environments presented through odour marks. This dispersal status-dependent response was not modulated by the prenatal and postnatal factors examined.
10.2307/2389821|1. Seasonal patterns of water stress (determined from predawn xylem pressure potentials) and relative use of summer precipitation (determined from hydrogen isotope composition) varied intraspecifically and interspecifically in a Great Basin shrub community. 2. The development of water stress during the dry season from June to July was positively correlated with the use of summer precipitation in August. The smallest plants generally developed the greatest water stress and took up the most summer precipitation, presumably due to being more dependent on shallow roots. 3. Among mature shrubs examined, moisture from summer precipitation was taken up by Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus and Artemisia tridentata, but not by C. nauseosus. Juniperus osteosperma and Tetradymia canescens. 4. For shrub species that are deeply rooted at maturity, such as C. nauseosus, the quantity and timing of available soil moisture is different for small establishing plants as compared to large reproductively mature plants.
10.2307/2389477|Body size is generally related to fecundity in arthropods, and in Callosobruchus maculatus (F.) fecundity and juvenile development rate are known to be genetically correlated, probably because both depend on body weight. Here we estimate the form of the genetic dependence on body weight from previously published breeding value plots, and we estimate physiological effects where necessary, to obtain a model of how natural selection affects body size in culture conditions. The genetic trade-off between fecundity and development rate leads to indirect stabilizing selection on female body weight at emergence. The model shows how optimal body weight increases with culture interval. Selection is shown to be weaker at longer culture intervals, so that genetic variation in body weight should there persist longer. Model predictions are shown to be robust by sensitivity analysis, and to fit the available data. Thus, predicted optimal body weights are intermediate, and observed body weights are close to those predicted on the basis of the culture history of the study population.
2390461|1. A brood size manipulation experiment was performed in two Great Tit (Parus major L.) populations in order to evaluate the effect of raising different numbers of nestlings on parental health state. 2. Brood enlargement resulted in elevated heterophile:lymphocyte ratios and decreased lymphocyte number in the peripheral blood, indicating that increased reproductive effort causes immunosuppression. 3. Haematocrit increased in response to brood enlargement, suggesting a response to the requirement of elevated oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood during increased work load. 4. Parental body mass revealed a tendency to decrease in response to brood enlargement. 5. No effect of brood size manipulation on total leucocyte count, heterophile count, intensity of Haemoproteus blood parasite infection or plasma proteins could be detected. 6. Health state indices were more sensitive to brood size manipulation in the Great Tits breeding in a rural habitat than urban birds.
10.2307/2389807|Mayapple (Podophyllum peltatum (L.)) is a perennial herb that forms rhizome systems, each terminated by a vegetative or sexual shoot. Such systems consist of previously formed annual segments, that are kept alive for many years. By severing rhizomes and fertilizing shoots, we have investigated whether new rhizome growth depends on nutrients acquired by roots of older segments. The treatments were imposed in spring and the effects evaluated in the following autumn, when formation of new rhizomes was complete. Neither severing alone, nor the combination of severing and fertilization significantly affected rhizome branching, determination of the new rhizome bud type, rhizome length or dry weight. Fertilization and even severing alone increased the accumulation of nutrients in new rhizomes. Timing of shoot senescence had a major impact, with later senescing shoots producing longer and heavier new rhizomes. Later senescence also increased the biomass increment of the penultimate rhizomes, i.e. those immediately preceding the current year's shoot. We conclude that in mayapple nutrient uptake by older roots does not contribute, at least immediately, to new rhizome growth. The lack of fertilization effects and the presence of strong effects of the timing of shoot senescence upon new rhizome growth indicate that light rather than nutrients was the limiting factor in this growth phase. The increased nutrient accumulation in response to fertilization suggests, however, that growth of the rhizome system may be affected by nutrient availability over a longer period of time. Data are presented that suggest that rhizome segments store nutrients that are needed to support the growth of developing shoots in subsequent years. Given the capability of dormant buds on old rhizome segments to form new shoots after damage, an important function of rhizome longevity in may-apple may be to maintain the potential to regenerate.
826748|1. For a long time, dioecious plants have been a model system for understanding the interactions between plants and herbivores. Differences in growth rate and, consequently, investment in defence between sexes may lead to skewed sex ratios due to differential herbivory. 2. In this study we evaluated the applicability of this idea to polar willow (Salix polaris), which in the study site, Svalbard, displays a female-biased sex ratio. 3. Excluding reindeer for 3 years increased the abundance of male flowers in one of two vegetation types investigated. Growth rates differed only slightly between the sexes, with females investing more in inflorescences. 4. The concentration of chemical defence compounds (phenolics and condensed tannins) did not differ between the sexes. 5. On the basis of these findings, the idea that growth rate-dependent herbivory caused the unbalanced sex ratio in S. polaris has to be rejected. Possibly an interaction of niche differentiation between male and female willows, in combination with reindeer grazing, produced the observed female-biased sex ratio, but the mechanism remains unclear.
10.2307/2389366|Like many organisms, the cladoceran Simocephalus vetulus (Muller) continues to grow when reproducing, whereas the optimal strategy is to stop growing at maturity, and to invest all available production into reproduction thereafter. It has been proposed that a size constraint is responsible for the observed strategy (Perrin, Ruedi & Saiah, 1987), by preventing organisms from investing more than a given amount of energy into reproduction. This hypothesis is developed here and the two following predictions are derived: (1) the onset of reproduction should be independent of age and (2) the reproductive investment should be size-specific, thus independent of the production rate. Both predictions are tested by rearing a clone of S. vetulus in a gradient of productivity. The results support the first prediction, but not the second one, so that the size-constraint hypothesis is disproved.
10.2307/2389787|Although Sitobion avenae (F.) was less fecund under sexual-inducing photoperiods it did not produce a significantly lower biomass of offspring than apterae reared under long daylength. The lower fecundity is due to the cost of developing the larger male embryos; at birth males were significantly heavier and denser than females. The primary sex ratio in S. avenae is approximately two females to one male but is equal in terms of biomass.
10.2307/2389607|1 Chemical analogues may be useful in exotoxicological studies by providing the possibility of measuring the dispersal and accumulation of xenobiotics in ecosystems without the attendant problems of toxicity. 2 Studies on <sup>152</sup>Eu show that it is a good analogue for the radiotoxic <sup>241</sup>Am in both marine crabs and freshwater crayfish. 3 The accumulation of both the lanthanide and the actinide show that their environmental distribution is dictated by surface adsorption onto exoskeletons and cellular deposits.
2656368|1. Collembolans have often been credited with negatively affecting arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbioses, mainly by grazing and severing the associated external fungal network from host roots. However, most previous experiments were performed using relatively `clean' systems where other, non-mycorrhizal, fungi were largely excluded. Yet, plant rhizospheres harbour a wide variety of highly palatable non-AM fungi, most of which have saprobic lifestyles. 2. In this study we isolated and cultured several rhizosphere fungi, and the collembolan, Folsomia candida, from the Long-Term Mycorrhiza Research Site, University of Guelph, Canada, to test the hypothesis that, given a choice, collembolans would prefer to feed on saprobic fungi and that such a choice is of adaptive significance to the animals. 3. A laboratory food preference experiment revealed that F. candida favours common saprobic fungi over a variety of AM fungi. Coincidentally, fecundity levels across two Folsomia generations were higher when animals fed exclusively on the preferred fungus, Alternaria alternata. When fed less palatable fungi, fecundity was greatly reduced; in fact animals from the F1 generation were unable to produce any eggs when placed on an exclusive diet of one of the following three AM fungi, Acaulospora spinosa, Scutellospora calospora and Gigaspora gigantea. 4. These results indicate that a strict diet of AM fungi by collembolans has reproductive consequences. Therefore, we propose that under natural conditions these animals spend more time feeding on common saprobic fungi rather than their AM counterparts. This suggests that previous `clean' studies that investigated the interactions between collembolans and AM fungi may have reported exaggerated effects of animal grazing. The influence of collembolans on the functioning of AM symbioses, under more natural conditions, remains not well understood.
20142794|1. Whether the global high elevation tree line phenomenon is associated with a low-temperature-induced limitation of sink activities (i.e. direct impact on meristems and thus, growth) or by a limitation of the trees' carbon source activities (net photosynthesis) still awaits detailed tests across a range of taxa and regions, especially for deciduous species in a short growing season. 2. Here, we test the sink limitation hypothesis in the highest tree lines of Eurasia at altitudes up to 4700 m. We assessed growth and tissue concentrations of non-structural carbohydrates (NSC) as a measure of the carbon source-sink balance in needles and branchwood of Abies, Juniperus (evergreen), Betula and Larix (deciduous). 3. The mean soil temperature in deep shade (a proxy for mean air temperature) across the growing season at tree line in this region is around 6.6 C, which is consistent with the threshold temperature found at the natural climatic limit of the tree life-form worldwide. Mean tree height and stem diameter decreased significantly towards the upper tree line in all species studied. 4. Air temperature measurements at an inverted tree line site (valley bottom) indicate strong and rapid oscillations between nighttime freezing and mild daytime temperatures during late winter, which apparently eradicate Abies and select for Juniperus, offering potential explanations for the inferiority of Abies also at the upper Tibetan tree line. 5. At none of the four altitudinal transects studied did we observe a significant depletion of NSC (carbon limitation) at tree line. Instead, NSC increased in the majority of cases, suggesting direct (meristematic) low temperature constraints of growth. These results for these highest Eurasian tree lines suggest a common mechanism of alpine tree line formation for evergreen and deciduous species.
2656387|1. Instantaneous leaf photosynthesis and land area-based net ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> exchange (NEC) are almost universally increased at elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations, at least in the short term and under high light conditions. This raises the possibility that terrestrial ecosystems sequester extra C in response to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, and it has been hypothesized that part of this extra C is stored in soils. 2. Attempts to quantify ecosystem C sequestration experimentally are based on (i) ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> exchange measurements; (ii) C isotope tracking; and (iii) direct C stock measurements. 3. Because direct C stock measurements are insensitive to increases in ecosystem C storage in the range expected, and C isotope tracking is methodologically difficult because of the need to account for new and old soil C pools, NEC measurements were considered to be a more direct and unbiased method to estimate net ecosystem production and C sequestration at elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. 4. Here we present a case study in calcareous grassland under long-term CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment in which we demonstrate that calculated C balances are extremely sensitive to systematic experimental biases inherent in any CO<sub>2</sub> flux-based study at elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. A sensitivity analysis demonstrates that these systematic errors tend to result in severe overestimation of ecosystem C accretion under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. 5. Carbon isotope data and soil pool C and N measurements from the same study add to the evidence that the C balance derived from CO<sub>2</sub> flux measurements at elevated CO<sub>2</sub> is overestimated. 6. Based on this evidence, and the wide attention given to C sequestration at elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, we suggest a critical reconsideration of the appropriateness of NEC measurement in CO<sub>2</sub>-enriched ecosystems as a basis for calculating ecosystem C balances at elevated CO<sub>2</sub>.
41319629|1. The evolution of matrotrophy may be related to high resource availability during gestation and consequently increased opportunity for reproductive investment via the placenta. Thus, matrotrophic species have smaller yolk volume than lecithotrophic species. Innate immune response of offspring at birth, which is important in protection against disease and parasites, may be influenced by the degree of reproductive investment of carotenoids, such as -carotene. However, to date, no study has investigated the effects of maternal carotenoid intake during reproduction on the innate immune responses of offspring in reptiles. 2. Some matrotrophic viviparous (live-bearing) reptiles provide significant support for embryogenesis through both yolk and placenta. These species are excellent models for research into the evolutionary transitions from lecithotrophic reproduction (i. e. supply of resources from the yolks, e. g. birds) to highly matrotrophic reproduction (i. e. direct supply of most resources from the mother, e. g. mammals). 3. We used high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to examine carotenoid concentration in newly ovulated eggs of a matrotrophic viviparous lizard (Pseudemoia entrecasteauxii). Most eggs did not contain any carotenoids, including -carotene. 4. We then experimentally manipulated maternal -carotene availability (i. e. supplementation of -carotene in the diet or no supplementation) during gestation and investigated innate immune response of offspring (i. e. tissue swelling and proportion of monocytes in response to antigenic stimulation) at 2 days after birth. Subsequently, we investigated the effects of postnatal -carotene intake on innate immune response of offspring using reciprocal transplant experiments in which we manipulated offspring -carotene availability for 2 weeks after birth. This experimental design also allowed us to assess the persistence of effects of maternal -carotene effects on innate immune response in offspring. We found that the immune response as measured by the proportion of monocytes was enhanced by high maternal -carotene intake during gestation, and this effect persisted for 2 weeks after birth. Furthermore, post-natal -carotene intake enhanced innate immune response. 5. The maternally transferred -carotene via the placenta during embryogenesis may be an important physiological adaptation to counter the costs of a reduction in organic substances supplied in the yolk that occurs as matrotrophy evolves.
826570|1. Mites (Acari: Mesostigmata: Ascidae) that live and feed in the flowers of about 100 plant species are transported in the nares of hummingbirds (Trochilidae). Mites may compete with hummingbirds for nectar secreted by the host plants, and this could affect the dynamics and reproductive outcomes of the mutualism between plants and their pollinating hummingbirds. 2. Here we combined field observations and experimental manipulations to assess the role of hummingbird flower mites (Tropicoseius sp. nov.) on nectar secretion and reproductive output of protandrous Moussonia deppeana (Schlecht. & Cham.) Hanst. (Gesneriaceae) during their flowering period in a cloud forest remnant. 3. During the 4 days that the flowers of M. deppeana last, flowers were visited exclusively by hummingbirds (Lampornis amethystinus). Bud production per inflorescence peaked in December. There were few open flowers per inflorescence in November, but numbers increased as the flowering season progressed (December and January). 4. The availability of each flower phase differed over the flowering season. Staminate-phase flowers were more abundant over the flowering season than pistillate-phase flowers. These differences were statistically significant over time. 5. Nectar availability was reduced by up to 50% in the presence of hummingbird flower mites. Over the 4 days of observation, significantly more nectar was secreted to flowers from which mites were excluded than to flowers with no mite exclusion. The same effect was observed during flowering, but mites consumed a greater percentage of the total nectar secreted in December. 6. Significantly more nectar was secreted during the staminate phase than in the pistillate phase, independent of time and treatment. 7. A manual pollination experiment suggested that mites act like secondary pollinators in this self-compatible, non-autogamous plant, at least in flowers that were not pollinated manually and had no access to pollinating hummingbirds. 8. Although seed production was not reduced significantly by flower mites, our results suggest that the presence of floral mites can affect pollen transmission, as the amount of nectar available to hummingbirds was reduced drastically. This can directly affect hummingbird foraging patterns and reduce the fitness of the host plants.
3599134| 1. Lipids are a major source of energy storage in vertebrates. A cross-fostering brood manipulation was conducted to assess the role of rearing environment vs common origin on lipid stores. 2. Rearing conditions, especially nest temperatures, explained more variation in lipid levels than did nest of origin. As nest temperatures increased, lipid levels in nestlings also increased. Larger individuals, reflected in both wet and lean dry mass, tended to store more lipids. 3. There was no trade-off between structural growth and lipid stores. However, body mass growth was linked with lipids. In addition, nestlings raised early in the season tended to maintain greater lipid levels, suggesting a role of individual quality. 4. Because the assessment of lipid stores is difficult, it is common to use residual body mass (RBM) as a surrogate. Multiple methods of calculating RBM were compared with actual lipid mass in nestling European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). RBM was correlated with lipid levels (R
826727|1. Maternal effects are widely recognized as important ecological and evolutionary forces, with fitness consequences for both offspring and parents. However, little is known about the impact of maternal effects on the survival and behaviour of offspring in the field. Two potentially important maternal effects that influence the phenotypes and survival of neonates are (i) propagule size effects (i.e. egg size, hatchling size and clutch effects) and (ii) nest-site selection, which influences incubation conditions and the suitability of habitat for neonates after hatching. 2. We experimentally removed the effects of variable incubation conditions to focus on how propagule size effects and nest-site microhabitat characteristics influence hatchling survival and behaviour in the Common Snapping Turtle, Chelydra serpentina. Using eight simultaneous experimental releases of neonates under ecologically relevant field conditions, we detected no influence of propagule size effects on hatchling turtle survival or behaviour. Egg mass, hatchling mass, hatchling carapace length and clutch did not predict the probability of survival, nor did they influence hatchling behaviour. 3. However, nest-site microhabitat characteristics were important for both survival and behaviour. The probability of hatchling survival increased with decreasing amounts of ground vegetation and slope at the release point. Hatchlings took longer to reach the fence when released in areas with more ground vegetation and dispersed farther when released from greater distances and at lower slopes. Therefore, variation in maternal behaviour, such as nest-site selection, is an important effect because it results in differential survival and behaviour of offspring in this population, whereas variation in maternal size effects alone does not.
826750|1. We conducted an experiment to investigate the effect of organic matter distribution on below-ground competition between the dwarf shrub Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull and the coarse upland grass Nardus stricta (L.). 2. The two species were grown alone, or in competition in pots where the substrate was either a sand layer overlain by a peat layer (layered), or the same volume of peat evenly mixed with sand throughout the pot (mixed). 3. Root length and allocation in the top, middle and bottom of each pot was measured, along with plant biomass. 4. Calluna allocated the greatest proportion of root length to the top of the pot, irrespective of the peat distribution. Nardus allocated a large proportion of root length to the bottom of the pot. Root allocation by Nardus to the top and middle of the pot was positively related to the distribution of peat. 5. Nardus grown alone attained greater shoot mass in the layered than in the mixed substrate, but this was not the case when Calluna was present. Calluna was the superior competitor in both layered and mixed-substrate pots, but more so in the latter. 6. This was attributed to (i) the ability of Calluna to exclude Nardus roots from the upper organic material in the layered substrate, and (ii) the greater plasticity of root allocation of Nardus, enabling it to avoid competition with Calluna.
20142783|1. Interpreting the functional diversity of vegetation is important in unravelling the relationship between environmental change, community composition and ecosystem processes. Functional diversity is the range and distribution of functional trait values in a community. It can be described, among other indicators, by community-level weighted means of trait values (CWM) and functional divergence. Standard methods exist for trait measurements but not for assessments of CWM and functional divergence in the field. No research has addressed the effects of different methods of estimating relative abundances, nor the need to estimate traits at individual, population or species level, or whether methods could be used that bypass taxonomy all together. 2. This study reviews and evaluates plot-level assessment methods of functional diversity in herbaceous vegetation. We asked: (i) Should the objective of the study influence the method for estimating relative abundance? (ii) What are the strengths and limitations of intensive vs. 'rapid' approaches, and when should either be applied? (iii) Are taxon-free methods robust in comparison to taxon-explicit methods of trait measurement? Under what circumstances might they be applied? 3. Our review of published studies that have measured functional diversity in the field showed that the choice of metric has not generally taken into account the link between the metric and the functions of interest, and that vegetation cover has been most widely used, regardless of study purpose. 4. We compared quantitatively in subalpine grasslands three methods for quantification of species abundances plus one taxon-free method. We found that: (i) data base trait values were robust across years for a diverse set of dominant species; (ii) CWM have little sensitivity to method for estimating relative abundances; this sensitivity also depends on traits, for example, seed mass results were less stable than leaf traits and heights; (iii) robust estimates of CWM were obtained from visual estimates of species ranks and biomass using a dry-weight ranking method (BOTANAL), whereas functional divergence was more sensitive to method; and (iv) the taxon-free method should be treated with more caution and performed particularly poorly for estimates of functional divergence. 5. We conclude that methodology can affect estimates of functional diversity. Although care should be taken in the choice of method and interpretation of results, rapid methods often offer promising avenues for sampling larger areas and/or repeated measures.
2656320|1. In this paper we develop a theoretical framework for describing the composition and morphology of leaves on a volumetric basis which is inclusive of both the liquids and internal air space. That framework is then used to link the composition and morphology with the function of leaves. 2. Leaves are segmented into a functional scheme named a-u-s-V (air space-solution-structure-Volume basis) and a measurement scheme named a-q-d-M (air space-liquid-dry matter-Mass basis). Measurements of mass, liquid mass, volume and fractional air space are necessary to (partially) link the two schemes. 3. The liquid content of leaves can be used to infer the mode of mechanical support and, hence, the likely values of air space, solution and structure. For example, if a leaf has a high liquid content, then it cannot have a large volumetric fraction of structure (which is largely made of dry matter) and is unlikely to have large internal air spaces. 4. Based on measurements of individual leaf components, the specific gravity of the non-gaseous fraction in leaves would usually be in the range 1-1.3. Consequently, the specific gravity of leaves would be most sensitive to variation in fractional air space. 5. For the dimensions typical of most leaves, the surface area to volume ratio of a leaf is determined by leaf thickness (or diameter). 6. Leaf design is considered in terms of light interception and gas exchange. The requirements for each are essentially incompatible and lead to a trade-off on leaf thickness. However, that relationship is complicated because variation in fractional air space can potentially lead to broad optima for gas exchange at any given leaf thickness. 7. The theoretical predictions have not been assessed owing to a lack of measurements of leaf density, fractional air space and liquid content. However, published data were used to develop the following hypotheses: (1) the mass of nitrogen per unit mass of liquid is relatively constant within leaves; (2) the surface area to volume ratio of leaves is proportional to leaf liquid content. These hypotheses are tested in a subsequent paper.
3806543|1. Previous evidence suggests that bacterially mediated decomposition of complex organic substrates increases with greater food web diversity. We attempted to identify changes in bacterial community composition and function associated with increased decomposition in more diverse food webs. 2. We used aquatic microcosms where we manipulated productivity with different initial nutrient concentrations. We created a diversity gradient by establishing communities of eukaryotes with zero (bacteria alone), one, two or four microbe species (protists and rotifers) in each of four trophic levels: producers, herbivores, bacterivores and predators. The initial bacterial community was standardized across all treatments. To determine effects of productivity and diversity on the bacterial community, we measured: decomposition, abundance, diversity of colony morphotypes (a measure of composition) and community level physiological profiles (CLPP) (a functional profile based on carbon substrate utilization). 3. Decomposition increased with greater eukaryotic species richness and was not influenced by productivity. Bacterial abundance remained constant with increasing eukaryotic species richness at low productivity, but significantly declined at high productivity. Eukaryotic species richness together with productivity influenced the composition of the bacterial community. However, the CLPP was strongly influenced by productivity and not species richness. 4. Food web diversity and productivity interact to influence bacterial community composition and function. In more diverse food webs, bacterial activity (decomposition) increased despite lower population abundance.
826749|1. The influence of host genotypes (provenances) on mistletoe establishment, or the susceptibility of different host provenances to mistletoe infection, has not previously been documented. 2. We quantified the germination and establishment of two New Zealand mistletoes [Alepis flavida (Hook. f.) Tiegh. and Peraxilla tetrapetala (L. f.) Tiegh.] on different provenances of their main host Nothofagus solandri (Hook. f.) Oerst. in a 'common garden' host experiment. 3. Germination was high for both species (96.9% for A. flavida and 97.4% for P. tetrapetala), but establishment was much lower (13.2 and 2.3%, respectively). 4. Deviance explained in statistical models of germination with respect to light, branch growth rate, host tree provenance and tree effects was lower than that explained in models of establishment (20.3 compared with 33.2% for A. flavida; 35.9 compared with 73.7% for P. tetrapetala). 5. While branch growth rate and host tree provenance were significant variables in the P. tetrapetala establishment model, the most significant effect for both species was due to individual trees within provenances (24.9 and 42.8% of total deviance, respectively, for A. flavida and P. tetrapetala). 6. Even when a range of factors are accounted for (including branch growth rate and host tree provenance), there is still a large degree of unpredictability in mistletoe establishment that reflects either inherent or environmental conditions associated with individual trees.
3599214|1. Carbon gain during phenological avoidance of canopy shade by an understorey plant depends on the extent of avoidance, the leaf stage during avoidance, and whether young and old leaves can exploit greater light availability in spring and autumn. 2. For Asimina triloba (L.) Dunal., Aesculus glabra Willd., Acer saccharum Marsh., Lindera benzoin (L.) Blume and Carpinus caroliniana Walt. in a deciduous forest in Illinois, USA, spring avoidance with leaves at full size ranged from 0 days for Asimina to 24 days for Aesculus, and brought 36-98% of estimated total annual irradiance. Autumn avoidance was non-existent to minimal in all species. 3. Total chlorophyll reached maximum concentrations at the middle of leaf life span, and declined well before senescence. Leaf nitrogen concentrations and net photosynthetic capacity both peaked in youngest leaves during spring avoidance, and were low in old leaves during autumn avoidance. 4. Aesculus had especially high photosynthetic capacity during precanopy closure, while Asimina had relatively low capacity in its later developing leaves. 5. Young leaves of species with phenological avoidance can enhance C gain, while old leaves in autumn do not. Thus phenological avoidance in spring may enhance the persistence of understorey woody individuals of some species.
3599059|1. Genes for insecticide resistance are usually traded against other fitness traits. However, in Tribolium castaneum, the opposite effect occurs under malathion-specific resistance: susceptible individuals show reduced reproductive success compared with resistant lines. 2. To determine the mechanisms within this unusual relationship, we explored male fertilization success after sperm competition between homozygotes of two isogenic lines that were only either resistant or susceptible to malathion. We also measured key male reproductive traits known to influence sperm competition and reproductive success. 3. Malathion-resistant males were superior sperm competitors than susceptible ones, which explains the rapid proliferation of the resistant genotype. This reproductive advantage was associated with increased ejaculate sperm number and sperm length for males carrying the resistance gene. Conversely, susceptible males have absolutely and relatively larger testis size. 4. Resistance to malathion is conferred by an increase in activity of a qualitatively variant detoxifying carboxylesterase enzyme compared to the 'original' enzyme composition in susceptible populations. Carboxylesterases also play important and conserved roles in sperm development, maturation and possibly fertilization in different taxa. 5. Our findings reveal a potential pleiotropic link between a single gene that codes for both insecticide resistance and influences key male reproductive traits through the regulation of carboxylesterase production.
10.2307/2390113|1. The reproductive characteristics of 27 species of shrubs of coastal macchia from southern Italy were investigated. 2. There are two main groups of species, anemophilous and entomophilous. 3. Amongst the entomophilous species are two diverging trends in reproductive characteristics, towards either a group of dioecious, small-flowered, fleshy-fruited, few-to one-seeded, vegetatively spreading species or to an hermaphrodite, large-flowered, dry-fruited, many-seeded, non-vegetatively spreading group. 4. The relationships between breeding system and both fruit type and seed number were examined for 129 shrubs of the maquis and 111 of the sclerophyllous forest of the Mediterranean. In both habitats, fleshy fruits and low seed number are significantly associated with dioecy, and dry fruits and single seed with monoecy: only high seed number is associated with the hermaphrodites. 5. A close examination of the breeding system of Phillyrea latifolia at the population level at Castelvolturno indicates that there is unexpected deviation from reported characteristics. This species is characterized by a high proportion of female-sterile plants. These male plants are present in numerical excess and produce greater numbers of flowers per node than their hermaphrodite counterparts. 6. It is suggested that the primary selective factor operating on the diversity of pollination and breeding system in the shrubs of the Mediterranean is resource limitation caused by nutrient and water stress, but there is no single strategy of reproduction adapted to this environment.
10.2307/2389967|1. Physical space provides access to light, soil water and nutrients. In crowded neighbourhoods, these resources are quickly depleted. At the same time, physical space may become less available and increasingly fragmented. The present study examines whether constraining the deployment of roots through the occupation of below-ground space by neighbouring plants can affect plant growth. The below-ground spatial environment was fragmented with increasing densities of artificial root systems. The artificial root systems provided physical obstruction, fragmenting the below-ground spatial environment, but were not physiologically active, thus decoupling the availability of space from the resources contained therein. 2. Fragmenting the below-ground physical space available to roots resulted in reduced plant growth. 3. The reduction in growth of plants constrained in the deployment of their roots was not affected by water availability. 4. The reduction in growth of plants constrained in the deployment of their roots was not detected at higher nutrient levels, suggesting that growth reductions may have been mediated through reduced plant nutrition. 5. There were differences among species in sensitivity to fragmented below-ground spatial environment. 6. Although we did not directly assess patterns of root deployment, our results suggest that flexibility in the deployment of roots in response to a fragmented below-ground spatial environment may be a potential mechanism by which plants might maximize resource capture in competitive environments.
10.2307/2389303|The bunchgrass, Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash-Gould, is often the dominant species on unproductive, nitrogen-poor, sandy soils in Minnesota. Removal of all neighbouring plant biomass within a 2 m radius of individual Schizachyrium scoparium bunches resulted in a 3.8-fold increase in the biomass of S. scoparium bunches and demonstrated that the neighbouring plants had been reducing the level of extractable ammonium plus nitrate by 3.9-fold. Contrary to Grime's (1979) assertion, this suggests that there may be strong competition in this unproductive habitat. The mechanism of competition may be nutrient consumption. Schizachyrium scoparium significantly reduced nitrate and ammonium levels within a 60-75 cm radius around individual plants, with the magnitude of reduction decreasing with distance from an individual. The neighbourhood from which a S. scoparium bunch obtains nitrogen thus had an area of 1-1.5 m<sup>2</sup> and may include hundreds of other individual plants.
826670|1. The leaf gas exchange and water potential (
10.2307/2389688|Despite a general paucity of genetic variation, colonies of honey-bees, Apis mellifera L., usually contain genetic variation for the soluble form of the enzyme malate dehydrogenase (s-MDH). To determine whether this genetic variation influenced the physiology of honey-bees, we examined the maximal metabolic rate (VO<sub>2</sub>max) during hovering flight of the common s-MDH genotypes. Among workers, heterozygotes and slow homozygotes had similar, low VO<sub>2</sub>maxs and the fast homozygote had the highest. In drones, the pattern was reversed: the VO<sub>2</sub>max of the slow haplotype exceeded that of the fast haplotype. In both males and females, the variances of VO<sub>2</sub>max were heteroscedastic among s-MDH genotypes and the genotype with the highest VO<sub>2</sub>max also had the highest variance. The data suggest that there may be kinetic differences among s-MDH allozymes. Drones had significantly higher thoracic temperatures than workers. The reversal of favoured genotypes in workers and drones may be related to the difference in thoracic temperature between them.
2656350|1. Brown Trout Salmo trutta L. life-history traits were studied in 17 coastal streams with mean annual water discharges 1 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, and with anadromous and freshwater resident trout present in all streams. 2. Mean smolt length and age were positively correlated with mean annual water discharge and latitude. The variation (CV) in smolt length and age was negatively correlated with water discharge. Mean length and age at maturity were also positively correlated with mean annual water discharge. 3. Freshwater resident females were sparse (mean: 3.7%) but males were abundant in all the investigated populations (mean 48.9%). Mean body length at maturity of resident males increased with discharge in parallel to that of the anadromous males. Mean length at maturity increased with smolt length in anadromous males, but not females. Mean sea-age at maturity in females, but not males, was negatively correlated with smolt age. 4. It is concluded that several life-history traits of Brown Trout are strongly influenced by habitat variables associated with the size of small nursery streams.
40963560|1. Temperature is considered one of the most important mediators of phenotypic plasticity in ectotherms, resulting in predictable changes in egg size. However, the fitness consequences of temperature-induced plasticity in egg size are not well understood and are often assessed at mild temperatures, whereas in the field, extreme temperatures will occur. 2. In this study we investigated egg size plasticity and fitness-linked traits of eggs in response to temperature in the springtail Orchesella cincta. Eggs were oviposited at two temperatures (16 and 20 C), and transplanted to 10, 15 and 20 C for rearing, or exposed to temperature shock (-6 and 38 C) to measure survival, development rate and growth. 3. Eggs oviposited at 16 C had a greater volume and dry weight than eggs oviposited at 20 C but had similar lipid content. Eggs oviposited at 16 C had high survival at all rearing temperatures, whereas survival of eggs oviposited at 20 C declined at lower rearing temperatures and was significantly lower than survival of large eggs when reared at 10 and 15 C. No difference in egg development rate was found between oviposition temperatures, although development rate increased with rearing temperature. Juveniles were 5-10% larger when hatching from eggs oviposited at 16 C, independent of the temperature at which the eggs were reared. 4. Eggs oviposited at 16 C were more resistant to thermal stress, as their survival after exposure to cold or heat shock was higher than survival of eggs oviposited at 20 C. However, egg development rate of the eggs that survived temperature shock was not different from the control, independent of egg oviposition temperature. 5. Our results show that temperature-induced plasticity in O. cincta affects fitness-linked traits of offspring through increased hatchling size and increased thermal tolerance of eggs produced at lower temperatures. 6. The increased resistance to thermal stress of O. cincta eggs oviposited at lower temperatures may provide a protective strategy in uncertain thermal environments.
10.2307/2389963|1. Much controversy has attended discussions of the factors responsible for variation in rate of metabolism in mammals. 2. Potential factors were examined here by analysis of covariance to determine whether they correlate with basal rate of metabolism in mammals. 3. Variation in body mass, taxonomic affiliation, food habits, climate, activity level, propensity to enter torpor and form of reproduction accounts for almost all variation in the basal rate of metabolism in mammals. 4. In all analyses body mass had the greatest impact on basal rate. Often it was the only factor to influence basal rate in small or ecologically constricted sets of species. 5. As the number of species and the ecological diversity of the assemblage increased, the number of factors significantly associated with basal rate increased. 6. In several sets of species the exclusion of taxonomic affiliation brought one or more ecological factors into significance. This pattern suggests that much of the correlation of basal rate with taxonomic affiliation indirectly reflects ecological correlates.
41239278|1. Endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are chemicals that interfere with proper hormonal functioning in exposed animals. They enter the natural environment through multiple sources, and many non-target wildlife species are exposed to them via several modes. Exposure causes altered hormone levels, importantly gonadal hormones, resulting in changed reproductive characteristics. 2. Vertebrate male mating signals convey important mate quality information to females. These signals are dependent on androgens for their production and maintenance. Female responses to signals depend on oestrogens. Disrupting these pathways jeopardizes signal production and reception, which has implications for mating system ecology. 3. Besides affecting various aspects of the vertebrate physiology, EDCs can impair hormonal functioning by binding to or blocking hormone receptors, or by altering production and function of hormones or hormone receptors. 4. We consider the ecological implications of multi-generational signal disruption by EDCs. Altered signals can influence population dynamics and sex ratios; local extinctions are possible. Community-level dynamics may be affected via interspecific dependence on signals or population fluctuations. 5. We then address the evolutionary effects of EDC-altered male mating signals in vertebrates and discuss how females may respond to altered signals over evolutionary time. Trans-generational reduction in signal reliability can lead to reduced preference and eventual loss of the signal trait and to the evolution of new traits as signals of mate quality. Genetic divergence between endocrine disrupted and undisrupted populations may result, perhaps giving rise to speciation. 6. Finally, we recommend areas of research to further explore some of the issues addressed in this review. We suggest field surveys to document existing alterations in mating systems and genetic divergence in endocrine disrupted populations. Long-term mesocosm studies and mathematical models would be useful to predict the fate of mating signals and female responses as a result of prolonged endocrine disruption. EDCs have been the focus of ecotoxicology for some time now, and we feel that this analysis should now enter the realm of evolutionary biology to determine the subtle, yet far-reaching effects on exposed non-target wildlife.
10.2307/2390580|1. Simulated late frost was applied to five herbaceous plant communities in Derbyshire, UK. The results establish a clear positive relationship between the frost resistance of the above-ground biomass and independently published estimates of genome size. 2. Previous studies have established that in small genome species the dependence of growth upon current cell divisions dictates that development is delayed until warmer summer conditions. As a result of this, we suggest that selection pressures promoting frost tolerance will have been less pronounced in these species and that in temperate climates their potential responsiveness to global warming could be curtailed by the continued occurrence of late-frost events.
3806537| 1. To examine the hypothesis that stimulation of immune function plays a role in periodic arousal from hibernation, bacterial growth during hibernation was estimated using a simple mathematical model of the general dynamics of bacterial abundance at body temperatures experienced during hibernation. 2. In the model, periodic arousals were important for animals infected with Salmonella at body temperatures above 7 C, but not below. In contrast, periodic arousals appeared to be important at all temperatures examined when infected with several species of coliform bacteria and Pseudomonas, species that grow well at low temperatures. 3. The modelled outputs were compared with torpor patterns seen in captive European Ground Squirrels, Spermophilus citellus, under natural light and temperature conditions. We used maximum likelihood to estimate model parameters and show that the six bacterial species examined are consistent with the immune stimulation hypothesis. 4. Our analyses suggest that bacterial infection could be a selective force on torpor behaviour and warrants further experimental investigation. 
2656557|1. This study tests a model of the relationship of body mass to reproductive power (the rate of conversion of energy from the environment to an organism's offspring). Specifically tested is the prediction that the regression of life-history variables on body size will change slope and sign about an `optimum' body mass of 100 g. 2. Life-history data from the mammalian order Insectivora have been collated and analysed using a phylogenetic comparative method to test this prediction. 3. The analyses showed little evidence for significant changes in slope or sign around 100 g body mass, or other possible optimal body masses, contradicting the predictions of the model. These findings agree with those of similar analyses on life-history variables of bats.
10.2307/2389627|A single study (Morse et al., 1985; Lawton, 1986) has demonstrated that transects across woody plant surfaces are fractal. An important feature of a fractal curve or surface is that its length or area respectively become disproportionately large as the unit of measurement is decreased (Sugihara & May, 1990). This implies that for woody plant surfaces, there should be more usable space for smaller animals (small unit of measurement) than for larger ones. There should consequently be more small animals than large animals, and the precise slope of this relationship should be predictable from the fractal dimension of the surface and individual rates of resource use (Lawton, 1986). However, if this explanation for the distribution of arthropod body sizes is correct, it should be scale independent. Here we show that transects across small-scale surfaces (lichens) are fractal, and that the body-size distribution of the small arthropods found on them can similarly be predicted from the fractal dimension.
40863591|1. The extent to which seedling recruitment contributes to local functional diversity depends on the environmental filters operating in a plant community. Classical community assembly models assume that habitat constraints and competition act like hierarchical filters with habitat filtering as the dominant one. Alternative models assume a synergic interaction since responses to environmental stress and competition may impose physiological trade-offs in plants. 2. River floodplains are an ideal system to test the relationship between habitat and competition filtering in community (re) assembly, as flooding causes changes in both habitat stress (waterlogging, resulting in anoxia and toxicity) and competition (dieback of vegetation) on one hand and acts as an effective seed dispersal vector on the other hand. 3. We conducted a mesocosm experiment on early community assembly from a pool of 34 floodplain species covering a wetness gradient. Seed mixtures were sown in a full factorial design with water level, canopy and mowing as controlling factors. We measured the biomass of all species after one growing season and determined germination and seedling growth traits, both outside (response to waterlogging/no waterlogging) and in a growth-chamber (response to light/darkness). 4. Species recruitment was analysed in relation to the controlling factors and measured functional traits using co-inertia analysis. Furthermore we analysed the effects of the controlling factors on several aspects of functional diversity. 5. There was no establishment in grass sward, unless mowing was applied. Species-rich communities only developed when germination and early establishment phases occurred on waterlogged bare soil. High water level did not suppress establishment but reduced the total biomass and lowered inter-specific competition. The effect of mowing on species richness depended upon the interplay between waterlogging and canopy. 6. Establishment success under canopy required seedling strategies to tolerate shade. The elimination of typical wetland specialists from oxic mesocosms was clearly an effect of their poorer and/or slower germination and lower competitive abilities in comparison to non-wetland plants, leading to their disappearance in this low-stress environment. 7. Our results indicate that single stress factors can enhance species richness and functional diversity through limiting competition but a synergic interaction of different stresses can lead to reduced richness.
10.2307/2390018|1. The effect of seasonal water availability on phenology and shoot total non-structural carbohydrate (TNC) of three Psychotria species was investigated by irrigating two large plots of mature tropical forest in Panama during the dry season for five consecutive years. This study reports results for the fifth and final year of irrigation. 2. Irrigation did not affect total production of leaves, inflorescences or infructescenes but did advance the timing of leaf production in all Psychotria, and advanced the timing of inflorescence production in P. furcata and P. marginata and infructescence production in P. furcata. Irrigation also reduced shoot TNC levels. 3. Shoot TNC levels in all three species of Psychotria showed similar depressions at the end of the dry season and maximum levels near the end of the wet season. Depletion of shoot TNC occurred just before or during peak leaf production but did not coincide with production of inflorescences or infructescences. Therefore, we hypothesize that shoot TNC supported part of the cost of new leaf production but production of inflorescences and infructescences was most likely supported by current photosynthate. 4. Tropical plants generally show less seasonal variation in TNC than plants from more variable climates but stored carbon still plays an important role in the growth of Psychotria, although its direct role in reproduction appears limited.
3598975|1. In birds, early breeding individuals generally reproduce more successfully than late breeding individuals. The lack of response to this selection could be explained by resource constraints during the egg production period. 2. Parus species can learn from the mismatch experienced between breeding time and nestling food availability and subsequently adjust their breeding time accordingly. In two Great Tit populations, breeding time was manipulated by creating an artificial food peak. This allowed us to study fitness consequences of manipulated breeding time in the following year without the confounding effects of food supplementation. 3. In one population, manipulated females advanced their laying dates in response to the artificial food peak. However, sample sizes were too low to quantify fitness consequences. In the other population, no response to the treatment was found. This difference could be caused by differences in resource availability in early spring between the two habitats. Low resource availability in early spring could also explain the lack of response to selection observed in one population.
4139345|1. Plant defensive compounds and predation risk are main determinants of herbivore foraging, though empirical studies have seldom measured the combined effects of these two factors. By considering the interaction between the herb Helleborus foetidus and its main fruit and seed predator, the Wood Mouse Apodemus sylvaticus, we evaluated whether the defensive role against seed predators of compounds present in H. foetidus unripe fruits holds across a micro-landscape that differs in foraging costs (i.e. predation risk). 2. First, we used standardized food patches that simulated fruiting H. foetidus plants to ascertain fruit preferences of captive mice. Then, by means of field experiments, we assessed the combined effects of fruit ripening and predation risk on foraging by free-ranging mice. 3. Captive mice avoided plants with unripe fruit and avoided consuming unripe fruits within a particular plant. Free-ranging mice also avoided unripe fruits in safe microhabitats (rocky substrate), but not in risky micro (bare ground) where few fruits were consumed. This unexpected result may be driven by predation risk experienced by mice foraging on H. foetidus fruits, and/or plant defensive compounds acting in a dose-dependent manner. 4. Frugivorous mice responded to both chemical defences present in unripe H. foetidus fruits as well as to predation cost though such response was sequential. Plant defence compounds appeared to play a part in mouse foraging only after mice selected low predation risk microhabitats. 5. Our study indicates that both digestive and ecological factors influence foraging decisions, which in turn affects pressures exerted by herbivores on plant populations.
3599023|1. Most plants withdraw nutrients from leaves as they age, and redeploy them elsewhere in the plant. The proportion of nutrients resorbed and the residual nutrient concentration in senesced leaves are different but complementary indices of nutrient conservation via this process. A major spectrum of strategic variation runs from plant species with typically long leaf lifespan (LL), high leaf mass per area (LMA), low leaf nutrient concentrations, and low photosynthetic capacity, to species with the opposite characteristics. It is unknown to what extent either facet of resorption covaries with the LL-LMA spectrum. 2. Green-leaf and senesced-leaf N and P concentrations were quantified for 73 evergreen species from four sites in eastern Australia (nutrient-rich and nutrient-poor sites in each of two rainfall zones). Leaf nutrient concentrations in green and senesced leaves were negatively correlated with LL across all species and at most sites, especially if N
40603040|1. High alpine plants endure a cold climate with short growing seasons entailing severe consequences of an improper timing of development. Hence, their flowering phenology is expected to be rigorously controlled by climatic factors. 2. We studied ten alpine plant species from habitats with early and late melting snow cover for 2 years and compared the synchronizing effect of temperature sums (TS), time of snowmelt (SM) and photoperiod (PH) on their flowering phenology. Intraseasonal and habitat-specific variation in the impact of these factors was analysed by comparing predictions of time-to-event models using linear mixed-effects models. 3. Temperature was the overwhelming trigger of flowering phenology for all species. Its synchronizing effect was strongest at or shortly after flowering indicating the particular importance of phenological control of pollination. To some extent, this pattern masks the common trend of decreasing phenological responses to climatic changes from the beginning to the end of the growing season for lowland species. No carry-over effects were detected. 4. As expected, the impact of photoperiod was weaker for snowbed species than for species inhabiting sites with early melting snow cover, while for temperature the reverse pattern was observed. 5. Our findings provide strong evidence that alpine plants will respond quickly and directly to increasing temperature without considerable compensation due to photoperiodic control of phenology.
3599361| 1. Plant responses to water availability may change over time due to seasonality, interannual variation and developmental changes. Our past investigations demonstrated that male and female Boxelder (Acer negundo) exhibit differences in their responses to water availability. Here we use the genders as a model system to: (1) examine if cultural conditions have an effect on instantaneous gas exchange and time-integrated carbon isotope discrimination (); (2) compare these physiological responses across a range of temporal scales (seasonal, annual, interannual); and (3) describe the responses of the genders at different ages to water availability. 2. Under well watered conditions, differences in instantaneous leaf gas exchange and  were observed between the genders at all developmental stages. Within a gender,  was similar throughout the growing season and between years, indicating a conserved physiological set-point despite changing growth conditions. When water stress was imposed, females exhibited greater reductions in photosynthetic rate and higher stomatal limitations to photosynthesis than males. 3. For well watered plants, a strong correlation existed between time-integrated intercellular leaf
20142776|1. In temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) species, offspring sex-ration is dependent on the environmental temperature. For oviparous sauropsid species, temperature within the nest influences gonadal sexual differentiation during a small window of embryogenesis called the thermosensitive period (TSP). 2. The absence of sexual dimorphic characteristic in juveniles of TSD species coupled with the lack of a non-invasive method to determine sex is a great obstacle to studies estimating sex-ratios under natural conditions. Some authors have proposed proxies of sex-ratio obtained through correlative approaches. They commonly extrapolate the empirical profile of sex-ratios as a function of constant incubation temperature established for several species in the laboratory to a field context. However, most of these proxies have been refuted by studies realized under field conditions, and consequently they cannot be used to predict sex-ratio under natural conditions. 3. Here, we propose a new thermal model of TSD using a mechanistic approach. We built this model from a collection of published data of physiological processes (i.e. the growth of the embryo, the growth of gonads and the activity of the enzyme aromatase) underlying the TSD mechanism, for the European pond turtle (Emys orbicularis). This new approach provides integration of incubation temperature fluctuations, as well as the cumulative and differential effect of high and low temperatures on sexual differentiation to embryo sex determination. 4. The significant consistency obtained between observed and predicted sex-ratios both at diverse constant and fluctuating incubation temperatures provides hope to develop an efficient method to predict sex-ratio under natural conditions. The reliable validity of this new model could have wide-ranging implications for the understanding of the TSD mechanism, as well as its evolutionary and ecological consequences in natural populations.
826746|1. It has been suggested that leaf size may represent a foraging scale, with smaller-leaved species exploiting and requiring higher resource concentrations that are available in smaller patches. 2. Among 26 shrub species from a sclerophyll woodland community in New South Wales, Australia, species with smaller leaves tended to occur in better light environments, after controlling for height. The dark respiration rates of small-leaved species tended to exceed those of larger-leaved species. 3. However, the higher-light environments where smaller-leaved species tended to occur had a patch scale larger than whole plants. There would not have been any foraging-scale impediment to large-leaved species occupying these higher-light patches. An alternative explanation for small-leaved species being more successful in higher-light patches, in this vegetation with moderate shading, might be that they were less prone to leaf overheating. 4. Such relationships of leaf size to light across species at a given height may be important contributors to the wide spread of leaf sizes among species within a vegetation type, along with patterns down the light profile of the canopy, and effects associated with architecture and ramification strategy.
10.2307/2389637|Mechanical factors relevant to the germination and predation of Mezzettia leptopoda (Hk. f. et Thoms.) Oliv. (Annonaceae) seeds are described. The seed shell is composed of two types of sclerenchyma. Intertwining fibres predominate but roughly isodiametric cells are found in a narrow band encircling the seed. At one end of the band is a woody plug partially separated from the shell. The cotyledons of the mature seed are in the same plane as the band and are apparently saturated with water. An analysis based on fracture mechanics suggests that the band and plug probably act to allow a clam-like shell opening in germination due to turgor pressure of the cotyledons while minimizing the chance of predation on the seed. A circular channel intervening between the cotyledons and band acts as a crack-stopper to prevent the embryo from peeling away from the endosperm. The complexity of shell structure is most plausibly a defence against those megafaunal (mammalian) predators that crack the shell rather than microfauna which abrade it and for whom the shell probably presents a more homogeneous obstacle.
10.2307/2389740|This paper describes a new dual-labelling technique to measure the relative assimilation efficiency of invertebrates taking up the trace metal zinc from food. The technique has the potential to be extended to other metals. The method relies on the comparison of the ratios in the food and faeces of a non-assimilated metal isotope (<sup>60</sup>Co) to a metal isotope with the potential to be assimilated (<sup>65</sup>Zn).
41319585|1. Among-species differences in the expression of constitutive and plastic traits may shape species distributions within a community. For many systems, the relationships among individual species' phenotypes, particularly morphological plasticity, and performance and distribution are poorly understood. 2. I tested whether three co-occurring species of marine snails in the genus Nucella differed in their constitutive and inducible defences against crabs, in terms of growth and shell architectural defence. I also tested whether among-species trait differences were associated with interspecific differences in antipredator performance (resistance to crushing) and distributions along a vertical tidal emersion gradient on rocky shores where the snails co-occur. 3. Species distributed lower on the shore and thus exposed to crabs for longer periods of time exhibited higher constitutive growth rates than the upper-shore species. Lower-shore species also exhibited greater inducible reductions in somatic growth and increases in shell thickening than the upper-shore species. Plastic alterations of the scaling relationship between shell-thickness and somatic growth (i.e. greater shell mass per body mass) enabled the two lower-shore species to produce stronger, more crab-resistant shells in the presence of crabs than their upper-shore congener. 4. Results suggest that species-specific differences in both constitutive and inducible shell defence and growth reflect growth/mortality tradeoffs that are associated with species' vertical distributions along a prdation risk gradient. Thus, adaptive differences in inducible morphological defenses should be considered along with more traditionally studied traits such as behaviour and constitutive morphological defenses, when examining traits that influence patterns of species distribution along environmental gradients.
2656377|1. We quantified geitonogamous selfing in Echium vulgare, a self-compatible, bumble-bee pollinated plant. A maximum estimate of selfing was determined using a paternity analysis with RAPDs. In the first experiment, bumble-bees visited a sequence of virgin flowers. The percentage selfing increased rapidly from 12% in the first flower visited, up to 50% in the 15th flower visited in the sequence. In the second experiment, when bees visited plants in a natural population, the average selfing of plants increased with the number of open flowers from 0% to maximally 33%. 2. The results obtained in both experiments are consistently lower than predicted by our model on pollen dynamics (Rademaker, de Jong & Klinkhamer 1997). We modified the model on pollen dynamics to link it more to the field situation with observations on flower stage, flower opening and bumble-bee preference, so that the bumble-bees encounter a variable number of pollen grains per flower. We also adjusted the parameters. If less pollen adheres to the bee (25% instead of 50%) after removal from the anthers, or if bees arrive at a plant with more pollen grains (6000 instead of 4448), the predictions of the model in regard to selfing could be improved but were still high compared with the observed selfing rates measured with RAPDs. 3. We suggest that the model is consistent with pollen dynamics in the field. However, post-pollination processes like selective abortion could play a role in E. vulgare.
40205482|1. Plants use various strategies to cope with opponents. According to the plant defence theory these traits are predicted to covary across taxa and were shown to be grouped into several syndromes for Apocynaceae. Specialist herbivores tolerate or detoxify components of the plants' chemical weapons. Their development might mirror the putative defence syndromes of their hosts. This hypothesis was tested by measuring nutritive values and potential defence properties of seven species of Brassicaceae, considering leaf age. Effects of these traits were assessed on various life-history traits of the oligophagous sawfly Athalia rosae. 2. Positive correlations were found between particular plant traits. A hierarchical cluster analysis assembled plants in three distinct groups with either low nutritional quality or higher nutritional quality together with either only chemical or with chemical and mechanical defences. Although young and old leaves of each species grouped within the same clusters, age was a significant source of variation, demonstrating that ontogenetic changes in plant quality influence associations. 3. The correlations of several life-history parameters of A. rosae with each other and with plant traits were investigated. Mortality rates, developmental times and adult mass were correlated and important for insect fitness. Preference of adult females was largely influenced by larval performance. Three distinct clusters were determined, with fitness of this specialist highly depending on host plant quality. 4. Multivariate studies of the long-term performance and preference of the specialist in relation to the plant defence syndromes revealed general implications for plant - insect interactions, namely that insect traits mirror the defence syndromes of their hosts. Larval performance and adult preference were more influenced by general mechanical and chemical than by chemical plant defence traits, to which this specialist is adapted. 5. The 'plant defence syndromes hypothesis' is of general importance, however, as defence strategies and nutritional value change drastically throughout ontogeny, tissue age should be considered, and modifications on single trait associations are needed. Clusters forming plant syndromes mostly matched with clusters determined from the parameters of a specialist herbivore. Further research is needed on generalist performance, which might be differently influenced by the plants' defence strategies.
2656358|1. Leaf respiration is a major component of the terrestrial carbon cycle, but is poorly quantified for tropical forests. We measured dark respiration, R, and nutrient concentration (nitrogen, N and phosphorus, P) of leaves within two forest canopies: in Reserva Jaru, south-west Brazil; and Mbalmayo Reserve, central Cameroon. The data, expressed on a leaf area basis (R<sub>a</sub>, N<sub>a</sub>, P<sub>a</sub>) and a leaf mass basis (R<sub>m</sub>, N<sub>m</sub>, P<sub>m</sub>), were used to quantify the temperature sensitivity of R and to test the hypothesis that leaf metabolism is more strongly constrained by phosphorus than by nitrogen in these lowland rainforests. 2. Leaf respiration rate (R<sub>a</sub>, at 25<sup></sup>C) at Jaru was nearly half that at Mbalmayo (the range in R<sub>a</sub> from near the ground to the upper canopy was 0.11-0.78 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> at Jaru versus 0.22-1.19 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> at Mbalmayo), and the mean Q<sub>10</sub> for respiration at each site was 2.3  0.9 (1 SD) and 2.0  0.5 (1 SD), respectively. There were significant differences (P < 0.01) between sites in leaf phosphorus concentration, but not in leaf nitrogen concentration: P<sub>m</sub> was very low at Jaru (0.2-0.7 mg g<sup>-1</sup>) but higher at Mbalmayo (0.5-2.4 mg g<sup>-1</sup>), whilst N<sub>m</sub> was similar at both forests (10-45 mg g<sup>-1</sup>). 3. R<sub>m</sub> was not significantly associated with canopy position or specific leaf area (SLA, m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) in either forest, but a significant relationship between SLA and N<sub>m</sub> was found for both sites (P < 0.05), consistent with existing data. At Jaru, R<sub>m</sub> was strongly related to P<sub>m</sub> (P < 0.001) and less strongly related to N<sub>m</sub> (P < 0.05), but at Mbalmayo, R<sub>m</sub> was not significantly related to either P<sub>m</sub> or N<sub>m</sub>. 4. R<sub>a</sub> was linearly related to N<sub>a</sub> and P<sub>a</sub> at both sites (P < 0.01), principally because of changes in leaf mass per area (LMA, g m<sup>-2</sup>) associated with canopy position. At Mbalmayo, LMA explained 70% of the variation in R<sub>a</sub>, but only 20% at Jaru. For Jaru, the strongest relationship with R<sub>a</sub> was obtained by combining LMA with P<sub>m</sub> in a multiple regression (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.53); further inclusion of N<sub>m</sub> did not improve the regression. At Mbalmayo neither N<sub>m</sub> or P<sub>m</sub> improved the regression of R<sub>a</sub> on LMA. 5. These results indicate a strong influence of LMA on the relative rates of R<sub>a</sub> within the vertical gradient of each canopy. They also suggest that at Jaru P<sub>m</sub> constrains respiration more strongly than N<sub>m</sub>, and further, that the very low P<sub>m</sub> at Jaru may explain the lower absolute values of respiration there relative to Mbalmayo, where P<sub>m</sub> was higher. The leaves at both sites are typical of lowland tropical rainforests in not having particularly low N<sub>m</sub>, and consistent with this, N<sub>m</sub> was a weaker predictor of respiration than P<sub>m</sub> or LMA.
10.2307/2390288|1. The addition of mass to an animal may reduce its locomotory capabilities and thus increase the predation risk. The effects of recent feeding on locomotor and escape performance of juvenile Psammodromus algirus lizards were examined. The consequences of a full stomach on the movement rate and locomotor patterns of lizards when walking spontaneously, and on their escape response from a simulated predator, were specifically analysed to determine whether juvenile lizards were able to compensate through modifications of behaviour for the possible locomotory difficulties derived from a full stomach. 2. The results indicated that feeding did not significantly affect the rate of spontaneous movements. However, voluntary locomotor patterns were partially affected. Thus, after feeding, individuals moved to significantly slower burst speeds, and also decreased significantly the frequency of pauses. 3. The escape performance was also significantly affected by feeding. In an individual escape run, lizards decreased their initial speed, although their burst speed did not change, and escaped over longer periods, stopping at greater distances. The endurance of the escape response in a continuous predator attack also decreased significantly after feeding, and lizards ran on less occasions and for shorter periods before becoming exhausted and hiding. 4. The possible consequences of reduced locomotory abilities on fitness are discussed. It is proposed that, by changing their behaviour, juveniles may reduce these costs. This may allow them to consume large amounts of food at a time without incurring a higher predation risk.
10.2307/2389796|1 Three sets of data are examined for evidence of niche limitation expressed as a deficit of variance in the number of species per sample, as compared to a null model with species occurring independently of each other. 2 An agricultural field of permanent pasture was sampled with contiguous quadrats. It showed no variance deficit but rather a significant variance excess. Subdividing the field floristically or environmentally to achieve greater homogeneity did not reduce this excess. 3 A fixed dune slope was sampled by a line of contiguous quadrats and analysed as quadrat sizes in the range 20 mm x 20 mm to 1 m x 20 mm. There was no variance deficit at any quadrat size; at quadrat sizes up to 100 mm x 20 mm there was significant variance excess. 4 A reanalysis of Patrick's (1968) diatom data gave a variance deficit one year (but P = 0.5) and an excess the next. 5 It is questionable whether the concepts of niche limitation, and hence of species packing, are meaningful if they cannot be demonstrated even in favourable circumstances.
40205502|1. Nutrition influences most aspects of animal ecology: juvenile growth rates and adult mass gain, body condition, probability of pregnancy, over-winter survival, timing of parturition, and neonatal birth mass and survival. We provide an overview among ungulates of the extent of these influences resulting from interactions among bioenergetics, foraging, and nutritional demands. 2. Body condition of an animal is the integrator of nutritional intake and demands, affecting both survival and reproduction. The deposition and mobilization of body fat and body protein vary with physiological requirements and environmental conditions as species use dietary income and body stores to integrate the profits of summer and the demands of winter. Results from our simulation model and uncertainty analysis of the influence of body mass and changes in body composition of Rangifer over winter indicate that percent body fat rather than body mass in early winter is most important in determining whether animals die, live without reproducing, or live and reproduce. Animal responses are also sensitive to rates of change in body protein. Depending on timing of calving and maternal reserves, seasonal habitats vary in their nutritional value for the production of offspring. 3. For free-ranging animals, life is a balance among numerous ecological factors, including nutritional requirements, nutritional resources to meet those demands, and intra-and inter-specific interactions. Predation effects on population demography may mask nutritional limitations of habitat. We suggest that over the long term of life histories, ungulates use seasonal strategies that minimize the maximum detriment, and that the basis for most strategies is nutritional.
40205528|1. The objective of this study was to test the theoretical prediction that the thermal tolerance range for development in insects should be about 20 C. 2. The data on the thermal requirements for development of 66 species from eight orders of insects was obtained from the literature. The temperatures at which the developmental rates are at their minimum and maximum was obtained for each population by defining the relationship between developmental rate (1/D) and temperature, using either Lactin et al.'s (1995) or Brire et al.'s (1999) model. 3. Thermal windows, i.e. the range in temperature between the minimum and maximum rate of development for individual species, and the relationship between the minimum and maximum temperatures, were examined. 4. The mean thermal window, 198 C with 95% confidence interval 191-205 and range 133-286, was influenced by species phylogeny, with the windows narrower for species having a true pupal stage, but not by ecological traits thought to affect species thermal requirements. The relationship between the minimum and maximum temperatures was highly significant and independent of species phylogeny. 5. Theory and this analysis of empirical data indicate that each species of insect can only develop over a limited range of temperatures independent of species traits. In addition, the relationship between the minimum and maximum developmental rates co-vary independent of species phylogeny. This may help identify the precise nature of the physiological mechanism underlying the seasonal development and distribution of insects, and possibly other ectotherms.
20142798| 1. Measures of the field metabolic rate of marine mammals are extremely difficult to make but they are essential for assessing the impacts of marine mammals on prey populations, and for assessing dive performance in relation to aerobic limits. 2. The doubly labelled water (DLW) method is an isotope-based technique for the estimation of the CO production, and hence energy expenditure, of free-living animals. Estimates of field metabolic rate (FMR) from DLW in pinnipeds to date are extremely high and at the upper range for most mammals. DLW has previously been validated in pinnipeds but logistical difficulties meant for these validations were less than ideal, and it has been hypothesised that DLW may overestimate FMR in these animals. 3. To test this hypothesis, we used DLW and simultaneous open-flow respirometry to determine the daily energy expenditures (DEE) of wild grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) held temporarily in a captive facility, during 4-5 days of simulated foraging at sea. Comparing DEE from DLW and respirometry, we found that DLW predicted DEE accurately (average difference between the two estimates was 07% SD = 17% n = 31), but as with validations of other species there was a large range of individual errors (from -39% to +44%). 4. The results dispel the doubts surrounding the use of DLW as a field method for estimating energy expenditure in grey seals, and by implication other pinnipeds, and simultaneously open a series of questions about their ability to maintain surprisingly high metabolic rates for protracted periods. 5. We make a number of recommendations for future studies of pinniped FMR using DLW. We suggest use of the Speakman two-pool calculation will be most appropriate. Studies should aim for enrichment levels as high as economically feasible but to at least 150 p.p.m. above background for the O isotope. Measurement periods should be extended between one and two half-lives (5-10 days for a typical foraging seal). We also encourage the calculation and presentation of estimates of precision in estimates of FMR. 
40963553|1. Individual plants are often simultaneously consumed by many different organisms and mediate important indirect interactions between their consumers, even when their consumers are phylogenetically distant and feed on different parts of the plant. 2. We examined the effects on two xylem feeders of sharing a plant host in greenhouse pot trials and outdoor mesocosms. The spittle bug Neophilaenus lineatus, which feeds on grass shoots, and a hemiparasitic angiosperm, Rhinanthus minor, which attaches to the roots, were added separately or together on grass host plants growing in pots or in model grassland swards. 3. We found strong asymmetric competition between the hemiparasite and the insect. In greenhouse experiments, sharing a grass host with R. minor significantly increased mortality of N. lineatus, but R. minor performance was unaffected. 4. Mortality of N. lineatus was also increased on swards containing R. minor in model communities grown in the field. R. minor was more sensitive to sharing a host with N. lineatus in these communities, and experienced a modest (non-significant) reduction in flower production. 5. The hemiparasite was the stronger competitor for xylem resources, possibly because of its ability to extract resources from the plant roots, and because of its significant ability to appropriate the xylem stream via its strong transpirational pull. 6. We believe these are the first experiments to demonstrate competition between insect herbivores and hemiparasitic plants mediated via a shared host plant. The consequences for the invertebrate population were potentially highly significant and we propose that future research should further explore the role of this asymmetric relationship in structuring invertebrate communities.
40205540|1. Communal roosting behaviour in birds is hypothesized to reduce the risk of starvation by lowering the energetic expenditure required to survive the night. However, the metabolic benefit gained is likely to depend on various factors, including an individual's position within the roost. 2. The long-tailed tit Aegithalos caudatus L. is a social species that lives in flocks during the nonbreeding season, forming linear roosting huddles in which individuals compete to avoid occupying the peripheral positions at either end of the roost. Using observations of 18 temporarily captive flocks of long-tailed tits, we examine the effects of position and other factors on the mass lost during roosting. 3. We found that, on average, long-tailed tits lost about 9% of their body mass overnight, and that individuals occupying the peripheral positions in a roost lost significantly more mass than those occupying inner positions. 4. Overnight mass loss was related to minimum temperature, being greatest at 4 C and decreasing at higher and lower temperatures. This result suggests that long-tailed tits may use facultative nocturnal hypothermia to reduce energetic costs at low ambient temperature. Mass loss also tended to increase with group size, perhaps because of the greater competition for inner positions in larger flocks, although we have no direct evidence for this. Mass loss was also positively correlated with mass when going to roost, and males lost marginally more mass than females. 5. There was no evidence that individuals strategically adjusted their daily mass when going to roost in relation to their likely roosting position even though outer positions are consistently and therefore predictably occupied by the same individuals on successive nights. 6. We conclude that long-tailed tits mitigate the costs of surviving the night by roosting communally, but the benefits gained vary in relation to position within the roost, explaining previous observations of competitive interactions during roost formation. 7. The benefit derived from communal behaviour is likely to vary among individuals and the degree of conflict over these benefits is likely to depend on both intrinsic and extrinsic factors.
2656449|1. Three experiments were performed on white mice (strain MF1) to establish if there was social or physiological suppression of metabolism, mediated by elevated ambient levels of CO<sub>2</sub>, when animals were in close contact. In the first two experiments the metabolism of two mice were each measured solitarily and paired together in the same chamber, both with and without a partition that allowed visual, auditory and olfactory communication but restricted physical contact. 2. Comparisons were made between the sum of the two solitary measurements, and the observed measurements of paired individuals. In the first experiment air flow was low and ambient CO<sub>2</sub> was always at levels predicted to produce suppression (> 0.2%), independent of whether the animals were measured alone or paired. 3. The paired mice had greater metabolism than expected from the sum of their solitary metabolic rates whether the partition was present or absent. This increase was due to increased activity of the animals when in pairs. This experiment indicated that when CO<sub>2</sub> levels were maintained in the range 0.2-0.5% there was no social suppression of metabolism. 4. In experiment 2 metabolic rates were measured of solitary mice exposed to subthreshold levels of CO<sub>2</sub> ( 0.12%) and paired mice that experienced levels above the supposed threshold ( 0.24%). Again the observed metabolism of the paired mice exceeded the sum of their metabolic rates when solitary. The increase was also attributable to greater activity of the animals in pairs. 5. This experiment indicated no social suppression effect when CO<sub>2</sub> varied in the range 0.12-0.24%. Moreover there was no significant difference between the oxygen consumptions of mice in experiment 2 compared with experiment 1, indicating that independent of the social context there was no suppressive effect of increases in CO<sub>2</sub> concentration over the range 0.12-0.5% CO<sub>2</sub>. 6. Finally, in experiment 3, when two mice were placed in sequential separate chambers (allowing no social contact), their summed metabolism did not differ from the sum of their solitary measurements when a CO<sub>2</sub> absorber was placed in the airflow linking the chambers. When the CO<sub>2</sub> absorber was absent the observed metabolism of the pair exceeded the sum of the solitary measurements. 7. Overall, across all three experiments no evidence was found for either a social or a physiological suppression of metabolism mediated via CO<sub>2</sub> (0.12-0.5%).
10.2307/2389557|In milkweeds (Asclepiadaceae) pollen is produced in paired packages (pollinia) and pollination occurs when a pollinium is inserted by a pollinator into a stigmatic chamber. Previous studies have suggested that this mode of pollen delivery results in predominantly long-distance pollen dispersal. This assertion was tested for Asclepias syriaca L. A plant whose pollinia had been labelled with <sup>14</sup>C was placed within a large population of milk-weeds and a single subject umbel was exposed to honey-bee pollinators for 5 days. Hand pollinations involving another umbel on this plant verified that labelled pollinia dispersed to flowers within the umbel (geitonogamy), or to flowers on other plants, could be detected by scintillation counts. The labelled plant was at the centre of a 6 x 6 m study plot. Of the 38 insertions on the labelled umbel, 14 (37%) were from the labelled umbel itself (geitonogamy). Thirty labelled pollinia were detected in umbels on neighbouring plants within the study plot. It is estimated that few labelled pollinia were inserted into flowers outside of the study plot, although the possibility of some long-distance dispersal cannot be excluded. The results indicate that much of the pollen dispersal was short distance. This makes pollen dispersal characteristics in this species similar to those of non-milkweed species. Short-distance pollen dispersal can have important implications for A. syriaca which reproduces vegetatively and for which geitonogamous pollination does not result in fruit set.
41319620|1. Host plant quality affects herbivorous insect performance and consequently their susceptibility to natural enemies. Recently, it has been hypothesized that the immune function of herbivorous insects can be altered by their host plant, thus generating variation in their susceptibility to entomopathogens. Previous studies testing this hypothesis provided contradictory outcomes, mainly as a result of the differences in methodology such as measuring a single-immune parameter rather than considering trade-off-mediated interactions between immune defence systems of the insect. Here, we hypothesized that plant-mediated changes in insect immunity could result from the alteration of physiological immune effectors of the herbivore evident as trade-offs. 2. Larvae of an inbred strain of the European grape berry moth Eupoecilia ambiguella were reared on five artificial diets each based on a different grape variety (Chardonnay, Chasselas, Gewurztraminer, Merlot, Riesling) and tested for changes in the baseline concentration of haemocytes, activities of the prophenoloxidase (PPO) system and of antimicrobial peptides of their haemolymph. Immune responsiveness of larvae across diets was also assessed by measuring changes in haemocyte concentration and activity of the PPO system after a bacterial immune challenge. 3. We found that variation among diets significantly affected immune defences of larvae. The alteration of the E. ambiguella immune system appears plastic and partly mediated by existing physiological trade-offs between immune pathways, at least between induced antibacterial defences and the PPO system. 4. These results clearly show that host plant quality can affect immune defences and potentially disease resistance of E. ambiguella and that these changes in immunity may also result from intrinsic trade-offs between immune defence systems in insects.
20142841|1. The allometric scaling relationship between lamina and lamina support has rarely been examined, such that its significance to plant life-history strategies has not been fully explored and understood so far. We investigated the sizes of leaf lamina and petiole for 93 temperate broad-leaved woody species at two altitudes of a southwestern mountain, and analysed the scaling relationship in relation to leaf habit (evergreen vs. deciduous), leaf form (simple- vs. compound-leaved species), and habitat type (low vs. high altitude). 2. Significant allometric scaling relationships were found between petiole mass and lamina mass, and between petiole mass and lamina area, with common slopes of 0872 and 0742, respectively, both significantly departed from the value of 10. The results of phylogenetic comparative analyses were in accordance with the observed positive scaling relationships. 3. The evergreen species were found to have a greater petiole mass than the deciduous at a given lamina area; whilst a contrasting pattern was observed between lamina mass and petiole mass, in which the evergreens had a greater biomass allocation to lamina for the same petiole mass relative to the deciduous. 4. The compound-leaved species were observed to be significantly greater in both lamina area and lamina support (including petioles, rachis and petiolules) than the simple-leaved species, whereas the former had a smaller lamina area or lamina mass at a given petiole mass than the latter. 5. The plants from the high altitude had less lamina area at a given petiole investment compared to those from the lower altitude, likely due to the large mechanic and transporting requirements of petioles in the species at high altitude. 6. Our results indicate that petioles serve as an adverse forcing on the maximization of lamina area and lamina biomass and that the allometric relationship between lamina and lamina support varies with leaf habit, leaf form and habitat.
10.2307/2389889|1. It is generally assumed that the cost of producing ejaculates is relatively low for males, although the decline observed in spermatophore size with repeated mating in certain lepidopteran species would suggest that this is not always the case. However, despite such observed differences in spermatophores very little research has been done to determine if female reproductive success is affected by the previous mating history of her mate. 2. A study was undertaken, using the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis, to determine the extent to which (i) male lifetime reproductive success was related to the number of mates, acquired and the actual number of times that a male mated when provided virgin females daily for a period of 10 days, (ii) spermatophore size changed with successive matings and (iii) previous male mating history affected the longevity and the reproductive performance of singly mated females. 3. Males mated 3.8\pm 0.5 times, with a refractory period of 1.6\pm 0.1 days between mating, and their lifetime reproductive output increased directly with the number of mates acquired. 4. The volume of the first spermatophore produced was correlated to male pupal weight. Spermatophore volume decreased exponentially with subsequent matings, although the difference in volume between the first and second spermatophore was affected by the time elapsed between matings. While the decrease in spermatophore size had no effect on female longevity, pre-oviposition or oviposition periods or the daily pattern of egg fertility, there was a linear decline in both lifetime fecundity and fertility of successive mates of a given male. Furthermore, females mating with males that had previously mated at least three times retained a significant portion of their egg complement. 5. These results suggest that the production of sperm, as well as male accessory gland secretions, may limit O. nubilalis male reproductive output. These findings are discussed with respect to the potential effect that this may have on mate choice in this species.
40963566|1. Understanding the direct and indirect mechanisms by which anthropogenic Stressors interact with species and communities is central to understanding ecology in a modern world. Pesticides have been implicated in amphibian declines worldwide, but no mechanism has yet been identified. 2. We tested the hypotheses that exposure to the insecticide carbaryl (2 mg/L) would mediate competitive outcomes between larvae of two anuran species (Bufo americanus, American toads and Rana pipiens, northern leopard frogs), and that post-exposure effects would carry over to affect juveniles in the terrestrial environment. 3. These hypotheses were tested in controlled mesocosm experiments. Toad survival decreased with insecticide exposure and presence of heterospecific competitors, relative to low-density controls. However, when exposed to the insecticide, toads experienced the greatest survival when leopard frogs were present. Larval period of toads was lengthened by carbaryl exposure and high density of conspecifics. Leopard frog survival was reduced only by high conspecific density, and larval period was shortened by carbaryl exposure. There were no significant effects of the insecticide on periphyton abundance, although phytoplankton abundance increased and zooplankton abundance decreased after exposure. 4. A subset of metamorphs of each species from each aquatic treatment was added to 2 x 2 m terrestrial enclosures to evaluate larval treatment effects on overwinter survival and growth. Despite differences in initial mass of this subset of metamorphs, mass at spring emergence was not significantly affected by any aquatic treatment for either species. However, leopard frog survival to and mass at spring emergence benefited from larger mass at metamorphosis, while toads appeared unaffected. 5. These results suggest that while tadpoles sharing a habitat may experience reduced survival from competition, the presence of multiple amphibian species may ameliorate the effects of pesticide exposure. 6. More generally, maintaining diversity may benefit ecological communities by reducing the impacts of anthropogenic threats to certain taxa.
10.2307/2389538|The effectiveness of phosphate (P) exploitation from fertile soil microsites was investigated with a dual-radioisotope approach for three perennial Great Basin species. Three experiments with competing species pairs assessed the ability to acquire P in fertilized and control patches. The patches occupied less than 1% of the rooted soil volume. In all experiments, the plants acquired at least as much radioisotope from the enriched as from the control patches even though the isotopes in the enriched patches were diluted by a factor of 10<sup>8</sup> with added <sup>31</sup>P. The plants procured P from the enriched patches in proportion to its increased concentration relative to P in the control patches. The relative ability of the competing species to acquire P was very similar in control and enriched patches. Artemisia tridentata (Rydb.) Beetle was able to acquire much more P than Pseudoroegneria spicata (Pursh) A. Love and was equivalent in ability to acquire P when in competition with Agropyron desertorum (Fisch, ex Link) Schult. However, when the Agropyron and Pseudoroegneria were together, they were unexpectedly similar in procuring P.
10.2307/2390013|1. The numbers of male and female Painted Reed Frogs (Hyperolius marmoratus) were monitored over 28 consecutive nights at the height of the breeding season. Despite arguments that male and female numbers should be highly correlated we found that only 32% of the variance in female numbers was explained by the number of males present. 2. To assess our prediction that attendance was determined by considerations other than optimal access to mates we modelled attendance patterns using a wide range of environmental variables. 3. Male and female attendance patterns were best described by different models. For males, 76.6% of the variance in nightly attendance was accounted for by the following variables: a constant, evaporation, pond depth on the previous night, rainfall, atmospheric pressure at 1400 h, wind on the previous day and the number of days since rain. The nature of the inter-relationships suggest that males are primed to attend the chorus unless conditions are liable to lead to increased evaporative water loss. 4. The female model accounted for 87.8% of the nightly variation in attendance and incorporated the following variables: number of males present, number of hours of sunshine on the previous day, wind on the previous day, rainfall 2 days previously, humidity at 1900 h and minimum temperature. The data suggest that females are more selective about the timing of attendance than are males. Specifically, it appears that females attend when conditions favour the rapid development of larvae.
10.2307/2390011|1. In taxa in which several males mate with a fertile female, males have larger testes relative to their body size than do males of taxa where only one male normally mates. However, breeding seasonality could confound the association: some species with breeding seasons have unusually large testes; seasonal breeding could concentrate fertile females in time, so making them difficult to defend and thus promoting multi-male groups. 2. Using data from 58 species of primates, and carefully accounting for phylogeny, we investigate the potential for breeding seasonality to confound the relation between testes size and mating system. 3. No confounding effect exists. Multi-male taxa have very significantly larger testes for their body size than do single-male taxa, independently of seasonality of breeding. Seasonality has no effect whatsoever in our sample, although few primates have very short breeding seasons. 4. While multi-male genera are equally likely to be seasonal as non-seasonal breeders, the single-male taxa of our sample are rarely seasonal, apparently supporting the difficulty of defence hypothesis but the sample by no means allows a firm conclusion.
10.2307/2390050|1. The role of small-scale vegetation heterogeneity in determining the movement characteristics of darkling beetles was studied in a semi-arid grassland. 2. We tracked the movements of 76 individuals of three Eleodes spp. in small plots representing different vegetation cover types and grazing intensities. Beetle representing different vegetation cover types and grazing intensities. Beetle movements were strongly influenced by vegetation structure, with net displacements highest in bare ground and grass cover types and lowest in cactus and shrub. The tree beetle species responded differently to grazing intensity. 3. When pathway structure was analysed by its fractal dimension, a measure which incorporates several length scales, beetle species differing in body size and similar pathway structures over a broad range of microlandscape heterogeneity. 4. simulation using a correlated random walk showed that observed beetle pathways had significantly greater net displacements than theoretical expectations for all treatment groups, but were closer to expected values in cactus and shrub than in bare ground and grass vegetation. 5. The fractal dimensions of observed beetle pathways were also different from simulated pathways, indicating that the similarity in the fractal structure of movement pathways observed in field treatments was not artefactual. Recognition of this size-scaled similarity in animal movement studies may facilitate comparisons of movement properties of animals that respond to the patch structure of the landscape at different spatial scales.
3806560|1. Tropospheric ozone (O
826742|1. The species-specificity of litter processing by three species of isopods at the interface between salt marsh and coastal forest habitats in the south-eastern United States was examined. 2. To quantify isopod performance, measurements were taken of feeding, digestion and growth of isopods fed on three litter types (Juncus roemerianus, Quercus virginiana and Pinus palustris) and on artificial diets containing one of three classes of model phenolic compounds (simple phenolics and hydrolysable and condensed tannins). 3. To quantify the ecosystem impact of isopods, promotion of microbial respiration, changes in detritus chemistry, and the quantity of litter processed by isopod populations were measured. 4. The results support three hypotheses concerning isopod-litter interactions. (i) Isopod performance on different litter types can be predicted based on chemical litter traits, e.g. phenolic concentrations and C: N ratios. (ii) Fully terrestrial isopods are better adapted to the range of phenolics found in angiosperm litter than are semiterrestrial species inhabiting the supralittoral. (iii) Isopod species differ with respect to their impact on decomposition processes due to species-specific digestive capabilities, different effects on microbial decomposition and different rates of net litter processing. 5. Because isopods are transitional between semiterrestrial and terrestrial habitats, unlike most other salt marsh detritivores, they are likely to play a unique role in decomposition processes and in the flux of materials between salt marsh and terrestrial habitats.
10.2307/2389335|Pollination by the sexual attraction of male insects to non-food rewarding flowers is unique to the orchids. Thynnine wasps are exploited in this manner by more orchid species than any other insects. Experiments were conducted on the mating behaviour of male thynnine Zaspilothynnus trilobatus Turner during encounters with the female and the orchid Drakaea glyptodon Fitz. The flightless female called for mates by releasing a sex pheromone. Winged males responded rapidly to calling females, locating and carrying away 61% of them within the first minute. All females were taken within 5 min. Similarly, males quickly located experimentally presented flowers with a peak rate of visits occurring within the first minute. Pollination requires the wasps to grasp the flower but not copulate or ejaculate. While 93% of the wasps landed on flowers, less than 21% attempted to grasp the female decoy, 6% of males attempted copulation with the flower and ejaculation was never observed. Some flowers were found to be preferentially attractive. Observations, and mark and recapture experiments suggested males immediately leave the area after visiting a flower and do not visit nearby flowers within a refractory period. The result of mark and recapture trials showed males moved up to 132 m (mean of 32 m) in their search for females. In larger populations of the orchid, distances of pollen flow could be an order of magnitude greater than food-based pollination systems.
10.2307/2390168|1. When parasitoids and pathogens compete for the same host there are often severe costs to the parasitoid. Wasps might be expected, then, to avoid parasitizing pathogen-infected hosts. 2. When the solitary endoparasitoid Venturia canescens was presented with healthy and granulosis virus-infected larvae of the Indian Meal Moth Plodia interpunctella, it did not exhibit any difference in contact or probing behaviour between healthy and infected hosts. 3. However, oviposition behaviour was influenced by the level of infection, with a significant reduction in the number of eggs laid in heavily infected hosts. 4. Transmission of the pathogen did not occur directly through oviposition. However, transmission through contamination of the environment by the parasitoid following oviposition in infected hosts was demonstrated.
10.2307/2389944|1. In 13 of 14 contrasts between light-demanding and shade-tolerant genera within the same subfamily or family, the shade-tolerators have seeds of greater mean dry mass, but in eight out of nine contrasts between light-demanding and shade-tolerant species within genera the shade-tolerators have seeds of about the same or slightly lesser mass. 2. We use the results to emphasize the low position of seed size in the hierarchy of characteristics enabling plants to become established in the shade. 3. Within genera and among confamilial genera of shade-tolerant plants there can be differences of one to three orders of magnitude in seed dry mass. By hypothesis, species whose seedlings have a given degree of tolerance of shade, as such, may make many `risky' seeds or few `safe' seeds, the larger-seeded species being buffered against drought and the effects of herbivores or falling branches. Extremes of seed size represent particular adaptations; very small-seeded species (<1 mg) establish on steep micro-slopes free of litter, while very large seeds (>2000 mg) attract especially large animals as dispersers. Seed size is seen as adaptive in contexts other than survival of shade as such.
2390550|1. Whether Drosophila larvae and pupae naturally experience temperatures that can cause heat damage or death is poorly understood, but bears directly on numerous investigations of the thermal biology and heat-shock response in Drosophila. Accordingly, the temperatures of necrotic fruit, which Drosophila larvae and pupae inhabit, the temperatures of larvae and pupae outside the laboratory, and the levels of the heat-shock protein hsp 70 expressed by larvae in nature were examined. 2. When necrotic fruit was sunlit, internal temperatures rose to levels that can harm indwelling insects. Fruit size and evaporative water loss affected these temperatures. Temperatures of larvae and pupae in the field commonly exceeded 35 <sup></sup>C, with living larvae recorded at >44 <sup></sup>C and pupae at >41 <sup></sup>C. Natural mortality was evident, presumably because of heat. 3. In the laboratory, these temperatures kill larvae rapidly, with LT<sub>50</sub>s (time taken for half the sample to be killed) of 30 min at 39 <sup></sup>C, 15 min at 40 <sup></sup>C and 8.5 min at 41 <sup></sup>C. Gradual transfer from 25 <sup></sup>C to these temperatures resulted in no lesser mortality than did direct transfer. 4. Hsp 70 levels in lysates of whole larvae were measured by ELISA (enzyme-link immunosorbent assay) with an hsp 70-specific antibody. For larvae within necrotic apples experimentally transferred from shade to sun and within necrotic fruit in situ, hsp 70 levels equalled or exceeded levels detected in parallel laboratory studies of whole larvae or cells in culture. 5. These data provide an ecological context for studies of thermal stress and the heat-shock response in Drosophila that has heretofore been lacking.
10.2307/2389277|1. Carbon isotope discrimination () has been shown to be a valuable tool for long-term estimates of water-use efficiency, because this parameter is influenced by the ratio of intercellular to ambient CO<sub>2</sub> levels, which is in turn related to water-use efficiency. The objective of this study was to examine variation in -values of field materials and the extent to which changes in  might be interpreted as changes in water-use efficiency. 2. On-line discrimination observations with four desert species confirmed theoretically expected relationships between  and the ratio of intercellular to ambient CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations, a prerequisite to applying -values to water-use efficiency. Seasonal changes in -values were measured in 15 desert species over the course of two growing seasons in western Arizona. 3. Two major patterns appeared: in leaves of some species there were 2-3% changes during the year, whereas in others the changes in isotopic composition were less than 1%. 4. When carbon isotope analyses are applied to water-use efficiency extrapolations, it has been assumed that leaf temperatures are equivalent among the species being compared. An error analysis of this assumption indicated a near-linear relationship between leaf temperature differential and the difference in isotopic composition necessary to distinguish differences in water-use efficiency. When leaf temperature differentials between plants were <tex-math>$\leqslant2.5^\circ$</tex-math>C, a 1% difference in  was sufficient to rank plants correctly and unambiguously with respect to water-use efficiency, indicating the extent to which changes in intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> can offset possible differences in the evaporative gradient among plants when calculating water-use efficiencies. 5. As leaf -values among different species often range 4% on a given sampling date, carbon isotope discrimination appears to be a feasible approach for ranking relative water-use efficiency differences among arid-land plants.
40407695|1. A major transition in flowering plants has been the evolution of separate sexes (dioecy) from combined sexes (hermaphroditism). This transition is often, but not always, accompanied by the evolution of sexual dimorphism in attractive traits, and floral scent is no exception. 2. In this review I aim to improve our understanding of variation in sexual dimorphism in floral scent characteristics by first explicating the relevant hypotheses, and then deriving explicit predictions for the pattern of floral scent from each. 3. Next, I synthesize and qualitatively review published data on floral volatile emission rate and composition in 33 gender dimorphic species to identify emerging patterns, and evaluate these in light of predictions derived from the hypotheses. 4. Although conclusions must be viewed as preliminary, a handful of strong patterns were revealed: (1) in the majority of the species studied males emit more volatiles per flower than females, (2) in over half of the species studied the sexes differed in at least one aspect of scent composition, (3) sexual dimorphism in scent composition was less common in species with rewardless females and/or brood site pollination than those that offered nectar and/or pollen, (4) a one-to-one correspondence between sex differences in overall scent composition and male organ-specific scent production is largely not found. 5. This review has highlighted gaps in our understanding of the genesis of patterns of sexual dimorphism in floral scent, and makes clear that to move the field forward we need to shift our focus from pattern to process, and this will be best achieved by simultaneously testing alternative hypotheses at the same level of analysis.
2656564|1. Burial in sand of Agropyron psammophilum and Panicum virgatum plants had a stimulating effect on carbon dioxide exchange rate, leaf area and biomass, irrespective of whether sand used for burial did or did not contain mycorrhizal fungi. 2. Plants of both A. psammophilum and P. virgatum species grown in mycorrhiza-containing sand and then buried with mycorrhiza-containing sand had the highest CO<sub>2</sub> exchange rate, leaf area and biomass. 3. The growth stimulation following a burial episode is probably a composite response of several factors. The major contribution of mycorrhizal fungi will possibly be the exploitation of resources in the burial deposit.
40205559|1. Most models of thermal adaptation ignore biotic interactions, and those that do consider biotic interactions assume that competitors or predators cannot respond to adaptation by the focal species. Nevertheless, real biotic interactions involve responsive entities, which can be more accurately modelled using evolutionary game theory. 2. We present a two-part analysis of a thermal game between prey and predators. First, we model a game in which prey choose patches on the basis of operative temperature and predation risk, whereas predators choose patches on the basis of prey density. Second, we consider how this thermal game influences the evolution of the prey's thermal physiology. 3. The solution of the thermal game is an evolutionarily stable Nash equilibrium in which prey divide their time equally among a range of thermal patches while predators bias their hunting efforts toward warmer patches, even though they derive no thermoregulatory benefit from doing so. Furthermore, the optimal range of temperatures selected by prey and predators increases as the lethality of predators increases. 4. This thermal game potentially influences the evolution of the prey's thermal physiology. When predators are less lethal, prey should thermoregulate over a narrower range of temperatures, resulting in selection for thermal specialization of physiological performance. But when predators are very lethal, prey should thermoregulate over a broad range of temperatures; in this case, prey pay no fitness cost for being thermal generalists. 5. Evolutionary game theory provides a powerful tool for generating hypotheses about the effects of biotic interactions on evolution in heterogeneous environments.
2656375|1. Metrosideros polymorpha (O'hia), the dominant tree species in Hawaiian forest ecosystems, grows from sea level to treeline (2500 m). Consistent changes in its morphology and anatomy occur along this altitudinal/temperature gradient. Patterns of variation in photosynthetic gas exchange, leaf nitrogen content, nitrogen-use efficiency, <sup>13</sup>C, and morphological and anatomical characteristics were determined across the elevational gradient. In addition, on-line carbon isotope discrimination studies of high and low elevation M. polymorpha were performed. 2. Observed trends with increasing altitude were: (1) progressively higher carboxylation efficiency, leaf N content on an area basis, leaf mass per unit area (LMA), less negative foliar <sup>13</sup>C and (2) progressively smaller leaf size. Net CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation (A) expressed on an area basis, leaf dry mass and N content per leaf remained relatively constant along the gradient. 3. Foliar <sup>13</sup>C became less negative with increasing elevation (-30 per mil at low elevation to -24 per mil at high elevation) and was strongly correlated with foliar N and LMA. Foliar <sup>13</sup>C was also correlated with variations in the ratio of intercellular to ambient partial pressure of CO<sub>2</sub> (p<sub>i</sub>/p<sub>a</sub>), as determined by field gas-exchange studies. 4. Results from on-line fractionation experiments suggested that the relatively large internal resistance to CO<sub>2</sub> diffusion did not differ between high and low elevation populations, despite differences in LMA. Less negative values of <sup>13</sup>C at high elevations and corresponding lower values of p<sub>i</sub>/p<sub>a</sub> were associated with increased carboxylation efficiency and N content on a unit leaf area basis. 5. Two major homeostatic responses in M. polymorpha plants along elevational/temperature gradients were observed: (1) maintenance of similar photosynthetic rates per unit leaf surface area despite suboptimal conditions for CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation at high elevation and (2) similar N content per leaf despite lower soil N availability at high elevations. These homeostatic mechanisms allow M. polymorpha to maintain a relatively high level of growth-related activities at high elevation, despite limiting environmental conditions.
10.2307/2389905|1. Within local bird communities, relationships between body size and abundance across the subtaxa within lower-level taxa (such as species within genera) are no more likely to be positive than those across the subtaxa in higher-level taxa (such as suborders within orders). 2. The species within tribes of birds which have no close relatives in the world tend to show positive relationships between body size and population abundance. However, the relatedness of the tribe to others in its community is not a significant predictor of the sign of the body size-abundance pattern. 3. The date at which the species last shared a common ancestor is a better predictor of the size-abundance pattern than is the relatedness of a tribe to other birds in the world. 4. The patterns do not appear to hold for Passeriforme birds, possibly because there is little variation in the dates of origin and radiation among passerine tribes. 5. It has been suggested that tribes containing fewer different lifestyles (and which therefore are likely to be direct competitors with each other) will be those that tend to show positive size-abundance relationships. Hence, the length of the entry for a tribe in Austin's (1961) handbook of birds of the world is a statistically significant predictor of the sign of the relationship between body size and abundance, independently of the number of species in the tribe.
3806559|1. The effects of the anecic earthworm Lumbricus terrestris L. on plant seedling recruitment and spatial aggregation were investigated in a microcosm glasshouse experiment by varying plant seed size (small and large); functional groups (grasses, legumes, herbs); plant species diversity (1, 3, 6); and plant functional group diversity (1, 3). 2. Generally, earthworms buried seeds quickly irrespective of seed size and species. Secondary seed dispersal (phase II dispersal) by earthworms affected plant community composition depending mainly on seed size but less on plant functional group identity and diversity: small-seeded species were repressed whereas large-seeded were promoted. 3. Although, in general, recruitment of seedlings was less in the presence of L. terrestris, recruited seedlings benefited from establishing in the vicinity of earthworm burrows. The strong aggregation of plants in the vicinity of earthworm burrows resulted in plant communities with a more heterogeneous small-scale architecture. Earthworm burrows and middens acted as an important regeneration niche for emergent seedlings by reducing microsite and nutrient limitations. 4. In conclusion, seed dispersal, seed burial, seedling recruitment, and the spatial distribution of seedlings of plant species of different functional groups and with a wide range of seed size are strongly affected by L. terrestris, and this probably affects plant community composition.
41239223|1. Herbivores exert significant selection on plants, and plants have evolved a variety of constitutive and inducible defences to resist and tolerate herbivory. Assessing the genetic mechanisms that influence defences against herbivores will deepen our understanding of the evolution of essential phenotypic traits. 2. Ecogenomics is a powerful interdisciplinary approach that can address fundamental questions about the ecology and evolutionary biology of species, such as: which evolutionary forces maintain variation within a population? and What is the genetic architecture of adaptation? This field seeks to identify gene regions that influence ecologically important traits, assess the fitness consequences under natural conditions of alleles at key quantitative trait loci (QTLs), and test how the abiotic and biotic environment affects gene expression. 3. Here, we review ecogenomics techniques and emphasize how this framework can address long-standing and emerging questions relating to anti-herbivore defences in plants. For example, ecogenomics tools can be used to investigate: inducible vs. constitutive defences; tradeoffs between resistance and tolerance; adaptation to the local herbivore community; selection on alleles that confer resistance and tolerance in natural populations; and whether different genes are activated in response to specialist vs. generalist herbivores and to different types of damage. 4. Ecogenomic studies can be conducted with model species, such as Ambidopsis, or their relatives, in which case myriad molecular tools are already available. Burgeoning sequence data will also facilitate ecogenomic studies of non-model species. Throughout this paper, we highlight approaches that are particularly suitable for ecological studies of non-model organisms, discuss the benefits and disadvantages of specific techniques and review bioinformatic tools for analysing data. 5. We focus on established and promising techniques, such as QTL mapping with pedigreed populations, genome wide association studies, transcription profiling strategies, population genomics and transgenic methodologies. Many of these techniques are complementary and can be used jointly to investigate the genetic architecture of defence traits and selection on alleles in nature.
41319613|1. Multiple functions of plant silicon are known from agricultural species where silicon fertilizer alleviates biotic and abiotic stress impacts. In contrast, the function of plant silicon in natural ecosystems is often overlooked and is relatively poorly understood. 2. We investigated a potential integration of silicon with the leaf dry mass economics framework. We examined the relationship between leaf longevity, a trait considered to optimize leaf carbon use, and leaf silicon concentration across plant functional types and phylogenetic groups, testing the hypothesis that short-lived leaves have higher silicon content to maximize carbon allocation to growth. We considered leaf longevity a continuous trait (months, n = 155 species) and a binary trait (annual vs. perennial, n = 602 species). 3. A significant negative correlation was found across all species between leaf longevity (months) and relative silicon concentration, indicating that across functional types and plant families, leaves with shorter life spans contain higher concentrations of silicon. A similar significant relationship was also found within deciduous angiosperm leaves. Silicon concentration was significantly higher in annual vs. perennial species across most plant functional types. Within order and family, no significant difference in silicon concentration was found between annual and perennial leaves except in the Poales and the Poaceae, where annual leaves had higher silicon concentration. Relative leaf/shoot silicon concentration varied much more than leaf longevity across the phylogeny, and there was a stronger phylogenetic signal from silicon concentration than from leaf longevity. Evolutionary divergence analysis showed that divergences between relative silicon concentration and leaf life span (months) were not significantly correlated; however, using a larger data set, leaf life span (as an annual/perennial binary trait) and relative silicon concentration were significantly correlated, implying that across a larger data set, shifts to higher relative leaf/shoot silicon concentration are consistently associated with shifts to annual foliage. 4. We suggest that in shorter-lived leaves, silicon could be a metabolically cheaper alternative to carbon, allowing a more favourable leaf carbon balance over short periods. Silicon could be a less versatile, but more disposable resource, with the potential to function in structural, stress alleviation and defensive roles by substituting for carbon that could be allocated to further growth and reproduction.
41239363|1. Between-individual variation in rates of senescence has recently been found to relate to natal and early-life conditions in several natural populations. Mechanistic theories of senescence have predicted between-individual variation in basal metabolic rate (BMR) to also underlie such variation in rates of senescence. The question whether variation in BMR is linked to natal and early-life conditions with effects on senescence has, however, not yet been addressed. 2. Using cross-sectional data on winter BMR of nearly 700 individual great tits Parus major, we tested whether factors associated with individual variation in the rate of senescence were also associated with differences in BMR. 3. We found that winter BMR was a repeatable trait (36%), and that variation in winter BMR was partly explained by body mass, and interactive effects of sex, age and seasonal date with ambient temperature. 4. Our data, however, revealed that neither the level of BMR, nor its age-specific decline, was explained by three parameters previously shown to underlie variation in rates of reproductive senescence in our study population: maternal age, immigrant status and early-life reproductive performance. 5. These results therefore did not support the suggestion that variation in BMR underlies variation in rates of reproductive senescence in relation to maternal age, immigrant status and earlylife reproductive performance. 6. We further found a low repeatability of BMR from winter to the subsequent breeding season (1%, n = 55), which suggested that a relationship between BMR and proxies for rates of senescence may have been absent in our data set because winter BMR did not represent year-round metabolic strategies. 7. Further study, preferably using longitudinal data, is required to resolve the link between BMR at different times of year and senescence.
3599058|1. Plants exhibit adaptations to many stresses, including light competition and herbivory. The expression of these traits may interact negatively, potentially instigating a trade-off. 2. We employed a combination of genetically altered Cucumis sativus varieties and phenotypic manipulations to test for trade-offs in field experiments. The different genetic lines of C. sativus were altered in their phytochrome-mediated shade responses and the production of terpenoid defence compounds. 3. Cucumber plants constitutively expressing the shade-avoidance response had 93% more herbivory by specialist beetles compared with wild types. The long-hypocotyl mutants also produced leaves with fewer trichomes, greater toughness and a higher carbon to nitrogen ratio (C: N) than wild types. Plants lacking defensive cucurbitacins had 23% longer internodes than the cucurbitacin-producing line. 4. We then manipulated the plant phenotype by artificially imposing neighbours' shade on plants with and without cucurbitacins. As expected, plants responded to shade by growing longer hypocotyls and first internodes, but few trade-offs were found between plant line and shade treatment and, although herbivory levels were very low, there was a trend towards reduced damage on shaded plants. 5. The use of genetically altered plant lines provided strong evidence for the trade-off hypothesis, while phenotypic manipulations did not support the hypothesis.
2390423|1. Leaf area was removed from Solidago altissima in either a dispersed pattern (half of every leaf removed) or a concentrated pattern (every other leaf removed) and effects on leaf gas exchange, vegetative growth and flowering were examined relative to undefoliated controls. Gas exchange was measured for leaves remaining after defoliation and for regrowth leaves that developed post-damage (at 7, 16 and 26 days post-defoliation). 2. Area-based photosynthetic rates of leaves remaining after defoliation were not affected by either dispersed or concentrated damage, but damage of both types enhanced area-based photosynthesis of regrowth leaves at 16 days post-defoliation and to a lesser extent at 26 days post-defoliation. 3. Dispersed damage, but not concentrated damage, stimulated mass-based photosynthesis of undamaged leaves remaining after defoliation. Undamaged leaves remaining after defoliation and regrowth leaves on damaged plants had higher specific leaf area (leaf area/leaf mass) than comparable leaves on control plants. Mass-based photosynthesis was more strongly elevated by defoliation than area-based photosynthesis because of this increase in specific leaf area. 4. Plants with dispersed damage recovered more quickly from defoliation; they had higher relative growth rates in the first week post-defoliation than plants with concentrated damage. Both types of defoliation caused similar reductions in flower production. 5. These results add to accumulating evidence that dispersed damage is generally less detrimental to plants than concentrated damage and suggest that physiological changes in leaves may be part of the reason.
3599257|1. Insect herbivory may have not only negative but also positive plant-mediated effects on other insect herbivores. We investigated plant-mediated effects of the stem gall midge Rabdophaga rigidae on other insect herbivores through regrowth response of the willow Salix eriocarpa. 2. Gall initiation on current-year shoots stimulated the development of lateral shoots, followed by a secondary leaf flush. Lateral shoots and upper leaves on galled shoots were less tough and had a higher water and nitrogen content. 3. Colonization rates by the aphid Aphis farinosa were significantly higher on galled shoots than on ungalled shoots, because this aphid frequently colonized lateral shoots. 4. Adults of two leaf beetles, Plagiodera versicolora and Smaragdina semiaurantiaca, were more abundant on galled than on ungalled shoots; they preferentially fed on young leaves produced during the secondary leaf flush. 5. Gall initiation positively affected aphids and leaf beetles by enhancing the availability of food resources as a result of the regrowth responses of S. eriocarpa. This indicates that the regrowth responses of plants to insect herbivory provide an important mechanism responsible for positive effects on other insect herbivores.
10.2307/2390159|1. The gene Pgm-3 (or a closely linked gene) influences the phenotype and reproductive success of queens in multiple-queen (polygynous) colonies but not single-queen (monogynous) colonies of the Fire Ant Solenopsis invicta. 2. We investigated the mechanisms of differential phenotypic expression of Pgm-3 in these alternate social forms. Mature winged queens with the homozygous genotype Pgm-3
3599173|1. A comparison was made of the daily energy expenditure (DEE), resting metabolic rate (RMR) and water turnover (WTO) of two populations of Common Spiny Mice Acomys cahirinus from north- and south-facing slopes (NFS and SFS) of the same valley, which represented 'Mediterranean' and 'desert' habitats, respectively. 2. An examination was made as to whether these physiological characteristics differed between mice that had been in the laboratory (outdoor conditions) for 2 months compared with mice captured from the field. 3. Mice from the field had greater RMR values than mice in the laboratory and NFS mice had greater RMR values than SFS mice. In the field, NFS individuals had greater DEE values than SFS individuals. Mass-specific RMR values of SFS mice were 20% less than the allometrically predicted value, whereas those of NFS were not. WTO and sustained metabolic scope (DEE/RMR) were lower in the field than in the laboratory. 4. The results indicate that physiological capabilities are phenotypically plastic, as differences exist between the field and laboratory and between NFS and SFS mice. Furthermore, they highlight the importance of using field studies for understanding the link between energetics and physiological adjustment to environmental conditions.
2390488|1. The nature of the diet can affect the gut retention time of food consumed by an animal, and a theoretical framework has been developed to explain this in terms of optimal digestion rates. However, diets may differ in a number of different attributes, all of which may separately affect the optimal length of time that they are retained in the gut. 2. Here an attempt is made to elucidate which of these features are important in determining gut retention time of different fish species when fed to nine north Atlantic seabird species, and discuss the different potential optimization criteria for retention time in seabirds. 3. Retention times of Lesser Sandeel (Ammodytes marinus Raitt.) were shortest, and this species was also rapidly broken down in vitro. Sprat (Sprattus sprattus (L.)) took longer to be broken down in vitro than Whiting (Merlangius merlangus (L.)), and also had a high energy and lipid content, which might be expected to result in slow digestion; yet retention times of the two species were similar. 4. Meal size also had an important effect on gut retention times, large meals being retained for longer in the gut than small meals, apparently because of an upper limit on the peak excretion rate. 5. Diet and meal-size related characteristics are important factors influencing prey profitability, prey selection and foraging patterns in seabirds.
3599269| 1. Previous studies of the Medium Ground Finch, Geospiza fortis, have documented that selection is most severe under drought conditions, which generally favour beaks that are comparatively deep and narrow. Deep beaks are presumed to enhance a bird's ability to crack hard seeds, and narrow beaks have been proposed to enhance a bird's efficiency in manipulating seeds. 2. In the present study, we make the first direct measurements of bite force in Darwin's finches. We used 147 G. fortis from Isla Santa Cruz, Galpagos, to document the influence of beak, head and body dimensions on bite force. 3. Among the various beak dimensions, depth, width and shape were all significant predictors of bite force. Among the various head dimensions, width was the best predictor of bite force. Generally low predictive values of multiple regression models including all morphological variables, as well as positive allometric scaling of bite force on head width, suggest an important additional role for variation in muscle architecture or jaw biomechanics in bite force generation. 
10.2307/2389815|The size of the physiological individual within the bunchgrass Schizachyrium scoparium Hubb. was investigated by evaluating the pattern and magnitude of <sup>15</sup>N allocation within and between individual ramet hierarchies (sequences of connected ramet generations). Nitrogen-15 was acropetally allocated throughout the three generation hierarchies within 24 h regardless of the ramet generation or organ labelled. Both primary and secondary ramet generations allocated nitrogen to juvenile, tertiary ramets. Basipetal nitrogen allocation, from secondary to ontogenetically older primary ramets, was observed, but accounted for less than 1% of the <sup>15</sup>N mass in the ramet hierarchies at the end of the 5-day experiment. Foliarly labelled ramets exported less nitrogen intraclonally than did root labelled ramets indicating that a greater proportion of the nitrogen was rapidly incorporated into metabolic compounds. A majority (>93%) of the <sup>15</sup>N introduced into the ramet hierarchies remained within the labelled hierarchies as opposed to being allocated to associated hierarchies within individual clones. Clones of this bunchgrass consist of an assemblage of autonomous physiological individuals, composed of a minimum of three connected ramet generations, as opposed to a system of completely integrated ramet hierarchies. The propensity for acropetal resource allocation appears to be the predominant factor limiting resource allocation between ramet hierarchies within young clones possessing complete vascular continuity.
10.2307/2389429|Four woody species from the family Rosaceae share the same habitat and pollinators in Wytham Wood, Oxford. They are similar in floral morphology but Rosa canina L. differs in that the only reward it offers is pollen whereas the others offer both nectar and pollen. The three species which offer nectar are separated temporally in their flowering and the possible evolution of this separation is discussed.
3599093|1. The ovigeny index, previously identified as both a significant fitness variable in parasitoid wasps and an important factor in parasitoid-host population dynamics, is the proportion of the maximum potential lifetime complement of eggs that is mature when the female emerges into the environment following pupal development. We tested the hypothesis that ovigeny index varies with female body size in parasitoid wasps. Body size measurements were obtained for 40 species in 13 families, representing a broad taxonomic and morphological diversity of parasitoid wasps. There was an almost 18-fold difference in size between the smallest and the largest species. 2. Ovigeny index is shown to be negatively correlated with body size across species -- smaller wasps have a higher proportion of eggs mature at emergence than do larger wasps -- a result supporting the hypothesis. This relationship has previously been observed within species. 3. The previously reported cross-species negative correlation between life-span and ovigeny index is robust, as it still holds when variation in body size is controlled for. 4. We discuss the likely selective factors in the evolution of a link between ovigeny index and body size across species.
3806624|1. Standard visual screening methods for determining the qualitative and quantitative presence of fungal endophytes are too time-consuming for large-scale ecological studies. 2. We investigated whether commercially available immunoblot kits, using monoclonal antibody techniques and designed for rapid-screening of the presence of Neotyphodium endophytes in fresh samples of the pasture grasses Festuca arundinacea and Lolium perenne, could be used for Neotyphodium detection using other grasses and preserved samples. We also determined whether immunoblot kits could provide quantitative information about the amount of Neotyphodium in the grass. 3. The kits accurately detected endophyte presence in F. rubra, F. ovina, F. pratensis and F. altaica, in both preserved samples (dried and fixed), including 12-year-old stored, dried samples of F. rubra. 4. Endophytes were detected in 7-day-old seedlings of Lolium perenne, 3 days (30%) earlier than previously recognized. 5. The intensity of the coloured tissue prints on scanned immunoblot cards was significantly positively correlated with hyphal density, demonstrating a previously unrecognized accurate quantitative application. 6. These findings greatly reduce logistical barriers to large-scale field research into the broader ecological significance of Neotyphodium in temperate and arctic grasses in non-agricultural ecosystems (particularly in remote areas) and suggest potential for estimating historical infection rates using stored and herbarium specimens.
2656446|1. The chemical composition (i.e. N, P, C, lignin and polyphenol concentrations) of Quercus pubescens leaf litter derived from a natural CO<sub>2</sub> spring in Tuscany (Italy) was analysed and compared to litter from a nearby reference site. Litter was incubated for 25 months at both the natural CO<sub>2</sub> spring and the reference site, and monitored for decomposition rates, nutrient and lignin concentrations. 2. Long-term exposure to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations from the natural spring was associated with a change in the chemical composition of the Oak leaf litter, with decreases in P and polyphenol concentrations and increases in lignin. No differences in N concentrations were observed between the enriched CO<sub>2</sub> litter from the natural spring and the reference litter. 3. Decomposition was reduced in the CO<sub>2</sub> spring, with the lower P concentration of the native litter, combined with the lack of soil fauna observed at that site, being the factors most probably responsible for the measured decreases in mass loss. However, litter from the CO<sub>2</sub> spring and reference litter decomposed at the reference site showed similar rates of decomposition. 4. All litter showed similar N concentrations during decomposition, with N being mineralized throughout the incubation period from both litter regardless of the site of incubation. In contrast, P dynamics differed between litter, with P being immobilized in the litter derived from the spring, and mineralized from the reference litter. When the litter from the spring was incubated at the reference site, there was a trend for net P uptake from the surrounding environment. The chemical composition of decomposing litter from the spring appeared to match that of the reference litter after 3 months of incubation at the reference site. 5. The results from the CO<sub>2</sub> spring suggest that litter decomposition may be retarded under elevated levels of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub>. However, results from field surveys around CO<sub>2</sub> vents should be viewed with caution because differences may relate to factors other than the known differences in CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations.
2390384|1. Procellariiform seabirds such as Manx Shearwaters, Puffinus puffinus, accumulate large quantities of lipid during the nestling period, the purpose of which remains unclear. This paper examines temporal and age-specific variation in the pattern of food delivery to nestling Manx Shearwaters, to determine whether food delivery was likely to be determined primarily by the availability of food to adults at sea or by a chick's short-term nutritional requirements. The variability in daily food delivery to chicks in the context of nestling obesity is then discussed. 2. For all but the youngest and oldest age classes, individual meals delivered by adults averaged 49 g, which was 12% of mean adult mass over the same period. More than 80% of chicks were fed each night and the maximum interval between feeding events for any chick was four nights. Feeding conditions did exert some influence over the ability of adults to feed their offspring, but deviations from expected values for both feeding frequency and meal size were restricted to a small number of nights, included values both higher and lower than expected and did not persist for more than one night in succession. These results were not compatible with the notion that large lipid reserves accumulated by chicks during their development provide insurance against prolonged interruptions to feeding. 3. Although adults did not appear to modulate food delivery over the nestling period, there was some evidence of short-term adjustment of feeding frequency (but not meal size) according to a chick's immediate nutritional requirements. This suggests that variation in the provisioning rates of chicks did not result solely from stochastic variation in parental foraging success. However, the effect was slight and despite such minor adjustments, the coefficient of variation in daily provisioning rate was not substantially lower than in other species where the chick has no influence on parental food delivery. This suggests that even among those species that feed their chicks at comparatively frequent intervals, lipid accumulation among Procellariiformes may result from chronic overfeeding of chicks in order to reduce the impact of variable food provisioning by individual parents.
40205518|1. The complexity of ecological communities can often hinder understanding their structural features. With the recent application of network theory, the structure of previously neglected mutualistic communities has begun to be elucidated. 2. Mutualistic communities have now been shown to follow particular power distributions in their degree, that is, the number of species interactions per species. However, predictive variables of degree and other structures of mutualistic networks remain largely unexplored. 3. Here, we show that body size of ants is positively correlated with their degree in mutualistic networks comprised of ant interactions with extrafloral nectar (EFN) bearing plants in the Sonoran Desert. This pattern in body size and the number of plant species with which ants interact occurred among all eight sampled communities, a relationship which was not contingent upon phylogenetic history among ant species. 4. These results indicate that further study of body size in ant-plant and other mutualistic networks may yield promising insights into the processes influencing their structure. Moreover, the degree-body size relationship for ant-plant mutualistic communities is consistent with that of predator-prey food webs, possibly suggesting similar underlying processes at work.
2656328|1. A simple two-stage population model was applied to data from a previously published life-table response experiment (LTRE), which examined the toxicity of 4-n-nonylphenol to life-history traits of the polychaete Capitella sp. I. Population growth rates () and the relative sensitivities (= elasticities) of  to changes in each of the individual life-history traits were calculated. 2. In the present study, the life-history parameters measured in laboratory-reared individuals were manipulated to simulate potential effects of competition and predation on fecundity, time to reproductive maturity and juvenile survival to explore how such factors might influence the sensitivity of population growth rate to toxicant-caused changes in individual life-history traits. 3. Dramatic changes in elasticity patterns among simulations indicate that population growth rates may respond very differently to toxicant exposure depending on the extent to which other demographically limiting factors (e.g. competitors and/or predators) are operating on the population. 4. Effectively predicting the population-level consequences arising from toxicant effects measured on individuals can be improved by exploring the elasticity pattern of  for the population over a range of realistic ecological situations.
3806611|1. In many vertebrates, immune activity is compromised when other expensive activities are concurrent. One explanation for such patterns includes trade-offs between immune activity and other expensive physiological processes. Trade-offs among different immune responses themselves may also occur, but thus far few data exist to substantiate them. 2. We predicted that immune activity in female White-footed Mice, Peromyscus leucopus, would be weak (relative to sham-treated controls) if another immune response was already ongoing. To test this hypothesis, we examined (i) the effects of inflicting a cutaneous wound on cell-mediated immune activity one day after wounding, and (ii) the effects of inducing cell-mediated immune activity on the cutaneous wound-healing process when wounds were inflicted one day after the immune challenge. 3. Prior wounding dampened cell-mediated immune responses and induction of cell-mediated immune activity altered progression of wound healing. Immune challenges did not affect reproductive tissue masses, however, as has been detected in males of this species. Also, concentrations of circulating glucocorticoids, which are known modulators of immune activity, were not dramatically different between treatment and sham groups. 4. In sum, our results provide evidence that some immune responses can negatively influence other recent immunological activity. Further study is warranted, however, to pinpoint the molecular mechanisms underlying these apparent trade-offs and determine whether induction of immune activity may sometimes prime instead of hinder subsequent immune responses.
2656454|1. Three hypotheses have been proposed to account for the maintenance of aggregation behaviour in caterpillars. While the benefits of aggregation for defence and for the elevation of growth rates have been investigated in some species, both of these hypotheses have been criticized, and in many cases the alternative hypothesis regarding the benefits of physiological regulation has not been investigated. 2. In this paper the field thermal biology and water relations of solitary caterpillars (instars IV-V) and aggregations of caterpillars (instars I-III) are examined in Imbrasia belina (Westwood) (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae), a species where an instar-related change in aggregation behaviour is obligatory (instars I-III always aggregate, instars IV-V are always solitary), and where the benefits of defence and of overwhelming inducible host plant defences are unlikely to be significant. 3. Aggregations of instars II-III maintain body temperatures equivalent to those of larger solitary individuals of instars IV and V, but significantly higher than those of operative models of single caterpillars of instars II-III. In addition, behavioural thermoregulation is not used to elevate body temperatures, although hanging behaviour takes place when upper lethal temperature limits are approached. Nonetheless, solar radiation has a marked influence on the temperature of aggregations because of the accumulation of higher heat loads by the larger masses of large aggregations. 4. Instars IV-V can survive higher temperatures than instars I-III, and this may be because of their accumulation of very high heat loads in the field. Instars I and III can avoid these high heat loads by partial dispersal from the aggregation. In contrast, instars I-III have significantly lower critical thermal minima than the later instars, which may allow larvae to regain aggregations if they are separated from them. 5. Water loss rates of real aggregations, of a given size, within a particular instar are lower than the sum of the rates of the same number of individual caterpillars of the same instar. In addition, survival of water loss tends to be higher in individuals from aggregations than in single individuals. 6. Using this evidence in conjunction with studies that demonstrate significant predation in all instars, aggregation in the early instars irrespective of whether outbreaks take place or not, and the absence of inducible defences in the major host (Colophospermum mopane) of I. belina, it is concluded that physiological regulation, of temperature and water balance, is the most likely explanation for the maintenance of aggregation behaviour in this species.
4540078| 1. The significant repeatability of a trait of interest is a vital condition for meaningful extrapolation of its value over long time periods, and any inference related to its response to environmental conditions. Surprisingly, although body mass and resting metabolic rate (RMR) are widely recognized as the two important traits affecting mammalian ecology and life history, very little is known about their repeatability in the wild. 2. Here we report long-term repeatabilities of body mass and RMR, measured in summer and winter, in free-living weasel males, Mustela nivalis L. Body mass was highly repeatable over extremely long periods (compared with weasels' lifetime) of up to 400 days (intraclass correlation coefficient  = 093, Pearson correlation r = 096). Its variation was independent of time and season. Repeatability of RMR (corrected for body mass and season) was also significant ( = 063, r = 062) and independent of time scale. However, within seasons it was statistically significant in summer ( = 055, r = 054) but not in winter ( = 007, r = 025). 3. To our knowledge, this is the first study providing empirical support for long-term repeatability of body mass and RMR in free-ranging small mammals, and is consistent with a significant level of heritable variation of these two traits. 
10.2307/2389425|Egg size is important in determining fitness because it affects larval survival, larval growth and adult fecundity. For a given reproductive effort there will be a trade-off between number and size of offspring. Data were collected on egg size, body size, fecundity, longevity and developmental period for 25 species of iteroparous and semelparous insects infesting stored-products. Allometric relationships within each group were compared on the basis of two a priori hypotheses concerning reproductive effort. Reproductive growth rate scaled significantly with body size in iteroparous but not semelparous species, while reproductive mass scaled significantly with body size in semelparous but not iteroparous species. A third a priori hypothesis tested was that egg size should decrease with increasing juvenile growth rate; as predicted, the correlations were negative in both iteroparous and semelparous insects but they were not statistically significant. Egg size scaled significantly with body size in both groups but the allometric coefficients were significantly different (0.70 in iteroparous species and 0.40 in semelparous species). Whereas previous investigations have concentrated on taxonomic relationships the contrasts here cut across taxa and demonstrate the importance of reproductive strategy.
3599008|1. Large herbivores have significant impacts on the structure and function of temperate and tropical ecosystems. Yet herbivore impacts on arctic systems, particularly the mechanisms by which they influence plant communities, are largely unknown. 2. High arctic vegetation, commonly overlying permafrost soils, is often moss-dominated with sparse vascular plant cover. We investigated the potential influence of large herbivores on arctic plant communities via their impact on the depth of the moss layer, leading to warmer soils and potentially benefiting vascular plants. 3. We found that grazer impacts on moss depth, and subsequently soil temperature, may influence vascular plant abundance and community composition because of the observed positive but growth-form-specific response of vascular plants to soil warming, promoting grasses in particular. 4. We propose that the positive association of grasses and large herbivores in arctic moss-dominated systems results from two simultaneously operating positive feedback loops. First, herbivore grazing and trampling reduces moss layer depth, increasing soil temperatures. Second, grasses benefit directly from grazers as a result of additional nutrients from faeces and urine. Additionally, the tolerance of grasses to grazing may enable grasses to expand despite the losses suffered from herbivory.
20142743| 1. Ecosystem retrogression occurs during the very long-term absence of major disturbances, and it is characterized by decreases in productivity, decomposition rates and nutrient availability. Ratios of total soil nitrogen (N) to phosphorus (P) also characteristically increase during retrogression, but the nature of N inputs to ecosystems undergoing retrogression has seldom been explored. 2. We studied a 5000-year-old chronosequence involving 30 islands that differed greatly in history of disturbance (wildfire through lightning strike), with increasing time since disturbance leading to ecosystem retrogression. For each island, we quantified N inputs through biological fixation by cyanobacteria hosted by each of two feather moss species that dominate the ground layer vegetation (Pleurozium schreberi and Hylocomium splendens), and compared these with N inputs through atmospheric deposition. 3. Both N fixation per unit land area and fixation per unit moss mass increased significantly with increasing time since disturbance for both moss species. As retrogression progressed, the amount of total N input through biological fixation increased to levels comparable to that of input through atmospheric deposition. 4. Across the chronosequence, N has been accumulating in the humus layer at a rate of 18 kg ha year in the absence of fire during the past 5000 years. The added N input from biological fixation in this area of low atmospheric N deposition helps explain this relatively high rate of sequestration. 5. Our results show that, contrary to several claims in the literature, biological N fixation is not only important in early-successional ecosystems but also in late-successional systems that have undergone retrogression. This fixation can contribute both to the elevated N: P ratios that occur during retrogression and to accumulation of N capital in the soil. However, much of this N may exist in forms that are relatively unavailable to co-existing plant species. 
2390299|Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations often lead to increased photosynthetic carbon uptake in plants, but this does not necessarily result in a proportional increases in plant biomass. We examined this paradox for grasslands in northern California that have been exposed to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> since 1992. We evaluated the effects of physiological adjustments on plant growth and carbon balance of the dominant species, Avena barbata, using a plant growth model. 2. Without physiological adjustments, an observed 70% increase in leaf photosynthesis in elevated CO<sub>2</sub> was predicted to increase plant biomass by 97% whereas experimental measurements suggested 5 and 13% decreases in 1992 and 1993, respectively, and a 40% increase in 1994. 3. Simulations with an increase in carbon allocation to roots by 29%, or leaf death rate by 80%, or non-structural carbohydrate storage by 60%, or leaf mass per unit area by 25% each predicted an approximately 40% increase in plant biomass in 1994 under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. It follows that greater suppression of the biomass responses to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> in 1992 and 1993 resulted from variable combinations of these physiological adjustments. 4. This modelling study concludes that (a) an increase in carbon loss or (b) a decrease in carbon-use efficiency or (c) an increase in carbon allocation to root growth will result in an increase in biomass growth that is less than that in leaf photosynthesis under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. Alternatively, if carbon loss is reduced (e.g. depressed respiration) and/or carbon allocation to leaf growth is increased, biomass growth may be stimulated more than leaf photosynthesis by atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. Moreover, this modelling exercise suggests that physiological adjustments may have substantial effects on ecosystem carbon processes by varying ecosystem carbon influx, litterfall and litter quality.
20142825|1. Although shade tolerance is often assumed to be a fixed trait of species, recent work has reported size-related changes in the relative and absolute light requirements of woody taxa. We hypothesized that, in evergreen forests, light requirements of shade-tolerant species that accumulate multiple foliage cohorts will be more stable during juvenile ontogeny than those of intolerant species with short leaf lifetimes. 2. We quantified the light environments occupied by three size classes of 13 coexisting evergreens in a temperate rainforest, to determine how size influenced their relative shade tolerance. Minimum light requirements (MLRs) of species were estimated by computing the 10th percentile of the distribution of juveniles in relation to percentage canopy openness, for each size class. Leaf life span in low light (2%-5% canopy openness) was estimated by recording survival of marked leaves over 12 months, or retrospectively on species with clearly discernible foliage cohorts. 3. Agreement of ranks of species' MLR across size classes was significant, although not strong (Kendall's W=0159, P=002). MLRs of the most shade-tolerant species changed little between size-classes, whereas those of most of the less-tolerant species rose with increasing size. 4. Shift in MLR across size-classes was negatively correlated with leaf life span, possibly because of the effects of leaf life span on biomass distribution and whole-plant carbon balance. Survival of light-demanding species with short leaf lifetimes may thus depend on their encountering increasing light levels as they grow taller, whereas progressive accumulation of an extensive leaf area by late-successional taxa enables them to continue to tolerate low light despite increasing size. 5. Results suggest that shade-tolerance differences between evergreens become increasingly apparent with increasing size. In identifying a relationship with leaf life span, this work also provides a basis for predicting changes in species' light requirements during juvenile ontogeny.
2656453|1. The Ruff is a lekking sandpiper in which males have two genetically determined alternative mating strategies: `satellite' or `independent'. Satellite males are non-territorial, following groups of females on and off leks. Independent males attempt to establish territories on leks and can be either `resident' territory holders, or non-territorial `marginals'. The time budgets of the three behavioural tactics (resident, marginal and satellite) differ notably in time allocated to foraging, aggression and display activity. These differences have led to the suggestion that the benefits of size and energy stores may vary with mating tactic. 2. In this paper in vivo estimates of body composition (fat, fat-free mass) for breeding male Ruffs using total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) are presented. 3. Satellite males have significantly shorter tarsi and wings than independent males. 4. After correcting for size, independent males are significantly heavier and fatter than satellites, and marginals in particular are heavier and fatter than both residents and satellites. 5. Estimates of energy expenditure during flight suggest that satellites may maintain reduced energy reserves to minimize flight costs, while the larger fat stores of independent males are consistent with the benefits of endurance as a territory holder.
40407720|1. There is increasing evidence that many above-ground and below-ground processes are tightly linked through plant-mediated mechanisms, including indirect interactions between foliar and root herbivores underpinned by changes in host plant chemistry (e.g. defensive or nutritional status). To date, studies addressing interactions involving nutritional mechanisms have relied on rudimentary chemical measurements (e.g. total/soluble nitrogen), overlooking other nutrients such as minerals and specific amino acids. 2. This study investigated how the nutrient composition of barley (Hordeum vulgare) responded to separate and simultaneous attack by root-feeding wireworms (Agriotes spp.) and foliar-feeding aphids (Rhopalosiphum padi) after short and long exposures to herbivory, and determined whether the two insects indirectly interacted with each other. 3. Wireworms significantly reduced total plant mass and leaf dry mass by up to 25%, but had little impact on nutritional chemistry compared with aphids. Aphids did not affect plant growth but caused significant reductions in most leaf minerals: nitrogen (N), sulphur (S), calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P). In contrast, aphids increased root mineral concentrations: N, S, Ca and potassium (K). Aphid-induced changes occurred in both short and long exposure experiments, with the exception of leaf Ca, and root N and K which were only significantly affected in the short exposure experiment. 4. Above-ground and below-ground herbivory had several interactive (often reversible) effects on plant nutrients. For example, wireworms strengthened the aphid-driven increases in root S by 35% after short exposure, but reduced aphid-induced increases by 10% after longer exposure. 5. There was evidence for positive bi-directional interactions between above-ground and below-ground herbivores, with wireworms promoting aphid numbers by 30% and aphids increasing wireworm mass by 25%. 6. Contrary to previous mechanistic explanations, below-ground herbivory had little impact on foliar amino acid concentrations, whereas aphids caused significant (approximately 50%) reductions in essential amino acids. However, after longer exposure to wireworm herbivory, aphid-driven reductions in essential amino acids were attenuated. Aphids caused significant increases in root mineral concentrations (especially root S) which potentially promoted wireworm performance. 7. The significance of these findings is discussed in the context of current hypotheses of above-ground x below-ground herbivore interactions. In particular, examining specific plant nutrients could be critical to understanding conditional outcomes of insect x plant interactions.
3599137|1. Plants can provision seeds by optimizing seed size, number and nutrient content to maximize parental fitness. According to the McGinley-Charnov hypothesis, seed size should be determined by the ratio of carbon to nitrogen (C/N) available to the plant, with larger seed size correlating with larger C/N ratios and smaller absolute N content. 2. This hypothesis was tested by establishing monocultures of Phytolacca americana L. (Phytolaccaceae) at three population densities under ambient and elevated CO
3599124| 1. Species of the isoetid life form have many physiological, anatomical and morphological traits that can be seen as adaptations to the environmental characteristics of softwater lakes. Among these, dependence on CO
2390481|1. Viviparous insects such as tsetse (Glossina spp.) provide unusual opportunities to compare age-related changes in the proportion of maternal resources transferred to offspring. 2. In laboratory populations of Glossina morsitans morsitans the survival of females was high for the first 60 days of adult life but declined rapidly thereafter. 3. Average longevity did not differ significantly between mated and unmated females (93.6 and 90 days. respectively). 4. Nutritional state in terms of fat content and residual dry mass did not decline with adult female age. 5. The fecundity of mated females was constant for the first 60 days of adult life and declined only slightly thereafter. 6. Offspring size did not change towards the end of the adult female lifespan and there was no evidence of an increase in the allocation of resources to reproduction in older females. 7. Results contrast with those obtained recently for vertebrates and may indicate that age-related changes in offspring size in Glossina are not adaptive, or that so few females reach old age under natural conditions that there is no selection for a strategy of terminal investment.
10.2307/2389714|1 The ability of drought-stressed Bouteloua gracilis H.B.K. Lag. ex Steud. to respond rapidly to a small rainfall event with increases in leaf water potential and leaf conductance directed our attention to the role of the roots in these responses. Our first objective was to determine whether new root growth was required to restore the water status to that of a non-stressed plant, following a small rainfall event. The results indicated that surviving roots were able to absorb water at approximately 40% of the rate of new roots, which was sufficient to restore non-stressed leaf water potentials within one day of watering. 2 The second objective was to estimate the rate and amount of new root growth following simulated rainfall events. New root growth occurred approximately 40h after watering. New roots never accounted for more than 15% of total root length but they made possible the continued response to increased water availability. 3 The third objective was to evaluate the importance of previous water stress in the response of Bouteloua gracilis to watering. The response of leaf water potential was influenced by previous water stress as well as by the amount of water added. However, the response of root growth was independent of water stress when 15 mm of water was added and dependent upon water stress in the case of the addition of only 5 mm. 4 A simulation analysis of potential carbon gain, as a result of Bouteloua gracilis responding to a 5-mm rainfall event, suggested that the cost of producing new roots was less than the gain.
3599219| 1. Litter decomposition can be limited by nitrogen or phosphorus, but conditions under which either nutrient is limiting remain uncertain. We investigated whether this depends on nutrient limitation during plant growth, on N: P ratios of the litter, or on activities of C-, N- and P-mineralizing enzymes. 2. Nine herbaceous species were grown at N: P supply ratios
40407754|Summary 1. Due to species-specificity of the outcomes of biotic interactions, it is difficult to generalize from observed biotic interactions at the individual plant level to the effect of those interactions at the community level. To evaluate the importance of biotic interactions in shaping plant communities, it is necessary to understand how the outcomes of the complex interactions observed at the individual level can influence community structure. 2. Here, we propose a trait-based framework that identifies and organises mechanisms affecting community structure (here described with relative abundances of plant functional traits - i.e. the distribution of trait values at the community level). We applied our approach to a single lef trait, specific leaf area (SLA), to link individual responses to plant interactions with community structure (SLA distribution observed at the community level) and to test whether biotic interactions can predict the functional composition of subalpine grasslands. We evaluated the generality of our model through a cross-validation with a set of eight subalpine grasslands independent from the four fields used to build the model. 3. We found that competition and facilitation were able to explain the functional composition of subalpine grasslands, and the relevant fitness components (survival or growth) explaining this link changed depending on the limiting resources. When soil water availability was limiting, positive plant-plant interactions acting on survival were able to explain community structure. In contrast, when no water limitation was observed competition acting on individual growth was the main driver of community structure. 4. Our framework enables evaluation of the consequences of biotic interactions observed at individual level on community structure, thereby indicating when and where different types of plant-plant interactions are important.
20142755|1. In social insects, reproductive success and survival of the colony critically depend on the colony's ability to efficiently allocate workers to the various tasks which need to be performed. In bumblebees, workers show a large variation of body size within a colony. Large workers tend to leave the nest and forage for nectar and pollen, whereas small workers stay inside the nest and fulfill nest duties. It was speculated that size-related differences of the sensory system might contribute to alloethism found in bumblebee colonies. 2. In the first part, we investigated how body size determines eye morphology. We measured several eye parameters of Bombus terrestris workers and drones. In both, workers and drones, larger individuals had larger eyes with larger facet diameters, more ommatidia and larger ocelli. At similar body size, drones exhibited larger eyes and ocelli compared to workers. Due to theoretical considerations, we predict that large individuals with large eyes should be better able to operate in illumination conditions of lower intensity than small individuals, since ommatidial sensitivity is proportional to the square of facet diameter. 3. In the second part, we tested this prediction. In a behavioural experiment, we first caught bumblebees of various sizes in the field and then determined the lowest light intensity level at which they are just able to fly under controlled laboratory conditions. We tested workers of B. terrestris and B. pascuorum, and workers and drones of B. lapidarius. Large bumblebees were able to fly under lower light levels compared to small bees, with light intensity thresholds ranging from 11 to 55 lux. 4. Our results indicate that the increased light sensitivity of the visual system of large bumblebees allows them to fly under poor light conditions, for example, very early in the morning or late at dusk. This is of potential benefit to the survival of a bumblebee colony since flowers that open early in the morning usually have accumulated a relatively high amount of nectar and pollen throughout the night, and large bumblebees can utilize these resources earlier than most other bees. Thus, our findings have important implications for the understanding of the functional significance and evolution of alloethism in bumblebee colonies.
20142821|1. Commonly held views assume that ageing, or senescence, represents an inevitable, passive, and random decline in function that is strongly linked to chronological age. In recent years, genetic intervention of life span regulating pathways, for example, in Drosophila as well as case studies in non-classical animal models, have provided compelling evidence to challenge these views. 2. Rather than comprehensively revisiting studies on the established genetic model systems of ageing, we here focus on an alternative model organism with a wild type (unselected genotype) characterized by a unique diversity in longevity -- the honey bee. 3. Honey bee (Apis mellifera) life span varies from a few weeks to more than 2 years. This plasticity is largely controlled by environmental factors. Thereby, although individuals are closely related genetically, distinct life histories can emerge as a function of social environmental change. 4. Another remarkable feature of the honey bee is the occurrence of reverted behavioural ontogeny in the worker (female helper) caste. This behavioural peculiarity is associated with alterations in somatic maintenance functions that are indicative of reverted senescence. Thus, although intraspecific variation in organismal life span is not uncommon, the honey bee holds great promise for gaining insights into regulatory pathways that can shape the time-course of ageing by delaying, halting or even reversing processes of senescence. These aspects provide the setting of our review. 5. We will highlight comparative findings from Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans in particular, and focus on knowledge spanning from molecular- to behavioural-senescence to elucidate how the honey bee can contribute to novel insights into regulatory mechanisms that underlie plasticity and robustness or irreversibility in ageing.
826667| 1. Basal metabolic rates (BMR) were measured in 36 adult and 119 juvenile waders of 19 species on autumn migration in southern Sweden. 2. In a comparison with literature data, it was found that juvenile BMR was generally lower than at the onset of migration in the Arctic and slightly higher than on African wintering grounds. 3. The seasonal differences may reflect local physiological adaptations or possibly a gradual decline from high premigratory levels due to growth. Our data contradict the idea that BMR is high during migration as an adaptation to generally high levels of energy expenditure. 4. The allometric exponent, scaling BMR to body mass, was significantly higher within individuals (119) and within species (182) than among species (062). 5. The high intra-individual exponent indicates that non-fat tissues, with a high metabolic activity, are involved in the mass changes during migratory stopover. 6. The high intraspecific exponent indicates that tissues with a high metabolic activity contributed disproportionately to variation in body mass among individuals or that larger individuals had elevated mass specific metabolic rates of some tissues. 
4540098| 1. During the last phase of starvation, animals depend mainly on protein breakdown. All organs are a potential protein source. Do starving animals prevent particular organs from being catabolized in order to defend certain functions? In this study we investigated if starving birds maintain locomotion and digestion capacities, both essential for the recovery process. 2. We compared body composition data of healthy wintering and winter-starved red knots (Calidris canutus islandica), a long-distance migrating shorebird that breeds on High Arctic tundra in Canada and Greenland, and winters in temperate coastal areas such as the Wadden Sea and the British estuaries. Throughout the wintering period they eat hard-shelled molluscs ingested whole. 3. Our results showed that winter-starved knots had catabolized 605% of their pectoral muscles. This was much more than the decrease in overall body mass (325%). As a result, their flight capacities will have been reduced. 4. Winter-starved knots defended the muscular gizzard, which lost only 212% of its mass. As knots crack the ingested shellfish with their gizzard, the organ is essential for food processing. The intestines and liver were not defended; their atrophy equalled that of the pectoral muscles (606% and 613%, respectively). 5. Comparison with data from the literature led to the conclusion that starving birds only defend organs that are essential to either obtain or process food. These organs are maintained at the minimal level of normal capacity. Other organs decrease below this level and may lose much of their functional capacity. 6. Even in near-death situations, with low fitness prospects, organisms show interpretably adaptive changes in organ size. 
3599092|1. Prosopis velutina Woot. (Velvet Mesquite) at a site with limited groundwater availability derived a greater percentage of water from shallow soil at the onset of the summer rainy season than did trees at a site with greater availability of groundwater. Predawn leaf water potentials (
40603054|1. The best-of-both-worlds hypothesis proposes that delayed autonomous selfing assures reproduction when pollinators are absent, but allows outcrossing when pollinators are present without incurring seed and pollen discounting. However, because self-compatibility is necessary for delayed selfing, discounting can be incurred if pollinators mediate selfing concurrently with outcrossing. The extent that pollinator-mediated selfing erodes the best-of-both-worlds mating strategy is largely unknown. 2. In this study, we assess how delayed selfing and pollinator-mediated selfing contribute to reproductive output under contrasting pollination environments in Bulbine vagans (Asphodelaceae). 3. We manipulated floral phenotype under contrasting weather conditions, plant densities and floral display. We emasculated flowers at early-flowering (allowing only outcrossing) or lateflowering (eliminating delayed selfing) stages and compared reproductive output with intact flowers (outcrossing + pollinator-mediated selfing + delayed selfing). 4. During inclement weather, few or no pollinators visited flowers. Reproductive output was severely limited by cross pollen, and delayed selfing provided reproductive assurance. During fine weather, cross pollen was also limiting, but pollinator-mediated selfing boosted reproductive output before delayed selfing could occur. 5. On isolated plants, flowers received fewer pollinator visits and reproductive output was limited more by cross pollen compared with grouped plants. Despite these differences, reproductive output of both isolated and grouped plants was boosted to similar levels by pollinator-mediated selfing before delayed selfing could occur. 6. One-and three-flowered plants were similarly limited by cross pollen. On three-flowered plants, facilitated and geitonogamous selfing boosted reproductive output before delayed selfing could occur. By contrast, on one-flowered plants geitonogamy was eliminated, and pollinatormediated selfing was reduced. This provided mating flexibility by retaining opportunities for subsequent outcrossing, although delayed selfing boosted reproductive output. 7. Reproductive output was consistently limited by cross-pollination. Yet, delayed selfing provided reproductive assurance only during inclement weather and on one-flowered plants. Under other conditions, pollinators mediated selfing that could render ovules unavailable for outcrossing as selfing occurred and for outcrossing that might occur subsequently. We conclude that best-of-both-worlds flexibility will often be eroded by pollinator-mediated selfing that inevitability occurs with outcrossing.
10.2307/2389698|The subarctic cushion plant Diapensia lapponica L. was cold acclimated and then its frost resistance evaluated by freezing experiments. Survival was examined in leaves by a plasmolysis and subsequent deplasmolysis test, a conductivity test and measurement of the release of ninhydrinpositive substances. Frost resistance increased, from -9<sup></sup>C to -15<sup></sup>C in mature leaves and from -7<sup></sup>C to -13<sup></sup>C in young leaves, in 3 weeks at 3<sup></sup>C with continuous illumination. Plants which were flowering initially were able to harden at low temperature with a long day (LD) photoperiod: 3 months' treatment depressed the LT<sub>50</sub> by 14<sup></sup>C. The cold acclimation response to LD and short day (SD) photoperiods was compared: SD increased the frost resistance only slightly more when the temperature fell below 0<sup></sup>C. Primary exotherm temperatures were initially detected at -5<sup></sup>C to -6<sup></sup>C and slightly lower after the cold acclimation period. Both the osmotic potential and the dehydration tolerance of mesophyll cells increased during the acclimation periods. The capability of D. lapponica to cold harden in LD was clearly demonstrated in all the experimental series.
4540091|1. In nutrient-poor environments, plants employ many strategies to acquire and recycle scarce nutrients. Predictable relationships among a variety of leaf traits, including leaf nitrogen (N) suggest that how plants obtain, use, store and re-use N is a major component of plant fitness. The northern pitcher plant, Sarracenia purpurea, receives nitrogen from multiple sources:
2390341|1. Two studies using the stable-isotope <sup>13</sup>C have shown that large amounts of carbon can move between plants linked by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Quantities comparable to the carbon cost of the symbiosis for an individual plant may be transferred. 2. We measured C transfer between linked plants of the grass Cynodon dactylon (C<sub>4</sub>, <sup>13</sup>C \approx - 14<???>) and the herb Plantago lanceolata (C<sub>3</sub>, <sup>13</sup>C \sim - 28<???>). To test the hypothesis that the carbon transferred between plants remained in fungal structures at all times, plants were grown for two harvests; at the first harvest they were clipped to ground level, so that shoot re-growth required the transport of carbon from the roots. We also tested the influence of the direction of growth of the fungus, to determine whether C was transported out of or into a newly colonized root, and of growing plants in elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, to increase the availability of carbon compounds in the roots. 3. Large amounts of C were transferred between linked plants, more so into Plantago than into Cynodon roots. Transfer occurred whether root systems were separated by a 20  m mesh, that excluded roots but not hyphae, or a 0.45  m mesh, intended to act as a barrier to hyphae as well. We believe that the high root densities achieved in the experiment allowed hyphae to cross the finer mesh between the two dense root mats. 4. Clipping the plants did not result in any movement of C from roots to shoots, thus confirming the prediction that all C transferred remains in fungal structures. 5. The direction of growth of the fungus did not affect the direction of transfer, nor did the CO<sub>2</sub> concentration in which the plants were grown. 6. The amount of C transferred was a positive correlate of the frequency of vesicles in the roots but a negative correlate of the frequency of hyphae. If C were moving into developing colonization units, thus effectively giving the plant a `free' symbiosis, the correlation with internal hyphae should be positive. The positive correlation with vesicles suggests that C is moving into fungal storage structures. 7. We propose a mycocentric view of the phenomenon of interplant C transfer, in which the fungal colonies within roots are seen as parts of an extended mycelium between which the fungus moves resources depending on the dynamics of its own growth. We do not believe that the transfer has an impact on plant C budgets or fitness, but that it may be a major element in the understanding of fungal C budgets.
826575|1. Quercus coccifera, a slow-growing, evergreen oak, grows in contrasting environments in the Mediterranean Basin. Habitat-based selection may have promoted divergence between populations with respect to phenotypic plasticity and genetic variability. 2. We tested the hypothesis that populations of the Q. coccifera originating from a rock outcrop, a continental garrigue formation and an oceanic forest would differ in their plastic response to light intensity. Plants from these populations were grown from acorns in a common garden at 100% and 20% full sunlight. Light response analysis was based on photochemical efficiency, xanthophyll pool, nutrient allocation, growth, crown architecture and light absorption. 3. Light-responsive characters ranged from the subcellular to the whole-plant level. The greatest divergences between sun and shade phenotypes were observed in leaf size, leaf angle and leaf area ratio. However, plasticity in these traits depended on plant provenance. 4. Regardless of the level of organization, populations were invariably ranked in the same order of plasticity when averaged over light-responsive features, with plants originating from the rock outcrop showing the least plasticity and those from the forest the largest. The forest population also had the greatest genetic variability with respect to the isoperoxidase polymorphism. 5. Among populations, plants originating from the phosphorus-deficient rock outcrop contained 30% more P per unit dry weight. Plants from the forest population had 5% more photoprotective xanthophylls, 30% larger total leaf area, with less lobed and larger leaves and a differential plasticity in leaf azimuth. 6. Differences among populations suggested ecotypic differentiation towards less phenotypic plasticity in the most homogeneous light environments. The ecological breadth of the species seemed to be derived not only from its tolerance of Mediterranean conditions but also from the specialization of its populations in contrasting habitats.
10.2307/2389573| One hypothesis concerning the growth rates of birds is that weight (size) of alimentary tract limits the availability of energy to growing chicks. To test this, the optimal allocation of energy to the growth of the alimentary tract compared to the rest of the body is considered, under the assumption that the duration of postnatal development in birds is to be minimized. The model starts from bioenergetic equations, and the optimal solution is found by means of the Pontryagin Maximum Principle, assuming that growth is constrained by physiological limitations and not by availability of food. Depending on the initial and final proportion of the alimentary tract to body weight, the predicted optimal relationship between body weight and alimentary tract weight can be described by a single straight line, or two- or three-segmented straight lines. Predictions from the model are compared with data on the growth of a small altricial species  the tree sparrow (Passer montanus Linnaeus)  and support is found for the model. 
3599120|1. Brood parasitism is an interaction that negatively affects reproductive success of host species, some of which have evolved defences to reduce offspring mortality caused by the parasites. In this study, we analyse the responses to interspecific brood parasitism of a dung beetle species, Onthophagus merdarius, in which reproductive success is heavily affected by parasitic beetles. 2. We used a combination of field and laboratory experiments to approach this question. Manipulating the effect of the presence of brood parasites on host nesting showed that there were no differences between treatments in nest traits. This absence of responses of the host species might be related to how and when brood parasites localize host nests: brood parasites actively find host nests after the nests have been finished and the nest burrows sealed. 3. Although both the rate of parasitism and the mortality rate caused by parasites are very high on O. merdarius, the possibility of the host species to evolve defence strategies against brood parasites is probably constrained by resource limitation for nesting in the study area. Because brood parasitism and resource limitation act synergistically favouring small brood size and small brood-mass size, smaller individuals may be also favoured under these conditions in the study area.
10.2307/2389299|The naturally occurring `alba' morph of Colias butterflies causes re-allocation of nitrogen-rich pigment precursors away from pigmentation and into other developmental uses during pupation of its female carriers. This re-allocation has positive effects (especially at low pupal temperatures) on female emergence time, egg maturity and larval resource conservation, but negative effects on female attractiveness to males. It has been suggested that `alba' may also be a mimic of putatively distasteful pierine butterflies. We use wild Canada jays as experimental predators in a Colorado butterfly community to test whether two Colias, three pierine butterflies and four nymphalid butterflies differ in palatability to these birds. All species were eaten in many pairwise palatability trials; there is no evidence for true distaste-fulness of any of them. Colias and the pierines are statistically equal in percentage eaten and in percentage attacked. Colias and pierines alike are eaten somewhat less often than the most favoured nymphalid taxa. Among those trials in which both specimens were eaten, Colias were eaten first somewhat more often than the pierines. These findings are consistent with a view of the insect palatability spectrum in which Colias and the pierines are all palatable but less preferred than the most favoured nymphalids and in which the pierines Pieris and Euchloe are slightly less preferred than Colias and the pierine Pontia. We reject the suggestion that the Colias `alba' variant can form a strong mimetic relationship of any sort in this community.
10.2307/2389731|The effects of interspecific competition on the growth of seedlings of the inland halophyte Hordeum jubatum L. were measured. H. jubatum was grown in pure culture and mixed with Atriplex triangularis Willd under field conditions, and in a replacement series along an artificial salinity gradient. The interpretation of the replacement series was enhanced by the measurement of individual plant response, allowing for a statistical analysis. Competition with A. triangularis significantly inhibited root growth of H. jubatum at salinity levels below its upper physiological limit. The results are placed in the context of recent interpretations of the role of interspecific competition in extreme environments.
20142799| 1. Naturally occurring stable isotopes in resources and their consumer allow the estimation of nutritional flows between the two and have been much used to improve our understanding of the nutritional ecology of free-living animals. 2. The difference in isotopic composition between an animal and its diet is represented by a discrimination factor. Carbon and nitrogen flows are estimated by calculating the discrimination factors in stable isotope ratios (N and C), which are presumed to be c. 3 and 1 heavier in the consumer tissues than those in their resources, respectively. 3. The discrimination factor is known to vary according to species, tissue, age, growth rates and food quality, but the estimation of discrimination factors is difficult and a fixed discrimination factor is usually used in diet reconstruction. It has also been suggested that discrimination factors could vary linearly with the diet isotopic ratio. If this linear relationship could be demonstrated using regression, this would provide an adequate method for the estimation of discrimination factors. In order to understand how diet isotopic ratios affect the discrimination factor, we investigated the pattern of its change in nitrogen (N) and carbon (C) in different tissues (liver, muscle and hair) of an omnivore species, the rat Rattus rattus. We fed captive rats with diets of the same nutritional quality but on different isotopic ratios. 4. First, discrimination factors for N and C showed great variability, ranging from -146 to 459 and from -879 to 064, respectively. Discrimination factors depended on both diet isotopic ratio and tissue. 5. We also show that isotope ratios in shaved hairs showed a turnover during the first month, and then stabilized during the second month. Using shaved hairs has the potential to be an effective non-lethal method for determining resource shifts in non-specialist consumers. 6. Finally, we demonstrated, for all tissues, a decrease of N and C with an increased values of N and C, respectively. These relationships allow us to propose a framework to estimate discrimination factors from diet isotopic ratios by means of regression models. 
10.2307/2389983|1. We address the following questions: (a) do plants that colonize horizontally-patchy environments preferentially project leaf area into light gaps and avoid poorly illuminated sites? (b) is this `foraging' ability impaired in plants that lack phytochrome B, one of the plants' information-acquiring photoreceptors? 2. We used cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) plants as test material and our approach was based on studies of the dynamics of gap colonization by wild-type (WT) and lh-mutant plants. The lh mutant lacks phytochrome B but has WT levels of phytochrome A. When de-etiolated, lh seedlings show reduced or no response to alterations of the red (R) to far-red (FR) ratio of the incident light, one of the environmental factors that plants use to monitor the proximity of other plants. 3. Controlled-environment experiments showed that seedlings of both genotypes are able to sense irradiance gradients and actively project nodes towards light gaps via phototropic (stem-bending) responses. A mechanism independent of phytochrome B also appeared to control the angle of display of individual leaves with respect to the direction of illumination. 4. However, when compared over periods of several weeks, WT plants were far more efficient than lh mutants at invading light gaps. Thus, WT plants grown in the field for 4 weeks at the edges of an experimental maize canopy projected outside the canopy nearly all the nodes produced. In contrast, 50% of the nodes and more than 80% of the apical buds of lh mutant plants were deployed under the maize canopy. 5. The lower ability of the phytochrome B-deficient lh mutant to `forage' for light, compared with WT plants, appears to be the integrated product of a lower capacity to locate light gaps (owing to the lack of R:FR-driven phototropism) and a lower capacity to retain modules into high-light patches. In relation to the latter, lh shoots exposed to high R:FR ratios (simulated gap-light) retain a phenotype characterized by long internodes and high apical dommance, two features that would increase the likelihood of exiting light gaps. 6. We show that shoots of mature WT plants grown under high R:FR ratio are diagravitropic, whereas lh shoots are orthogravitropic. The diagravitropic habit, coupled with an efficient phototropic system, appears to help WT shoots to escape from the shaded sectors and invade light gaps. 7. Compared with lh plants, WT plants grown under high R:FR have delayed tendril production and reduced stem-bending responses to mechanical stress exerted by tendrils. These two factors combine with the ones listed above to cause the direction of shoot spreading in WT plants to be dictated mainly by the spatial distribution of light gaps and not by the distribution of potential points of support for tendril attachment.
20142758|1. Many phylogenetic lineages of animals have undergone major habitat transitions, stimulating dramatic phenotypic changes as adaptations to the novel environment. Although most such traits clearly reflect genetic modification, phenotypic plasticity may have been significant in the initial transition between habitat types. 2. Elapid snakes show multiple phylogenetic shifts from terrestrial to aquatic life. We raised young tigersnakes (a terrestrial taxon closely related to sea-snakes) in either a terrestrial or aquatic environment for a 5-month period. 3. The snakes raised in water were able to swim 26% faster, but crawled 36% more slowly, than did their terrestrially-raised siblings. A full stomach impaired locomotor performance, but snakes were less impaired when tested in the environment in which they had been raised. 4. Thus, adaptively plastic responses to local environments may have facilitated aquatic performance (and impaired terrestrial performance) in ancestral snakes as they shifted from terrestrial to aquatic existence. 5. Such plasticity may have influenced the rate or route of this evolutionary transition between habitats, and should be considered when comparing habitat-specific locomotor abilities of present-day aquatic and terrestrial species.
3599086|1. Improved nutrition may cause an increase in body size in animals, while increased ambient temperature may result in a decrease in body size, as expected from Bergmann's rule. In Israel, during the last 50 years both food availability for animals commensal with humans and ambient temperature have increased. 2. Using museum data, temporal changes in body size of five species of carnivorous mammals commensal with humans were examined. 3. An increase in body length was found in four species, and appears to be related to improved nutrition owing to a substantial increase in the amount of garbage and agricultural crops available to commensal mammals that has occurred since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. 4. The larger species were more affected than the smaller ones, apparently because of their higher position in the feeding hierarchy or because of having larger home ranges. 5. The increases are convergent with the increase in human body height observed during the past two centuries. 6. These changes illustrate the fast rate of animal response to changing environmental conditions.
10.2307/2389430|Pollen loads of honeybees, bumblebees and hoverflies were analysed and pollination efficiency estimated, while they were visiting the flowers of Prunus spinosa L. (Blackthorn); Crataegus monogyna Jacq. (Hawthorn); Rosa canina L. (Dog Rose) and Rubus fruticosus L. (Bramble). The relative efficiency of the different insect groups varied, depending on the plant species being visited. In every instance the high constancy of the visitors, their rapid foraging rates and the amounts of pollen they carry, would ensure that they are adequate pollen-transfer agents.
10.2307/2389553|Bell (1986) predicted that plants should be able to grow a proportion of their flowers that do not produce any nectar, which thus escape the costs of nectar production, while gaining the benefits of insect pollination because most insect visitors either cannot discriminate, or would lose too much time attempting to do so. He worked out an ESS model predicting the proportion of `cheating' flowers and discriminating insects: the proportion of cheaters should be D/H, where D is the discrimination time, and H the handling time of the insect visitors. We have tested Bell's hypothesis using the flowers of Cerinthe major L. (Boraginaceae) visited by Anthophora plumipes (Pallas) (Hymenoptera, Anthophoridae). From measurements of D and H, we predicted that 73% of flowers should be cheaters. Inspection of the ranked nectar production of individual flowers on individual days shows that between 75 and 85% are relatively low nectar producers. Reasons for this pattern are explored; in particular, the way in which nectar production varies with flower age may constitute a mechanism by which plants can play a mixed strategy.
10.2307/2389882|1. A re-examination of the distribution of the dominant species in a series of dune and slack communities after an interval of 24 years revealed varying amounts of movement in the boundaries between the different vegetation types. 2. Some boundaries showed no measurable differences in location while others had changed significantly. The most stable boundary was between the Carex arenaria heath vegetation of the dune tops and the Filipendula ulmaria-dominated community of the adjacent dune slack. This boundary coincided with the maximum winter flood-line which has remained stable despite increased flooding, as excess water decants into drier slacks to seaward. 3. Within the slack community increased flooding and nutrient supply, from a drainage system that was put in place shortly after the initial survey, have been accompanied by an increase in Glyceria maxima at the expense of F. ulmaria and Carex nigra dominated zones. 4. Examination of the anoxia tolerance of some of the species suggests that the stable winter flood-line boundary between the dune and slack communities is maintained in its fixed position by the intolerance to anoxia of the dune-top species, with stress tolerance rather than competition being the over-riding factor determining its location. By contrast, changes within the mire vegetation types appear to be in response to competition processes with stress tolerance playing a reduced role.
3599221| 1. We had two objectives: (i) to determine the generality of, and extend the applicability of, a previously reported empirical relationship between leaf-level net photosynthetic rate
40205493|1. Ambush foragers that attract prey via luring provide an opportunity to examine how a predator's behaviour influences its dietary composition. 2. Australian death adders (Acanthophispraelongus, Elapidae) are heavy-bodied ambush foragers with broad diets; the snake's modified tail-tip is waved to attract prey. Female adders have shorter tails than males, but longer terminal spines. 3. We videotaped captive snakes interacting with potential prey items (lizards and frogs) to document which prey types elicit luring, and which respond by approaching the lure. To clarify prey responses, we controlled lure size and colour by attaching snake tails (removed from dead adders) to a machine that waved the tail-tip in a manner similar to a live snake. 4. Individual adders differed in luring behaviour, and the type of tail-tip movement (undulatory vs. straightline) influenced rates and duration of luring bouts. 5. Lure movement was essential to attract lizards, and small lures were more effective than larger ones; the greater effectiveness of small lures may explain why caudal luring tends to be more common in juvenile snakes than in larger conspecifics. 6. Death adders lured more vigorously to lizards than to frogs, and lizards were more likely to approach the lure. Thus, luring in death adders mostly enables these snakes to capture lizards; frogs (also an important dietary component in the field) must be caught another way. 7. An ambush predator's overall dietary composition, as well as ontogenetic changes in that composition, thus depend upon both lure characteristics and prey responses.
2656371|1. The effects of high spring floods on survival and growth of juvenile Atlantic Salmon, Salmo salar, and Brown Trout, Salmo trutta, are explored, using data from a long-term study in the River Saltdalselv, northern Norway. The flow regime in this river is typical for northern rivers. 2. There was considerable variation in year class strength of both species. 3. Mortality of Atlantic Salmon increased significantly in years with high discharge during the alevin stage as well as the first week after emergence. High discharge during the egg stage and more than 1 week after emergence seemed to be of minor importance. Water temperature at emergence was rather high (average 10.5 <sup></sup>C) and did not significantly affect year class strength. 4. Brown Trout emerged earlier than Atlantic Salmon at an average water temperature of 8.2 <sup></sup>C. Highest mortality was observed in years with low water temperatures at emergence as well as high discharge during the alevin stage. 5. For 1-year-old fish or older, the size of the spring peak flood did not influence mortality significantly. 6. Growth of Atlantic Salmon parr was diminished in years with a high peak spring flood. A similar effect on Brown Trout was not detected.
3599247|1. The effects of nutrient enrichment on wetland vegetation may depend on the responses of different plant species to nutrient supply over several years, in waterlogged or flooded soils, and under either nitrogen- or phosphorus-limited conditions. However, most growth experiments comparing species from differently productive sites have focused on their short-term responses to variation in N supply. In this study we investigated whether increased N or P supply affects plant growth differently, whether these effects differ between the first and second year of growth, and whether they are modified by the water regime. 2. Plants of 16 wetland species were grown during two seasons in tubes with sand under full light. Treatments combined three nutrient levels (low N and P, high N, high P) with three water regimes (constantly wet, periodically aerated, periodically flooded). 3. In the first year, shoot biomass was enhanced by high N supply, particularly in species from nutrient-rich sites; this was associated with reduced shoot P concentration. In the second year, shoot biomass was generally enhanced by high P supply and reduced by high N supply; responses to high P were strongest in species with low shoot biomass and high N concentration but unrelated to the productivity of the species' sites. 4. The total biomass produced during both years was smaller at high N supply than at high P supply. A smaller fraction of the N and P supply was recovered in high-N plants, and these plants allocated less biomass to roots than those grown at high P supply or low N and P supply. 5. Periodic flooding reduced biomass production and nutrient recovery, but hardly influenced the effects of nutrient supply on plant growth. Species from wet meadows were affected more by flooding than species from fens in the first season, but not in the second season. 6. We propose that high N supply reduced second-year growth because strong P limitation increased below-ground nutrient losses from plants, whereas high P supply enhanced second-year growth by improving N retention in plants. Our results therefore suggest that N and P enrichment may have quite different effects on wetland vegetation.
2656432|1. In species where females mate multiply, it is important for males to recuperate quickly in order to maximize their fertilization success. Butterflies produce a spermatophore at mating containing accessory secretions and sperm of two types: a large number of non-fertile `apyrene' sperm and fewer fertile `eupyrene' sperm. Many butterfly species eclose with most nutrients for reproduction already present. Males must therefore decide how to allocate resources to the various spermatophore components at any given mating. 2. Recovery rates of apyrene and eupyrene sperm number and spermatophore size was studied in the polyandrous Small White butterfly Pieris rapae. The mass of the first spermatophore increases with time since eclosion, as does the number of both types of sperm. Similarly, on a male's second mating, both the mass of the spermatophore and the number of sperm increases with time since the first mating. 3. However, the rate of increase in eupyrene sperm numbers is higher after the first mating. The difference in rate of increase may be the result of different probabilities of virgin and non-virgin males obtaining future matings. 4. Males have a sperm storage organ, the duplex, in which they retain sperm after their first mating. This ensures that high sperm numbers are available for their second mating, even when remating only 1 h later. Thus, males do not ejaculate all available sperm on any given mating, and seem to have different strategies on their first and second matings. 5. It can be argued that Small White butterfly males allocate sperm strategically according to the probability of obtaining subsequent matings, and the level of sperm competition.
3806564|1. Although metabolic resource losses are maintained at low rates during diapause, the accumulation of losses over a long period negatively affects organisms with prolonged diapause usually extending beyond 1 year. The seed-predatory weevil Exechesops leucopis (Jordan) (Coleoptera: Anthribidae) enters winter diapause at the final-instar larval stage within seeds of Styrax japonica Sieb. et Zucc. (Styracaceae) at a density of one larva per seed. After diapause, larvae pupate within the seeds and then emerge as adults. 2. The adult emergence pattern of a single cohort of E. leucopis was monitored for 5 years under seminatural conditions in the laboratory. The duration of diapause varied from 1 year (single winter) to 4 years (four winters). Adults that emerged after 1 year were smaller than those that emerged after 2 years or more. When temperature was not decreased experimentally in winter, no adults emerged in the following season. 3. Metabolic resource losses during diapause were examined by comparing adult body sizes between controls and groups in which emergence was delayed by 1 year under manipulated winter temperature regimes. Adults that emerged after an additional year in the larval stage were smaller than those in the control group. Moreover, the rates of reduction in body size as a consequence of diapause being extended experimentally were greater in smaller individuals. Thus smaller individuals have disadvantages in longer diapause, suggesting that weevils may vary the duration of diapause depending on individual body size. 4. Exechesops leucopis shows sexual dimorphism in the degree of eye protrusion. Eyestalk length affects male fitness through intrasexual selection. The duration of diapause affected the length of the eyestalks: when an additional year was spent in diapause, eyestalk length was nearly maintained in larger males but was greatly decreased in smaller males. In all females eyestalk length decreased according to the duration of diapause.
10.2307/2389773|Studies of root anchorage have shown that the mechanical function of roots is restricted to strengthened basal areas, whereas delicate distal roots have a role largely in absorption. Analysis further shows that to most economically withstand the upward grazing forces to which procumbent and climbing plants are subjected a fibrous root system is optimal, while tall free-standing plants need to invest in a further stiff element such as a tap-root to resist toppling. Relative investment in the fibrous roots of procumbent and climbing plants should fall with plant size but investment in the tap-root of upright plants should be size independent. These predictions were tested in three surveys in which the above- and below-ground morphology of several species of full-grown annual dicots were examined and the relative dry mass investment in the shoot, tap-root, fibrous roots and absorption roots were measured. Below-ground morphology varied with above-ground morphology both between and within species and with plant size as predicted: free-standing plants had tap-root systems containing a relatively constant proportion (3-6% of total dry mass) in the tap-root and 3-5% in the fibrous roots; procumbent plants had fibrous root systems containing 1.5-12% of the total dry mass, larger plants having relatively smaller root systems. Multi-stemmed and rosette species had root systems of intermediate morphology. There was no relationship between above-ground form and the investment in absorption root. Mechanics has helped us explain below-ground differences in the morphology of annual dicots and may help explain growth responses to the environment.
10.2307/2389862|1. Disc areas created by the western harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex occidentalis, around their mound nests can comprise over 10% of the land surface in semi-arid shrub steppes of the Great Basin, USA. The harvester ant mounds are abandoned after 12-20 years and the mycorrhizal fungal inoculum dispersion patterns within these patches may affect subsequent plant establishment. 2. It was hypothesized that harvester ant activity reduces mycorrhizal inoculum levels within the disc, and that mycorrhizal fungi must re-establish in these patches from surface-deposited, immigrating inoculum. 3. To test this, we first excavated two ant mounds, which revealed a chambered core consisting of a mat of densely packed, clipped roots with 2000-5000 times the vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal spore density found in the surrounding undisturbed vegetation. To assess the effectiveness of these enriched patches of inoculum, non-mycorrhizal seedlings of Artemisia tridentata (sagebrush) and Oryzopsis hymenoides (Indian ricegrass) were planted around the perimeter of nine mycorrhizae-enriched ant mounds and compared with surface inoculation of an exotic mycorrhizal fungus, Gigaspora margarita, capable of being tracked through immunofluorescence. 4. Results from these field bioassays demonstrated that surface-deposited mycorrhizal inoculum did not expand downward into the soil and buried inoculum resulted in high levels of endophyte root infection. 5. It was concluded that harvester ant mounds exhibit nest microbial enrichment, and that the ants leave high densities of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in locations suitable for assisting in the establishment of mutualistic mycorrhizal associations after the mounds are abandoned.
41319581|1. Animal populations exhibit considerable variation in their susceptibility to infection by emerging diseases, yet it is poorly understood how environmental and intrinsic factors contribute to these patterns. Considering that intrinsic factors (e.g. life history stage, nutritional state) can impact immune function, knowledge of the physiological mechanisms that mediate susceptibility to infection may improve our understanding of the emergence of disease in natural populations. 2. Ranavirus outbreaks have been associated with die-offs of amphibians worldwide. While the ecological factors associated with epidemics have been widely studied, little is known about how physiological factors mediate amphibian responses to ranavirus infection. 3. The neuroendocrine hypothalamus-pituitary-interrenal axis (HPI) is a physiological system central to coordinating energy balance and development. It is known to both stimulate and inhibit immune function in vertebrates in different contexts. We hypothesized that the HPI axis would also mediate responses to ranavirus infection. We used wood frog (Rana sylvatica) larvae and ranavirus isolated from recent die-offs of local wood frog populations to examine the physiological responses to infection. 4. In addition to increasing odds of death with increasing doses of virus in an LD study, we saw a 17-fold increase in the odds of death with each increase in Gosner stage at the time of infection. 5. We then examined the HPI stress response of prometamorphic tadpoles exposed to a lethal dose of ranavirus. Infected tadpoles exhibited significantly elevated corticosterone levels, more rapid developmental changes, and a greater decrease in body weight relative to controls over 6 days after exposure. 6. Although elevated corticosterone mobilizes resources and enhances immunity, its acceleration of metamorphosis may be maladaptive in response to ranavirus infection, because it can draw energy away from expensive immune responses. These findings provide insight into how the balance of energy between development and immune function may contribute to patterns of ranavirus infection in pre-metamorphic amphibians.
10.2307/2389759|Each day during flowering a Pontederia cordata (Pontederiaceae) inflorescence produces 10-40 uniovulate flowers which open for only 8 h. In favourable weather, specialist (Melissodes apicata) and generalist bees (Bombus spp.) visited this plant so intensively that they removed 95% of the pollen produced by midday. From flower opening until the end of pollen availability, P. cordata flowers produced nectar with an energy content of 0.820.084 J (meanSE). During the subsequent 4 h that the flowers remained open they produced an additional 0.630.184 J of nectar energy. Therefore these flowers expended 45.1% (median) more energy on nectar production than was necessary to ensure pollen dispersal. This apparently extra cost of animal pollination could be selectively advantageous if it maintains the attention of generalist pollinators that do not depend on Pontederia cordata or if it provides a bet-hedging mechanism to promote pollination in weather that is unfavourable to pollinator activity. Regardless of whether this post-pollination nectar is advantageous, its production probably involves little physiological expense as nectar comprises only 3% of the energy content of each Pontederia cordata flower. This small investment contrasts with findings for Asclepias syriaca, which expends up to 33% of its daily photosynthetic production during flowering on nectar. Regression analysis of the relation between `per flower' nectar production and inflorescence size for 27 species indicates that A. syriaca produces an unusually large amount of nectar, whereas Pontederia cordata produces the amount expected given its flower production. Hence nectar production by most bee-pollinated plants probably involves little energetic cost.
10.2307/2389804|The fledging success, territorial attendance patterns and kleptoparasitic behaviour of arctic skuas Stercorarius parasiticus (L.) were studied in 1978-1979 and in 1986-1987 to investigate the roles of aggressive camouflage and apostatic selection in the maintenance of the species' plumage polymorphism. Over a period of time during which sandeel Ammodytes marinus (Raitt) availability around Shetland declined, the amount of time spent foraging per day by arctic skuas with large chicks increased significantly whereas their fledging success decreased significantly. These results indicate that arctic skuas' reproductive success is food limited in Shetland. Hence, an ecological explanation for the maintenance of the species' plumage polymorphism is a possibility. Analyses of differences between the methods of attack and the chase success rates of light- and dark-phase birds, and of the victims' responses to them, in 1986-1987 lend no support to either the aggressive camouflage or the apostatic selection hypothesis. However, between 1978-1979 and 1986-1987 the chase success rates of light-phase birds increased by more than 40% relative to those of dark-phase birds. During this time the former decreased in abundance relative to the latter in the study population. It is suggested that these facts lend support to the hypothesis that the arctic skuas' plumage polymorphism is maintained, at least in part, by differential chase success rates brought about through apostatic selection.
2390428|1. We examined the relation between bark thickness and girth in a large sample of trees from evergreen and semi-evergreen rain forest. 2. There is a significant tendency for bark thickness to increase with tree girth. Removing this tendency, we find a significant trend for species from more disturbed habitats to possess thicker bark. 3. Species from more disturbed habitats also have a greater propensity for secreting gums and resins. 4. Nine of the 29 species occurring in more than one habitat type and with a sample size of at least 11 individuals show a tendency for possession of a thicker bark by individuals in the more disturbed habitats. 5. We conclude that bark thickness and occurrence of gums and resins are physiognomic-structural attributes of value in characterizing tree communities created by different levels of disturbance.
41239297|1. Routine vigilance is an important component of foraging for many species and can occupy a large proportion of this time. Vigilance can conflict with some aspects of foraging (i.e. searching) and, consequently, has the potential to reduce feeding rates by interrupting foraging behaviours. However, for animals that handle food in an upright posture vigilance can be compatible with this portion of handling and, therefore, any vigilance during this time will incur minimal timecosts to foraging. 2. Several functional response models that incorporate vigilance have assumed that, (i) vigilance preferentially occurs during compatible portions of a foraging routine where no costs are incurred; and (ii) vigilance can be treated as a single discrete block of time related in frequency to the feeding rate, i.e. one vigilance scan per feeding event. 3. To determine whether these assumption are appropriate we measured the vigilance behaviour of four species of granivorous bird, yellowhammer, tree sparrow, linnet and grey partridge, and assessed the quantity of vigilance compared to compatible handling time, the relationship between scan rate and feeding rate and the distribution of vigilance during compatible and noncompatible portions of foraging. 4. The results show that there was frequently enough compatible handling time to accommodate routine vigilance, yet a high proportion of vigilance occurred during non-compatible components of foraging, thus incurring a time-cost. The frequency of vigilance bouts was higher than the feeding rate for three species and, therefore, routine vigilance was not just a by-product of the feeding rate (i.e. one scan per peck). Frequent head-down searching behaviour was recorded during handling suggesting that searching is still a prominent component of foraging even when prey is superabundant. 5. We have shown that the assumptions of previous functional response models might underestimate the effects of vigilance on feeding rate by overestimating the proportion of compatible handling devoted to vigilance. Future functional response models must account for this distribution of vigilance between compatible and non-compatible behavioural states. We derive an example of such a model; however, more experimental research will be needed before we understand the factors that influence the distribution of vigilance.
2656541|1. The contents of newly constructed nests of Painted Turtles, Chrysemys picta, were manipulated by reciprocal transplant, so that each of several nests received a complement of eggs from each of several females. The eggs were recovered from nests after 8 weeks and allowed to complete incubation under standard conditions in the laboratory. 2. Live mass, dry mass and water content of carcasses, and dry mass of unused yolk, varied significantly among hatchlings from eggs that incubated in different nests. Indeed, hatchlings from different nests sometimes differed as much in size or physiological condition as animals from different clutches. 3. Stepwise linear regression indicated that size of hatchlings and water content of their carcasses were positively correlated with water exchanges by eggs whereas mass of the unused yolk was negatively correlated with water exchanges. Although the statistical procedure is only correlative, the findings accord well with results of laboratory studies documenting a relationship between uptake of water by eggs, metabolism and growth by embryos, and size and condition of hatchlings. 4. Developmental plasticity, coupled with variation in the physical environment within and among nests, probably accounts (minimally) for 19% of the variation in live mass of hatchlings in the field; 24% of the variation in dry mass of carcasses; 11% of the variation in hydration of carcasses; and 26% of the variation in dry mass of unused yolk. Such variation may impact survival by neonatal animals, and needs to be addressed explicitly by models for the evolution of life history in Painted Turtles.
10.2307/2390140|1. Plasticity and genetic differentiation of growth, biomass allocation, and photosynthesis in response to temperature were investigated for populations of the introduced grass Pennisetum setaceum collected from different altitudes on the island of Hawaii. 2. The temperature optimum for photosynthesis was similar (35<sup></sup>C) for plants collected from different altitudes and grown in growth chambers with low (25/13<sup></sup>C) and high (33/25<sup></sup>C) temperature environments, indicating that P. setaceum has limited potential for photosynthetic temperature acclimation. Plants grown in the low-temperature environment, however, had 16% greater maximum photosynthetic rates on a leaf area basis than plants grown at the high temperature (25.4 and 21.4 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, respectively). 3. Greater photosynthetic rates for plants grown at the low temperature were accompanied by reduced specific leaf area and lower internal to ambient CO<sub>2</sub> concentration ratios. Plants grown in the high-temperature environment, however, had greater leaf mass and leaf areas and accumulated 42% more total biomass than plants grown in the low-temperature environment. 4. Only total leaf area was significantly different among the populations. Plants collected from the high-altitude population produced the highest total leaf area, followed by plants from the mid- and low-altitude populations, respectively. Although some variation in photosynthetic capacity was found among genets, it was unpredictable and did not correspond to patterns of variation for growth and biomass traits. 5. The extensive altitudinal distribution of P. setaceum on Hawaii, therefore, is a result of the broad ecological tolerance of individuals and not of local adaptation. Phenotypic plasticity for leaf photosynthesis and biomass allocation in response to differences in temperature may contribute to the success of this grass in these different habitats.
10.2307/2389903|1. Large seeds are thought to provide an adaptive advantage to seedlings growing in shaded environments. Four hypotheses that could account for the possible mechanisms underlying this advantage were tested using 23 species ranging in seed size from 0.04 to 22.2 mg. The hypotheses were: (i) seedlings from large seeds are able to survive longer in shade than seedlings from small seeds; (ii) seedlings from large seeds divert relatively more resources to shoot development when grown under shaded conditions compared to seedlings from small seeds; (iii) seedlings from large seeds always have larger shoots than small-seeded seedlings growing under shaded conditions due to the large initial reserve size of large seeds and the reduction in growth rate differences between small and large seeds under growth-limiting conditions; and (iv) seedlings from large seeds can support a stronger etiolation response than seedlings from small seeds. 2. There was no difference in survival from emergence with seed size under the treatments no shade, 50% shade, 80% shade and 95% shade. However, large-seeded species survived significantly longer than small-seeded species under 99% shade. 3. The hypothesis that seedlings from large seeds divert relatively more resources to shoot development than seedlings from small seeds was rejected as there was no significant difference in allocation to shoots with seed size under any shade treatment. 4. Seedlings from large seeds were significantly heavier and had significantly longer shoots than small-seeded species after 6 weeks under 95% shade only. Under the other shade treatments of no shade, 50% shade and 80% shade there was no relationship between seed size and seedling size after 6 weeks growth. Small-seeded species showed a greater reduction in relative growth rate under shade compared to full light than large-seeded species. 5. Seedlings from large seeds had a stronger etiolation response to 95% shade than seedlings from small seeds. We suggest that large seed size provides additional resources to support etiolation compared to small seed size. Consequently the longer shoots of large-seeded species under 95% shade can be attributed to a larger initial seedling size and greater stem elongation. Seedlings from large seeds are able to maintain a height advantage over small-seeded species due to the suppressed relative growth rates of small-seeded species. 6. We suggest that: (i) large seeds enable seedlings to tolerate shade for longer by providing a larger initial energy reserve and that this may be an advantage in habitats where gaps in the canopy are regularly created; and (ii) large seeds provide seedlings with increased height relative to small-seeded species and that this height may be an advantage in habitats where there is a steep gradient of light such as in herbaceous vegetation, or for seeds germinating below litter.
2656486|1. Little is known about the interplay between tissue complexity and tissue selection and its effect on the ungulate functional response. Effects of sward height and of bison tissue selectivity on the functional response of bison Bison bison athabascae Rhoads were examined. 2. The height of stem present in a sward was varied. Grazing depth of bison was negatively related to height of stem, and this relationship was more pronounced in tall swards. Bison preferred leaf to stem tissue at all sward heights, though preference of leaf was positively related to sward height. 3. While controlling for selectivity, a factorial design was used effectively to uncouple sward height from sward biomass. Intake rates and bite sizes obtained on simple swards were used to quantify functional responses. Without tissue selection, sward height had no effect on the functional response. Sward biomass explained 90% of the variation in intake rates. 4. Rates of bison food intake on complex swards with both stem and leaf tissue were significantly depressed at low sward biomass, relative to those obtained on simpler leaf-only swards. Thus, sward tissue composition is a crucial covariate for characterizing intake rates of grazing ungulates.
10.2307/2389816|Warfarin resistance in the brown rat is known to be associated with deficient vitamin K metabolism and reduced viability, especially in young males. We investigated the possibility that warfarin resistance may impose another fitness cost by reducing the energy available for growth. Lines homozygous for Welsh and Scottish resistance alleles had been established on a common genetic background and were compared with a homozygous susceptible line (93-98% genetic similarity). Weights of 1686 young male rats at ages 22, 28 and 50 days were related to resistance genotype and litter size. At 22 days, mean weights of lines were very similar. There was a significant reduction in weight of one resistant line at 28 days (P < 0.05), and at 50 days the reduction in weight in both resistant lines was highly significant (P < 0.00001). It is suggested that reduced growth rate may involve abnormal vitamin K-dependent calcium metabolism rather than just a blood clotting disorder. One fitness consequence of reduced growth rate in resistant homozygotes is the relationship of social dominance to body size.
10.2307/2390025|1. We examined changes in leaf structure and photosynthetic characteristics in two congeneric shrub species growing across natural gap transects in a tropical rain forest. 2. Piper sancti-felicis, a shrub characteristic of disturbed clearings and large gaps, exhibits a high capacity to alter photosynthetic capacity in response to spatial variation in light availability compared to the shade-tolerant species Piper arieianum. 3. Rooted cuttings were placed in pots along transects in each of two recent, naturally formed canopy gaps in old-growth forest. After 13 months of growth, a subsample of 14 plants per species (seven pairs per gap) was chosen for detailed analyses of leaf light environment and photosynthetic light responses. For 10 of these pairs, leaf tissue was sampled for subsequent anatomical characteristics. 4. Photosynthetic capacity per unit leaf area of Piper sancti-felicis showed a strong dependence on all measures of light availability, whereas Piper arieianum showed a weak or insignificant light acclimation response. Photosynthetic capacity and dark respiration per unit leaf mass increased significantly with light availability only for Piper sancti-felicis. Both species exhibited significant light-dependent variation in leaf mass per area and thickness of mesophyll layers, although only Piper arieianum showed light-related variation in total leaf thickness. Photosynthetic capacity of Piper arieianum was poorly correlated with leaf anatomical features, whereas leaves of Piper sancti-felicis showed significant, positive correlations between photosynthetic capacity and mesophyll tissue thickness. The limited potential for light acclimation in the shade species Piper arieianum reflects an inability to adjust metabolic processes at the cellular level, despite extensive anatomical adjustments. Light acclimation in the high-light species Piper sancti-felicis, in contrast, is effected by biochemical adjustments at the cellular level as well as by changes in leaf anatomy.
3599197|1. Motile phytoplanktonic flagellates display a suite of sensory-mediated behavioural preferences to single-environmental gradients. However, in nature multiple gradients of essential resources are often spatially and temporally conflicting, therefore it is important to understand how flagellate behaviours interact under these conditions. 2. Five species of these photosynthetic micro-organisms were exposed to combinations of representative physical and chemical gradients in laboratory preference chambers. Using single-factor responses as templates, the effects of multiple gradients were investigated and hierarchies of preferences constructed. 3. Three distinct interaction responses were observed: 'dominance' of one of two preferences; bisecting 'compromise' interactions, suggesting co-dominance while potentially optimizing resource acquisition; and an 'extreme response' in which preferences appeared more important than avoidance of unfavourable conditions. 4. In all species, preference for light was dominant over preference for temperature and phosphate. More complex dominance, compromise and extreme interaction responses were induced by combinations of light, oxygen and carbon dioxide gradients. 5. Construction of a hierarchy of dominant responses demonstrated that depending on species, response to light generally superseded preferences for CO
826712| 1. Visual fields were determined in two species of dabbling ducks (Anatini): Shoveler Anas clypeata L. (planktivore whose foraging is guided mainly by tactile cues) and Wigeon A. penelope L. (herbivore whose foraging is guided mainly by visual cues). 2. The binocular fields of Shoveler and Wigeon are of similar maximum width (20), but they differ in their position and vertical extent. The bill of the Shoveler lies in the very periphery of its frontal binocular field, which extends through 220 thus providing comprehensive visual coverage about the head. In Wigeon the bill is positioned more centrally in the frontal binocular field, which extends through 150 and results in the birds having a narrow blind area behind the head. 3. The vigilance behaviour of Shoveler and Wigeon when foraging simultaneously was studied using a focal observation procedure at sites where the two species winter in sympatry. Focal Wigeon almost only fed by grazing. Only Shoveler feeding by dabbling (filtering the first centimetres of water) were used in the analyses. Wigeon spent significantly more time in head-up vigilance than Shoveler (F
10.2307/2389286|1. Mangroves often grow in poorly flushed intertidal muds. When their roots extract water from these muds, they exclude almost all of the salt, so the solution becomes concentrated. 2. We argue, using a theoretical analysis, that the salt will concentrate until a quasi-steady state is attained, in which the flow of salt into the soil by convection in the water travelling to the roots is matched by diffusion of the concentrated salt back to the soil surface. We argue further that the salt is likely to become so concentrated that it will severely limit the rate of water uptake by the roots, and that the limiting rate corresponds to a transpiration rate of about 1 mm day<sup>-1</sup>, which is but a small fraction of typical potential evaporation rates. 3. Two ecological implications of our analysis are that mangroves may be adapted to low transpiration rates despite their growing with an apparently unlimited water supply, and that they may be unable to sustain initially vigorous growth after colonizing freshly deposited muds.
10.2307/2389845|1. This study investigates the evolution of life-history traits in parasitic and free-living nematodes. A database on 35 species was assembled for values on: body size of female nematodes; egg production; life expectancies of both adult and free-stages; the length of maturation time for free-living nematodes and prepatent period for parasites (time needed for an infective stage to reach maturity in its definitive host). Comparative methods were used to account for the effects of phylogeny. 2. The well-known allometries of life-history traits with body size were found, such as the allometry between size and total fecundity. Daily fecundity and prepatent period of parasitic nematodes are both correlated with body size, suggesting that delaying maturity increases fecundity. 3. Phylogeny affects relationships between investigated life-history traits, i.e. daily reproductive output (b) and female life expectancy (1/M). 4. Prepatent period (a) in parasitic nematodes is equivalent to maturation time () of free-living nematodes. 5. A search was carried out for life-history invariants (Charnov 1993). There was no correlation between prepatent period (a) and daily reproductive output (b) and hence no invariant ab. This could be explained by constrained life styles of reproduction among Nematoda. Indeed, invariant aM (or M, where M is the mortality rate of adult stage) were found for both parasites of vertebrate ((aM) = 0.23) and free-living, plant and insect nematodes (( M) = 0.50). 6. A causal chain of evolution of life-history traits of parasite nematodes is proposed and discussed. It is suggested that adult mortality is the main factor driving the evolution of life-history traits.
40205548|1. The lichen Cladonia stellaris forms dense mats and dominates the forest-floor vegetation in latesuccessional oligotrophic boreal forests. This lichen is rich in polyphenolic secondary compounds, and through allelochemical effects of these compounds the dense mat formed by C. stellaris is assumed to have negative effect on forest regeneration and soil microbial functioning. 2. We examined the effect of C. stellaris and its secondary metabolite usnic acid on nutrient uptake and growth of pine (Pinus sylvestris) seedlings in symbiosis with the ectomycorrhizal fungus Suillus variegatus and in non-symbiotic condition. 3. Contrary to our expectations, usnic acid had no effect on nitrogen uptake and growth in pine seedlings. The addition of lichen fragments into the growth substrate significantly increased biomass accumulation in mycorrhizal pine seedlings and needle nitrogen acquisition in nonmycorrhizal seedlings. 4. These results suggest that lichen mats do not have direct allelopathic effects on pine seedling nitrogen acquisition or growth.
3599165|1. Vaccinium myrtillus (deciduous) and V. vitis-idaea (evergreen) are ericaceous shrubs adapted to low-nitrogen environments. Their comparative responsiveness to N supply was determined in relation to both N storage and developmental constraints. 2. Plants were grown with high or low N in sand culture to condition their N storage, and their growth measured during the first flush of a second year when plants from each treatment were again supplied either high or low N.
20142811|1. Hubbell's 'Unified Neutral Theory of Biodiversity and Biogeography' (UNTB) has generated much controversy about both the realism of its assumptions and how well it describes the species abundance dynamics in real communities. 2. We fit a discrete-time version of Hubbell's neutral model to long-term macro-moth (Lepidoptera) community data from the Rothamsted Insect Survey (RIS) light-traps network in the United Kingdom. 3. We relax the assumption of constant community size and use a hierarchical Bayesian approach to show that the model does not fit the data well as it would need parameter values that are impossible. 4. This is because the ecological communities fluctuate more than expected under neutrality. 5. The model, as presented here, can be extended to include environmental stochasticity, density-dependence, or changes in population sizes that are correlated between different species.
10.2307/2389689|Bumble-bees (Bombus spp) vibrated (`buzzed') flowers of Actinidia, Symphytum, Borago and Polygonatum when collecting pollen. In Actinidia anthers, fresh pollen becomes available repeatedly as surface pollen dries, becoming mobile and powdery. When individual anthers were vibrated at known frequencies, pollen surged out at a critical frequency and at its harmonics. In Symphytum, Polygonatum and Borago, the resonating chamber of the vibrational pollen release mechanism may be defined by the introrse, connivent anthers. In a 24-h study of Symphytum, vibration was most frequent, and bee visits peaked, at times of high temperature and vapour pressure deficit. Our investigation indicates that the operation of the mechanism requires the pollen to be dry and powdery and we suggest that some features of the shooting star flower form, notably the reflexed corolla lobes and the exposed, often dark staminal cone, can be interpreted as adaptations related to the floral microclimate.
40205561|1. Climate change will alter the distribution and abundance of many species, including those of concern to human health. Accurate predictions of these impacts must be based on an understanding of the mechanistic links between climate and organisms, and a consideration of evolutionary responses. 2. Here we use biophysical models of energy and mass transfer to predict climatic impacts on the potential range of the dengue fever vector, Aedes aegypti, in Australia. We develop a first-principles approach to calculate water depth and daily temperature cycles in containers differing in size, catchment and degree of shading to assess habitat suitability for the aquatic life cycle phase. We also develop a method to predict potential climatic impacts on the evolutionary response of traits limiting distribution. 3. Our predictions show strong correspondence with the current and historical distribution and abundance of Ae. aegypti in Australia, suggesting that inland and northern limits are set by water availability and egg desiccation resistance, and southern limits by adult and larval cold tolerance. 4. While we predict that climate change will directly increase habitat suitability throughout much of Australia, the potential indirect impact of changed water storage practices by humans in response to drought may have a greater effect. 5. In northern Australia, we show that evolutionary changes in egg desiccation resistance could potentially increase the chances of establishment in a major centre (Darwin) under climate change. 6. Our study demonstrates how biophysical models of climate-animal interactions can be applied to make decisions about managing biotic responses to climate change. Mechanistic models of the kind we apply here can provide more robust and general predictions than correlative analyses. They can also explicitly incorporate evolutionary responses, the outcomes of which may significantly alter management decisions.
20142857|1. Maternal effects have been suggested to function as a mechanism for transgenerational plasticity, in which the environment experienced by the mother is translated into the phenotype of the off-spring. In birds and other oviparous vertebrates where early development is within the egg, mothers may be able to improve the viability prospects of their offspring at hatching by priming eggs with immunological and nutritional components. 2. We studied how resource availability affects maternal investment in offspring by feeding Ural owl (Strix uralensis, Pall.) females prior to egg-laying in 3 years of dramatically different natural food conditions. 3. Supplementary feeding prior to laying increased body mass and the level of Igs of females measured at clutch completion. Supplementary fed Ural owl females laid larger eggs than control females, and had offspring with higher levels of Igs at hatching compared to offspring of control females. 4. We found variation in maternal allocation of resources to the eggs in response to environmental conditions: during a year of rapidly declining food abundance, maternal Igs in hatchings were higher, whereas egg size was smaller compared to years with a more stable food supply. 5. Egg size had a positive effect on offspring body mass at fledging, whereas Igs at hatching did not affect Igs at fledging. 6. We conclude that maternal body condition and maternal Igs, as well as hatchling Igs and egg size are limited by food resources during egg production. Hatchlings rely on maternally derived Igs and, hence, our results suggest that mothers with high levels of Igs passively transfer higher Igs levels to their eggs instead of active manipulation of Igs levels in eggs. Ural owl egg size appears to be highly sensitive to short-term changes in food abundance, with important consequences for nestling growth.
40863571|1. Leaf structural and physiological traits are associated with growth form and habitat, but little is known of the specific traits associated with hemiepiphytes, which are an important component of many tropical forests. Given their life history that includes a drought prone epiphytic stage, hemiepiphytes should be expected to have more drought tolerance-related traits than co-occurring terrestrial species. 2. The genus Ficus includes woody hemiepiphytes distributed in tropical areas throughout the world. Traits related to the flux of water through the leaf and to drought adaptations were studied in five hemiephiphytic (H) and five non-hemiepiphytic (NH) Ficus tree species grown in a common garden to determine genetically based differences. 3. Leaves of H and NH species differed substantially in structure and physiology; on average, H species had smaller leaves with higher leaf mass per unit area, thicker epidermis, smaller vessel lumen diameters in petioles and lower petiole hydraulic conductivity. Leaf traits also indicated stronger drought tolerance in H species, including lower epidermal conductance and turgor loss point and earlier stomatal closure with desiccation than NH species. Across H and NH species, traits related to water flux capacity were negatively correlated with traits related to drought tolerance. 4. The divergences in hydraulics and water relations between growth forms for these closely related species reflected specialization according to contrasting habitat and life form. Conservative water use and increased ability of leaves to persist under severe drought would provide an advantage for H species, especially during the epiphytic phase, while the higher potential water use of NH species would be associated with higher assimilation rates and competitiveness under high water supply. 5. The results indicate a trade-off between leaf water flux capacity and leaf drought tolerance across these hemiephiphytic and non-hemiepiphytic species. Species adaptation to habitats with contrasting demands on leaf function may lead to divergence along a leaf water-flux-drought-tolerance spectrum.
10.2307/2389479|Evidence from previous studies relates the significance of evergreeness and deciduousness to differences in leaf drought resistance and nutrient-use characteristics. Considering possible differences in leaf construction costs and lifespans in both plant types, I hypothesized that they should have contrasting strategies underlying their nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) and water-use efficiency (WUE). Thus, leaves of six deciduous and four evergreen species were analysed to compare their construction and maintenance costs, maximum CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation capacity (A<sub>max</sub>) and potential (instantaneous) NUE and WUE. Leaf construction and maintenance costs were always higher in evergreen than in deciduous species. The largest A<sub>max</sub> were recorded in some deciduous species. However, another deciduous species had A<sub>max</sub> comparable to evergreen leaves. Therefore, a clear-cut difference between deciduous and evergreen leaves was not detected. However, NUE and WUE related to construction cost differences in the two plant groups. Indeed, NUE and WUE were largest in deciduous plants. Notwithstanding, overall carbon return per unit invested nitrogen may be increased in evergreens because leaves are photosynthetically active for longer periods. In fact, increases in the ratio between investment (construction cost) to potential payback (A<sub>max</sub>) increase leaf life-spans (payback interval). Nevertheless, in tropical dry forests deciduous species are dominant and evergreen species are scarce. Carbon diversion to non-photosynthetic tissue (deep roots) and highest leaf cost may offset competitive capability of evergreen species.
40863570|1. West et al. [Science, 284 (1999) 1677] derived an optimal body-size scaling exponent under the assumption that resources are evenly distributed among exchange surfaces, leading to the wellknown  scaling rule. In trees, this implies a volume-filling branching network (a fractal dimension of 3 for foliage). However, there is evidence that the fractal dimension is less than 3 in trees. 2. Here, we include self-shading in the derivation of optimal fractal dimensions. With self-shading, resources are not evenly distributed among leaves because light enters the crown at the surface and is gradually attenuated within the crown. We find that the optimal fractal dimension can take values between 2 and 3, depending on light interception properties and crown size. 3. For a large data set on foliage and woody biomass in gymnosperm trees, we confirm that the fractal dimension of foliage is less than 3, and that it shows a weak dependence on crown size. However, foliage biomass scaled with crown woody biomass with an exponent of 0-78, very close to the theoretical expectation of  scaling. This can be explained by a deviation from the theoretical prediction in the scaling of crown woody biomass and crown length. 4. Overall, these results confirm a deviation from volume filling in gymnosperm trees, and we provide an explanation for this deviation in terms of optimal metabolic scaling. Because VA scaling of foliage biomass is still approximately valid, this implies that metabolic scaling exponents may not be as tightly linked to the fractal dimension of foliage as previously assumed.
3599321|1. Changes in plant physiological features after herbivory may alleviate the adverse effects of herbivores. We examined the ability of Ilex oquifolium L. (European Holly) plants to compensate for scale insect herbivory throuh increased photosynthesis. Based on assumptions of the source sink hypothesis, we predicted that scale insects, by inducing supplementary sinks for photosynthates, would increase photosynthesis. 2. Photosynthetic performance was evaluated by measuring chlorophyll fluorescence parameters in plants growing under natural light and temperature at the field station of the University of Santiago (north-west Spain). We measured photosynthesis on infested leaves of infested trees: scale-Tree leaves of infested trees; and scale-free leaves of scale-free trees. 3. Insect infestation significantly increased photosynthetic efficiency. Effects of scale insects on photosynthesis were particularly enhanced by high temperature and light. Scale inscets also altered the photosynthesis of leaves not directly affected by the insects. 4. Our study showed that changes in the balance between source and sink tissues, induced by scale insects, may partly explain host plant photosynthesis. We suggest that increased feeding rates of scale insects promoted by high temperature and light conditions would increase the carbon demand of infested plants, resulting in greater compensatory photosynthesis.
40407706|1. Although the repeatability of a trait is of interest for several reasons, few studies have critically examined the repeatability or correlation of metrics of swimming performance. We quantifiee repeatability of three swimming performances (burst speed during c-start escape response, critical swimmimg speet <tex-math>$[U_{crit} ]$</tex-math> maximum speed <tex-math>$[U_{\max } ]$</tex-math>,and size/shape measures over short (within-day), medium (days and weeks), and long (more than a year) time-scales in a small poeciliid fish, the Trinidadian guppy (Poecilia reticulata). 2. We found that individuai differences in most swimming performance metrics were repeatable on various time-scales. Burst speed during c-start was repeatable within a day, as well as over days and weeks, but it was not repeatable over the span of a year. However, th medium term repeatability was only statistically significant when accounting for the variation of individuals within a day and correcting for attenuation. <tex-math>$U_{crit} $</tex-math>, <tex-math>$U_{\max} $</tex-math> and size were repeatable on medium time-scales, but only size and <tex-math>$U_{\max} $</tex-math> were repeatable over the span of a year. Our index of shape was not statistically repeatable over any time-scales. 3. When examining the corrlations of performances and size, only a few traits were related to each other. <tex-math>$U_{crit} $</tex-math> and <tex-math>$U_{\max} $</tex-math> were significanti positively related to each other for trial 1 only, but not any of the others. <tex-math>$U_{\max} $</tex-math> and the mean c-start burst speed were correlated on trial 2 only. No other traits were significantly related to each other, and no performance traits were related to size or shape. <tex-math>$U_{crit} $</tex-math> and <tex-math>$U_{\max} $</tex-math> also did not differ in their overall mean values, suggesting that <tex-math>$U_{\max} $</tex-math>, a more recently described assessment of fish swimming performance, may be a reliable alternative. 4. Ail traits, except our index of shape, shifted in their mean value over th span of a year. <tex-math>$U_{crit} $</tex-math> and c-start burst speed decreased significantly, consistent with previous findings on the effects of snescence on neuromuscular Systems. However, <tex-math>$U_{\max} $</tex-math> and size increased significantly over a year. 5. The measures of swimming performance used in this study are becoming widely used in ecological and evolutionary studies. Our results suggest that individuai differences in these measures are relatively stable on various time-scales. We found no significant relation of these performance metrics with body size or a simple index of shape, and few relations among the performance measures, suggesting that they measure different aspects of locomotor physiology and/or motivation under the test conditions used. Finally, while <tex-math>$U_{crit} $</tex-math> and c-start burst speed decreased over the span of the year, consistent with theories of senescence, <tex-math>$U_{\max} $</tex-math> significantly increased over a year, suggesting that further studies of this recently described performance metric are needed.
4139366|1. Although post-hatching parental care is uncommon in reptiles, reproducing females may none the less contribute to the nutritional state of their offspring by depositing more yolk into the egg than is needed for embryogenesis. This 'extra' yolk (i.e. residual yolk) is drawn into the offspring's body prior to hatching and is widely assumed to serve as an energy resource for early life activities. However, empirical data on the functional significance of residual yolk are rare. 2. We surgically removed residual yolk from hatchling lizards Amphibolurus muricatus to evaluate its effects on offspring growth and survival over 4 weeks under two environmental conditions: low or high food abundance. 3. Unsurprisingly, higher food abundance enhanced growth rates of the young lizards. However, experimental removal of residual yolk did not affect any of the traits that we measured in either nutritionally harsh or benign post-hatching environments. 4. Overall, our results challenge the common assumption that residual yolk is an important source of energy during early life in lizards, and suggest instead that residual yolk is of trivial nutritional significance (especially, relative to prey availability). Residual yolk in A. muricutus may instead have a different (non-nutritive) function, or be a nonfunctional relict retained through phylogenetic conservatism from ancestral taxa.
40407724|1. The use of stable carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) isotopes (N and C, respectively) to delineate trophic patterns in wild animals is common in ecology. Their utility as a tool for interpreting temporal change in diet due to seasonality, migration, climate change or species invasion depends upon an understanding of the rates at which stable isotopes incorporate from diet into animal tissues. To best determine the foraging habits of invasive rats on island ecosystems and to illuminate the interpretation of wild omnivore diets in general, I investigated isotope incorporation rates of C and N in fur, liver, kidney, muscle, serum and red blood cells (RBC) from captive rats raised on a diet with low N and C values and switched to a diet with higher N and C values. 2. I used the reaction progress variable method (RPVM), a linear fitting procedure, to estimate whether a single or multiple compartment model best described isotope turnover in each tissue. Small sample Akaike Information criterion $(AIC_C )$ model comparison analysis indicated that 1 compartment nonlinear models best described isotope incorporation rates for liver, RBC, muscle, and fur, whereas 2 compartment nonlinear models were best for serum and kidney. 3. I compared isotope incorporation rates using the RPVM versus nonlinear models. There were no differences in estimated isotope retention times between the model types for serum and kidney (except for N turnover in kidney from females). Isotope incorporation took longer when estimated using the nonlinear models for RBC, muscle, and fur, but was shorter for liver tissue. 4. There were no statistical differences between sexes in the isotope incorporation rates. I also found that N and C isotope incorporation rates were decoupled for liver, with C incorporating into liver tissue faster than N. 5. The data demonstrate the utility of analysing isotope ratios of multiple tissues from a single animal when estimating temporal variation in mammalian foraging ecology.
20142863|1. To improve our understanding of the relationship between the pitcher plant (Sarracenia purpurea) and the phytotelma community inhabiting its leaves we built an exploratory, mechanistic model based on stochiometric constraints on carbon and nitrogen associated with prey decomposition. 2. Our theoretical results suggest that the phytotelma community is acting as a mineralizing system producing nitrogen for the plant. This is confirmed by data collected in the field and in the literature, that show the amount of nitrogen produced by the decomposition of prey is sufficiently high to be considered as a major source of nitrogen for the plant. 3. In our model, nitrogen yield is higher if the phytotelma community is restricted to bacteria alone than when the full food web is present. Nitrogen availability is negatively affected by bacterivores (rotifers and protozoa mostly) and positively affected by a cascading effect of mosquito larvae. 4. When sedimentation rate is high, mosquitoes have a global positive effect on nitrogen production because they indirectly reduce the amount of nitrogen lost through sedimentation more than they export nitrogen through pupation. On the other hand, when sedimentation rate is low there is a hump-shaped relationship between the uptake rate of bacterivores by mosquito larvae and the nitrogen yield in the plant. 5. We conclude that plant-bacteria and plant-mosquito interactions are predominantly mutualistic, whereas plant-bacterivore interactions are predominantly parasitic. Our work also illustrates how ecosystem properties (here nitrogen production by the phytotelma community) can be understood as a function of trophic complexity and can be seen as a product of selection at the scale of a community.
41239442|1. Urban-rural transects can be utilized as natural gradients of temperature and also as a tool to predict how plant ecology and physiology might respond to expected global change variables such as elevated temperatures, CO and inorganic nitrogen deposition. 2. We investigated differences in respiration (R) and the balance of electron partitioning through the cytochrome (CP) and alternative (AP) pathways in leaves of mature Quercus rubra L. trees along a transect from New York City to the Catskill Mountains over the course of one growing season. In addition, we investigated the effects of elevated temperature on Q. rubra seedlings in a controlled environment study. 3. In the field study, we found that urban-grown leaves often respired at greater rates than leaves grown at other sites and that this was likely due to higher leaf nitrogen. At each site, R at the prevailing growth temperature declined steadily throughout the growing season despite higher temperatures at the end of the summer. Differences in R were associated with changes in the relative abundances of cytochrome and alternative oxidase proteins. Oxygen isotope discrimination (D), which reflects relative changes in AP and CP partitioning, was negatively correlated with daily minimum temperature in trees grown at the colder rural sites, but not at the warmer urban sites. 4. In the growth cabinet study, we found that R acclimated to elevated temperatures and that this was accompanied by a steady increase in D. 5. These findings that AP partitioning increases with both high and low temperatures show that the AP may play an important role in plant responses to environmental conditions that elicit stress, and not simply to specific conditions such as low temperature.
3599276|1. To investigate flight ability in captive Zebra Finches during reproduction we compared change in escape take-off ability and wing load of reproducing females with their mates and non-reproducing females when attacked by a model raptor. 2. Initially females had 18% higher wing load than males. Non-reproducing females and females that had started egg-laying flew slower than males. Reproducing females reduced wing load during egg-laying and flew faster when the clutch was completed. Non-breeding females remained on high wing load and flow slower than breeding females that had completed their clutch. 3. The increase in flight speed of breeding females was explained by a reduction in wing load during egg-laying. 4. Zebra Finches use accumulated reserves to produce eggs and pay a cost in terms of reduced flight ability, but then regain flight performance when the clutch is laid, probably demonstrating a predation cost of capital breeding in birds.
10.2307/2389650|Photoperiod-induced changes in metabolic rate may increase survivorship in seasonally variable environments. The metabolic rate response to photoperiod in Drosophila melanogaster Meigen was measured under short-day and long-day photoperiods at 18, 22, 25, and 28<sup></sup>C. The developmental stages of the tested flies (subjects) and their parents were exposed to light:dark cycles of 8:16h and 16:8h. Subject but not parental photoperiod affected metabolic rate; short-day flies had higher rates than did long-day flies at the same temperature. The higher metabolic rates of short-day flies probably increase fitness by allowing activity, rapid development, and higher fecundity at the lower temperatures usually associated with short-day photoperiods. The lower metabolic rates of long-day flies may increase fitness by enhancing survival during periods of resource shortage at the higher temperatures usually associated with long-day photoperiods.
20142833| 1. Stable nitrogen (N) isotope has been widely used to disentangle food webs and to infer trophic positions of organisms based on an assumption that the stepwise enrichment occurs along trophic levels. The enrichment of N in soil organisms with diet humification has also been reported, but the underlying mechanism has not been fully examined. 2. To examine the effect of diet humification on N, we estimated the stable N isotope ratios and diet ages of earthworms and termites. These organisms feed on organic matter with various degrees of humification, ranging from undecomposed plant materials to humified organic matter (soil organic matter), in a gallery forest and a savanna in the Ivory Coast. We defined diet age as the time elapsed since carbon (C) in the diet of earthworms and termites was fixed from atmospheric CO by photosynthesis; it was estimated by comparing the radiocarbon (C) content of these organisms to atmospheric CO records. 3. Stable N isotope ratios increased along the humification gradient of diets, and values for earthworms and termites varied from 18 to 99 and from -15 to 159, respectively. Epigeic (litter-feeding) earthworms had younger diet ages (2-4 years), whereas endogeic (soil-feeding) earthworms generally exhibited older diet ages (5-9 years). Grass-feeding termites had young diet ages (2 years), and wood/soil-feeding termites had the oldest diet ages (c. 50 years). Soil-feeding termites were similar in diet age (7-12 years) to wood feeders (8-11 years), with the exception of one species (18-21 years) that consumes large-diameter wood. 4. A significant positive relationship was found between diet ages and stable N isotope ratios of the two groups in the savanna. This relationship held in the gallery forest when termites feeding on woody tissues were not considered. These results show that the stable N isotope ratios of organisms can increase with diet age, unless C in the diet has been stored as organic matter, such as woody tissue, that is able to age without being subject to humification processes. 5. Given that above-ground food webs are often sustained directly by material and energy flow from below-ground food webs, in addition to trophic interactions, gradual enrichment of N with the humification of below-ground diets should be considered when interpreting stable N isotope ratios of terrestrial food webs. 
3806621|1. Energy management has been studied in migrators and hibernators but little is know about energy management in cachers. 2. We investigated the energy management behaviour of two species of cachers, Neotoma floridana and Neotoma micropus. We also investigated differences in energy management of these two species that experience different environmental conditions during the period of food scarcity. 3. Results show that both species decrease body mass from autumn to winter and increase mass from winter to spring. Both species decrease body fat from autumn to winter but only TV; floridana increases body fat from winter to spring. Plasma protein follows the same pattern as body mass in N floridana. Plasma lipids decrease from autumn to winter but do not increase from winter to spring. 4. Results indicate that cachers, unlike hibernators or migrators, are able to use the food cache to increase body mass and body fat when new resources are not being produced in the environment. 5. Results suggest that environmental conditions alter resource management and the species that experiences more severe conditions stores more energy as fat.
10.2307/2389505|Recent studies of sex allocation in aphids have shown, in one case, a constant investment in males, and in another, an equal investment in males and females. We show here that in the host-alternating aphidine, Myzus persicae (Sulzer), investment fits neither of these patterns. In a series of laboratory experiments, we investigated the effect of manipulating an environmental cue (day length) on the timing of sexual offspring production and the relative investment in males and gynoparae. The latter are winged parthenogenetic females capable of giving birth to sexual female offspring (oviparae). Exposure of wingless parthenogenetic females to long nights brings about endocrine changes resulting in the production of gynoparae and males on the summer (secondary) host plant. Gynoparae and males then fly to the winter (primary) host, where the oviparae are born, mating occurs and overwintering eggs are laid. Our experiments confirm that gynoparae precede males among the progeny of an individual, and show that the sex ratio on the secondary host is male biased. Because each gynopara contains four to five oviparae, the ultimate sex ratio on the primary host is potentially slightly female biased. The field sex ratio, however, will depend on survival time of the mothers of the sexual forms, those that survive longer producing relatively more males. The patterns of variation in sex ratio are discussed in relation to current theory and other recent studies on aphid sex allocation.
826722|1. Behavioural ecologists have shown much interest recently in the factors that promote variation in carotenoid-based colour displays. Because vertebrates cannot synthesize the pigments needed to attain this form of bright coloration, most research has focused on the effect of dietary access to pigments on carotenoid ornamentation. 2. However, few studies have considered experimentally how the availability of carotenoid pigments in the diet influences variability in the expression of carotenoid-based coloration. 3. Dietary access to carotenoids was manipulated in captive groups of male American Goldfinches (Carduelis tristis L.) and Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis L.) to assess the role of pigment acquisition in shaping intraspecific variation in carotenoid-based plumage pigmentation. 4. Substantial variation was detected in the plumage displays of captive male goldfinches and cardinals within a diet treatment, such that birds with unlimited access to the same diet type displayed carotenoid-based plumage variation that did not differ significantly from that typical of wild males from each species. Additionally, the natural plumage brightness that male goldfinches displayed at capture predicted the degree to which they grew colourful plumage under controlled conditions in our experiments. 5. These results suggest that carotenoid-based plumage variation in male goldfinches and cardinals is less sensitive to pigment availability in the diet than colour variation observed in other studied taxa. Differences in ornamental coloration among males from these two passerine species may instead reflect their ability to utilize ingested pigments physiologically.
41239293|1. Life-history theory predicts that high reproductive investment alters self-maintenance. Several mechanisms underlying the cost of reproduction have been previously suggested, but how parental effort may impact cell and organism maintenance remains largely unknown. The effects of oxidative stress - the imbalance between oxidative damage and defences - on telomere dynamics may underlie this relationship. Indeed, oxidative stress is associated with costly activities like breeding, and impacts telomere length that is known to predict survival in birds. According to life-history theory, long-lived species are expected to minimize the adverse effects of current reproduction on their body maintenance and should therefore enhance their antioxidant capacity and preserve their telomeres when breeding workload increases. 2. In this study, we te sted this hypothesis by determining experimentally how the oxidative status and telomere length were modified when long-lived Adlie penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) faced a costly reproductive event. The breeding workload was increased through a handicapping procedure that increased the cost of foraging and therefore chick-provisioning. 3. In agreement with our hypothesis, Adlie penguins substantially increased their antioxidant defences during a costly breeding effort, while oxidative damage and telomere length remained unchanged. 4. As expected in long-lived species, Adlie penguins subjected to increased breeding constraints appear to prioritize self-maintenance as shown by their increased antioxidant capacity. Moreover, the absence of effects of our experimental procedure on telomere length suggests no apparent impact of breeding workload on the senescence of this long-lived bird. However, to better understand the role of the couple 'oxidative status/telomeres' in the regulation of life-history strategies, further studies should examine: (i) the nature and the cost of additional antioxidant protection; (ii) the changes in the oxidative status of animals throughout their annual cycle and the consequences on telomere dynamics; and (iii) the repartition of antioxidant resources between young and parents.
40863636|1. The indicator theory of sexual selection suggests that mating displays honestly signal aspects of fitness. While rarely studied, kinematic (locomotor) performance is an excellent candidate for an honest indicator, as mating displays of many animals include rapid or extended locomotion that may be physiologically correlated with performance traits that impact survival. 2. We investigate the indicator value of display locomotion of wild-caught male guppies, Poecilia reticulata, by examining relationships between mating display kinematic traits, anti-predator kinematic traits, and survival during a subsequent staged encounter with a natural predator, the pike cichlid Crenicichla alta. 3. We first compared guppy display kinematics with subsequent survival, and found that display body angle and angular speed positively predicted survival. We next compared anti-predator kinematic and tactical traits with survival, to identify traits that might link mating displays to survival. We measured anti-predator traits in two tests, first in response to a standardized stimulus (fast start test), and second in response to the live predator (encounter test). Guppy fast start speed and encounter speed, time in refuges, and approach distance (response distance) all positively predicted survival, while encounter swim duration negatively predicted survival. These data provided our final hypothesis, that these particular anti-predator traits would be correlated with mating display kinematics. However, we detected only one of eight predicted correlations, a negative relationship between display body angle and encounter swim duration that may reflect an energy trade-off. 4. We conclude that courtship locomotor performance can be an honest survival indicator in guppies, and that the mechanism linking courtship to survival merits further study. These results suggest that courtship locomotion may contribute to viability impacts on the evolution of animal mate choice, and support others in suggesting that these traits may reward greater attention in sexual and natural selection studies.
826574|1. Sapling growth of six rain forest tree species was compared to evaluate whether species respond in a similar way to a natural light gradient. Saplings were measured non-destructively; production and loss of leaves, stem and branches were analysed in detail. 2. Sapling height growth was positively related to light environment and leaf area. No single descriptor of light environment explained sapling growth best. Direct or diffuse light could explain plant growth, depending on species. 3. Seventeen percent of the saplings had negative relative biomass growth rates, although they occurred in fairly bright conditions. Negative growth rates were caused by leaf shedding and stem breakage. Sapling relative growth rate increased with irradiance, mainly because of an increase in net assimilation rate. 4. On a shoot basis, shaded plants had a smaller leaf mass fraction (LMF) and a larger specific leaf area, resulting in similar leaf area ratios (LAR) to those of sun plants. This contrasts with the results of seedling studies under controlled conditions, where LMF and LAR increased with shade. 5. Biomass partitioning to leaf growth decreased with irradiance and relative growth rate of the sapling. This leaf partitioning ratio was better correlated with RGR than with irradiance. 6. Species differed in the effect of light-dependent changes in specific leaf area (SLA) on growth. This underscores the importance of SLA in explaining differences in species performance in a forest environment. Nevertheless, the effect of SLA was not related to the shade tolerance of the species.
826580| 1. Females of egg-laying vertebrates may adjust the development of their offspring to prevailing environmental conditions by regulating the deposition of hormones into their eggs. Within- and amng-clutch variation in levels of steroid hormones were studied in the egg yolks of the Black-Headed Gull (Larus ridibundus, Linnaeus) in relation to environmental conditions at the nest site. This species breeds in colonies of different densities and in different habitats, and the chicks hatch asynchronously. 2. Egg yolks contained very high levels of androstenedione, substantial levels of testosterone and moderate levels of 5-dihydrotestosterone. Oestrogen (17-oestradiol) was not detected. 3. Androgen levels increased strongly with laying order, irrespective of egg or yolk mass. This may compensate for the disadvantages of the later hatching chicks. These results have implications for adaptive hypotheses that were proposed for asynchronous incubation. 4. Eggs of lighter clutches contained more androgens, perhaps to compensate for a lower nutritional quality of these eggs. 5. Birds breeding in the periphery of a colony, being relatively more aggressive and having relatively large territories, laid eggs that contained more androgens than those of birds breeding in the centre. These high yolk androgen levels may facilitate growth and motor development of the chicks, which may be especially important for chicks developing at the periphery of a colony. Reduced levels may be adaptive for birds breeding in the centre, where risk of infectious diseases is high, since steroids may be immunosuppressive. 6. Corrected for nest distance, clutches of birds in high vegetation, where predation risk is less severe and therefore competition for nest sites perhaps high, contained relatively high levels of androgens. It is suggested that the level of yolk androgens reflects the hormonal condition of the female, that in turn is influenced by her characteristics such as her age and aggressiveness, and the level of social stimulation. 
2656389|1. The effects of previous-year environment on current growth response were tested in seedlings of Mountain Birch (Betula pubescens Ehrh. ssp. czerepanovii [Orlova] Hamet-Ahti), a subarctic tree species with indeterminate shoot growth. 2. Mountain Birch seedlings were pot-grown outdoors in subarctic Sweden for 2 years and showed a clear delay in growth response when fertilization and temperature were reduced after the first year. The seedlings were grown under four experimental treatments (two temperatures and two nutrient availabilities) in 1994, and under low-temperature/low-nutrient conditions in 1995. 3. When nutrient supply and/or temperature was reduced in 1995 compared to 1994, the seedlings maintained the high relative growth rates (RGR) of the previous growing season, although the internal plant N accumulation rate was lower than in 1994. This resulted in decreasing plant N concentration (PNC), and a poor relationship between RGR and PNC during 1995. The high RGR in 1995 was achieved in response to phenotypic adjustments (e.g. number of foliar buds) to a more favourable environment in the past, and by dilution of the internal nutrient storage. 4. The effects of delayed responses found in this study indicate problems for the interpretation of results from growth studies performed under any climate with great year-to-year variability, such as the subarctic, because a delay in growth response could distort the relationships between plant growth, resource availability and climate. Predictions of current growth are therefore meaningless if the previous history of the plants is not taken into account.
41239292|1. Physiological parameters can give valuable indications about the performance of animals in their environment and the combined deleterious effects of several factors on the individual. The concentration of circulating glucocorticoids is often taken as a measurement of the level of stress an animal is exposed to. As an alternative, the ratio of heterophils (or neutrophils in mammals) to lymphocytes in blood (H/L-ratio) has been proposed. Although laboratory studies with exogenous corticosterone treatment or strong Stressors found a positive correlation between circulating corticosterone and the H/L-ratio, studies in free-living birds did not. 2. In Eurasian kestrel nestlings Falco tinnunculus, we first confirmed that implanting exogenous corticosterone elevated the H/L-ratio and depressed the immune response to PHA in altricial nestlings under field conditions, as found in precocial species. 3. In non-treated, free-living kestrel nestlings we showed that circulating corticosterone concentration and the H/L-ratio were not correlated among each other and that various environmental factors were not correlated with baseline corticosterone concentration to the same degree as with the H/L-ratio. Baseline corticosterone concentrations were only elevated when nestlings had no body fat stores and as a reaction to our presence at the nest. In contrast, the H/L-ratio was increased as a response to five potential natural Stressors: being later-hatched and thus competitively inferior, low body fat stores, ectoparasite infestation, after rain which impaired food delivery of adults and with ongoing season which reflects deteriorating environmental conditions. Baseline corticosterone on day 10 of age was a better predictor of survival until day 13 than the H/L-ratio. 4. In accordance with findings from the literature, it appears that baseline corticosterone concentration and H/L-ratio differ in sensitivity to various Stressors. While the H/L-ratio increases already in response to more subtle Stressors, both measures react to severe, life-threatening Stressors, like starvation in free-living birds, although in our study corticosterone was the better predictor of survival. 5. This study showed that baseline corticosterone and H/L-ratio cannot be used interchangeably as indicators of stress, but together can provide a comprehensive picture about the stressstatus of a bird in ecological studies. If only one measure is to be taken, the choice depends on the questions to be answered, practical issues (speed of blood sampling after first disturbance) and physiological interpretability and amenability to experiments.
10.2307/2389756|On the basis of permanent plot research in a warm-temperate rain forest in southern Japan dominated by evergreen broad-leaved trees, a multi-species model of size-structured tree populations is proposed, which takes into account the effect of one-sided competition. The strength of the density effect due to one-sided competition for light on a forest tree of a given size is expressed in terms of the cumulative basal area of trees irrespective of species larger than this tree in the forest stand. The model does not assume the existence of species-to-species competition coefficients. Species differences are expressed in terms of potential size growth rate, susceptibility to suppression of size growth rate, mortality and recruitment rate. A one-dimensional drift equation is applied to express the dynamics of the size distributions of species. The model describes successfully secondary succession in an open system (allowing seed inflow from outside the plot). It also yields a stable coexistence in a closed system (without seed inflow) between three representative tree species, though it takes a long time (20 000 years) to attain equilibrium. Results suggest that size structure and one-sided competition for light stabilize forest tree communities.
2390527|1. The connection between high leaf area index (LAI) and photosynthetic production with two attributes of coniferous canopy structure: small leaf size and grouping of needles on shoots, was analysed using a simulation model. 2. The small size of conifer needles gives rise to penumbras, which even out the distribution of direct sunlight on the leaf area and thereby act to increase the rate of canopy photosynthesis per unit of LAI. 3. Grouping, by producing a non-uniform distribution of leaf area, causes a decrease in total canopy light interception at any given LAI, but improves the photosynthetic light capture by shoots in the lower canopy. 4. Application of the model on a case study showed that: (a) grouping had a negative effect on the rate of photosynthesis in the upper canopy, but deeper down in the canopy the situation was reversed; (b) in the lower canopy, photosynthetic rates were up to 10 times higher as a result from the combined effect of grouping and penumbra; (c) grouping did not improve the rate of canopy photosynthesis per unit of LAI, however, it can have a positive effect on the total photosynthetic production by allowing a higher productive LAI to be maintained; (d) penumbra, on the other hand, increased the rate of canopy photosynthesis by as much as 40% for moderate values of the LAI.
40407779|1. Physiological and evolutionary responses underlying thermal adaptation and acclimation are often investigated under controlled laboratory conditions. Such studies may fail to assess ecologically relevant parameters as they do not account for the complexity of the natural environment. 2. We investigated a population of Drosophila melanogaster for performance at low temperature conditions in the field using release recapture assays and in the laboratory using standard cold resistance assays. The aim of the study was to get a better understanding of the nature and underlying mechanisms of the trait measured in field recapture studies and the association between field performance and fitness measures estimated in the laboratory. 3. We performed one generation of selection on the ability to reach a resource at low temperature under field conditions. Flies that reached a resource ('mobile') and those that never left the release site ('stationary') were reared to the F1 and F2 generation in the laboratory. Subsequent field releases with these flies demonstrated a clear genetic differentiation between mobile and stationary flies in their ability to reach resources at low temperatures in the field. This indicates that mobility at low temperature is under additive genetic influence. In contrast mobile and stationary flies were generally indistinguishable when tested in standard laboratory tests of cold performance. The genetic differentiation between the two sub-populations was not linked to allelic variation in known candidate genes for cold adaptation. However, using transcriptomics we identified new candidate genes (transcripts) and pathways that differed between the mobile and stationary flies. 4. The current study reveals an irregular relationship between cold performance in the field and in the laboratory. Based on these results, we suggest that the ecological relevance of laboratory assays should be evaluated more critically in studies of thermal adaptation and hardening/acclimation.
3599090|1. Effects of anther arrangement on pollen deposition and removal in hermaphrodite flowers were experimentally quantified to assess the ecological significance of stamen structure. The anther arrangement of Brassica rapa was modified into six types with respect to anther number and the spatial arrangement of long and short stamens. Each anther treatment was combined with a nectar-intact and nectar-depleted treatment. After single visits by bumblebees in a glasshouse, the visit duration to each flower and the number of pollen grains deposited on stigmas and pollen grains remaining in long and short anthers were measured. 2. Visits were significantly shorter in nectar-depleted flowers. Short anthers also extended visit duration, but modification of the long anther arrangement had no effect. Pollen deposition on stigmas depended on the number of long anthers and on visit duration. Although an increase in long anther number accelerated self-pollination, removal of short anthers did not influence pollen deposition. 3. Pollen removal from long anthers depended on anther treatment and visit duration, but not on nectar availability. Any modification of anther arrangement tended to increase pollen removal during single visits. Long anthers contributed to the decrease in pollen removal per visit, while pollen removal from short anthers depended only on visit duration. Short anthers appeared to have a different function from the restriction of pollen removal during single visits by bumblebees. 4. Thus, long and short anthers made different contributions to pollination efficiency of nectar-feeding bumblebees. The maintenance of different types of stamens in Brassicaceae plants (tetradynamous stamens) may reflect functional advantages for a diverse pollination syndrome if the pollination efficiency of long and short anthers varies depending on the type of pollinator.
10.2307/2389391|The idea that all plant species are perfectly adapted to their environment is well embedded in ecology. In an attempt to test this concept, within-species differences in the grass Agrostis capillaris L. (Poaceae) were examined. We randomly sampled genotypes as tillers from populations over a wide environmental range in southern New Zealand, and transplanted them back into their own and each other's sites. Growth, floral phenology and tiller population dynamics all gave very little evidence of adaptation at the population level.
10.2307/2389696|Allocation of the nutrients N, P and K to reproductive tissue was investigated in three species of Pinguicula from the subarctic part of Scandinavia. These species have contrasting distribution: Pinguicula alpina L. grows on calcareous soils, Pinguicula villosa L. on nutrient-poor bogs and Pinguicula vulgaris L. is widely distributed. For flowering individuals, the relative allocation of nutrients to sexual reproduction was lowest for P. alpina (42-45%) and highest for P. villosa (56-68%). Expressed on a population basis, P. vulgaris had the largest relative reproductive allocation (9.3-12%) and P. villosa the smallest (7.4-8.6%). Pinguicula villosa allocated a larger proportion of dry matter than nutrients to reproduction while the other two species allocated similar proportions of all resources studied to reproduction. The proportion of the maximum nutrient pool lost through reproductive organs, leaves and roots ranged from 0% (P in non-flowering specimens of P. vulgaris) to 82% (K in flowering P. alpina). Flowering individuals lost a larger fraction of their nutrient pool than non-flowering (68% versus 42%, means for all species and nutrients).
2390397|1. Theories of latitudinal compensation predict that individuals living in colder temperature regimes should physiologically compensate for the slowing of standard physiological rates, owing to the relatively low temperature of their local environments, by increasing their metabolic rate in colder water temperatures relative to individuals living in warmer water temperature regimes. 2. This hypothesis was tested with oyster strains originally from geographically separated populations that were raised in a common environment for seven generations. The physiological parameter measured was ciliary activity across a temperature gradient. 3. Support for the latitudinal compensation hypothesis was found: the strain originally from the colder temperature regime had more active cilia at lower experimental temperatures than individuals originally from the warmer temperature regime. Ciliary activity of the more northern Long Island Sound oysters was significantly greater than activity in the more southern Delaware Bay oysters at temperatures of -1, 2 and 6 <sup></sup>C. 4. These results suggest that there is genetically based physiological differentiation between these populations of oysters consistent with the latitudinal compensation for local temperature regime.
4139397|1. Sexually selected structures with dual function of combat and display are likely to be honest signals of male quality to opponents and mates, but should be costly to produce and maintain. 2. Male fiddler crabs use a single greatly enlarged claw as both a weapon in agonistic contests with other males and an ornament to attract females for mating. Given the extreme size of this structure (up to half the total body mass), there is surprisingly little evidence for costs as predicted by theory. 3. We experimentally investigated several potential costs of the large claw to male sand fiddler crabs Uca pugilator. Mass-specific metabolic rates were significantly higher and treadmill endurance capacity significantly lower for males bearing an intact major claw compared with those without. 4. In contrast, presence of the claw did not affect maximal sprint speeds, suggesting that the massive structure does not compromise the ability of male crabs to evade predators. These counterintuitive results conform to recent theoretical models of energy costs of locomotion. 5. Our study provides empirical support for a key assumption of sexual selection theory energetic and endurance-related locomotor costs incurred while bearing this ornamental weapon act in opposition to sexual selection favouring larger claws.
10.2307/2389868|1. Do species of nutrient-poor environments growing at low nitrogen availability partition their biomass and nitrogen closer to their optimum with respect to relative growth rate and nitrogen productivity than species of nutrient-rich environments? And does the opposite occur at high nitrogen availability? To answer these questions we examined Briza media, a species characteristic of nutrient-poor soils, and Dactylis glomerata, a species characteristic of nutrient-rich soils, at a range of nitrogen availabilities. Based on the experimentally determined rates of physiological processes and morphological characteristics (photosynthesis, shoot and root respiration, allocation of fixed carbon and nitrogen, and specific leaf area), a dynamic vegetative growth model was constructed. The model describes the relative growth rate (biomass increment per unit of biomass present per day) and nitrogen productivity (biomass increment per unit of organic nitrogen present in the plant per day) as a function of nitrogen availability. 2. Model simulations indicate that at low availability of nitrogen, B. media and D. glomerata partitioned their biomass and nitrogen in such a way as to maximize both their relative growth rate and nitrogen productivity. At high availability of nitrogen, the two species partitioned their biomass and nitrogen close to their optimum with respect to relative growth rate, but not with respect to nitrogen productivity. 3. The model simulation shows that at a low rate of nitrogen uptake per unit root weight, i.e. reflecting a low availability of nitrogen in a given environment, species attain an equal relative growth rate and nitrogen productivity, whereas at high availability of nitrogen D. glomerata achieves a higher relative growth rate and nitrogen productivity than B. media does. It is concluded that optimal partitioning of biomass and nitrogen with respect to relative growth rate and nitrogen productivity cannot explain the success of an inherently slow-growing species in a nutrient-poor environment.
41239365|1. Integrative studies on ageing patterns in multiple traits of organisms are challenging and rare in free-living populations. However, developing integrative approaches could prove useful to understanding ageing patterns as causes of age variations are diverse, with conflicting or related actions. Accordingly, we investigated age variation of multiple aspects in the common lizard Lacerta (Zootoca) vivipara. 2. In a wild population of common lizards, we studied five fitness components, three physiological traits (cell-mediated immunity, corticosterone level, resting metabolic rate), and controlled for individual and environmental heterogeneities. To quantify ageing patterns in fitness, we used individual-based data collected over 14 years (18 684 captures, 892 reproductive events). 3. Ageing patterns were found in multiple aspects. They provided evidence for female maturation early in adulthood (access to reproduction, litter size), followed by senescence in female reproduction (litter success) and survival. In parallel to senescence, a pattern of terminal investment enhanced offspring quality (offspring body size, offspring corpulence, litter success). Ageing patterns involved physiology with higher metabolic rate and T cell-mediated immune response in old females. 4. Several ageing patterns were dependent on environmental and individual characteristics (habitat, year, sex, body size). Interestingly, senescence occurred only in females with a high reproductive effort early in life. Rarely showed, this trade-off between early and late-life performances is expected under the antagonistic pleiotropy and disposable soma theories of senescence. 5. Overall, this study emphasizes the interest of integrative studies to investigate the multifaceted process of ageing.
10.2307/2390000|1. In this paper we test a simple model of herbivore functional response. The model predicts a foraging animal's average dry-matter intake rate as a function of the mean bite size obtained within a small patch of forage. The model partitions a herbivore's per bite handling time into cropping and chewing parameters that are assumed to be independent of bite size. Cropping and chewing are assumed to be mutually exclusive activities. 2. To test the model, we fed captive giraffes hand-constructed patches of forage that varied in potential bite size and videotaped the giraffe's responses. This allowed us to estimate the mean bite sizes and intake rates achieved by the animals. We fitted the model to these data and compared parameter estimates from the regression fitting to observational estimates obtained by analysing the videotapes. We also tested the hypothesis that the parameters of the model were independent of bite size. 3. Although we found good statistical fit between model and data, regression-derived parameter estimates did not agree well with those obtained by observation. The model's parameters were significantly related to bite size. Although we could not test it explicitly, cropping and chewing appeared to overlap. We conclude that the model does not faithfully represent the actual foraging mechanism used by our experimental animals. 4. We propose a more flexible explanation of the functional response mechanism that partitions a herbivore's per bite handling time into fixed and incremental (per g) time costs. Both the fixed and incremental time costs may be the result of cropping and/or chewing.
10.2307/2389822|1. Pineapple, Ananas comosus, is a constitutive Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) plant developing a characteristic rosette habit, leaves being produced in the middle from a short stem. The resulting habit has a characteristic pattern of leaf age increasing from the centre to the periphery of the rosette. As a consequence light climate changes continuously during the leaf life span, both due to changes in leaf inclination and to shading produced by the new leaves produced in the centre. Increasing leaf age also determines strong variations in lipid and nitrogen contents. 2. This study reports the pattern of variation of CAM activity of the leaves as measured by 
10.2307/2389570|1 In open grasslands, Deschampsia flexuosa (L.) Trin. formed upright tussocks with massed, persistent flower culms. Under the shade of trees, the growth form was largely prostrate with few and solitary flower culms. 2 When plants of D. flexuosa were grown below a critical level of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), the tillers produced remained in a juvenile stage and did not flower in spite of otherwise being provided with inductive conditions. 3 The critical daily light integral (DLI) below which plants did not flower was around 9 to 11 mol m
41239370|1. Herbivory is an ecologically and evolutionarily strong interaction in marine littoral communities. However, among-host variation in quality for herbivores has not been documented comprehensively in these systems although it is a pre-requisite for selection through herbivory, and assuming an additive genetic component, for evolutionary responses. Host quality is composed of a multitude of plant traits and can thus be measured all-inclusively only in terms of herbivores' performance. In geographically structured interactions, herbivore populations may show differentiation of the traits related to host use ability, with consequent among-population variation in performance and its correlates with host traits. 2. We reared the herbivorous isopod Idotea baltica from three local populations on 30 distinct clones of its major host species, the brown alga Fucus vesiculosus. We further screened a wide array of metabolites, water content and toughness of the host clones and correlated those with the herbivore performance. 3. Food consumption of herbivores differed among host clones in all herbivore populations indicating that herbivory can generate phenotypic selection for algal traits through selective feeding. 4. The dependency of herbivore growth rate on host clone varied among the herbivore populations; among-clone variation was the highest in the herbivore population having the highest average growth rate. 5. Accordingly, the covariation patterns of algal traits with herbivore performance differed among herbivore populations. Proteinic amino acids enhanced and phlorotannins impaired growth rate but differently so depending on the population. The herbivore population having the highest average growth rate was also most sensitive to phlorotannins. Toughness of the thallus reduced growth rate in the population having on average the smallest body size and lowest growth rate. 6. That the variation in host quality explained a large proportion of variance in herbivore performance suggests that plant chemistry and structural characteristics may act as selective agents for herbivore traits and play a fundamental role in ecological differentiation of herbivore populations.
10.2307/2390209|1. We report the effects of a marine plant canopy on flow in the coastal environment. In addition to reducing the magnitude of the ambient flow, a Zostera marina canopy was observed to undulate under unidirectional flow. Spectral analyses of the velocity fluctuations in the canopy revealed a fundamental frequency of approximately 0.125-0.156 Hz. 2. These fluctuations were not caused by ambient flow conditions but rather by the hydroelasticity of the plants (`monami'). 3. Flow within the canopy can be, therefore, considered a function of plant movement rather than ambient conditions. Calculations incorporating these observations and the resistance of the canopy indicate that eddy viscosity is between 10<sup>-5</sup> and 10<sup>-4</sup> m<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. 4. Mixing within Z. marina canopies is reduced and more like the deep ocean than the coastal environment. This reduced level of mixing has considerable implications for the productivity and physiology of marine macrophytes.
2390324|1. We test the hypothesis that the thermal physiology of Otomys sloggetti restricts its distribution to altitudes above 2000 m, below which it does not occur. 2. The thermal physiology of O. sloggetti is typical of rodents from warm/hot areas: the thermoneutral zone is relatively broad and lies between 26 and 28
20142793|1. Dryland riparian zones have steep spatial gradients of soil moisture and flood disturbance, and the component hydrogeomorphic surfaces support hydric to xeric plant species. These systems undergo extremes of flood and drought, a dynamic that may select for persistent soil seed banks. We asked if reliance on this strategy differed among plants in three moisture groups (hydric, mesic and xeric), and if patterns were related to diaspore traits. 2. We assessed the composition of soil and litter seed banks (emergence method) and extant vegetation along a riparian hydrogradient, and measured seed persistence (using an indirect method) and diaspore mass and shape variance of the component species. 3. Hydroriparian species had smaller diaspores than xeroriparian species, corresponding to differences in selective pressures on seedlings in their respective habitats, but the two groups formed persistent seed banks at approximately equal percentages. Persistent seeds were smaller than transient seeds, but within the persistent seed group there was separation between the smaller-diaspored hydrophytes and larger-diaspored xerophytes. 4. Distribution patterns of extant vegetation, in concert with diaspore trait differences among moisture-affinity groups, gave rise to divergent spatial patterns of diaspores within the soil: hydroriparian diaspores were abundant not only along wet channel bars but also in deep soils under floodplain forests and shrublands, presumably owing to dispersal by flood waters. Xeroriparian diaspores were largely restricted to the litter and upper soil layers of their drier, higher, floodplain habitats. With increasing depth in the soil of floodplain forests and shrublands, viable diaspores became smaller and rounder, and plant composition shifted from xeroriparian to hydroriparian species. 5. The wide distribution of hydroriparian diaspores in floodplain soils influences disturbance dynamics, increasing the probability that ephemeral wetland communities will develop wherever suitable conditions are stochastically created by floods. Persistent seed banks also allow many xeric annuals to be maintained in dryland riparian zones throughout extended drought, similar to processes that occur in desert uplands.
3599016|1. Studies on the genetics or the ecology of fish eggs are typically based on inferential statistics, which require the separate rearing of many batches. 2. Salmonid eggs are believed to require a constant water flow to develop safely. Therefore, the technical requirements that have been used to rear individual batches of salmonid eggs significantly limit experimental studies. 3. We describe a technique that allows, for the first time, the large eggs of Arctic Charr (Salvelinus alpinus) to be reared under experimental conditions in Petri dishes. 4. It was found that the proportion of well-developed eggs on day 64 did not significantly correlate with egg density in the Petri dish, but that fry hatch earlier under more crowded conditions. 5. Oxygen concentration measured shortly before hatching appeared to be above critical values.
41239354|1. The ability to adjust the allocation of energy to maintenance, growth and reproduction in response to fluctuations in resource availability, in a way that enhances fitness, is thought to depend on the mode of maternal provisioning. 2. We manipulated food availability in the matrotrophic, livebearing fish Phalloptychus januarius (Poeciliidae) to examine patterns of allocation under fluctuating resource conditions. 3. We observed an asynchrony in the adjustment of offspring traits in response to changes in food availability. A reduction in food availability caused an immediate reduction in allocation of energy to offspring size and lipid content at birth, but a delayed reduction in offspring number (fecundity). Similarly, an increase in food availability caused an immediate increase in offspring size and lipid content and a delayed increase in fecundity. This asynchrony is thought to be inherent to matrotrophy, limiting a female's ability to attain an optimal fitness in fluctuating resource environments, regardless of whether food availability changes from high to low, or low to high. 4. We found no evidence for embryo abortion under low food conditions. All developing offspring were retained, yet were smaller at birth. Furthermore, although females carried large fat reserves, these were rapidly depleted during low food conditions and were not sufficient to fully buffer gestating females or their developing offspring against the detrimental effects of reduced food availability. 5. Our study shows that matrotrophy is likely to be a maladaptive strategy in environments that are characterized by fluctuations in resource availability. It further suggests that matrotrophy is most likely to evolve in high and stable resource environments.
826616| 1. Relationships between morphology, bite force capacity, prey handling efficiency and trophic niche were explored in two sympatric species of lacertid lizards, Podarcis melisellensis (Braun 1877) and Lacerta oxycephala Dumril & Bibron 1839. 2. Head shape showed little variation, but head size (absolute and relative to snoutvent length, SVL) differed between species and sexes. Males have larger heads than females, both absolute and relative to their SVL. In absolute terms, male P. melisellensis have larger heads than male L. oxycephala, but the reverse case was true for the females. Relative to SVL, L. oxycephala have larger heads than P. melisellensis. 3. Bite force capacity was estimated by having the lizards bite on two metal plates, connected to a piezoelectric force transducer. Differences in maximal bite force between species and sexes paralleled differences in absolute head size. Differences in body size and head size explain the higher bite force of males (compared with females), but not the higher bite force of P. melisellensis (compared with L. oxycephala). Among individual lizards, bite force correlated with body size and head size. 4. Prey handling efficiency, estimated by the time and number of bites needed to subdue a cricket in experimental conditions, also showed intersexual and interspecific variation. This variation corresponded to the differences in maximal bite capacity, suggesting that bite force is a determining factor in prey handling. Among individual lizards, both estimates of handling efficiency correlated with maximal bite force capacity. 5. Faecal pellet analyses suggested that in field conditions, males of both sexes select larger and harder prey than females. There was no difference between the species. The proportion of hard-bodied and large-sized prey items found in a lizard's faeces correlated positively with its bite force capacity. 6. It is concluded that differences in head and body size, through their effect on bite force capacity, may affect prey selection, either directly, or via handling efficiency. 
10.2307/2390285|1. Experiments were designed to reveal geographic differentiation, and its evolutionary significance, in early life-history characters of Fundulus heteroclitus. The inherited capacity for growth was studied for five populations, from South Carolina to Maine, USA, at three temperatures representative of field conditions. Two generations of newly hatched fish were reared and tested. The second generation of fish was produced from parents that were themselves reared in the laboratory, in order to control for maternally transmitted environmental effects. 2. Over the first three weeks post-hatch, individuals from northern populations grew more rapidly than those from southern populations at higher temperatures (21 and 28 <sup></sup>C) whereas there were generally no differences among populations at the lowest temperature (17 <sup></sup>C). 3. The results do not conform to thermal adaptation models, in which northern populations are expected to show higher growth rates than southern populations at cold temperatures, and vice versa at higher temperatures. Instead, the higher growth rate of northern fish is interpreted as an adaptation to a short growing season. This represents an example of countergradient variation, in that genetic influences favouring rapid growth at high latitudes oppose the environmental effect of a shorter growing season. The cline of growth rates is concordant with morphological, behavioural and genetic contrasts between subspecies of Fundulus heteroclitus.
10.2307/2390065|1. Ecological energetics and water fluxes were compared between populations of the lacertid lizard Podarcis lilfordi from the Menorcan islets of Aire and Nitge (Balearic Islands. Spain) during a non-reproductive summer period using the doubly labelled water technique. 2. Lizards from Aire were larger than those from Nitge (9.60.58 g vs 5.10.38 g, respectively) and consequently had higher field metabolic rates (FMR) (1.7390.151 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> vs 1.2550.977 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>). 3. FMR were lower in the Aire population, when the effects of the differing body masses were removed. 4. There were substantial differences in food availabilities between the two islets and this was reflected in strong dietary differences between the lizard populations. 5. Feeding constraints were potentially lower in Aire owing to (a) greater arthropod availability, (b) greater abundance of edible flowers, and (c) lower lizard density. 6. We suggest that a reduction in constraints on food intake could enable more efficient foraging by Aire lizards, and so explain their lower mass-independent FMR. 7. Although omnivory in Aire lizards appeared to increase the amount of preformed water obtained from the food, no differences in mass-independent water flux were found, probably because drinking represented the primary source of water intake.
2390436|1. Carbon ( <sup>13</sup>C) and nitrogen ( <sup>15</sup>N) stable isotope ratios of termites (Isoptera) were examined in Darwin, northern Australia. It is suggested that the stable isotope technique, together with phylogenetics, is a useful tool to understand the evolution of functional groups in detritivores. 2. A high  <sup>15</sup>N value was observed in the Termes-Capritermes branch of the subfamily Termitinae and the genus Amitermes, two distinct taxonomic groups that evolved from wood-feeding to soil-feeding in Australia. Among eight Termes-Capritermes branch species, only two species (Xylochomitermes melvillensis and Ephelotermes melachoma) were discernible as wood/soil interface feeders, the remaining six species analysed were soil-feeders, where the diet preference was identified by using  <sup>15</sup>N of workers. 3. The Termes-Capritermes group in Australia contains both wood/soil interface feeders and soil-feeders, whereas wood/soil interface feeders in Cameroon are from the Termes-Capritermes branch while soil-feeders are from Cubitermes group. The result confirmed that soil-feeding forms evolved both in Australia and Africa, but from different phylogenetic groups.
2656381|1. The abundance and performance of the Eastern Spruce Gall Adelgid, Adelges abietis, was evaluated on young, open-grown trees of White Spruce, Picea glauca, whose growth rates had been increased through fertilization or decreased through root-pruning. 2. In general, gall densities were highest on control trees and on mid-crown branches. Reduced galling success on fertilized trees was largely due to higher overwintering mortality of first-generation nymphs. Foliar magnesium, total tannin and total phenol contents were positively, and nitrogen and total monoterpene contents negatively, related to gall density and/or galling success. 3. Although short shoots were more abundant, shoot length was parabolically related to gall density. There was a non-significant parabolic trend between shoot size and galling success and volume. The number and average size of A. abietis females emerging from galls were positively related to gall volume, and realized fecundity was positively correlated to female size. Consequently, fitness was approximately twice as high for nymphs colonizing intermediate-sized than small or large shoots. 4. These results do not support the plant vigour or plant stress hypotheses. The results do, however, agree with predictions of the modified plant stress hypothesis for sucking insects. It is speculated that Adelges abietis lacks the necessary resources for successful gall formation on small shoots and is unable to produce a stimulus large enough to induce gall formation on large shoots.
2656429|1. Parasitic Hymenoptera reproduce by arrhenotokous parthenogenesis, and females of these species are able to control their progeny sex ratios. In structured populations of parasitic Hymenoptera, primary sex ratios are often highly biased toward females. However, sex ratio can be adjusted to the quality of encountered patches or hosts or be modified by differential developmental mortality. 2. In this paper, the effects were evaluated of the quality of encountered hosts and developmental mortality on the sex ratio in Anaphes victus, a solitary egg parasitoid whose first instar larvae present a sexual dimorphism and where superparasitism is regulated by larval fights between first instar larvae. 3. The results showed that a female-biased sex ratio is allocated to unparasitized hosts. In the presence of parasitized hosts, the second (superparasitizing) female produced a significantly higher sex ratio than the first female but the tertiary sex ratio (sex ratio at emergence) was not significantly different from the sex ratio produced with unparasitized hosts. The increase in the primary sex ratio produced by the second female was mostly compensated by the higher mortality of male larvae.
10.2307/2390561|1. Other than descriptions of the types of foods taken, little is known of the foraging strategies of social wasps. We examined foraging behaviour of three species of yellowjackets, Vespula germanica, V. squamosa, and V. maculifrons, on dead honey-bees (Apis mellifera). 2. Large numbers of yellowjackets were captured from their nests and their lift capacities predicted based on flight muscle mass. 3. Yellowjackets foraging on honey-bees were collected and the masses of their loads measured. 4. Vespula germanica had the highest predicted load-lifting capacity, followed by V. squamosa and V. maculifrons. 5. Vespula germanica carried heavier bee segments than V. squamosa, but both species carried bee parts approaching, but not exceeding, the maximum predicted load. Vespula maculifrons would not forage on dead honey-bees. 6. Lift constraints appeared to limit the mass of prey carried by V. germanica and V. squamosa, but handling time and energy cost may play a part in determining the degree to which prey mass is optimized.
826594|1. The relationship between available biomass and short-term rate of intake (functional response) of herbivores is expected to provide a link between their food supply, and their distribution. 2. The functional response of captive wild rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus L.) on artificially produced broad-leaved (Lolium perenne L.) and narrow-leaved (Festuca ovina L.) grass swards was quantified. 3. The general prediction that habitat selection varied with biomass, and reflected the potential rate of intake defined by the functional response, was also tested. The main alternative predictions, that both intake rate and habitat selection increased asymptotically with biomass, or were biased towards intermediate habitat standing crop biomasses, were distinguished. 4. There was no relationship between biomass and short-term rate of intake on the narrow-leaved Festuca swards, but on the broad-leaved Lolium sward the short-term rate of intake increased asymptotically with biomass. 5. In a field experiment on Lolium swards, a population of free-living wild rabbits selected the shortest swards with the lowest biomasses, and which provided the lowest potential rates of intake. 6. Results demonstrate that free-living wild rabbits do not select habitats that provide the maximum potential rate of intake, nor did they select foraging habitat with intermediate standing crops. It is suggested that their selection of foraging areas in these grasslands which typify rabbit foraging habitat, is dominated by antipredator considerations rather than purely by rate of intake.
10.2307/2389867|1. In Australia, plant species with fleshy fruits adapted for dispersal by vertebrates are concentrated on fertile soils and species adapted for dispersal by ants on infertile soils. 2. We tested some predictions of a hypothesis that availability of a specific mineral nutrient or nutrients may limit the production of fleshy fruit and so tend to confine frugivory to relatively fertile soils. 3. Nutrient concentrations were compared in the dispersal structures of 22 elaiosome-bearing, 29 fleshy-fruited and five arillate plant species. Discriminant function analysis revealed that K and N were the only nutrients that significantly separated the different dispersal structures. Potassium concentration in the fleshy pulp of vertebrate-dispersed diaspores was significantly higher than in elaisomes of ant-dispersed diaspores. Nitrogen content of elaiosomes was significantly higher than of flesh. Nitrogen and K content of arils was similar to that of elaiosomes but was significantly different from fleshy pulp. Plant species with different dispersal modes, growing at the same site, showed the same differences in K and N concentrations. 4. The hypothesis that fleshy fruit production is limited by the availability of a specific nutrient or nutrients was therefore rejected for all nutrients except K. An examination of dispersal spectra in relation to K availability, rather than to general soil fertility may help explain the observed correlation between dispersal mode and soil fertility in Australia and South Africa.
3599309|1. We analysed patterns of variability and correlations in skulls and teeth of a wide (>100 species; >17 000 specimens) sample of terrestrial carnivores. 2. Within species, larger craniodental components vary less than do smaller ones. 3. The higher variability of canines in comparison with lower carnassials probably reflects the low complexity of the former. 4. Among species, however, trait variation is not size-related, suggesting that the higher intraspecific variability of small traits is not an artefact of measurement error. 5. Correlations between the carnassial teeth are higher in carnivores feeding mainly on vertebrates than in those that eat mostly invertebrates or fruit, suggesting that the degree of functional integration between these teeth is under differing selective pressures. 6. Correlations between the carnassials probably have a phylogenetic basis as well, with caniform carnivores having higher correlation coefficients than feliform ones.
20142752|1. A fundamental goal of examining life-histories is to identify those traits that enable organisms to move from one stage of life to another however, traits that are important in one stage or event may not be important in subsequent cases. For long-lived taxa like turtles, studies of early life stages might be especially revealing because mortality is high during those times. 2. In this study, we examined several morphological characters in hatchling turtles to assess their relationships with hatchling performance and survival. We assessed hatchling plastron shape and body size during a release-recapture field experiment and in subsequent swimming performance trials in the laboratory. 3. Hatchling mass and plastron shape were correlated. Heavier turtles were relatively shorter and wider than lighter turtles. 4. Hatchling mass had a significant positive correlation with both recapture rate, a proxy measure of survivorship, and with swimming speed. 5. Plastron shape and recapture probability were not significantly correlated, but shape was a significant predictor of swimming performance. Shorter, wider turtles swam faster than longer, skinnier individuals. We hypothesize that this may be advantageous for quick-start swimming to escape predation, a function of longer legs, or improved range of motion. 6. These data support previous studies that demonstrated the importance of hatchling size for survival in the critical overland migration from nests to the water and also document the impact of body shape on basic life-history traits for neonatal turtles.
3599087|1. It is becoming clear that individual growth rates are optimized to suit local conditions rather than maximized to be as fast as possible. To understand this adaptive variation in growth rates, we need to understand the costs of rapid growth. 2. Recent work in teleost fish suggests that a trade-off between growth rate and critical swimming speed may be common. The current study demonstrates that the trade-off also occurs in anuran tadpoles with regard to burst speed. 3. Individual growth rate and burst speed were compared in Bufo americanus and Scaphiopus hamondi, representatives of two distantly related anuran families. Path analysis showed that growth rate is negatively correlated with burst speed. Because the trade-off between growth rate and swimming speed occurs in two such distantly related anuran species as well as teleosts, it may be general for all vertebrates. 4. However, identifying costs of rapid growth is complicated by the indirect effects of growth rate on body size which will also often correlate with performance factors. Distinguishing between direct effects of growth rate and indirect effects through body size is difficult because the two necessarily result in collinearity. A randomization test shows just how severe this problem can be.
41239458|1. Temperature and the elemental composition of food are key regulators of consumer growth rate, yet the knowledge on how these factors interact is scarce. In this study, we addressed this issue by using the rotifer Brachionus calyciflorus as a model organism. 2. Rotifers were raised at four different temperatures under a range of C/P and C/N ratios in their food and assessed the responses by analysing somatic RNA/protein ratios as a marker of growth rate. 3. Both N- and P-limited algae restricted the growth rates of rotifers. The interaction between C/P ratio of a given algae and temperature demonstrated that P limitation became intensified with increasing temperature. 4. Animals that were relieved from N limitation increased their RNA/protein ratio, as did animals fed on constant C/N ratio but with P-enriched food. This illustrates a mutual dependency and interaction between N and P in the protein synthesis by up-regulating the biosynthetic machinery, and that even while the effect of N limitation was more pronounced, P limitation was also potentially important in this species. 5. Our results provide evidence that over the tested range of temperature and food qualities, nutrient limitation in these animals was more important than the temperature effect. We also found, however, that increasing temperature can shift from P to N limitation in the consumer.
826689|1. We analysed the longevity of individual flowers with respect to the effects of the floral display size of a plant (number of flowers open at one time) and spatial arrangement of flowers in Iris gracilipes (A. Gray). We found that the actual floral longevity of this species (about 2 days) was much shorter than that predicted by the model of Schoen and Ashman (about 7-10 days). 2. A large display size and an overlap of flowering periods within a shoot facilitated successive pollinator probes within a plant, though the frequency of pollinator visits per flower was independent of display size. Consequently, the cost of geitonogamous selfing increased with an increase in display size and an overlap of flowering periods within a shoot. The short floral longevity of this species would be effective in such situations because shorter floral longevity leads to a smaller display size and a smaller overlap of flowering periods within a shoot. 3. A small display size and small overlap of flowering periods within a shoot could also be realized by the strategy that staggers the flowering period of each flower without floral longevity being shortened (extended blooming). However, a mutant plant with an extended blooming schedule would be unlikely to invade the population because of the stabilizing selection pressure on the flowering date. This may be why such a short floral longevity, rather than extended blooming, has evolved in this species.
3599227|1. Hermaphroditic and gonochoric reproduction are essentially different reproductive strategies that may lead to diverging population responses to adverse environmental conditions. Each strategy implies different physiological mechanisms, which affect life-history traits and represent different ways of dealing with stress. 2. We studied the performance of hermaphroditic vs gonochoric strains in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans exposed to cadmium stress at the individual and population level. 3. Under control conditions, the gonochoric strain started reproduction earlier than the hermaphroditic strain at a smaller size. This was due to an earlier switch from sperm to oocyte production triggered by male sperm availability. Under cadmium stress hermaphrodites showed a decrease in the size at onset of reproduction, presumably as a strategy to maintain a high population growth rate. In contrast the body size of gonochoric nematodes was not affected. 4. A process-based model (DEBtox) was used as a tool for analysing life-history data and calculating population growth rates. The model fitted the data well using physiologically relevant parameters such as ageing, survival or reproduction related parameters. The simultaneous fit of all life-history traits was used to obtain populations growth rate estimates. 5. The differences between the two C. elegans strains were reflected at the population level. Lower population growth rates, as calculated by DEBtox, were found in the gonochoric strain, largely determined by the proportion of males in the offspring. 6. From the overall results we suggest that the differences found between both populations are due to the reproductive strategy. Under control conditions, CB strain (with gonochoric reproduction) does not favour population growth rates in the short term due to faster ageing and copulation costs on survival. Furthermore, in response to stress this strain also showed lower performance than the N2 hermaphroditic strain, mainly due to a higher sensitivity of survival to the stressor.
3599143| 1. The utility of the anterior jaw four-bar linkage model and the trophic consequences of jaw protrusion were investigated in Heroine cichlids by examining the evolutionary relationships among maxillary kinematic transmission (KT), maximum jaw protrusion and dietary specialization on evasive prey. 2. In 31 species of Heroine cichlids, a four-bar linkage model was used to generate kinematic predictions of maxillary KT, the angular amount of maxilla rotation per unit lower jaw rotation, expected during mouth opening. Maxillary KT averaged 079 and ranged from 058 in Herichthys tamasopoensis to 106 in Petenia splendida. 3. Because the maxilla pushes the toothed premaxilla out during jaw protrusion, we predicted higher maxillary KT should characterize species with greater maximum jaw protrusion. Maximum jaw protrusion ranged from 15 to 142% of cichlid standard length and was highly correlated with greater maxillary KT. 4. The proportion of fish and crustaceans in the diet of these cichlids was correlated with maximum protrusion, suggesting jaw protrusion may aid in the capture of evasive prey. 5. Phylogenetic independent contrasts indicate changes in anterior jaw mechanics may be necessary for diversification of cichlid jaw protrusion abilities, and the labile evolution of jaw protrusion in Heroine cichlids likely facilitated the repeated specialization on evasive prey during their diversification. 
10.2307/2389371|Yamaguchi (1985) developed a theoretical explanation of the female-biased sex ratios, for species in which siblings commonly mate and the mothers differ in their total investment (PI) in offspring. Her comparison of empirical data with predictions from the model shows a qualitative agreement but is not verification. Moreover, she made biological assumptions that have not received universal acceptance. Here, an alternative explanation is proposed that is based on the effect of population density on both the size of the individuals and the breeding groups. This results in a constant species-specific number of males, rather than a number of males depending on the size and total PI of a local breeding group. A mechanism of sex determination in aphids is presented which indicates how this complicated behaviour could be achieved.
2656500|1. A plant competition model to analyse the competition among perennial grassland species was developed. It was used to find out whether complex perennial competition processes could be simulated accurately on the basis of ecophysiological principles; what crucial parameters and processes determine succession; and how spatial heterogeneity affects interspecies competition for light and nitrogen. 2. Simulation results were compared with results of a 2-year replacement experiment involving Holcus lanatus, Anthoxanthum odoratum and Festuca ovina. Sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate the importance of processes and parameters. 3. The model's sensitivity to plant height, specific leaf area and turnover and the large interspecific differences indicated that these were key determinants of competition between species. Festuca's low shoot turnover enabled it to survive the winter better and gave it an advantage in spring; this resulted in an unexpected recovery after winter in the second year. 4. Spatially explicit simulations showed that species patchiness reduced competitive asymmetry, especially under nutrient-poor conditions. 5. The model's ability to simulate complex perennial competition processes as observed in the experiment indicates its potential for analysing vegetation processes related to succession.
2656455|1. When using the seedling-emergence method to analyse a soil seed bank the green-house conditions should match the germination requirements of the species involved. Although the seedling-emergence method is common practice in ecological studies, the germination characteristics of many species are not known, or are only partly known. 2. Before carrying out a large-scale seed-bank study in a wet dune slack, we tested the water requirements of the species in the seed bank, comparing a waterlogged soil with a moist soil. Four species germinated in significantly larger numbers in a waterlogged soil, seven species in a moist soil and 11 species showed no significant difference. When a species was present in low densities, it was often missed using the less appropriate treatment. 3. These results emphasize the need for a preliminary study before carrying out a seed-bank analysis and show the danger of using a `standard' method to analyse soil samples from different habitats.
4540070|1. Recent reviews demonstrate that genetically determined alternative mating strategies (AMS) are widespread and typically consist of morphs that are recognized by morphological or colour traits. Despite well-established behavioural differences associated with each morph, and evidence that androgens are involved in the induction of morphs, few studies have examined whether morphs also vary in whole-organismal performance traits, which may affect dominance status, resource holding potential (RHP) or mate attraction. 2. Our survey revealed a link between androgens and physiological performance traits that are associated with territorial or courtship displays across vertebrate taxa, although the number of species in the sample is limited. Experimental elevation of testosterone alters muscular contractile properties, swimming performance, sprint speed and endurance in males. Whether morphs differ in physiological capacities is relatively unexplored, although recent studies have found that males with high dominance status also exhibit greater physiological capacities (locomotor performance, call duration). 3. Multiple studies support the hypothesis that elevated testosterone results in fitness trade-offs. Potential costs of testosterone include impaired immune function, higher parasite loads, greater energetic requirements and ultimately reduced survival. Long term studies of Uta stansburiana highlight the trade-offs among life-history traits induced by variation in testosterone. Circumstantial evidence suggests a role of testosterone in depressing immune function in species with AMS. 4. We argue that hypotheses regarding the role of trade-offs in shaping selection on functional modules, which are involved in sexual selection, are best developed by manipulative studies on discrete morphs. Our review highlights the need to measure multiple traits to provide additional insights into the roles of sexual selection and physiological epistasis in maintaining intraspecific variation in reproductive phenotypes. The integration of endocrine control of behaviour, physiology and performance is rarely attempted in most studies and may be facilitated by analyses that focus on estimating correlational selection.
20142828| 1. A major research focus in population and community ecology is to establish a mechanistic understanding of plant interactions and demographic responses. The first step towards this mechanistic approach relies on understanding the differences in stress caused by different environmental conditions. Leaf-level photosynthetic rate (A) within and among plant populations provides important insight into population and community processes, but is difficult to acquire with sufficient replication under field conditions. Instead, chlorophyll fluorescence (
40863640|1. The phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) skin-swelling test is widely used in immunoecology and ecotoxicology to estimate cell-mediated immunity. Although often presumed, the involvement of  cells in generating an immune response to PHA in vivo remains unclear. 2. To investigate the mechanism triggering this response we have compared in zebra finch (Taeniopygici guttato) the immune responses to two PHA isolectins differing in their biological properties and one control protein. 3. In Experiment I, we applied PHA-P (the commonly used L and E isolectin mixture) into one wing-web and bovine serum allbumin (BSA) into the other. The swelling response to PHA-P was significantly stronger than to BSA confirming that the reaction is governed by PHA-specific properties. 4. In Experiment II, purified PHA-L (the T-cell-stimulating isolectin) and PHA-E (the erythroagglutinating isolectin) were compared. Contrary to our expectations, PHA-E induced a significantly stronger swelling response than PHA-L. Histological analysis revealed significantly higher quantities of erythrocytes and thrombocytes in PHA-E-treated patagia. Nevertheless, there was a positive correlation between the magnitudes of these swellings. 5. In Experiment III, we tested whether the results obtained by the application of PHA-P and pure PHA-L differ. Here, we failed to find any significant difference between these two preparations in their immunostimulatory activity. Magnitudes of the PHA-L-and PHA-P-induced swellings were positively correlated. 6. To the best of our knowledge this is the first study to compare the biological activity of purified PHA fractions in vivo and also the first to show the importance of erythroagglutination in the development of an inflammatory response to PHA-P. 7. Our results indicate that the skin-swelling test using PHA-P reliably mirrors the individual general proinflammatory potential. However, the immunological background of the test is highly complex and the test results cannot be interpreted as measurements of the adaptive immunity or T-cell activity. This interpretational change importantly alters our view on the test results regarding the costs of the response or the evolutionary immunological adaptations.
41319632|1. At high latitudes, evolutionary adaptations focus on those that maximize survival, with hibernation being a major one used by many smaller mammals. Typically, mammalian hibernators overwinter in sites that are 0 C. However, in arctic regions, such sites do not exist, necessitating hibernation at sites well below 0 C. Lipid, the normal fuel of most hibernators, may not provide sufficient glucose needed by certain tissues to permit survival, with muscle breakdown being required. Critical to enhancing muscle stores are high concentrations of anabolic androgens prior to hibernation when the gonads are inactive. 2. We compare and contrast androgen levels in arctic ground squirrels (AGS) (Urocitellusparryii Richardson) from the Yukon and Columbian ground squirrel (CGS) (U. columbianus Ord) from southern Alberta. 3. In males, changes in testes mass over the active season were similar between AGS and CGS. In contrast, during the breeding and the nonbreeding, pre-hibernation periods, androgen levels in AGS were 6-10 and 20-25 times, respectively, those of CGS. From the breeding to the pre-hibernation periods, androgen levels declined 41% in AGS, but 86% in CGS. In females, androgen levels in AGS were high throughout the active season and, prior to hibernation, were 24 times those in CGS. 4. In pre-hibernating AGS, we determined the source of these high androgen levels from two studies. First, using a hormonal challenge protocol to probe the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, we found that androgen levels in both females and males decreased > 10% in response to suppression by dexamethasone (an artificial glucocorticoid that inhibits ACTH release) and increased 18% in response to direct adrenal stimulation by adrenocorticorticotropic homone (ACTH). Second, by sequential hormonal injections in males of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and of ACTH coupled with gonadectomy (GDX), followed by adrenalectomy (ADX), we found that GnRH had no effect, whereas ACTH stimulated androgen levels by > 40%, both before and after GDX. After ADX, levels fell by 80%. Thus, the adrenals, not the gonads, are the source of these androgens. 5. We hypothesize that pre-hibernating AGS have evolved a solution seen in no other known mammal: exploiting the benefits of high adrenal androgen levels prior to hibernation to build muscle that is then catabolized overwinter. The unknown is how AGS have mitigated the costs of these high androgen levels.
10.2307/2390100|1. Surface roughness and available space for organisms inhabiting heterogeneous habitats have important effects on measurements of species diversity, population abundance and dispersal. Quantifying habitat complexity is important but very difficult to achieve, especially at small scales. 2. A method of quantifying topographic roughness is described, which produces estimates of space potentially available to organisms in different size classes rather than giving general descriptors. The method uses samples of profiles across the surface of interest that are taken over any spatial scale and that are then analysed by a low-cost, image-processing technique. 3. A case study shows that the method allows quantification of the effects of surface texture on abundance of stream algae. Stream stones differing in geological rock type differed in roughness at very small spatial scales (crevices < 0.4 mm in size). Chlorophyll a concentrations were correlated positively with roughness measured at the smallest spatial scale (0.2 mm). A colonization experiment, in which bricks were sandblasted to produce rough surfaces, showed that rough substrata attain higher abundances of stream algae than smooth. The imaging technique permitted the quantification of the exact differences in texture between smooth and rough surfaces while demonstrating that both rough and smooth bricks still fell within the natural range of texture shown by stream stones.
10.2307/2389841|1. The relationship between seedling potential relative growth rate RGR and seed mass was investigated by growing in the glasshouse 26 species selected to form 13 phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs). The two species in each PIC diverged at least 10-fold in seed mass and each PIC represented a phylogenetic branching independent of the other PICs in the study. 2. During the process of deployment following germination, seedlings undergo an initial dry mass decline before autographic growth overtakes respiration and mass begins to increase exponentially. This initial decline tended to be earlier and deeper in the smaller-seeded species of each PIC. Mass began to increase earlier in the smaller-seeded species in eight of the 13 PICs, there being no difference in the other five; the percentage mass decline from day 0 to day 2 was significantly greater in the smaller-seeded species in four of the 13 PICs, almost significantly greater in two further PICs and not different in seven PICs. 3. In all species exponential growth was under way by day 6 and continued through day 40. RGR was significantly different between the members of 12 of the 13 PICs. In 10 of these the larger-seeded member had slower RGR, vs the reverse relationship in two PICs, and there was also an overall negative correlation between seed mass and RGR considered across all 26 species. Thus the association reported in several previous studies between larger seed mass and slower potential seedling RGR occurs repeatedly within genera and families, as well as across older divergences between families and orders. 4. RGR differences within PICs were most often owing to differences in net assimilation rate (leaf mass basis) NARw, rather than to differences in allocation to leaf mass as a proportion of whole plant mass. 5. There were interesting unexplained patterns in the relationship of apical meristem volumes, measured at day 26, to seed mass. Root meristems were larger in the larger-seeded species in nine of 13 PICs (as perhaps might be expected, though there was little overall relationship between seed mass and meristem volume) but shoot meristems were larger in the smaller-seeded species in 11 of 13 PICs. Differences in meristem volume within PICs were considerable, often 10-fold.
2390300|1. This study examines the extent to which thermal balance and thermoregulatory ability may contribute to habitat partitioning in insect herbivores. 2. The distribution of four species of grasshopper on a Breckland grass heath is described. Myrmeleotettix maculatus is restricted to short swards, Omocestus viridulus is restricted to long swards, and Chorthippus brunneus and Stenobothrus lineatus are found on swards of intermediate length. 3. Short swards are warmer on average than long swards, but lack cooler refuges on hot days. 4. Chorthippus brunneus and O. viridulus are better able to raise their body temperatures at low ambient temperatures than M. maculatus and S. lineatus. Omocestus viridulus is less able to reduce body temperature at high ambient temperature. 5. Myrmeleotettix maculatus may be precluded from inhabiting cooler long swards because of its inability to raise body temperatures at low ambient temperatures. Omocestus viridulus may avoid short swards because of the danger of overheating. 6. Thermoregulatory ability is a good predictor of the distribution of the grasshoppers in swards of differing length and microclimate.
10.2307/2390071|1. Growth of Great Tit nestlings was significantly influenced by environmental variation consisting of experimentally altered brood sizes and natural temporal variation in food availability. 2. Two-day weight gains differed increasingly with age between early (good conditions) and late (poor conditions) broods. 3. Environmental conditions also affected final weight and tarsus length. 4. Nestling growth was studied by estimating genetic and environmental variance components for body weight and tarsus length at different ages. The variance component of nestling weight due to the common environment during rearing predominated under poor conditions, but disappeared during growth under good conditions. 5. The amount of genetic variation for weight during growth was higher under good conditions than under poor conditions, whereas the expression of variation based on the common environment was higher under poor conditions.
20142873|1. Induced chemical responses to herbivory have been widely documented, however less attention has been given to the induced morphological defences, particularly those that mediate protection mutualisms. One of the most widely studied mutualisms is the ant-plant protection mutualism, in which ants and other predatory arthropods defend plants against herbivores in exchange for food or housing. 2. Chemical and morphological traits that mediate this protection mutualism attract beneficial partners to plants. Thus induction of traits can lead to greater protection by mutualists when herbivores are present. In this study we examined whether extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) are induced in response to simulated herbivory in Prunus avium. 3. In a greenhouse experiment, continuous damage to seedlings was simulated in two treatments intended to mimic different types of herbivores: (i) 50% of the area of each leaf was removed using a paper hole punch (e.g. insect herbivore simulation), and (ii) 50% of the area of each leaf was removed using scissors (e.g. browsing mammal simulation). Seedlings in the control group were not damaged. 4. Post-treatment, damaged plants produced significantly more EFNs per leaf on pre-existing leaves, as well as those that emerged following the onset of damage, than plants in the control group. Regardless of treatment, leaves emerging earlier supported fewer EFNs than leaves emerging later in the experiment. 5. Allocation to defence by seedlings, which have limited resources available, suggests the protection mutualism could be important to plant fitness in the field. Further study of patterns of EFN induction in P. avium seedlings is needed to better understand the significance of this induced response.
3806557|1. Pollination is a principal means of gene dispersal in animal-pollinated plants. Theoretically, gene dispersal can be predicted from pollinator movements and their associated patterns of flower-to-flower gene dispersal, or paternity shadow, but quantifying the paternity shadow under field conditions is problematic. 2. We developed a mathematical method to quantify the paternity shadow from a simple field experiment by initially stating the problem in matrix algebra, then using a least-squares regression to find the paternity shadow that best explained the observed spatial distribution of gene dispersal, given the observed pollinator movements. 3. We applied the method to data on the dispersion of a marker gene along rows of oilseed rape (Brassica napus) pollinated by bumble bees (Bombus spp.) and thereby produced the first field-based paternity shadow. When coupled with observed movements of bumble bees, this paternity shadow explained virtually all (
3806551|1. Resource delivery within plants depends on supply pathways. Some species have relatively constrained (sectored) vascular connections, while others have relatively unconstrained (integrated) vascular connections. 2. In this study, patterns of vascular hydraulic sectoriality, anatomy and ecological tolerance were examined for 18 Northern Hemisphere temperate woody species growing at Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plain, MA, USA. A hydraulic technique was used to measure axial and tangential conductivity on branch segments. From a ratio of these values, a sectoriality index was calculated. 3. Species that were more hydraulically sectored had greater vessel size, variation in vessel area and tangential nearest-neighbour distance, as well as lower vessel density, than did integrated species. 4. Ecologically, higher tolerance to drought and wind was correlated with being sectored, while higher tolerance to flood and shade was correlated with being integrated. 5. These results suggest that sectored species should be especially prominent in xeric environments where sectoriality may reduce embolism spread by minimizing vessel-to-vessel contact and pitting, and integrated species should be especially prominent when resources are spatially patchy or heterogeneous.
10.2307/2390509|1. Terrestrial isopods (woodlice) exposed to toxic concentrations of metals can suffer early mortality and reduced body size, suggesting that the cost of metal detoxification causes trade-offs in resource allocation. This study investigates whether woodlice from populations that persist in sites heavily polluted with metals have a level of reproductive success different from that of woodlice from less polluted sites. 2. Two species of woodlice, Porcellio scaber Latreille and Oniscus asellus L., were collected from eight sites at different distances from an industrial smelting works at Avonmouth, England. The sites represented a continuum of concentrations of Zn, Cd, Pb and Cu in the woodlice, from background concentrations to a grossly contaminated site close to the smelter. Gravid females were reared in the laboratory until the release of the brood. 3. For both species there was no significant difference among sites in the number of live offspring per adult mass, the degree of brood-pouch mortality in affected adults, or the reproductive allocation. 4. Significant differences were found among sites in the proportion of adults experiencing some degree of brood-pouch mortality, and in the mean dry mass of offspring per adult mass. However, these differences could not be attributed to contamination by metals. 5. Females of both species that survive to reproduce in the most polluted sites around the smelter show no evidence of detrimental effects on reproduction. However, high concentrations of Zn at these sites causes early mortality of woodlice and therefore reduces the size of the breeding population.
4540073|1. Impacts of environmental changes on carbon cycling in terrestrial ecosystems are typically correlated with shifts in the composition, biomass and activity of soil faunal communities. Given the role of soil fauna in decomposition, shifts in soil faunal communities may further modify the carbon dynamics of a perturbed system. 2. To test this possibility, we manipulated soil community composition in model grassland ecosystems and used a
10.2307/2389325|Stomatal response to humidity and total gas exchange of untreated leaves of Larrea tridentata (DC.) Cov. were compared with those of leaves treated to remove most of their external resin by washing attached branches in an ethanol-water mixture. The ethanol-water mixture did not infiltrate the stomatal pores and produced no visible symptoms of tissue damage. Partial resin removal enhanced stomatal responsiveness to humidity in illuminated leaves and the responsiveness of leaf conductance to humidity in the dark. Diffusive conductances and transpiration of both illuminated and darkened leaves increased following resin removal. The net effect of resin removal on total gas exchange was to reduce water use efficiency by altering the coupling between assimilation and conductance. These results indicated that the resin behaved as an ideal antitranspirant because it diminished transpiration more than assimilation rates. Possible mechanisms for the responses to resin removal are discussed.
40603053|1. Life-history theory predicts a trade-off between growth and self-maintenance. However, little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Oxidative stress, the imbalance between the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) during normal metabolic processes and the level of antioxidant defences, is a potential mechanism. 2. In many altricial birds asynchronous hatching creates different castes of progeny as a hedge against developmental and environmental uncertainty (a 'structured' family). Older, 'core' offspring and later hatched ' marginal' offspring consequently experience contrasting levels of resource availability during development. To be adaptive the phenotypic handicap incurred by marginal offspring must be reversible when conditions allow. 3. Dietary-derived antioxidants are an important component of antioxidant defences, which modulate oxidative damage arising from normal metabolic processes such as growth. Dietary antioxidants could therefore be important determinants of trade-offs during growth, with the balance of these trade-offs differing between core and marginal offspring. 4. To investigate this, we manipulated brood size and structure as well as antioxidant availability (by vitamin and mineral supplementation), then measured growth and oxidative damage in nestling red-winged blackbirds Agelaius phoeniceus. 5. We found that individuals supplemented with dietary antioxidants allocated these extra resources to increasing growth rate, rather than reducing oxidative damage. Irrespective of hatch rank, nestlings that received supplementary antioxidants grew faster than controls, despite no difference in their begging behaviour or parental provisioning rates. There was no overall difference in the level of lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde; MDA) in the blood plasma of supplemented and control chicks, but among marginal offspring those that received an antioxidant supplement had lower plasma MDA. Antioxidant supplementation did not affect nestling survival to fledging age. 6. These novel results support the idea that oxidative stress may play a central role in the tradeoff between growth and self-maintenance. Moreover, they further highlight the importance of physiological costs in the evolution of life-histories and propose a role for oxidative stress in the adaptive basis of the structured family.
2656353|1. In solitary parasitoid Hymenoptera, normally only one offspring per host survives. Parasitism with more than one egg by the same female results in siblicide and hence is generally maladaptive. 2. The braconid wasp Monoctonus paulensis Ashmead is a solitary parasitoid of aphids, including the Pea Aphid. Although all but one offspring are eliminated by competition between first-instar larvae, females often produce a multiple-egg clutch, even when searching alone. The hypothesis that the size and, presumably, the fitness of the surviving offspring in a clutch are greater than that of singly developing counterparts was tested in the laboratory. Adult size was measured as dry mass in parasitoids developing in Pea Aphids that differed in size (instar) and growth potential. 3. Parasitoid size increased with host size, and females were larger than males. Parasitoids developing in aphids reared under crowded conditions (which had low growth potential) were smaller relative to initial host size. As predicted, the male offspring of virgin mothers developing in a clutch were 4-5% larger than counterparts developing alone. Clutch size had no consistent effect on the size of male or female offspring of mated mothers, however. 4. A female of M. paulensis laying a multiple-egg clutch can gain in fitness in terms of increased offspring size. The surviving offspring has access to greater nutritional resources because superparasitized aphids feed more than single-parasitized aphids; the former also contain proportionately more teratocytes, which are egg-derived cells aiding in parasitoid nutrition. 5. Evidence that some species of solitary parasitoids do better when developing in a clutch suggests that the solitary lifestyle may not be an evolutionary absorbing state.
40407759|1. Some types of flexible foraging behaviours were incorporated into ecological thought in the 1960s, but the population dynamical consequences of such behaviours are still poorly understood. 2. Flexible foraging-related traits can be classified as shifts in general and specific foraging effort, and shifts in general and specific defense. 3. Many flexible foraging behaviours suggested by theory have received very little empirical attention, and empirical techniques used to compare the magnitudes of behavioural and non-behavioural responses to predation are likely to have overestimated the behavioural components. 4. Adaptively flexible foraging in theory causes significant changes in the forms of consumer functional responses and generates a variety of indirect interactions. These can alter fundamental ecological processes, such as co-existence of competitors, and top-down or bottom-up effects in food webs. 5. Many aspects of flexible foraging are still largely unknown, including the issues of how to represent the dynamics of such phenotypically plastic traits, how flexible traits in multiple species interact, what types of adaptive movements occur in metacommunities, and how adaptive behaviours influence evolutionary change. 6. Population dynamics in large food webs may be less dependent on behavioural flexibility than in small webs because species replacement may preempt some potential types of behavioural change within species.
2390525|1. Average daily metabolic rate (ADMR) is the metabolizable energy intake required by a caged animal to maintain constant body energy content. Linear regression of standardized, phylogenetically independent contrasts was used to describe the allometric relationship between ADMR and body mass in rodents. It was predicted that desert species would have a lower ADMR than non-desert species and that granivores would have a lower ADMR than those of herbivores and omnivores. The efficiency of utilization of energy for maintenance was also determined in these species. Here, it was predicted that the efficiency in granivores would be higher than in both herbivores and omnivores and in desert species would be higher than in non-desert species. 2. The regression of the phylogenetic contrasts of ADMR on body mass (m<sub>b</sub>) for 53 independent data points based on 63 species of rodents was highly significant (P < 0.0001) with an allometric slope of 0.53. Independent comparisons of both basal metabolic rate (BMR) and ADMR showed significantly lower rates in desert than in non-desert species. There was a trend for granivores to have a lower ADMR per g<sup>0.53</sup> than either omnivores or herbivores, but this trend is not significant in independent comparisons between the categories. Thus, the predictions in regard to desert and non-desert habitats were confirmed, and there is a non-significant trend in the predicted direction with respect to diet. Herbivores and omnivores showed no significant difference in either BMR or ADMR. 3. In independent comparisons between categories, there was no evidence for trends in the efficiency of utilization of energy for maintenance (BMR:ADMR ratio or k<sub>m</sub>) with either habitat or diet categories. Thus, these results are not in agreement with our predictions. Taking simple means, k<sub>m</sub> equals 0.47  0.21, 0.37  0.12 and 0.56  0.11 for granivores, omnivores and herbivores, respectively, and 0.37  0.12 and 0.55  0.16 for desert and non-desert mammals, respectively. 4. It is recommended that conditions for ADMR measurements be standardized, as is common for basal metabolic rate measurements. This would allow more reliable comparisons among species measured in different laboratories and also provide more accurate estimates of efficiency of utilization of energy.
10.2307/2389746|1. The CSR theory of life-history strategies of Grime, and demographically based theories of life history represent strongly contrasting approaches that have yet to be reconciled. 2. It is argued that there are a priori grounds for analogy between Grime's three primary strategies of the established phase in plants and the demographic processes of growth ( C), survival ( S), and fecundity ( R). 3. The contribution of growth, fecundity and survival to the finite rate of population increase  was calculated for populations of 18 plant species that have also been classified according to Grime's CSR scheme. The match between the demographic classification of species based on these data and their CSR status was determined using a randomization test, and no significant match between the two was found. The reasons for this result are discussed, and it is concluded that it would be premature to abandon attempts to reconcile these two important approaches to plant life history.
40407753|1. Edaphic specialization among species may lead to greater productivity and resource use efficiency across heterogenous landscapes than could be achieved in the absence of specialization. Although this idea has been tested conceptually and in garden experiments, it has rarely been examined in undisturbed forests. 2. To address this gap in our knowledge, we measured aboveground net primary productivity (aboveground biomass increment plus litterfall; ANPP) and phosphorus use efficiency (ANPP/P uptake) for stands on infertile schist soil and fertile basalt soil on the Atherton Tablelands, Australia. We also measured aboveground biomass production and estimated P use efficiency (PUE) for 52 tree species within these stands. Soil P fractions and radiation use efficiency (ANPP/percent intercepted radiation) were also measured. 3. Phosphorus use efficiency was markedly variable (CV = 44%) among species across soil types. Phosphorus use efficiency of obligate specialists on infertile soil was twice as high as species common on both soil types. Plastic responses within species were also significant, with trees on infertile soil having 45% greater PUE than trees on fertile soil. At the ecosystem level, genotypic and phenotypic traits accounted for 49% and 29% of the total PUE variance. Phosphorusefficient trees (PUE > 8 kg biomass g P uptake) on schist soils contributed more to stand-level species richness (schist = 73%, basalt = 20%), basal area (schist = 86%, basalt = 18%) and production (schist = 82%, basalt = 10%) than did P-efficient species on basalt soils. 4. Forest on schist soils achieved higher PUE than forest on basalt soils by partitioning more P to leaves rather than wood and by retaining P for longer periods of time before losing it via tissue senescence. These PUE traits enabled forest on schist to achieve similar ANPP and radiation use efficiency (i.e. PUE was not traded for radiation use efficiency). It is possible that opportunity costs of high PUE may exist among other life-history traits. 5. These results suggest that plasticity in traits that confer P conservation is significant, but limited, and that maximum P conservation at the landscape level must be achieved via genetic differences between species. Although this highlights the importance of genetic conservation in forests, it also demonstrates that high P conservation is possible with relatively few, but markedly plastic species.
3599194| 1. Design considerations dictate that systems work most efficiently when the separate components have processing capacities adjusted to each other, a principle known as symmorphosis. Adjustments in response to a variable environment are most likely to occur at the interface between the environment and integrated systems. In deposit-feeding bivalves, the interface of the alimentary canal with the foraging environment consists of a siphon (intake), gills (flow generation) and palps (particle sorting). 2. Among European populations of the Baltic Tellin, Macoma balthica, the gill-to-palp mass-ratio was positively correlated with the foraging environment, characterized by median grain size of the ambient sediment (R = 071). 3. In laboratory-reared M. balthica gill-to-palp mass-ratio responded plastically to changes in ambient sediment characteristics, resulting in large ratios in coarse sediment and small ratios in fine sediment. 4. In a common garden experiment, relative differences in gill-to-palp mass-ratios of laboratory-reared M. balthica from four populations appeared similar to those in the field, indicating a heritable component to the variation in integrated organ systems. 5. Phenotypically plastic adjestments ensure a close match between the integrated system of the alimentary canal to the local foraging environment. Heritable variation among populations may reflect different selective optima related to consistent differences in the environment between the populations. 
826563| 1. Female Nephila clavipes from univoltine populations have greatly reduced reproductive success if they grow slowly and reach maturity late in the growing season. Although such fitness costs are expected to select for rapid increases in mass, several authors have presented models and data describing physiological costs of rapidly increasing mass. 2. In order to test the hypothesis that there are inherent costs of rapid growth (increasing mass), laboratory-reared juveniles of the orb-weaving spider Nephila clavipes were randomly assigned to receive daily feedings ranging from 25% to 23% of their initial mass. 3. Spiders receiving higher amounts of food were more likely to die at or immediately before the next moulting cycle. 4. These results indicate that there may be inherent physiological costs of rapidly increasing mass. In opportunistic feeders such as spiders that tend to gorge when prey are abundant, this could present a real cost to a common foraging strategy. 
4139362|1. According to the handicap principle of sexual selection, colourful ornaments honestly signal absolute quality only if they entail fitness costs. The degree of melanism often covaries positively with aspects of individual quality, and hence melanin-based coloration should be costly to produce or to maintain in a good shape. This is, however, unlikely because melanin-based coloration is often strongly heritable and in birds the rate of feather wear decreases with the amount of melanin pigments packed in feathers. 2. The hypothesis that melanin pigments reduce the cost of maintaining colourful ornaments in a good shape predicts a negative correlation between the degree of melanism and both the size of the uropygial gland that produces preening secretions and the intensity of preening behaviour. 3. Using a correlative approach, I evaluated these two predictions in the barn owl Tyto alba in which the body underside varies from immaculate to heavily marked with black spots, a eumelanin-based trait, and from white to reddish-brown, a phaeomelaninbased trait. I correlated plumage traits with preening behaviour in nestlings and with the size and mass of the uropygial gland in dead adults. I also weighed nonornamental wing and tail feathers to assess whether the quality of nonornamental feathers is positively correlated with the degree of melanism of an ornamental plumage trait. 4. The degree of phaeomelanism was neither associated with preening behaviour nor with the size and mass of the uropygial gland. In line with the two predictions, individuals with more and larger black spots had a lighter uropygial gland and preened less frequently. Because nonornamental wing and tail feathers of spottier individuals were heavier per unit of surface area, the entire plumage of eumelanic individuals may be more robust and in turn require less care than the plumage of nonmelanic conspecifics. 5. In conclusion, the degree of eumelanism can be associated with aspects of individual quality even if eumelanic ornaments are neither costly to produce nor to maintain in a good shape.
2656443|1. The relationships among food supply (Field Voles, Microtus agrestis), reproduction and blood parasites was investigated in Tawny Owls, Strix aluco, in Kielder Forest, Northumberland, in 1994 and 1995. Vole populations were significantly lower in 1995 than in 1994. 2. Birds did not lose parasites after initial infection, and the level at which infections were maintained was characteristic of individual birds. 3. In 1994, the number and intensity of parasites was higher in adult owls that had experienced low food supply when they themselves were reared. This indicated that food supplied to chicks in the nest has a long-term effect on the parasite burden of adults. 4. In addition, there was evidence that parasite burdens of adults were influenced by their current food supply. Birds that suffered a decline in food abundance on their territories between 1994 and 1995 showed an increase in parasite load over the same period. In 1995, there was also a significant negative correlation between the parasite loads of owls and vole abundance on their territories. 5. The best predictor of parasite number of chicks reared in 1995 was the parasite load of their fathers. The parasites chicks developed were not the parasites with which their fathers were heavily infested. This result could be due to inherited immunity. 6. Our results indicated that food resources should be measured when investigating interactions between parasites and their hosts, and that offspring quality as well as quantity might suffer when food abundance is low.
10.2307/2390171|1. Organisms capable of asexual reproduction often maintain substantial clonal diversity within their populations. We ask whether such diversity in Daphnia pulicaria populations is maintained by temporal and spatial variation in selection. 2. We monitored temporal and spatial variation in the relative abundance of electrophoretically determined clonal groups in three lake populations of D. pulicaria from April to October 1991. 3. Clonal composition differed among lakes, but within each population we observed strong temporal changes in the relative abundance of different clonal groups. The timing and rate of this clonal succession was associated with the rate of loss of deep water habitat from seasonal anoxia. 4. Within each lake, clonal groups also segregated vertically into shallow and deep water assemblages. The magnitude of this habitat segregation varied temporally and was associated with the abundance of a shallow water competitor species, D. galeata. 5. We suggest that strong associations of clonal succession and clonal habitat segregation with environmental changes (habitat availability and competitor abundance) indicate selection operating on the clonal composition of these populations.
3806552|1. The sun-shade acclimation and plasticity of 16 functional leaf traits of 38 tropical tree species were studied in relation to their light demand, maximum adult stature and ontogenetic changes in crown exposure. 2. Species differed significantly in all leaf traits, which explained a large part of the observed variation (average
10.2307/2389302|Plant responses to the environment may occur at the level of individual metamers, branches or whole plants. Plants of two species of Sesbania were defoliated in patterns designed to reveal the level of integrated response. For field-grown plants, defoliation caused fruit abortion on the defoliated branches, but not elsewhere, showing that the response is at the branch level. When some of the leaves within each branch were removed, the entire branch showed reduction in fruit set. Greenhouse-grown plants had a simpler overall shape, they were unbranched and so had more limited responses. These plants sometimes responded at the level of one leaf and fruit, but such responses may be equivalent to branch level effects in larger, branched plants. Thus, the size and shape of plants may determine response. The plant species also differed in their responses to defoliation. Both species showed identical, branch-level responses in the field, but green-house-grown plants revealed interspecific differences in response to defoliation. Sesbania macrocarpa Muhl. was more affected by defoliation and removal of every other leaf was more damaging than removal of half of each leaf. Sesbania vesicaria (Jacq.) Ell. showed less overall impact of defoliation on reproduction, but was more severely affected by removal of half of each leaf than by removal of every other leaf. These differing reponses may complicate interpretation of the effects of defoliation by natural herbivores.
40863578|1. Understanding ecological phenomena often requires an accurate assessment of the timing of events. To estimate the time since a diet shift in animals without knowledge on the isotope ratios of either the old or the new diet, isotope ratio measurements in two different tissues (e. g. blood plasma and blood cells) at a single point in time can be used. For this 'isotopic-clock' principle, we present here a mathematical model that yields an analytical and easily calculated outcome. 2. Compared with a previously published model, our model assumes the isotopie difference between the old and new diets to be constant if multiple measurements are taken on the same subject at different points in time. Furthermore, to estimate the time since diet switch, no knowledge of the isotopie signature of tissues under the old diet, but only under the new diet is required. 3. The two models are compared using three calibration data sets including a novel one based on a diet shift experiment in a shorebird (red knot Calidris canutus); sensitivity analyses were conducted. The two models behaved differently and each may prove rather unsatisfactory depending on the system under investigation. A single-tissue model, requiring knowledge of both the old and new diets, generally behaved quite reliably. 4. As blood (cells) and plasma are particularly useful tissues for isotopic-clock research, we trawled the literature on turnover rates in whole blood, cells and plasma. Unfortunately, turnover rate predictions using allometric relations are too unreliable to be used directly in isotopicclock calculations. 5. We advocate that before applying the isotopic-clock methodology, the propagation of error in the 'time-since-diet-shift' estimation is carefully assessed for the system under scrutiny using a sensitivity analysis as proposed here.
3806545|1. The objective of this study is to test whether plant traits that are predicted by resource-competition theory to lead to competitive dominance are correlated with competitive response and abundance in a nitrogen-limited grassland. We collected species trait and soil nutrient data on non-leguminous perennial prairie plant species in replicated monoculture plots established for this purpose. 2. The soil nitrate concentration of 13 species grown in long-term (5-year) monocultures (a measure of R*) was correlated with their relative yield (a measure of competitive response) and with their abundance in competition. The trait best correlated with a species' relative yield was root length density (RLD), and the trait best correlated with abundance in competition was biomass : N ratio. 3. The traits that best predicted nitrate R* were the biomass : N ratio and allocation to fine roots, where species with higher biomass : N and allocation to fine roots had lower R*. Easily measured species traits may therefore be useful proxy measures for R*. 4. The dominance of species with lower nitrate R* levels and higher RLD and biomass : N in monoculture is qualitatively consistent with the prediction of resource-competition theory that the species most efficient at acquiring, retaining and using the major limiting resource will be the best competitors. Additional mechanisms are needed to explain how these species coexist.
10.2307/2389456|1 The relationship between short-term reproductive costs (indicated by changes in body mass, body condition and daily energy expenditure) and brood provisioning rates is explored using simple models and field observations and experiments on 10 bird species. 2 Where sample sizes were large, energy expenditure could usually be shown to increase with higher rates of nest visiting. No significant trends were found in relation to the number of young in the brood. 3 Energy expenditure was a linear function of brood provisioning rates in house martins, an accelerating function in blue-throated bee-eaters and perhaps a decelerating function in a third species, the pied kingfisher. 4 The relationship between energy expenditure, mass changes and provisioning rates differed between the three main study species. 5 Estimates of energy expenditure alone will usually be inadequate to indicate prospects for parental survival.
10.2307/2390120|1. After controlling for phylogenetic correlation, clutch size in spiders (suborder Araneomorphae) increases with body mass. 2. Clutch mass scales isometrically with adult female body mass while individual egg mass scales with negative allometry. Clutch size therefore is a result of scaling constraints on egg size and total clutch mass. 3. There is no empirical evidence for a size-number trade-off in allocation of resources within clutches. Theory predicts that spiders are selected to maximize clutch size, with no cost of decreased egg size. Spiders are constrained from achieving an optimal clutch size.
3806561|1. Experimental work in vertebrates shows that different forms of coloration - particularly carotenoid-based vs melanin-based ornaments - are differentially sensitive to stressors such as diet manipulations and parasitic infections. Comparative work also shows that historical patterns of ornament evolution depend on the proximate mechanisms of colour production. 2. Based on the results from vertebrates, it has been argued that melanin-based ornaments may not be good indicators of quality because, unlike carotenoid-based ornaments, melanin pigments can be synthesized from amino acid precursors, and therefore melanin synthesis is unlikely to be costly. 3. However, there is evidence for costly melanin synthesis in insects, which use melanin in some ways that vertebrates do not. Differences across taxa in the costs of melanin synthesis challenge the generality of the hypotheses relevant to these ornaments. 4. In general, all pigment-based ornaments are a function of precursor intake and processing. Differences in costs of melanin synthesis across taxa may reflect differences in one or both of these parameters. 5. I urge communication between researchers working on related questions in disparate taxa (vertebrates and invertebrates). This should facilitate the discovery of the most fundamental aspects of colour ornament evolution.
2390340|1. To test several hypotheses about acclimation and adaptation of photosynthesis and respiration to differing light conditions, we investigated the interspecific relationships between leaf and root metabolism, chemistry and morphology in high and low light conditions for young seedlings of nine boreal tree species that differ in relative growth rate (RGR). 2. Light-saturated net photosynthesis (A<sub>sat</sub>), whole-plant nitrogen (N) uptake rates, leaf and root respiration and morphology, and RGR all varied in parallel among the nine species when grown in both 5% and 25% of full sunlight. RGR, A<sub>sat</sub>, leaf and root respiration (R<sub>d</sub>), and N uptake rate per unit root mass or length differed significantly among species, ranking (from high to low): Populus, Betula and Larix spp. (all deciduous) and then to five evergreen conifers (Pinus, Pieea and Thuja spp.), which were generally comparable in these measures. 3. A<sub>sat</sub>, leaf and root R<sub>d</sub> and N uptake rates were all correlated (r  0.8 to 0.9) with species traits, such as seed mass, leaf life span and shade-tolerance rankings. Mass-based A<sub>sat</sub> was greater in conifer seedlings raised in low than high light. In contrast, area-based A<sub>sat</sub> was higher for plants grown in high than low light, especially in the deciduous species. Once adjusted for differences in plant mass, leaf or root respiration rates did not differ for plants grown in low vs high light. 4. Interspecific variation in RGR was positively correlated (r  0.9) with rates of photosynthesis, respiration and N uptake. Leaf photosynthesis and respiration rates were correlated to specific leaf area and leaf N concentrations (r  0.9). Root respiration rates, N uptake rates, specific root length (root length per root dry mass) and root N concentrations were all highly correlated with each other (r  0.8 to 0.9). These data suggest a close coupling of tissue-level metabolism, chemistry and structure with whole-plant performance and species ecophysiological and life-history traits.
10.2307/2389333|In contrast with the situation in mammals, sex ratio variations of offspring in birds have rarely been documented, and never been shown to be adaptively tuned to systematic differences in the prospects for daughters and sons. The sex ratio (% males) in broods of European kestrels, Falco tInnunculus L., declined with progressive date of birth. This decline enhanced reproductive prospects of the broods since the probability of breeding as yearling declined with birth date for male offspring, but not for females. The sex ratio bias of the brood was produced by non-random sex segregation at meiosis: by altering the within-clutch sequence of sexes (first male then female eggs in early clutches, the reverse in late clutches) laying kestrels assigned the sex with the better long-term reproductive prospects to the initial eggs of their clutch, which suffer least mortality in the nest.
40407782|1. Patterns of species co-existence and species diversity in plant communities remain an important research area despite over a century of intensive scrutiny. To provide mechanistic insight into the rules governing plant species co-existence and diversity, plant community ecologists are increasingly quantifying functional trait values for the species found in a wide range of communities. 2. Despite the promise of a quantitative functional trait approach to plant community ecology, we suggest that, along with examining trait variation across species, an assessment of trait variation within species should also be a key component of a trait-based approach to community ecology. Variability within and between individuals and populations is likely widespread due to plastic responses to highly localized abiotic and biotic interactions. 3. In this study, we quantify leaf trait variation within and across ten co-existing tree species in a dry tropical forest in Costa Rica to ask: (i) whether the majority of trait variation is located between species, within species, within individuals or within the leaves themselves; (ii) whether trait values collected using standardized methods correlate with those collected using unstandardized methods; and (iii) to what extent can we differentiate plant species on the basis of their traits? 4. We find that the majority of variation in traits was often explained by between species differences; however, between leaflet trait variation was very high for compound-leaved species. We also show that many species are difficult to reliably differentiate on the basis of functional traits even when sampling many individuals. 5. We suggest an ideal sample size of at least 10, and ideally 20, individuals be used when calculating mean trait values for individual species for entire communities, though even at large sample sizes, it remains unclear if community level trait values will allow comparisons on a larger geographic scale or if species traits are generally similar across scales. It will thus be critical to account for intraspecific variation by comparing species mean trait values across space in multiple microclimatic environments within local communities and along environmental gradients. Further, quantifying trait variability due to plasticity and inheritance will provide a better understanding of the underlying patterns and drivers of trait variation as well as the application of functional traits in outlining mechanisms of species co-existence.
3599308|1. Reproductive costs can affect survival and future reproduction. In winter and in short photoperiods, some individuals within populations of temperate-zone rodents inhibit reproduction and decrease food intake, while others do not. 2. Two lines derived from a natural population of White-Footed Mice and selected to maintain or inhibit reproduction in short photoperiod were tested for two potentially correlated responses to selection: changes in food intake and body mass. Mice were raised to age 70 days in short or long photoperiod, following which testis size, body mass and food intake were measured over a 2-week period. 3. In both lines and both photoperiods, there was an apparent response to selection in testis size and a correlated response to selection in food intake but not body mass. In both photoperiods, mice in the line selected for winter reproduction ate 50% more than mice in the line selected for winter reproductive inhibition. Mice in an unselected control line were intermediate for testis size and food intake. 4. The increased food intake in a line of mice with a genetic tendency for winter reproduction suggests a potential cost of winter reproduction and a potential microevolutionary trade-off related to this cost of reproduction.
2390535|1. Alba, a white wing colour morph of butterflies of the genus Colias, makes fitness-related changes at several levels of phenotypic organization: physiology, development and behaviour. Two sympatric species of Colias are studied, which differ greatly in their frequency of alba vs its sister yellow/orange morph. How resource and time constraints on Colias interact with the morphs' different patterns of pupal resource allocation to alter the balance of the morphs' fitness components in the two species is discussed. 2. These species, C. alexandra and C. scudderi, differ in melanin-based solar energy absorption, in larval dietary richness and in local adult nectar resources. The two female morphs determine alternate thermal balance, internal resource allocation and behavioural effects in each species, thus changing the morphs' time budgets and fitness-component impacts between the species. In particular, female egg output differences between the morphs appears to reverse between species: alba fecundity is greater than yellow fecundity in C. scudderi, but alba is less than yellow in C. alexandra. 3. These differences are consistent with the large observed differences in alba frequency between the species. Some important questions about the selective regime maintaining a polymorphism here, rather than an alternation of monomorphisms, remain.
40407776|1. Locomotor performance can influence individual fitness through several ecological contexts, such as prey capture and predator escape. One means of determining which contexts act as significant selective forces on running speed is to quantify individual speed in each context. The underlying hypothesis is that animals will exhibit their highest speeds in contexts most crucial to fitness. 2. We measured running speeds in three ecological contexts (prey capture, fleeing predators and territory defence) in lab-reared offspring of the funnel-web spider Agelenopsis aperta collected from two arid grassland and two riparian populations. Arid populations experience little predation pressure, are prey limited, and are highly territorial; riparian populations experience high predation, have high prey availability, and are less territorial in nature. 3. The offspring of arid individuals exhibited their highest burst speeds in territory defence, and ran more slowly in response to predator threats. The offspring of riparian populations, however, ran fastest when responding to predatory threats and displayed lower velocities in prey capture and territory defence. Thus, our findings support the hypothesis that A. aperta are selected to exhibit their highest speeds in contexts most important to their fitness. 4. Contextual use of running speed can differ among conspecific populations experiencing differing selective forces on locomotion.
10.2307/2389965|1. Suaeda calceoliformis, a succulent annual halophyte which occurs at Big Salt Marsh (Stafford Co., Kansas, USA), has erect and prostrate growth forms. 2. The two growth forms have similar leaf osmotic potentials over a wide range of salinities (0-5% NaCl), while leaf water () and pressure (<sub>p</sub>) potentials are higher for prostrate individuals. 3. To determine the basis for differences in  and <sub>p</sub> between the two growth forms, pressure-volume (PV) curves were constructed for individuals of each growth form at 3 and 5% NaCl. Analysis of the PV curves indicated that the prostrate growth form has significantly higher values for tissue bulk modulus of elasticity () at both salinities and exhibits greater increases in  with increasing salinity. Lower tissue elasticity, along with greater hydraulic conductance, enables prostrate individuals to maintain higher <sub>p</sub> and tissue water content. 4. These results are consistent with observed differences in survival and distribution of the two growth forms at Big Salt Marsh, the prostrate form occurring in more-saline areas of the marsh, and suggest that the ability to decrease tissue elasticity in response to increasing salinity may be of adaptive importance.
20142872|1. Most animal-pollinated flowering plants offer nectar as a reward for their pollinators. Some 20 000 species, however, offer only pollen and rely on pollen-foraging bees for pollination. This creates a dilemma since pollen grains contain the male gametes and should be protected from becoming bee food. Darwin was the first to hypothesize that a 'division-of-labour' among stamens could solve this dilemma, with some stamens providing pollen as food, others providing pollen for fertilization. This hypothesis can only be tested if pollen grains from the two sets of stamens can be distinguished and their fates determined to the point of attachment on the stigma. 2. We tested Darwin's hypothesis in Melastoma malabathricum (Melastomataceae), a pollen-only flower with conspicuously differentiated stamens, an inner set that is short and yellow and an outer set that is much longer and purple with small yellow spurs. Pollen release is through terminal anther pores. Taking advantage of different exine patterns on the pollen produced by the two sets of stamens, we carried out a series of experimental manipulations to compare pollinator foraging behaviour and pollen pathways from anthers to stigmas. 3. The results demonstrate that in spite of all 10 stamens being buzzed simultaneously by the carpenter bees that pollinate M. malabathricum, pollen from the purple 'fertilization' stamens is dramatically more likely to land on stigmas than pollen from the yellow 'feeding' stamens. Removal experiments showed that the yellow 'feeding' stamens also attracted pollinators from a distance. Flowers that had their anther pores plugged received fewer buzzing bouts per visit, indicating that bees assessed the amount of pollen received per bout. Surprisingly, there was no significant difference in pollen loads on stigmas of flowers that had their anthers plugged and stigmas of controls, demonstrating the efficiency of vector-assisted cross-pollination and the lack of vector-assisted self-pollination. 4. The unexpectedly precise placement of pollen grains even with buzz pollination, with a large proportion of the grains deposited out of the bees' grooming reach, helps explain the evolutionary persistence of pollen as a reward in spite of the bees' ability to assess the amount of pollen received during foraging bouts. Together, these results strongly support Darwin's division-of-labour hypothesis.
10.2307/2389681|Seeds of Rumex obtusifolius L. were buried at different depths in bare soil, under a grass turf and under shrubs. The temperature was measured daily at seed level. During 3 years, monthly samples were exhumed and the germination was tested at different temperature regimes. The dormancy levels follow a seasonal pattern. Additional germination experiments were set up in order to explain the underlying principles of a season-sensing mechanism of buried seeds. In this respect, the importance of a sudden shift to higher temperatures for induction of germination is demonstrated.
3599303|1. Generalist herbivores such as slugs have the potential not only to reduce plant density and biomass, but also to alter species diversity within vegetation. Their impact on species diversity may be either negative, if they concentrate feeding on less abundant plant species, or positive, if they feed on the most abundant species. 2. This study investigated the influence of slugs on plant species diversity in experimental swards produced by sowing a Lolium perenne/Trifolium repens seed mixture in field plots with a large seed bank of mainly arable species. Half of the plots were grazed by Arion lusitanicus Mabille. Plant cover, above-ground biomass and number of plant species were measured over a 3-year period. 3. Vegetation cover increased in the control plots from 50% in the first year to 90% in the third year. Cover was significantly lower in the slug plots in the first year (>22%), while there were only small differences between treatments in the third year. Slugs reduced total above-ground biomass by >25% in both the first and third years. 4. Slugs had a negative impact on plant species diversity in the first year, particularly by reducing forb species. In contrast, plant species diversity after 3 years was higher in the slug plots than in the controls, because of the higher number of forb species. Under slug grazing, the biomass and cover of annual and palatable species were reduced, but not the numbers of these species. 5. Our results suggest that slugs can have a significant effect on plant species diversity in plant communities, but that the direction of the effect changes during the course of succession. In the earliest stages, when most species are present as seedlings or juveniles, slug grazing leads to reduced species diversity because favoured species are eliminated. In closed vegetation, in which competitive interactions are important, slugs may reduce the dominance of the more competitive species and thus provide gaps in which plants can establish from seed. As a consequence, slugs tend to cause an increase in plant species diversity, and may also reduce the rate of successional change by promoting the persistence of annual species.
10.2307/2390026|1. The effect of maternal light environment on the light sensitivity of seeds of a rain forest pioneer tree Piper auritum was studied. In relation to the red:far-red (R:FR) value at maturation, spikes were classified as exposed (R:FR = 0.83-0.86), intermediate (0.57), shaded (0.40, 0.41) and deep shaded (0.26). 2. Differences in the light quality that the spikes experience during maturation cause different germination responses of seeds to R:FR ratio. 3. One of the most distinct results was that high R:FR during maturation induced partial germination inhibition at different R:FR ratios in the germination environment. Very low R:FR at maturation had comparable effects. 4. In the field, seed germination was elicited by imbibition prior to light exposure. In the laboratory this was not required. 5. Additional differences between seed responses to light were found between germination in the field and laboratory in all the spikes.
2390441|1. An experimental approach, manually pollinating all the flowers of individual plants, was used to measure the effect of pollen limitation on female fecundity of the hummingbird-pollinated perennial shrub Echeveria gibbiflora in the ecological preserve of Pedregal de San Angel around Mexico City, Mexico. Eleven randomly selected plants were manually over-pollinated in all their flowers and another 11 were left to be freely visited by natural pollinators. 2. Manually pollinated plants produced significantly more fruit and seeds than control plants (1.38 and 1.74 times, respectively). There was no change in average mass of fruits. 3. Considering individual fruit production per plant sampled three times in one season, decreases in fruit mass and average seeds per fruit were observed within the same reproductive season for both treatments. For the manually pollinated plants, from the start to the end of the reproductive season, seed set decreased 55.9%; while in control plants seed set decreased 33.4% in the same period. For both treatments, average fruit mass decreased 26%. 4. Vegetative growth was not significantly different between control and experimental plants but hand-pollinated plants showed a smaller reproduction probability for the following year. 5. It is concluded that female fecundity in E. gibbiflora is limited by pollen early in the reproductive season and by resources in the middle and the end of the season.
10.2307/2389836|1. An automatic respirometer is described which has been developed to measure the rate of oxygen consumption by small arthropods in closed chambers. 2. The instrument removes 0.5 \mul subsamples of air from the head space of specially designed sample chambers using a precision sampling valve and a motorized syringe. The prototype can monitor up to 10 sample chambers automatically over periods of several hours, using an electronic sequence switch to control the operation. 3. Oxygen concentration is measured using a coulometric fuel cell which produces an output signal directly proportional to the mass of oxygen passing over it and requires no calibration. The results are recorded on an integrator of the type commonly used with gas chromatographs. 4. The sensitivity of the respirometer is better than 1 \mul h
10.2307/2389921|1. In many animals, egg size and offspring performance (e.g. development time, body size and survivorship) are observed to decrease with increasing maternal age. This observed maternal age effect is generally attributed to a depletion of the female's resources. 2. We first quantify the influence of maternal age on offspring performance of the seed beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus. We then manipulate a female's nutritional status by providing either unlimited access to yeast and sugar-water, or by completely preventing access to yeast and sugar-water, and examine whether adult feeding reduces the magnitude of maternal age effects on egg size and offspring performance. 3. Offspring egg-to-adult survivorship decreased, while offspring development time increased, with increasing maternal age. There was at best a very weak effect of maternal age on offspring body size and no detectable effect on the proportion of eggs which hatched. 4. Adult feeding on yeast and sugar-water resulted in reduced development time and increased survivorship of offspring produced by old mothers, but had no detectable effect on offspring body size.
41319611|1. When at rest, many insects and some other arthropods exchange gasses discontinuously. Whether or not discontinuous gas exchange (DGE) is adaptive has long been controversial. Several competing evolutionary hypotheses exist, none of which enjoy unequivocal support. This Gordian knot seems now to have been cut. 2. Discontinuous gas exchange appears to arise as a consequence of energy-saving, metabolic downregulation. Moreover, many ecological circumstances, such as quiescence during daily inactivity and during seasonal resource shortages, are likely to have favoured such downregulation. 3. Once the brain relinquishes control of gas exchange to the segmental ganglia, an interaction between peripheral CO sensing and central O sensing sets in, leading to the discontinuous pattern. 4. The evolution of DGE may thus be readily explained, with the primary evolutionary hypothesis incorporating a non-adaptive mechanistic component and an adaptive energy savings one. 5. Paradoxically, though, DGE results in a comparatively high water loss for a given metabolic rate in insects compared with other organisms. Thus, the pattern itself may not have evolved to limit water loss under xeric conditions. Rather, variation in the components of the DGE cycle, which has formed the foundation for much debate concerning the ecological and evolutionary advantages of this gas exchange pattern, may have evolved to do so, accounting for associations between these components and environmental conditions. 6. The relatively high respiratory water loss of insects may spell ecological trouble given increasing metabolic rates of ectotherms associated with rising global temperatures and global changetype drought in many regions.
4139391|1. It is well understood that herbivory can cause plants to elevate production of defensive chemicals in their tissues. One of the key questions in understanding patterns of potential coevolutionary links between plant and herbivore is 'what switches these induced plant defences on?' Until cues are identified, understanding the evolutionary and ecological significance of defences in the context of the plant is difficult. 2. We induced host plant resistance in a marine macroalga (Ascophyllum nodosum) in the absence of herbivory by application of ox-amylase, known to exist in mollusc saliva. There was a demonstrable change in the behaviour of a subsequent herbivore (Littorina obtusata) consistent with herbivore induction, i.e. reduced consumption, more but smaller meals and greater movement. We also produced a concomitant increase in the level of phlorotannins, compounds associated with defence against herbivory. 3. Such changes in herbivore behaviour and plant chemistry provide evidence that brown algae and higher plants utilize similar salivate-based signals in the induction of defence against herbivory. Thus the possibility that such responses could be either highly conserved or a convergent strategy is discussed.
10.2307/2389734|A cohort of 101 seedlings of the prairie compass plant (Silphium laciniatum L.) was monitored from 1987 to 1989 near Ames, Iowa, USA. This cohort consisted of all the individuals that germinated within the study area in 1987 following mass flowering in 1986. Overall survivorship of the seedlings was high; 50% of the seedlings survived for 2 or more years despite summer drought in 1988 and 1989. Survivorship was correlated with plant size; in any year, plants that died during the year had lower total leaf area than those that survived. Also, total leaf area in a particular year was a good predictor of a plant's survivorship over the remainder of the study period. Averaged over five sampling periods in 1987 and 1988, light (400-900 nm) penetrating the canopy to individual seedlings ranged from 21 to 72% of the light incident at the top of the canopy, with a mean over all seedlings of 40%. The light environment of individuals changed little from year to year. Leaf area in 1988 and 1989 but not in 1987 was positively correlated with light environment in that year or the preceding year. Despite the positive correlation between light and leaf area and between leaf area and survivorship, light was significantly correlated with survivorship in only one of five light sampling periods. Difference in light environment of individuals is thus an important determinant of differences in seedling growth although other factors, or random events, may have a stronger influence on survivorship.
10.2307/2390245|1. In the protogynous wind-pollinated herb Plantago lanceolata, the scape elongates during flowering, so that receptive stigmas are produced at lower heights than mature anthers. To investigate the potential impact of scape height on reproductive success through male and female function, we examined the effect of pollen release and capture height on the amount and distance of pollen dispersed to microscope slides in a wind tunnel experiment. 2. The amount of pollen dispersed to slides increased significantly with release height. In contrast, the amount of pollen captured decreased with increasing receptor height, suggesting that the heights of anthers and stigmas may be subject to disruptive selection. The amount and distance of pollen dispersed also depended upon the difference between source and capture heights. 3. A greenhouse experiment revealed significant variation among P. lanceolata genotypes in height of stigma initiation, height of anther initiation, and temporal separation of these two events. However, significant genetic variation could not be detected for the difference in height between anther and stigma initiation within plants. The genotype mean correlation between male and female flowering heights was strongly positive. These results suggest that evolutionary response to disruptive selection on height of pollen capture and release may be physiologically or genetically constrained, and that within-population variation in scape height may lead to trade-offs in reproductive success through male and female function. 4. Height of male and female flowering increased significantly when plants were exposed to lateral shade simulating neighbouring vegetation. Thus, plastic response to environmental variation may not only influence individual fitness through female and male reproductive success but also affect patterns of gene dispersal and population structure in P. lanceolata.
10.2307/2389656|The effects of microclimate on intraspecific variation in mating success in insects has previously received little attention. Using this perspective we studied a population of the multiple mating cerambycid beetle Stenurella melanura L. in the field and in the laboratory. Number and size of mature eggs correlated positively with female body size. No difference between males or females of different size was found in terms of mating frequency or partner size. Body size of mating males, but not of non-mating males or females, correlated positively with ambient temperature. Temperature excess in males, measured as the difference between ambient and abdominal temperature, was significantly related to relative air humidity. As a result, microclimatic variables affected mating success of differently sized males, and thus constituted an important component of sexual selection in this population.
10.2307/2389660|The effect of air pollution on the germination, survival and growth of Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull seedlings was studied in open top chambers. Pots with germinated seedlings were exposed to NH<sub>3</sub> and/or SO<sub>2</sub> for a period of 8 months from November 1987 to July 1988. Survival and growth increments of seedlings that germinated prior to the fumigation as well as the total lengths of seedlings that germinated during the course of the fumigation were measured. Ambient air alone or supplemented with NH<sub>3</sub> reduced seedling survival by 20%, while ambient air supplemented with 92 g m<sup>-3</sup> SO<sub>2</sub>, or SO<sub>2</sub> combined with 53 g m<sup>-3</sup> NH<sub>3</sub> drastically reduced seedling survival by, respectively, 50% and 83% below that in charcoalfiltered air. Seedlings exposed to both 53 and 105 g m<sup>-3</sup> NH<sub>3</sub> and to a lesser extent to ambient air grew faster and were more evenly distributed over the length classes than in filtered air. The number of seedlings that germinated during the course of the fumigation period and survived to harvest was a factor 3 higher in filtered air than in ambient air. Addition of NH<sub>3</sub> and SO<sub>2</sub> reduced survival even more. The results are discussed in view of the current air pollution concentrations in The Netherlands.
10.2307/2389805|Hypotheses that the patterns of energy storage, ovarian development and fecundity change along a climatic gradient were tested. Data from adult female common frogs Rana temporaria L. were collected in three study areas from mixed boreal lowland forest to alpine heath. There were no consistent altitudinal trends in body length or weight. Age, however, increased with altitude. During the feeding season, the rate of primary deposition of energy in the fat bodies was higher in mid-altitude than in lowland females. Relative ovary weight increased faster in alpine heath and mid-altitude frogs than in lowland frogs. There were no indications of an ovarian resting period. Rather, with increased altitude the oocytes for next year's reproduction tended to have entered the vitellogenic growth phase even before oviposition; possibly this was an adaptation to a short feeding season. Body length and fecundity were exponentially related in the lowland and the mid-altitude study areas. The relationship between body weight and fecundity appeared to be linear in at least the lowland population. Fecundity per gram body mass increased with age. Although differences between study areas were found, there was no consistent altitudinal trend in either absolute or size-relative fecundity. Fecundity varied between years as well as between populations. A negative correlation between relative liver weight and fecundity indicated a high cost to reproduction. Nevertheless, skipping years of reproduction, a phenomenon suggested to occur primarily in resource-poor environments, was rare.
2390492|1. Four species of Drosophila are endemic to the Sonoran Desert of North America where daily and seasonal high temperatures exceed those experienced by other species in this genus. The close association between these species and their cactus hosts means that they reside only in the desert and raises the question as to whether they are better able to survive heat stress than are non-desert species of Drosophila. The tolerance of adult flies of the four desert species D. mojavensis, D. nigrospiracula, D. pachea and D. mettleri and the cosmopolitan D. simulans to acute heat stress was tested. 2. There was considerable variability among the desert endemic species with respect to survival following heat exposure. Two species, D. mojavensis and D. pachea, were more resistant at 44 <sup></sup>C and 46 <sup></sup>C than the others, with D. mettleri exhibiting similar heat stress resistance to D. simulans. 3. While there was no consistent influence of gender on heat resistance, younger flies (1-day-old) showed significantly greater survival than did older flies (7- or 14-days old).
3599356|1. Measuring the metabolic rate of animals in the field (FMR) is central to the work of ecologists in many disciplines. In this article we discuss the pros and cons of the two most commonly used methods for measuring FMR. 2. Both methods are constantly under development, but at the present time can only accurately be used to estimate the mean rate of energy expenditure of groups of animals. The doubly labelled water method (DLW) uses stable isotopes of hydrogen and oxygen to trace the flow of water and carbon dioxide through the body over time. From these data, it is possible to derive a single estimate of the rate of oxygen consumption (V
40205545|1. In recent years there has been much interest in physiological trade-offs involving host immune function and parasite defence, with the suggestion that they could play a pivotal role in mediating well-documented life-history trade-offs, such as the cost of reproduction. 2. Among studies of birds, the hypothesized link between reproductive effort and parasite defence has received particular attention, yet support for a trade-off between these two traits remains equivocal. 3. We used meta-regression analysis and an information-theoretic approach to investigate, among avian studies, how strong the effect of experimentally altered reproductive effort is on (i) infection with blood parasites from four common genera (Haemoproteus, Leucocytozoon, Trypanosoma and Plasmodium) and (ii) the ability of hosts to mount an immune response to novel antigenic challenge. 4. Across studies, there was a relatively weak but well-supported positive effect of reproductive effort on blood parasite infection levels. Importantly, this effect was significantly influenced by the parasitological measure employed; where parasitaemia (proportion of parasitized cells within infected hosts) was used as the response variable, effect size was almost three times as large as where infection prevalence (presence vs. absence of infection among hosts) was measured. 5. A moderate negative effect of reproductive effort on immune responsiveness was also found across studies. This effect was greater the longer the time that had elapsed between manipulation of reproductive effort and measurement of immune responsiveness, and was also related to the stage at which reproductive effort was manipulated, with manipulation during brood rearing producing stronger effects than manipulation during incubation. 6. Overall, these results provide evidence that reproductive effort can have pronounced effects on both parasitism and immune responses, but that effect size is influenced by methodology - what is measured and when. Exactly how such effects arise and whether they are sufficient to provide a mechanistic explanation for the cost of reproduction remains to be fully explored.
10.2307/2389513|1. How do insect and plant species numbers change with respect to one another at a regional scale? Evidence for three higher insect taxa suggest that the patterns may vary substantially from one group to another. 2. Estimates of the total numbers of insect species in different countries suggest that overall there may be a tendency for ratios of insect-to-plant species to be low when plant richness per unit area is high. Regional insect-to-plant ratios are very variable. 3. For particular higher insect taxa global ratios of insect-to-plant species fall within the range of regional ratios, suggesting that regional ratios of all insects to plants may provide a means of estimating the global number of insect species.
3599135|1. Animals may compensate for a poor start in life by accelerated ('catch up') growth if conditions subsequently improve. Although this incurs costs, the occurrence of catch up growth across taxa suggests there are also considerable benefits to it. 2. A state-dependent, dynamic optimization model was constructed to explore how and under what circumstances individuals are predicted to vary their compensatory resource allocation to soma vs sexual ornaments. 3. In the model, individuals of differing initial state either experienced a constant environment, or one in which initially poor resource availability subsequently improved. Individuals could allocate resources, at each time step, to body growth, somatic maintenance or a sexual ornament. 4. The results showed that resource allocation strategies are sensitive to the fitness return functions used. Consequently, there is a wide range of potential optimal adult phenotypes. 5. Four general patterns emerged. (i) Making specific predictions about compensatory resource allocation is difficult owing to the general lack of information about the shape of the fitness return functions. (ii) Complete compensation in expected fitness (such that a poor start does not reduce future fitness) is likely to occur rarely. (iii) If a sexual ornament is required for mating success, compensating individuals are likely to be smaller in body size than those experiencing a constant environment. (iv) Poor initial resource availability in life tends to delay sexual maturation.
2656519|1. Considerable within-population variability of locomotor performance traits has been shown to exist in several species of squamate reptiles. In general, high values for speed and endurance are thought to have positive effects on the ability to capture prey, escape from predators, compete with conspecifics and acquire mates. On the other hand, variation in performance might trade-off with other components of fitness such that the net effect on Darwinian fitness is unpredictable. 2. Gravid females of the common lizard (Lacerta vivipara) were captured and several phenotypic traits of their offspring measured immediately following birth. These were endurance, body length and body mass. Offspring were marked for individual identification, released into the field, and correlations between the phenotypic traits and their subsequent growth, activity and survival rate over the next months were then tested for. Parasitism by hematozoa was monitored and predation risk by tail losses estimated. 3. It was found that individuals with a low endurance at birth tended to have reduced activity and growth rate, and higher parasite load; on the positive side, however, they experienced lower predation risk as assessed by tail losses. Conversely, individuals with a high endurance at birth had high activity and growth rates, low parasite load, but higher incidence of broken tails. Finally, endurance at birth was not correlated with survivorship up to the age of sexual maturity. Thus, individuals with varying locomotor endurance seem to exhibit behaviours that may result in the same level of Darwinian fitness. 4. The possibility that our results reveal a trade-off between the risk of becoming infected with parasites when lizards are less active (which is related to having lower endurance) vs the risk of being predated when the lizards are more active (higher endurance) is discussed.
10.2307/2389367|The cumulative amount of energy that a female invests (maternal energy investment, MI) in her young largely determines their survival and her fitness. To date much of the theory addressing the interspecific allometry of MI against body weight in mammals has been on the per unit time basis. However, the allometry of MI across a reproductive event or lifetime provides a more useful theoretical insight into constraints on MI across species of different body sizes. Two theoretical models are presented which describe the interspecific allometry of energy a female mammal allocates to MI per reproductive event and during her lifetime, in relation to her body size. If it is assumed that a female's weight changes little during her reproductive lifespan then these models predict that the energy devoted to MI should scale at approximately 1 with body weight. In contrast to the predictions of previous authors, these models predict that females of larger species invest a similar proportion of their energy to MI as do those of smaller species.
2390382|1. Many taxa of freshwater invertebrates show active upstream movements, particularly the snails. Hypotheses explaining this behaviour invoke the search for food or space, compensation for drift, avoidance of predation and hydrodynamic effects. The pervasiveness of upstream movements among remote lineages of snails (two subclasses, three orders, 10 families), however, suggests that snails may move upstream for mechanical rather than adaptive reasons. 2. It is proposed that upstream movements by snails are a function of torque on the snail's foot generated by hydrodynamic drag on the shell. When subject to high broadside drag-forces on their shells, snails are able to reduce torque and stabilize orientation only by directing their anterior aspect upstream. 3. Movements of the freshwater pleurocerid snail Elimia were studied by following marked free-ranging individuals in six streams in Alabama, USA (four species, eight populations). 4. Populations showed either no net movement (two streams) or significant upstream movements ranging to a mean of 40 m over a 3-month period (four streams). Movement patterns were stream specific rather than species or population specific. Within populations showing significant upstream movements, snails with shell lengths  10 mm showed little net movement. Larger snails showed movements from 0 to > 200 m upstream. 5. A torque-constrained random walk model was used to perform a post hoc test of the hypothesis that upstream movements were a function of torque on the snail's foot generated by hydrodynamic drag on the shell. The model predicted upstream and size-dependent movement patterns that approximated those observed for snails in the field.
2656370|1. Two trends are consistent across the response of plant species to growth at elevated CO<sub>2</sub>: decreased leaf nitrogen content and increased photosynthetic gas exchange. While both of these are very important to the understanding of plant and ecosystem responses to climate change, little research has evaluated the consequences of these patterns on reproductive allocation and seed production. 2. For this reason, Bromus madritensis ssp. rubens was grown in ambient (360 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>), x 1.5 ambient (550 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) and elevated (700 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) CO<sub>2</sub> environments to compare the relationship between allocation to growth and reproduction as a function of CO<sub>2</sub> growth environment. 3. There were no differences in final total biomass or reproductive mass between CO<sub>2</sub> growth environments. There were significant decreases in reproductive mass per unit total mass and per unit vegetative mass, but not per unit leaf surface area (LSA), as growth CO<sub>2</sub> environment increased from 360 to 700 mol mol<sup>-1</sup> CO<sub>2</sub>. Despite these decreases, the number of seeds produced per unit LSA in elevated CO<sub>2</sub> significantly increased as compared to ambient CO<sub>2</sub>. These results may be owing to a shift in allocation to greater investment in vegetative growth as compared to reproduction under elevated levels of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub>. 4. Prior to reproduction, there were no significant differences between CO<sub>2</sub> treatments in carbon uptake by leaves. In contrast, plants grown in elevated CO<sub>2</sub> did not show a decline in photosynthetic rate during seed filling, suggesting that nitrogen may not have been re-translocated from leaves to seeds as apparently occurred in ambient plants. 5. Patterns measured here may partially explain the parental effect of CO<sub>2</sub> environment exhibited in Bromus. Seeds produced from elevated parental CO<sub>2</sub> growth conditions lead to seedlings that produce smaller leaves that are delayed in development and smaller roots as compared to structures produced by seeds from ambient-grown parents. 6. Because the success of Bromus is partially owing to its ability to produce large numbers of viable seeds, these changes in reproductive allocation and subsequent seedling performance with respect to growth in an elevated CO<sub>2</sub> environment may have impacts on community composition in the Mojave Desert.
10.2307/2390286|1. In birds, females store sperm in specialized sperm storage tubules (SSTs) located at the junction of the uterus and vagina. To determine the proximate mechanism by which the last male to copulate sires a disproportionate share of the subsequent offspring, the patterns of sperm storage over the breeding season and across the uterovaginal junction (UVJ) in the Yellow-headed Blackbird Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus, were examined. 2. SSTs at the vaginal end of the UVJ matured and began storing sperm earlier than SSTs in the uterine region. Vaginal-end SSTs also stored a greater number of sperm (per SST and overall) and were more likely to store sperm in multiple layers than uterine-end SSTs. 3. Depletion of sperm from SSTs during the laying period was rapid, but uterine-end SSTs appeared to lose more sperm overall than did SSTs at the vaginal end of the UVJ. 4. The spatial and temporal pattern of sperm storage in Blackbirds suggests a new proximate mechanism for last-male sperm precedence in birds. Unlike previous hypotheses, the SST maturation hypothesis requires neither sperm stratification nor sperm displacement to account for last male precedence. Instead, it is suggested that precedence arises through the storage of last-male sperm in the uterine-end SSTs. As uterine-end SSTs lie closest to the infundibulum (site of fertilization), sperm stored in this region obtain an advantage over sperm from vaginal-end SSTs in the race to fertilize an egg. 5. This new mechanism suggests that females may be able to control the paternity of their offspring through the sequential maturation of their SSTs. By following the simple rule-copulate last with the male you want as a sire-each female could ensure that sperm from this male would be placed in the best position to successfully fertilize her eggs.
41239303|1. Optimality theory predicts that both timing of arrival and arrival state on the breeding area will determine reproductive timing and investment in migratory organisms. We tested this idea using a condition-dependent individual optimization model (Ardea 68, 1980, 225 and The American Naturalist 143, 1994, 698) in common eider ducks through descriptive data, path analyses and experimental manipulation. 2. Our results support the causal pathways drawn from the optimization model indicating that individuals adjust their reproductive decisions as a function of their arrival date and body condition at arrival. 3. Independent of body condition, early-arriving females had a longer pre-laying period, but still initiated their nests earlier, and produced larger clutches than late-arriving birds. Independent of arrival date, females in good condition laid earlier than those in poor condition. Manipulation of pre-laying female body condition confirmed that the relationship between condition and laying date was causal. 4. Female common eiders appear to optimize reproductive decisions in response to both their external (i.e. environmental conditions affecting the egg-value) and internal (i.e. body condition) states. These adjustments seem to minimize the fitness costs of reproduction, in which higher clutch size is not associated with an apparent lower survival or future breeding probability. 5. Our study emphasizes the importance of (i) simultaneously considering the timing of migration, the state of individuals and the seasonal change in egg-value to understand clearly birds' breeding decisions and (ii) appreciating the potential proximate and ultimate factors explaining why some individuals delay breeding and/or produce small clutches.
3599037|1. Response to selection in different environments has been investigated in the model system Arabidopsis thaliana in order to determine the changes in heritabilities, reaction norms, relationships with reproductive fitness, and character correlations induced by the selection regimes and by alterations of environmental conditions (flood vs normal water levels). 2. Our artificial population responded to selection mostly by line sorting, where some of the initial genotypes increased significantly in frequency over three generations, while others went extinct. This is probably how selection works in natural populations of this species. 3. We observed changes in the heritabilities of various traits in response to selection and experimental treatments, with morphological characters exhibiting higher heritabilities than life-history traits. 4. The selection process did not alter the overall shape of the reaction norms of various characters, but did lower the phenotypic means of several traits in the same direction of plasticity imposed by flooding. Most characters were under directional selection throughout the experiment, though in the opposite direction from the actual shift in their means at the end of the experiment. 5. The multivariate architecture of this plant was affected more by selection than by environmental changes.
41319580|1. The immunocompetence handicap hypothesis (ICHH) proposes that androgen-dependent sexual traits are honest indicators of male quality because androgens are thought to suppress the immune system's ability to combat parasitic infection. Yet, recent work suggests that the relationship between androgens and parasitism is more complex, as androgens may have different effects on the various types of parasites. 2. We explored this issue in free-living mountain spiny lizards, Sceloporus jarrovi, by measuring the prevalence of four endoparasite species and one ectoparasite species in castrated, sham-operated and testosterone (T)-implanted males. 3. We found that effects of T manipulation accounted for the greatest amount of variability in the abundance of Trombiculid mites and two gastrointestinal nematodes (Physaloptera retusa and Spauligodon giganticus). Plasma T levels were positively associated with mite loads, negatively associated with P. retusa loads and not associated with S. giganticus load. We also found that T treatment had little effect on the abundances of two species of blood-borne endoparasites (Plasmodium chiricahuae and an unidentified haemogregarine). Instead, the prevalence of these two parasites was mostly influenced by other physiological or seasonal factors, such as corticosterone levels, body condition, fat stores or time between capture events. 4. Our data illustrate that T can have functionally distinct and opposing effects on different parasite species. This finding supports the hypothesis that T does not depress the immune system in a way that causes an across-the-board increase in parasitism. 5. We speculate that T modifies select behavioural and physiological factors that govern parasite accumulation. Evolutionarily, our data also imply that the net 'cost of T' with respect to elevated ectoparasitism may be at least partially offset by concomitant reductions in helminth load.
3599322|1. The bird-flower element of the Canary Islands is a group of endemic plants having traits characteristic of bird pollination, and some are visited by opportunistically nectar-feeding passerine birds. 2. We investigated evolutionary changes in nectar sugar composition in seven Canarian lineages of ornithophilous plant species and their entomophilous relatives. 3. We hypothesized that nectar sugar composition evolved in response to the main pollinator group of a plant. Specialist nectarivores can assimilate sucrose, whereas some opportunistic nectar-feeders digest only the simple hexoses. 4. Sugar composition of nectars was analysed using high pH anion exchange chromatography. 5. Evolution of nectar type was correlated with mode of pollination. Generally, sucrose nectars were associated with insect visitation and hexose nectars with bird visitation. Nectar sugar composition was an evolutionary labile trait within a lineage. Hence, nectar characteristics may have evolved readily, perhaps in response to opportunistically nectarivorous birds living in Canary Islands.
40603047|1. Trophic polymorphism is common in fish and is manifested by individual differences in habitat use, food preference, and morphology. The significance of morphological variations among ecotypes is thought to reflect individual specializations in habitat use, however, their functional relationship has rarely been examined. 2. The objectives of this study were to determine if littoral and pelagic ecotypes of brook trout differ in their swimming performances, and if so to investigate the functional significance of morphological variations on their swimming performances. 3. One-year-old laboratory-raised littoral and pelagic individuals (and hybrids), as well as wild individuals were forced to swim in respirometers at 10, 15, and 20 C, and 16 morphological characters were measured on each fish. 4. The critical swimming test (U cnt ) revealed that pelagic trout reared in the wild are better swimmers than littoral ones. In addition, both laboratory-raised littoral and pelagic individuals had higher U cnt performances than their hybrids. High t/crit . was associated with short pectoral, anal, caudal and dorsal fins (wild fish) as well as with high body width (both wild and laboratory-raised) and body height (laboratory-raised). Wild littoral individuals had a steeper power curve (i.e. higher energy expenditure due to swimming) than pelagic ones; however, this was compensated by a lower standard metabolic rate for the former, resulting in comparable minimum transport cost for ecotypes. The swimming performances of laboratory-raised ecotypes were more homogenous than those of wild fish, suggesting an important environmental effect on the performances themselves. Water temperature seemly had little influence on the difference between swimming performances of ecotypes. 5. The results of the present study only partially support our hypothesis that critical swimming speed of pelagic individuals will be higher than that of littoral individuals due to their shorter pectoral and dorsal fins and streamlined body shape; high U crit was associated with short fins but not with streamlined body shape. Because brook trout is not considered a fast swimmer, it is possible that a higher muscular mass provides higher benefits related to thrust for swimming in the pelagic zone than costs due to drag, usually associated with a high aspect ratio. 6. Our results also support the cost reduction strategy hypothesis (that higher energy expenditure due to swimming is compensated by a lower standard metabolic rate). This implies that the lower performance, due to the higher energy expenditure, of a given eco type can be compensated by a low standard metabolic rate, a phenomenon that could apply to all species exhibiting morphological plasticity. 7. While previous studies developed conceptual models and predictions relating morphological differences to swimming performance in fishes, this study is one of the first to test such a model. Collectively, our results show that morphological differentiation, associated with trophic polymorphism, have important functional consequences on the swimming energetics of ecotypes.
2656544|1. Van Noordwijk & de Jong proposed a model to predict the sign of an intraspecific correlation between two life-history traits, given that a trade-off between the two traits exists. In this paper, the model is adapted to egg size/number trade-offs. 2. The predictions of the model are tested within various clades of waterfowl. Although the relationship between egg mass and clutch size in this group has been examined previously, prior analyses have either failed to take phylogenetic structure into account or relied upon phylogenies that lack resolution. Phylogenetic structure is adjusted for using recently constructed phylogenies and the method of phylogenetically independent contrasts. 3. Van Noordwijk and de Jong's model was successful in explaining between-clade variation in the relationship between egg mass and clutch size. Even if a trade-off between egg size and number exists, a negative relationship will only be observed if the variation in the pattern of allocation (i.e. few large eggs vs many small eggs) is high relative to the variation in the amount of resources invested in the clutch. Thus, this model may be useful for understanding interspecific relationships as well as intraspecific patterns.
10.2307/2389673|This study was undertaken to determine the relationship between lifetime mating potential and reproductive success per mating for males of the true armyworm, Pseudaletia unipuncta (Haw.). At 25<sup></sup>C, 16L:8D, males given access to a different virgin female every night of their lives mated from one to 11 times. Most males mated for the first time 3 days after emergence. Some males mated repeatedly, but never generated offspring, while others were unable to detach themselves from females after the second or subsequent mating. Age at first mating was not correlated with reproductive success (number of offspring generated) on the first mating, with number of matings per life, or with lifetime reproductive success. Male reproductive success per mating remained relatively constant from the first to the sixth mating, after which it declined. Fecundity of once-mated females was not affected by the number of times a male had previously mated. The number of eggs generated per male lifetime (i.e. summed fecundities of once-mated females) increased as a linear function of total male matings, while male lifetime reproductive success (i.e. summed offspring production of once-mated females) increased in a curvilinear fashion. Length of the collum (chitinous tube) of the spermatophore did not change with successive matings and, although width decreased, only 7% of the variance in width could be explained by number of previous matings. Virgin males lived significantly longer than mated males.
20142846| 1. Understanding avian diet preferences reveals a great deal about the birds' digestive physiology and relationships with food plants, and can make a valuable contribution towards directing physiological and ecological research. Importantly, diet preferences are likely to reflect physiological constraints and therefore mechanisms of digestion. 2. We assessed the interaction between diet concentration and sugar-type preferences of three Australian nectarivorous bird species. Each individual bird was offered paired energetically-equivalent diets: a sucrose solution and hexose (1: 1 mixture of glucose: fructose) solution over a range of diet concentrations from 0.075 to 2 mol L Sucrose Equivalents (SE). 3. Similar patterns were found for all three species. Intake on the most dilute diets was insufficient to maintain energy balance, suggesting that these birds faced physiological constraints on such diets. 4. All three species demonstrated a preference for hexose over sucrose when offered dilute diets, and sucrose (or none) preference on more concentrated diets. The three species differed in terms of when this switch from hexose to sucrose preference took place. Rainbow lorikeets (Psittacidae, c. 135 g body mass) demonstrated hexose preference for diets up to and including 0.75 mol L SE; sucrose was preferred on 2 mol L SE diets. Red wattlebirds (Meliphagidae, c. 105 g) showed hexose preference on only the most dilute (0.075 mol L SE) diet, and sucrose preference on 1 and 2 mol L SE diets. New Holland honeyeaters (Meliphagidae, c. 22 g) preferred hexose on 0.075 and 0.1 mol L SE diets, and their selectivity for sucrose was not statistically significant. We suggest that the switch from hexose preference may be directly related to the digestive capacity of different taxa. 5. Accumulating evidence suggests similar patterns of sugar preferences in various nectarivorous bird lineages. A switch from hexose preference on dilute diets to sucrose preference on concentrated diets has now been shown for hummingbirds, flowerpiercers, sunbirds, honeyeaters and lorikeets. Hexose preference on dilute diets suggests that reduced digesta retention time and low sugar concentration influences sucrose hydrolysis efficiency, whilst absorption rate of monosaccharides is less limiting. Sucrose preference on concentrated diets is more puzzling, but may reflect preference for diets with lower osmolality. Varying preferences suggest that the co-evolutionary relationships between birds and nectar sugar composition are likely to be similarly dynamic and situation dependent. 
2656334|1. We hypothesized that in Mediterranean plant communities seedling survival of different species during the drought period would be related to their ability to use below-ground resources, particularly water and nitrogen. 2. For 5 years we studied under field conditions the summer seedling survival of 11 dominant species of a Spanish Mediterranean shrubland. We related seedling survival of the different species to their seed size and root allocation estimated as the slope of the function root biomass vs log shoot biomass. We used <sup>13</sup>C for the estimation of water-use efficiency and <sup>15</sup>N and nitrogen concentration to determine the sources of nitrogen utilized. We correlated these variables with root allocation. 3. Seedling survival of the different species was positively correlated with root allocation and seed size. Root allocation was also positively correlated with seed size. <sup>15</sup>N and nitrogen concentration were also positively correlated with root allocation, but <sup>13</sup>C was not. 4. Under the relatively moist conditions occurring during summer 1996, higher root allocation was associated with the use of nitrogen from more nitrogen saturated microsites.
2656520|1. Bromus madritensis ssp. rubens (L.) Husnot (Red Brome) is an invasive annual grass that is associated with increases in fire frequency and decreases in perennial plant diversity. The success of Red Brome in the Mojave Desert has been attributed to its competitive ability, but competition between Red Brome and native shrubs for below-ground resources has not been investigated previously. In this study we present a modification of previous dual-isotope methods that assesses competitive interactions and responses among plants under field conditions. We then use this method to (i) determine if direct competition for phosphorus (P) occurs between Red Brome and native shrubs, and (ii) evaluate the effectiveness of phosphate acquisition by Red Brome from soil interspaces shared with different Mojave Desert shrub species. 2. Clipping Red Brome to remove 85% of its foliage on the day prior to labelling soil interspaces with P isotopes did not have the desired effect of inhibiting phosphorus uptake by Red Brome. Therefore we were unable to verify that direct competition for P occurred between Red Brome and native shrubs. 3. Nonetheless, by sampling plant tissue from unclipped strips of Red Brome that were centred between two shrubs, we were able to evaluate the effectiveness of phosphate acquisition by Red Brome from interspaces shared with different shrubs. There were no differences in the amount of phosphorus acquired by Red Brome from soil interspaces shared with the evergreen shrub Larrea tridentata (D.C.) Cov. versus soil interspaces shared with the drought deciduous shrub Lycium pallidum Miers. However, Red Brome acquired more than six times as much P from soil interspaces shared with Larrea than from soil interspaces shared with the drought deciduous shrub Ambrosia dumosa Payne. Less P uptake by Red Brome from soil interspaces shared with Ambrosia suggests greater effectiveness of Ambrosia compared with Larrea to deplete soil P.
2390356|1. The geographical aspects in photosynthetic light response and stomatal conductance in the shoots of Pinus sylvestris were studied together with structural properties of shoots and needles. Seven stands within the natural distribution area of P. sylvestris in Europe were chosen. CO<sub>2</sub> exchange, irradiance and stomatal conductance (g<sub>s</sub>) for water vapour were measured and the maximum photosynthetic rate (P<sub>m</sub>) was determined from the CO<sub>2</sub> exchange measurements. 2. There was a clear pattern in the average values of P<sub>m</sub> along the latitudinal gradient. Highest values of P<sub>m</sub> were found in the middle parts of the distribution area and they decreased towards both ends of the transect. The highest value was almost twice as high as the lowest one. 3. The between-site variation explained 70% of the total variation in the maximum photosynthetic rate. P<sub>m</sub> was not clearly correlated with any single climatic variable or nitrogen concentration in the needles. 4. P<sub>m</sub> was closely coupled with stomatal conductance (r<sup>2</sup>=0.74). The differences in P<sub>m</sub> and g<sub>s</sub> between the sites is likely to reflect adaptation and acclimation to different climates.
40205565|1. Current theory suggests that by responding to offspring food solicitation, or begging, parents improve the efficiency by which they convert parental investment into offspring fitness. However, the proximate mechanisms of this conversion are not entirely clear. One potential function of responding to begging is to maintain feeding regularity. Feeding at regular time intervals may improve offspring fitness through increasing digestive efficiency, securing food receptivity, and reducing excessive begging displays. 2. To examine the adaptive value of parental responsiveness to begging, we simulated either responsive or non-responsive mutant parents while hand-raising nestling house sparrows (Passer domesticus). In a previous study we tested parental responsiveness per se, without changing feeding regularity. Here, we tested the impact of the very likely possibility that non-responsive parents also cause greater variability in the intervals between visits and feedings than do responsive parents, by experimentally scheduling either extremely variable or regular time intervals between visits and/or feedings in a two-way design. 3. Our results show that nestling growth, digestive efficiency and begging intensity were not affected by the level of feeding or visit regularity. However, within the regular feeding treatments (but not within the variable feeding treatments), digestive efficiency was positively correlated with nestling begging levels, and negatively correlated with how persistent the experimenter had to be to induce chicks to accept food. 4. These results suggest that nestlings are quite resilient to variable feeding schedules and that parents have therefore little to gain from regular feeding as long as they provide an adequate daily amount of food. Nestlings that are regularly fed even when they are satiated, however, may exhibit some reduction in digestive efficiency. 5. These data imply that digestive efficiency decreases only when the digestive system is very close to being full. Thus, when mediated by a reduction in begging displays near satiation, increased digestive efficiency imparts a previously unappreciated physiological benefit to signalling offspring and their responsive parents.
3806567|1. Many arthropods depress the freezing point of their body fluids (supercool) to avoid freezing at subzero temperatures. This is normally a seasonal response and is achieved by the production of specific biomolecules including cryoprotectants, a cessation in feeding, and the removal or masking of ice-nucleating material from their bodies. 2. In springtails, the mid-gut is shed during moulting which results in the complete evacuation of the gut and a concomitant reduction in the supercooling point (SCP). We determined whether this non-adaptive explanation could account for the variability observed in the SCP of summer-acclimatized springtails. 3. Moult preparation resulted in a highly significant reduction in the SCP. Feeding after moulting restored the SCP to previous high levels. 4. Significant differences in SCP between springtails sampled from vegetation and the soil surface, on different days, and at different sites on the same day were also documented, demonstrating that not all variation in SCP is environmentally induced. 5. Investigations of the responses of the SCP to environmental variation in springtails and other arthropods should take into account the effects of moulting before solely adaptive conclusions are drawn.
2656537|1. The functional significance of inflorescence morphology of Daucus carota L. (Apiaceae) was tested using an inflorescence manipulation experiment. Specifically, we sought to explain the role (if any) in pollination of the dark central floret of this species. 2. In central England, D. carota was found to be pollinated by a taxonomically wide range of insects that varied in their inflorescence visitation rates and in their pollen loads. There was also variation in abundance of some taxa between the 2 years of this study. 3. By removing the dark central floret and adding false florets we sought to affect pollinator visitation rates and seed set in a manner consistent with the `fly catcher effect' hypothesis of Eisikowitch (1980). Taxa responded to these manipulations but not in ways that shed light on the adaptive role of the dark central floret. Seed set was likewise unaffected in any consistent way. 4. The role of the dark central floret remains an enigma. We speculate, following Darwin (1888), that the dark central floret may now be functionless and possibly represents a trait that has persisted long after its original function has been lost.
2390345|1. The phenotypic constancy of four laboratory Daphnia magna clones in fitness-related life-history traits, such as age and clutch size at maturity, was studied among consecutive experimental runs in differing food environments. 2. A significant part of the observed clonal and genetic-by-environmental variation in age and clutch size at maturity was explained by experimentally uncontrollable variations in neonatal body length. 3. Despite food availability, neonatal length determined the number of instars invested to maturity and thus maturation age. Clonal differences in neonatal length and thus in maturation instar occurrence across environments explained most of the clonal variability observed in maturation age. 4. Although interclonal differences in clutch size existed, most of the phenotypic plasticity observed for clutch size was mediated by clonal differences in neonatal length. 5. Clonal differences in neonatal length and in the occurrence of maturation instars across environments dramatically affected the body length of instar IM-2 where provisioning of eggs take place. Since clutch size is determined from clutch mass and clutch mass was strongly related to the body length of instar IM-2, clonal differences across environments in body length of instar IM-2 mirrored clonal differences across environments in clutch size. 6. The results reported in the present study show that maternally mediated traits such as neonatal length affect how genotypes respond to different environmental selection regimes (genetic-by-environmental interaction). Future research needs to focus on the effects of neonatal length on the heritability or genetic variation of the reaction norms, since prediction of the response to selection is a key research objective in quantitative genetic studies.
826629| 1. While measurements of leaf carbon isotope ratios (
10.2307/2389405|1 Population stability and persistence in discrete time units is related to the survival function k(N), where N is the number of individuals before competition and k is the number of individuals after competition. The shape of the function k(N) depends on resource partitioning among individuals within a population. This still holds under conditions of scramble competition, i.e. when resources are not monopolized by some individuals. 2 Individual differences among Tribolium larvae, due to differences in their age (eggs laid over 7 days as compared with those laid on the same day for the control), were used to test the theoretical model. Such differences led to the predicted results, i.e. better survival of the larvae at high densities but a worse survival at intermediate densities.
3599170|1. In several migrant bird species it has now been established that refuelling is typified not only by fat deposition, but also by changes in lean body protein. The body composition of a long-distance migratory shorebird, the Bar-tailed Godwit Limosa lapponica taymyrensis, was examined on a stopover site in spring to evaluate changes in lean dry mass of organ and muscle tissue over the period of refuelling. 2. It was hypothesized that tissues which support long-distance flight would hypertrophy and reach peak size towards the end of refuelling, i.e. immediately before the 4500-km bout of flight to Arctic breeding grounds. In contrast, it was hypothesized that tissues involved in digestion would initially hypertrophy, but then atrophy during the final stages of stopover, so that wing loading during long-distance flight would be minimized. 3. Flight muscles of godwits steadily increased in lean dry mass during refuelling and reached peak size in birds preparing to depart the stopover site -- possibly in an effort to maximize power output. 4. In contrast, the lean dry mass of stomach, liver, kidneys and intestines of godwits increased only during the early stages of refuelling, indicating a quick initial growth of organs involved in the support of refuelling activities. Additionally, in birds readying for departure, the intestines no longer differed in size from those of recent arrivals, suggesting a reduction in size of digestive tissues prior to flight. 5. Such changes in body composition appear consistent with those found in another shorebird and in a grebe preparing for a bout of migratory flight, suggesting a common pattern in allocation of lean body mass in at least some migratory species during fuelling.
3806619|1. An inverse association between ability to regenerate and structural complexity (i.e. internal differentiation and integration), illustrated by comparisons among animal phyla, suggests a dichotomy between suites of morphological traits that promote recovery from damage vs traits that promote resistance to damage. 2. The phylum Porifera is particularly suited for exploration of relationships among regeneration, resistance to damage and complexity. Sponges are noted for their structural simplicity and great facility at regeneration, relative to members of all other animal phyla; but sponge species vary widely in ability to recover from damage, and in overall morphology and skeletal properties. 3. Morphological strategies related to resistance to damage and recovery from damage were explored using data on the amount and type of damage incurred by 576 sponge individuals representing 67 species in a major hurricane. Five weeks of monitoring each individual for continued deterioration or recovery demonstrated an inverse relationship between the extent of injuries dealt by the storm and recovery success. 4. A trade-off between morphological strategies that promote resistance to damage vs those that promote efficient recovery could result in the disproportionate and permanent loss of resistant species, as these poor recoverers are increasingly overwhelmed by multiple simultaneous challenges.
40863635|1. Reproductive success often increases with age; however the mechanisms underlying this commonly observed pattern are poorly understood. One mechanism that may be important is a set of physiological responses (the stress response) that allows organisms to evade and cope with Stressors, but often inhibits reproduction. 2. If older parents respond less strongly to Stressors than younger parents, this age-related difference in the stress response may contribute to the higher reproductive success that often characterizes older parents. 3. Typically the stress response is measured as an increase in plasma glucocorticoid (CORT) concentration, and we have previously reported that stress-induced CORT levels decline with age in the common tern (Sterna hirundo). Another hormone, prolactin (PRL), has been reported to decrease in response to Stressors in breeding birds and is often positively associated with parental behaviour. We predicted that like the CORT stress response, the PRL stress response would also be suppressed with age. 4. To test this prediction, we captured known-age, incubating common terns ranging in age from 3 to 29 years and measured stress-induced changes in PRL and CORT levels within the same individuals. 5. We found that PRL levels decreased less rapidly in response to capture and restraint stress in older than in younger parents. In these same birds, we also found that stress-induced maximum CORT levels decreased with age, which is consistent with what we have previously reported for this species. Measures of PRL and CORT were not, however, correlated within individuals. 6. Taken together, these results support the hypothesis that modulations of both the PRL and CORT stress response are flexible hormonal mechanisms that help to account for the increase in reproductive success that occurs with age.
826707|1. Allocation patterns are an important aspect of plant life strategies. In particular, many hypotheses on plant antiherbivore defence - such as the growth differentiation balance hypothesis and the resource availability hypothesis - concern constraints on resource allocation to defence, and assume defence to be limited by nutrient supply under most, yet not all, conditions. 2. Field-grown Macaranga triloba saplings were fertilized, and temporal and spatial patterns in the response of growth, photosynthesis and investment in biotic defence against herbivores and pathogens were measured simultaneously. Macaranga triloba produces food bodies to nourish mutualistic ants which protect their hosts against herbivores and pathogens. Food body production rate is quantitatively related to ant colony structure, and the latter is correlated with defensive efficacy. Food body production can therefore serve as a measure of the plant's investment in defence. 3. Food body production responded quickly, and on all food body-producing stipules, to increased nutrient supply. In contrast, photosynthetic capacity responded much more slowly, to a smaller degree, and only in leaves that emerged after the onset of fertilization. No significant effects on plant growth were seen. 4. Our results show that food body production by M. triloba is regulated directly by nutrient availability. There was no evidence that increased nutrient supply was preferably allocated to growth and/or photosynthesis, which forms a central assumption of most hypotheses on plant antiherbivore defence. 5. Phenotypic plasticity and the ability to make use of short pulses in nutrient supply are of particular importance in pioneer plants inhabiting rapidly changing habitats. New theoretical frameworks are required for the inclusion of phenotypically plastic defence traits in the theory of plant antiherbivore defence.
40407700|1. Elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) concentrations have often been reported to increase carbon allocation below-ground, particularly to fine root production. However, for trees these responses have primarily been studied in young expanding Systems while the evidence for late successional Systems that have reached steady state above-and below-ground is very limited. 2. At the Swiss Canopy Crane (SCC) experimental site, we assessed whether elevated CO affects fine root biomass, fine root expansion and fine root C and N concentration under mature deciduous trees (c. 100 years) exposed to 7 years of free air CO enrichment (FACE) in a typical near-natural central European forest. 3. After 5 and 6 years of CO enrichment, both, the soil core and ingrowth core method yielded similar reductions in biomass of c.-30% under elevated CO for live fine roots < 1 mm diameter. In year 7 of the experiment, when fine root biomass was re-assessed at peak season, there was no significant CO -effect detectable. C and N concentrations in newly produced fine roots remained unaffected by elevated CO. Soil moisture under CO -exposed trees was significantly increased during rainless periods. 4. The isotopie label introduced into the System by canopy enrichment with C-depleted CO allowed us to trace the newly assimilated carbon. After 6 years of growth at 550 ppm CO , recent fine roots (< 1 mm, ingrowth cores) of CO -enriched trees consisted of 51% new carbon, suggesting a rather slow root turnover and/or slow mixing of old and new carbon in these trees. 5. Reduced tree water consumption under elevated CO and resultant soil water savings might cause these trees to reduce their fine root investments in a future CO -enriched atmosphere. 6. Our findings and those from other multi-year experiments indicate that fine root mass in late successional Systems may also be unaffected or even suppressed instead of being stimulated by elevated CO.
3599340|1. Morphological characteristics (snout-vent length, badge area, mass, limb and head measures) and whole-animal performance capacities (sprint speed, acceleration capacity, stamina and bite force) were measured in male lizards, Gallotia galloti. These males were also tested in paired staged contests to assess relative fighting capacity and to link these results to morphology and performance. 2. A multivariate analysis of the four performance features revealed a clear difference between the physiological capacities of winners vs losers, with bite force being the most important predictor of the outcome of fights. 3. The finding that bite performance is linked to dominance fits in with the high sexual dimorphism in head size in this species, as head size is a predictor of bite force performance. 4. Winners of contests also tended to have larger total areas of blue patches on their sides, suggesting that these badges convey information on the social status of the males. However, since no correlation was found between bite force and badge size, the patches seem to contain information on a component of fighting capacity other than bite force.
3599297|1. We investigated the morphological responses of larval Rana lessonae to the presence of two predators with substantially different prey-detection and capture techniques; larval dragonflies (Aeshna cyanea) and the Pumpkinseed Sunfish (Lepomis gibossus). 2. We also examined the functional implications of any predator-induced morphological variation on their swimming ability by assessing performance during the initial stages of a startle response. 3. We found the morphological responses of larval R. lessonae were dependent on the specific predator present. Tadpoles raised in the presence of dragonfly larvae preying upon conspecific tadpoles developed total tail heights 5.4% deeper and tail muscles 4.7% shallower than tadpoles raised in a non-predator environment, while tadpoles raised with sunfish possessed tails 2% shallower and tail muscles 2.5% higher than non-predator-exposed tadpoles. 4. Predator-induced morphological variation also significantly influenced swimming performance. Tadpoles raised with sunfish possessed swimming speeds 9.5 and 14.6% higher than non- and dragonfly predator groups, respectively. 5. Thus, the expression of these alternative predator-morphs leads to a functional trade-off in performance between the different environments.
41239447|1. Further advancement in the use of stable isotope analysis in animal ecology and physiology requires a better understanding of how organisms incorporate the macromolecular elements they consume into the tissues they biosynthesize. 2. Mixing models used to infer diets from isotopie data assume that assimilated macromolecules are dissembled into elements and then reassembled in animal tissues. 3. To test this assumption, we fed Nile tilapia diets with contrasting levels of protein and in which the carbon isotopie composition of protein differed from that of other macronutrients (carbohydrates and lipids). We then analysed the C values of individual tilapia amino acids using compound-specific stable isotope analysis (CSIA). 4. The incorporation of dietary protein carbon was dependent on dietary protein content and on each amino acid's biosynthesis pathway. The C values of glycolytic amino acids, such as glycine, serine and alanine, had roughly constant values that reflected a large contribution of dietary carbohydrates and a small contribution of dietary protein. The C values of aspartate and glutamate that are biosynthesized from Krebs cycle intermediaries paralleled bulk diet. 5. The C values of indispensable amino acids resembled that of carbohydrates at low protein intakes but tended asymptotically to that of the C values of their corresponding dietary amino acid as protein intake increased. This pattern is consistent with assimilation of indispensable amino acids of microbial origin by tilapias fed low protein food. 6. Our results suggest that the assumptions of mixing models are sound in situations where omnivores consume protein-deficient diets, as the elemental constituents used to biosynthesize amino acids in tissues may be derived from various ingested macromolecules (e.g. protein, carbohydrates, or lipids) and their elemental components. In contrast, for omnivores that consume sufficient amounts of protein, macromolecular (e.g. protein) routing likely occurs and mixing model assumptions are violated. 7. Our study shows that CSIA is a novel method to quantify the contribution of symbiotic microbes to the amino acid homeostasis of animals.
3599139|1. Genotype by environment interactions for nectar production in Echium vulgare were studied. Nectar production was measured under high and low-water treatments for high and low nectar-producing genetic lines in a growth chamber. In the field the response of nectar production and pollinator behaviour to water availability for potted plants chosen from field populations was studied. 2. Plants selected from high-nectar lines produced significantly more nectar than those selected from low-nectar lines. Nectar production thus had a heritable component. 3. Under high water conditions plants produced more nectar than under low water conditions. The increase in nectar production under high water availability was strongest for the low-nectar plants, demonstrating a genotype by environment interaction. Only under dry conditions, which usually prevail during the flowering period of E. vulgare, high and low-nectar plants differ in nectar production. 4. Plants selected from high-nectar lines had a significantly higher root mass and root: shoot ratio. This suggests that they are less affected by low water availability and thus able to maintain high nectar production under dry conditions. 5. In the field, high-nectar plants produced significantly more nectar but did not receive more pollinator visits. Watered plants produced significantly more nectar and did receive an enhanced pollinator service. When watered, nectar production and pollinator service was similar for high and low-nectar plants.
2390365|1. The interface between thermal biology and foraging mode has attracted little scientific attention, but may be crucially important to the biology of ectothermic predators. Slip & Shine (1988c) suggested that the ability of large heavy-bodied snakes to ambush nocturnally active mammals relied on the snakes' control of cooling rates through their thermal inertia (via body size and postural adjustments) and microhabitat selection. 2. We tested assumptions underlying this hypothesis, using Diamond Pythons (Morelia s. spilota) from southeastern New South Wales. Our laboratory studies confirmed that larger body sizes and coiled postures significantly retarded cooling rates, and that body temperature affected the snakes' ability to detect potential prey items. 3. The magnitude of these effects on cooling rates was great enough to extend the time period substantially over which an adult Diamond Python, lying in ambush in a suitable microhabitat, would be able to detect and capture nocturnally active prey. For example, the times taken for pythons to reach thermal equilibration under our experimental conditions (cooling from 33 to 12 <sup></sup>C) were < 1 h for hatchling pythons regard-less of posture, 1 h for outstretched juveniles, 2 h for coiled juveniles and outstretched adults, and almost 8 h for coiled adults. 4. The high rates of cooling of juvenile pythons, even when they are tightly coiled, may force them to rely upon diurnally active prey rather than crepuscular or nocturnal species.
10.2307/2389922|1. Mounds produced by animals are important sources of disturbance in the sand shinnery oak community of western Texas. As a first step in the examination of the importance of animal-generated disturbances on the structure of the plant community we ask three questions in this study. (a) Are there differences in the abiotic or biotic characteristics of patch disturbances produced by three different species of ants? (b) Do seedling growth and survival vary when grown on soil from different species of ant mounds? (c) What is the influence of two components of the biotic environment, mycorrhizal fungi and non-mycorrhizal microbes, on seedling survival, growth rates, tissue nutrient content and patterns of biomass allocation? 2. Both the biotic and abiotic characteristics of ant mound soil differed from that of undisturbed soil and from each other. Mound soil typically had higher nutrient content than undisturbed soil and harvester ant mounds had higher nutrient content than the other species. Thus, ant mounds can generate environmental heterogeneity in this habitat. 3. Seedlings grown on unsterilized soil from harvester ant mounds were larger than seedlings grown on soil from the other two mounds, yet had lower tissue nutrient content and higher mortality rates. Seedlings grown in harvester ant soil were larger when the soil was sterilized suggesting that mycorrhizal fungi were a net energy drain in the higher nutrient content soil. Alternatively, seedlings grown without mycorrhizas in the other two mound soils were not different in size and had lower tissue nutrient concentrations than seedlings grown with mycorrhizas. 4. Thus, it appears that the fungi were beneficial in the lower nutrient content soil. In the more nutrient-rich harvester ant soil seedlings grown on sterilized soil with added non-mycorrhizal microbes were larger than seedlings grown in the absence of microbes.
2390406|1. Organisms respond to the abundance and spatial distribution of resources at both individual and population scales but there have been relatively few attempts to link insights from studies of these different phenomena, especially for wide-ranging vertebrates. 2. Deer Mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were live-trapped and tracked across a gradient of shrub cover in shortgrass prairie to determine patterns of abundance, microhabitat use and movements. 3. In areas with few shrubs, mice preferred shrub microhabitats and their movement trails were relatively straight. Both trail tortuosity and population density increased with increasing shrub cover, so that mice tended to accumulate in areas where their trails were most convoluted. However, movements were also linear where shrubs were dense, presumably because mice could achieve the benefits of association with shrubs without travelling directly beneath them. Areas with dense shrubs also had high but variable population densities, suggesting that other factors such as intraspecific interactions may have affected movements on a larger, home-range scale. 4. Apparent thresholds in the selective vs random use of shrubs, movement patterns and abundance occurred over a narrow range of shrub cover where shrubs were most aggregated, underscoring the importance of both shrub density and dispersion. Nonlinear relationships in the response to resources at both behavioural and population scales thus may complicate our ability to predict abundance from individual movements across a broad range of resource distributions.
41239457|1. Conditions during early stages of life may have an important effect on phenotype, by inducing programmed responses that may remain throughout the lifetime of an animal. One very important factor that can promote long-term changes in phenotype is restriction of food intake (dietary restriction, DR). 2. Recently, it has been shown that DR may induce an increase in antioxidant and repair mechanisms as a result of hormetic responses. Interestingly, the induction of antioxidant and repair mechanisms may be triggered by transitory increases in reactive oxygen species. Dietary-derived antioxidants, such as vitamin E, may be important to determine the compensatory effect of DR. 3. To investigate the effect of DR on attenuation of oxidative damage, we manipulated dietary intake (by restricting food ingestion) and antioxidant availability (by vitamin E supplementation) during the first days of life of yellow-legged gull (Lams michahellis) chicks. We then measured oxidative status and body mass during the early development of chicks. 4. We found that an early short event of food shortage strongly affected the oxidative status of the chicks and their growth patterns. We observed less oxidative damage to proteins and DNA in dietary restricted chicks, after the period of food restriction, than in non-restricted chicks. Unexpectedly, vitamin E supplementation did not suppress the hormetic effect of DR, but instead increased it. 5. These novel results support the idea that short events of DR during early development induce a reduction in oxidative damage in wild animals. The results suggest that DR promotes the induction of an early hormetic response in some antioxidant defence processes and/or repair mechanisms. These findings have important implications for our understanding of how early conditions may shape the phenotype of an organism, and also for the study of evolutionary trade-offs during early growth.
10.2307/2390206|1. We measured the force required to pull chameleons from perches of varying diameters and the sprint speed of chameleons on flat surfaces and on perches of varying diameters. The two species examined differ in their degree of terrestriality: Chamaeleo jacksonii is almost completely arboreal, whereas C. dilepis is semi-arboreal and is often observed on the ground. 2. We tested the following hypotheses: (a) each species has relatively greater sprinting and clinging abilities on surfaces corresponding to those it uses most frequently; or (b) a trade-off exists between maximizing clinging and sprinting abilities. 3. The results support the second hypothesis: C. dilepis runs faster than C. jacksonii on almost all diameters, but has poorer clinging ability on all diameters. 4. Differences in muscle architecture and composition may underlie this trade-off. Comparison with trade-offs in arboreal locomotor performance exhibited by less-specialized lizards indicates that the extreme adaptations of chameleons have allowed them to enter and diversify in a novel adaptive zone, but also may constrain the direction of subsequent adaptive change.
2656493|1. We analysed how male and female success affects the floral longevity in Erythronium japonicum. We found that flower senescence is advanced by deposition of pollen grains on the stigma but that there exists a minimum longevity (13.64 days in 1996 and 12.20 days in 1997) during which the flower never abscises, even if it is pollinated with a sufficient number of pollen grains. 2. We suggest that this floral longevity does not exist to benefit the female function, because the time needed for corolla abscission reacting to ovule fertilization was not so long and the female function was completed within about 3 days. 3. Flowers of E. japonicum do not react to pollen removal, as shown by the fact that anther removal experiments did not affect floral longevity. However, it would be advantageous to have some duration of longevity which benefits male success such that most of pollen grains can be expected to be exported. The duration needed to disperse most pollen grains of a flower was about 12 days, very close to the minimum floral longevity. 4. We conclude that a minimum longevity may exist for male functions and that floral longevity may be influenced differently by the male and the female functions of flowers.
4139394| 1. Very few studies to date have evaluated experimentally the effects of blood parasites on physiological variables and breeding performance in wild birds. In this study, blood parasitaemias of female Blue Tits Cyanistes caeruleus L. were experimentally manipulated to assess subsequent changes in immunoglobulin level and parental effort during reproduction. 2. At the beginning of the nestling period, female Blue Tits were medicated with a high dose (HD) or a low dose (LD) of the antimalarial Primaquine, or with saline solution (control). Treatment with Primaquine causes a reduction in blood parasitaemias in the study population. 3. Immunoglobulin levels decreased in females from the HD group during the experimental period (10 days), while the levels increased in control females. 4. Only females in the HD group increased significantly their provisioning rates from the early to the late nestling stage. Total (male and female) provisioning rates increased significantly for the HD and LD groups, but not for the control group. 5. Nestlings reared by control females suffered a higher infestation by the ectoparasitic blowfly Protocalliphora azurea (Falln). 6. Medication and the associated decrease in immunoglobulin levels allow females to allocate more resources towards parental effort. In addition, there is a potential link of medication with the health of the nestlings. 7. This study gives indirect support to the trade-off between reproductive effort and immune defence in avian hosts, and sheds light on the evolutionary significance of the link between parasitism, immunity, life-history decisions and fitness. 
10.2307/2389888|1. Females of most insect species mate frequently. Many hypotheses have been proposed to account for the evolution of multiple mating in female insects. In this paper, I test the hypothesis that females of the bruchid beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus, mate frequently to replenish depleting sperm supplies. I also test the hypothesis that females obtain a nutritional contribution from males during copulation, and that this has a positive effect on the female's life history. 2. For C. maculatus, there is no difference in lifetime fecundity between females that mate one time and females that are confined with males throughout life. However, when females are mated at 48-h intervals, but are not confined with males, they lay more eggs than females which have mated only once. 3. When females were maintained under starvation conditions, multiple mating increased female longevity. However, when females had unlimited access to yeast and sugar-water, this influence disappeared. These results support the hypothesis that ejaculate-derived nutrients contribute to female somatic maintenance, but are only detectable when females are nutrient stressed.
826691|1. Physiological and biochemical responses to desiccation were studied in two species of hygrophilic Collembola, Folsomia fimetaria L. and Protaphorura armata Tullberg. The temporal changes in water content, body fluid osmotic pressure, and accumulation of sugars and polyols during desiccation stress, equivalent to severe soil drought are reported. 2. Both species initially lost about 50% of their initial content of osmotically active water. Within 7 days F. fimetaria had re-established their preliminary water content by absorbing water vapour from the atmosphere. Protaphorura armata also significantly increased their water content over the following 10 days. 3. Both species were able to resume their hyperosmotic status relative to the desiccating environment they were placed in. The accumulation of myo-inositol and two other unidentified compounds (F. fimetaria) and trehalose (P. armata) made an important contribution to this phenomenon. 4. These results suggest that water vapour absorption by accumulation of sugars and polyols may be widespread in soil-dwelling Collembola.
4139342| 1. We examined the effect of thermal acclimation on fighting success and underlying performance traits in the crayfish Cherax destructor. We tested the hypothesis that animals will be more successful when fighting at their acclimation temperature than at a colder or warmer temperature, and that changes in metabolic capacity underlie differences in behavioural performance. 2. Thermal acclimation (to 20C and to 30C) had a significant effect on behavioural contests, and the likelihood of winning was significantly greater when individuals fought at their acclimation temperature against an individual from an alternate acclimation temperature. 3. The ratio of ADP stimulated respiration to proton leak (respiratory control ratio) of isolated mitochondria increased significantly in chelae muscle of the cold-acclimated group, and differences in respiratory control ratio between winners and losers were significantly correlated with the outcome of agonistic encounters. However, acclimation did not affect tail muscle mitochondria or the activity of pyruvate kinase in either chelae or tail muscle. 4. The force produced by closing chelae was thermally insensitive within acclimation groups, and there were no significant differences between acclimation treatments. None the less, differences in chelae width between contestants were significantly correlated with the outcome of agonistic encounters, but this perceived resource holding power did not reflect the actual power of force production. 5. Thermal acclimation in C. destructor has beneficial consequences for dominance and competitive ability, and the success of cold acclimated animals at the cold temperatures can be at least partly explained by concomitant up-regulation of oxidative ATP production capacity. 
2390432|1. Picophytoplankton are planktonic photosynthetic O<sub>2</sub>-evolvers that can pass through 2 m-diameter pores; they include prokaryotic (eubacterial) and eukaryotic members and occur in freshwater and marine habitats. There are no photosynthetic reproductive and dispersal stages of benthic macrophytes of picoplanktonic size. The picophytoplankton condition appears to be derived and polyphyletic in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. 2. Picophytoplankton are among the smallest free-living cells, despite having to contain the photosynthetic apparatus, which occupies about half of the cell volume, as well as core cellular machinery. The size of the smallest prokaryotic (0.6  m diameter) and eukaryotic (0.95  m diameter) picophytoplankton are close to the minimum possible size estimated from the occurrence of non-scalable essential components such as the genome and plasmalemma and other membranes. 3. Picophytoplankton cells have advantages relative to larger phytoplankton cells in terms of resource acquisition and the subsequent use of the resources in catalysing cell growth and reproduction. The smaller package effect in light harvesting means smaller resource (energy, C, N, Fe, Mn, Cu) costs of photon harvesting and transformation into chemical energy in small than in large cells. The smaller diffusion boundary layer around small cells, coupled with smaller nutrient fluxes per unit plasmalemma area needed to attain a given fraction of the maximum specific growth rate in smaller cells, increases the availability of low concentrations of nutrients to small relative to larger cells. If the supply of CO<sub>2</sub> to the core photosynthetic carboxylase ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase is purely by diffusion then smaller cells could satisfy their catalytic requirements with less of this enzyme whose synthesis has high energy, C and N costs. Overall, resources can be acquired, and used in growth, more effectively in smaller than in larger cells. 4. Some factors work against the conclusion in (3.) but, in most habitats, do not negate these conclusions. Examples related to non-scalable essential cell components are the use of energy, C, N and P in the genome and of energy, C, N, P and Fc in the plasma membrane. Transport-related factors include the increased potential cell volume-specific leakage of accumulated resources, and the greater cell volume-specific energy costs of motility at a given speed, in smaller than in larger cells. The smaller package effect in smaller cells involves a greater potential for photodamage by both photosynthetically active radiation and by UV-B. 5. Picophytoplankton occurrence is also a function of factors which lead to cell loss. Factors such as sinking out of the euphotic zone and parasitism by eukaryotes such as chytrids are less significant for picophytoplankton than for larger cells, whereas viral parasitism and grazing by appropriately sized grazers are likely to be at least as great for picophytoplankton as for larger cells. 6. The totality of the effects mentioned in (3.) above suggests that picophytoplankton should generally have higher specific growth rates (probably) in resource-saturated (photons, C, N, P, Fe, etc.) and (certainly) in resource-limited environments than do larger cells. The distribution of picophytoplankton is certainly consistent with their ability to capitalize on resource-limited environments: they contribute a larger fraction of biomass and productivity relative to larger cells in low-nutrient than in high-nutrient environments, and in low-light (e.g. the deep chlorophyll maximum) than in high-light environments. 7. Sexual reproduction is apparently rare in picophytoplankton, with implications for species definition. There are probably relatively few species (hundreds or thousands) with very wide biogeographical ranges in marine or in freshwater habitats. The small size and (probably) low biodiversity means large numbers of individuals worldwide, e.g c. 10<sup>26</sup> individuals of the commonest species of the marine cyanobacterium Synechococcus. Picophytoplankton contribute at least one-tenth (i.e in excess of 3 Pg C per year) to global aquatic net primary productivity.
10.2307/2390243|1. In a field irradiation experiment UV-B radiation was enhanced to simulate 15% ozone depletion under clear sky conditions in northern Sweden. This was accomplished by using UV-B fluorescent lamps mounted on metal frames raised over a naturally growing plant community. 2. The study area consisted of a dwarf shrub heath mainly composed of the four species Vaccinium vitis-idaea, V. myrtillus, V. uliginosum and Empetrum hermaphroditum. The absolute annual stem growth, relative stem growth and absolute leaf growth were recorded for different years. 3. The relative growth was significantly reduced by UV-B enhancement in the two evergreen species V. vitis-idaea (27% after 2 years of enhanced UV-B) and E. hermaphroditum (14% after 1 year and 33% after 2 years). The two deciduous species also showed a tendency for decreased relative growth under enhanced UV-B, but this effect was not statistically significant. 4. The leaf thickness of V. vitis-idaea increased both during 1992 (9%) and 1993 (4%). In contrast, the two deciduous species V. myrtillus and V. uliginosum developed thinner leaves under enhanced UV-B both during 1992 (4% for V. myrtillus, 6% for V. uliginosum) and 1993 (9% for V. myrtillus, 10% for V. uliginosum).
826662|1. Relationships were examined among photosynthetic capacity (A
10.2307/2389399|It has been predicted on theoretical grounds (Sibly & Calow, 1983; Taylor & Williams, 1984) that optimal offspring size should be highly sensitive to juvenile growth and survival rates. To test such models, genetically-identical individuals of Simocephalus vetulus were reared at different temperatures and monitored for offspring size and juvenile growth rate. As adult size correlates negatively with temperature, an analysis of covariance was performed to separate the effects of temperature and maternal size. The result is that offspring size indeed correlates negatively with juvenile growth rate. Comparisons are made with field observations of several authors on seasonal variation of offspring size and alternative explanations are discussed. It is concluded that present experiments support the predictions of the theoretical models.
2390544|1. A simple canopy model was developed for Scots Pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) and applied to a transect of six meteorological stations in Europe. The model accounts for possible genetic adaptation of phenology of photosynthesis to the local climate and to decreases of gas exchange owing to drought. 2. Simulations accounting for adaptation of phenology to the local climate differed up to 20% from simulations using the same phenology parameter values for all locations. 3. A temperature increase of 3 <sup></sup>C and a doubling of the CO<sub>2</sub> concentration, while adjusting the photosynthesis parameters to give approximately the observed changed photosynthesis of +30%, also increased the length of the growing season by 23-42%. Combination of increases in the rate of photosynthesis and the length of the growing season resulted in increases of yearly Gross Primary Productivity (GPP) from 72 to 101%. Increases in transpiration were smaller. 4. A decrease of the precipitation by 25% reduced this increase to 54-64%. 5. The relative magnitude of the simulated increases in GPP was similar for locations representing boreal, temperate and mediterranean climates.
40407748|1. For phenotypically plastic organisms to produce phenotypes that are well matched to their environment, they must acquire information about their environment. For inducible defences, cues from damaged prey and cues from predators both have the potential to provide important information, yet we know little about the relative importance of these separate sources of information for behavioural and morphological defences. We also do not know the point during a predation event at which kairomones are produced, i.e. whether they are produced constitutively, during prey attack or during prey digestion. 2. We exposed leopard frog tadpoles (Rona pipiens) to nine predator cue treatments involving several combinations of cues from damaged conspecifics or heterospecifics, starved predators, predators only chewing prey, predators only digesting prey or predators chewing and digesting prey. 3. We quantified two behavioural defences. Tadpole hiding behaviour was induced only by cues from crushed tadpoles. Reduced tadpole activity was induced only by cues from predators digesting tadpoles or predators chewing + digesting tadpoles. 4. We also quantified tadpole mass and two size-adjusted morphological traits that are known to be phenotypically plastic. Mass was unaffected by the cue treatments. Relative body length was affected (i.e. there were differences among some treatments), but none of the treatments significantly differed from the no-predator control. Relative tail depth was affected by the treatments and deeper tails were induced only when tadpoles were exposed to cues from predators digesting tadpoles or cues from predators chewing + digesting tadpoles. 5. These results demonstrate that some prey species can discriminate among a diverse set of potential cues from heterospecific prey, conspecific prey and predators. Moreover, the results illustrate that the cues responsible for the full suite of behavioural and morphological defences are not induced by tadpole crushing nor can they be induced by generalized digestive chemicals produced when predators digest their prey. Instead, both prey damage and predator digestion of conspecific tissues appear to be important for communicating predatory risk to phenotypically plastic anuran prey. Importantly, the production of chemical cues by predators may be unavoidable and prey have evolved the ability to eavesdrop on these signals.
41319583|1. Understanding proximate determinants of prdation rates is a central question in ecology. Studies often use functional response (density dependent) or allometric (mass dependent) models but approaches that consider multiple factors are critical to capture the complexity in predatorprey interactions. We present a novel comprehensive approach to understand prdation rates based on field data obtained from a vertebrate predator. 2. Estimates of food consumption and prey abundance were obtained from 21 semi-natural populations of the lizard Zootoca vivpara. We identified the most parsimonious feeding rate function exploring allometric, simple functional response and allometric functional response models. Each group included effects of sex and weather conditions. 3. Allometric models reveal the importance of predator mass and sex: larger females have the highest natural feeding rates. Functional response models show that the effect of prey density is best represented by a Holling type II response model with a mass, sex and weather dependent attack rate and a constant handling time. However, the best functional response model only received moderate support compared to simpler allometric models based only on predator mass and sex. 4. Despite this limited effect of prey densities on feeding rates, we detected a significant negative relationship between an index of preferred prey biomass and lizard density. 5. Functional response models that ignore individual variation are likely to misrepresent trophic interactions. However, simpler models based on individual traits may be best supported by some data than complex allometric functional responses. These results illustrate the importance of considering individual, population and environmental effects while also exploring simple models.
3599293| 1. We present a model that yields ecosystem-level predictions of the flux, storage and turnover of carbon in three important pools (autotrophs, decomposers, labile soil C) based on the constraints of body size and temperature on individual metabolic rate. 2. The model predicts a 10000-fold increase in C turnover rates moving from tree- to phytoplankton-dominated ecosystems due to the size dependence of photosynthetic rates. 3. The model predicts a 16-fold increase in rates controlled by respiration (e.g. decomposition, turnover of labile soil C and microbial biomass) over the temperature range 0-30C due to the temperature dependence of ATP synthesis in respiratory complexes. 4. The model predicts only a fourfold increase in rates controlled by photosynthesis (e.g. net primary production, litter fall, fine root turnover) over the temperature range 0-30C due to the temperature dependence of Rubisco carboxylation in chloroplasts. 5. The difference between the temperature dependence of respiration and photosynthesis yields quantitative predictions for distinct phenomena that include acclimation of plant respiration, geographic gradients in labile C storage, and differences between the short- and long-term temperature dependence of whole-ecosystem CO
10.2307/2390016|1. Rhizomes of wetland plants are subjected to periods of hypoxia and/or anoxia by the seasonal or permanent waterlogging of their growing sites. Hedychium coronarium, the White Ginger, and Acorus calamus, the Sweet Flag, have their origin in India and were introduced into Latin America and Europe, respectively, more than three centuries ago. The White Ginger grows in humus-rich, shaded or semi-shaded areas subjected to waterlogging but it is never totally submersed, while the Sweet Flag grows at lake margins and is totally submersed during winter. 2. Winter rhizomes of both species were cultivated in water culture in a greenhouse. The end products of fermentation (ethanol, lactic acid, malic acid), overall rhizome pH, the adenylate pool of nucleotides, the energy charge and their capacity to resume growth, were measured after periods of 1, 2, 4, 8 and 16 days of anoxia and hypoxia. In all cases metabolic responses were also determined in rhizomes allowed to recover for 24 h in air. 3. Ethanol was the main fermentation end product in both species, reaching higher concentrations in the anoxia-treated rhizomes. In H. coronarium, there was also a significant increase in the levels of lactic acid, with a considerable drop in overall rhizome pH. 4. Anoxia and hypoxia induced, in both species, a significant drop in the energy charge values. Control plant rhizomes and rhizomes allowed to recover in air for 24 h had energy charge values of around 0.8. In rhizomes subjected to stress these values were lower, around 0.50 in A. calamus and as low as 0.3 in H. coronarium. 5. Although in both species there is also a decrease in the amount of total nucleotides, it was much more drastic in the case of anoxia treated rhizomes of H. coronarium. The pH drop was most probably the underlying cause of the metabolic disarray that lead to a depletion of the adenylate pool and, finally, failure to regenerate after 16 days of anoxia. 6. The results also show that energy charge values without measurements of the total adenylate pool may give a misleading impression of fitness. Thus, the anaerobic metabolism of H. coronarium is less efficient and more harmful than that of A. calamus and, although considerably tolerant to hypoxia, it does not tolerate strict anoxia as the latter species does.
40963546|1. Animals are the most important dispersal vector for a vast number of terrestrial plants. 2. Whereas our understanding of dispersal by wind has taken enormous conceptual strides in recent years, our ability to predict dispersal patterns by animals remains crude by comparison despite the large volume of research on this topic. 3. We review published models of dispersal by animals, discuss component processes that have been modelled in other contexts and indicate approaches that could usefully be taken in the future. 4. The current problem restricting progress is that few animal dispersal models include the processes most likely to cause dispersal to change over time or space. Thus, they are context-specific, predicting only under the conditions from which data were collected. 5. The key to deeper understanding is to ask 'What determines the behaviour of the vector; and what determines the influence of the vector on the trajectory of a seed' (rather than what is the behaviour of the vector in a case study and how far does it move seeds in that study). This leads naturally to process-based models with the ability to predict over a range of scenarios. 6. Priority processes for a more mechanistic approach include: animal movement within a landscape; linking gut throughput, defecation, feeding rate and other behaviours; and detachment from an animal's surface. Models of gut throughput are probably already sufficient to include them in a dispersal model. Perhaps the best way to achieve progress would be to initiate an international working group of experts in modelling and the particular biological processes.
10.2307/2389410|The photosynthetic responses of the palms Socratea durissima (Oerst.) H. Wendl. and Scheelea zonensis Bailey, two species with contrasting growth forms, were studied. Light-saturated rates in the laboratory were 3.38 and 5.74 mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup> for Socratea and Scheelea respectively, grown at 25% full sunlight; the respective rates were 1.16 and 1.61 mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup> when grown at 1-5% of full sunlight. In the field, leaf nitrogen declines more rapidly with age in Socratea than in Scheelea. Data on stomatal density indicate that maximum conductance contributes to between-species and between-treatment differences in light-saturated photosynthesis in the laboratory, while declining leaf nitrogen with leaf age may reduce photosynthesis more in Socratea than in Scheelea. The shade-adapted photosynthetic responses of these two species allows them to grow as seedlings in the shade of the tropical forest understorey. Scheelea shows greater differences in photosynthetic responses when grown under high vs low light than Socratea does; this difference between the two species suggests that Scheelea is more suited to exploiting treefall gaps than Socratea is. The characterization, based on physiological responses, of Scheelea as more of a gap species than Socratea is consistent with interpretations based on plant architecture and with field observations of the population biology of these two species.
10.2307/2390088|1. The doubly labelled water (DLW) technique has been used to estimate the rate of energy expenditure of many species of free-living birds including some that dive. The technique, however, has never been validated in an actively diving bird. 2. DLW was used to estimate the metabolic rate of the diving tufted duck and the derived estimate was compared with the value obtained by direct respirometry. All the equations used to calculate the energy expenditure from DLW produced estimates for individual birds with large ranges of errors. Even the most accurate equation, S4 (Speakman 1993), underestimated oxygen consumption by an average of 15.6%. The range of errors for that equation (-83 to +67%) shows that in the diving tufted duck, the DLW technique has a reduced precision. 3. This reduced precision is probably due to the high water flux measured. As a high water turnover is likely to be a consistent feature of many diving and swimming birds and mammals, care should be exercised in interpreting measurements derived from DLW for these animals. 4. Heart rate, used as another indicator of metabolic rate, was also monitored in four of the birds. Although there was again a wide range of individual errors (-38 to +71%), the mean estimate was not significantly different from those derived from DLW and direct respirometry.
2390348|1. The instantaneous and integrated leaf gas exchange of 13 species of southern hemisphere conifers grown under identical glasshouse conditions were examined to determine whether there was any correlation between the characteristics of water use at the leaf level and environmental water availability. 2. In the conifer species examined, the minimum ratio of internal to ambient CO<sub>2</sub> measured in leaves during artificially imposed drought [(c<sub>i</sub>/c<sub>a</sub>)<sub>min</sub>] was strongly correlated with the minimum rainfall observed within the natural range of each species. This suggests that the distributions of these species are constrained by the drought tolerance of their photosynthetic apparatus. 3. A good correlation was found between the ratio of internal to ambient CO<sub>2</sub> measured in leaves under optimal conditions (c<sub>i</sub>/c<sub>a</sub>)<sub>max</sub> and leaf <sup>13</sup>C (and hence inferred  [c<sub>i</sub>/c<sub>a</sub>]). Neither of these, however, correlated with the environmental parameters considered most likely to be limiting species distribution, i.e. precipitation and altitude. 4. These data suggest that decreasing water availability may have been the major factor responsible for the restriction and extinction of conifers in the southern hemisphere.
10.2307/2389524|1. The impact of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> and drought on the architecture and development of root systems of Senecio vulgaris was examined and implications for water and nutrient uptake discussed. Plants were grown in miniature rhizotrons to non-destructively monitor the development of roots in situ at both an elevated (700  mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) and ambient (350  mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration and a high or a low supply of water. 2. CO<sub>2</sub> and water had a significant impact on the way that S. vulgaris root systems filled the soil matrix. Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> resulted in more branched, longer root systems that foraged through larger volumes of soil. Under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> and a low water supply, root systems had branching and foraging patterns and root length similar to those grown under ambient CO<sub>2</sub> with a high water supply. 3. Overall, water had a more pronounced impact on the growth rate of S. vulgaris roots than did CO<sub>2</sub>. The density of rooting remained unchanged across all treatments. Thus, under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> the intensity of foraging S. vulgaris root systems might be unchanged while the extent of foraging by these root systems, as indicated by the horizontal spread of roots, may be increased.
41319593|1. Seasonal and inter-annual variability in ecosystem carbon dioxide (CO) exchange is attributed to numerous climate drivers. However, climate effects on metabolism often override ecological functions. This study seeks insight into which biological and ecological processes influence temporal patterns of ecosystem productivity in natural ecosystems. 2. The specific objectives of this study are to (i) identify seasonal and inter-annual patterns of ecosystem-level photosynthesis in relation to climatic conditions, (ii) examine and compare seasonal and inter-annual variations in leaf traits for annual grasses and oak trees across multiple years, and (iii) explore interactions among leaf traits and ecosystem-level photosynthesis across multiple seasons and years. 3. We conducted this study in a woody savanna and open grassland in California, USA. Ecosystem-level photosynthetic rates of annual grasses (A grass ) and oak tree canopy (A canopy ) were deduced from eddy covariance measurements over a 7-year period (2001 and 2007). In conjunction, we sampled grass and oak leaves at weekly to monthly intervals and constructed a multiyear time series of leaf nitrogen concentration (N), leaf mass per unit area (LMA), leaf carbon concentration (C), and leaf carbon stable isotope discrimination (). 4. Given the same grass community age or tree canopy age, inter-annual variations of the photosynthetic rates were up to 1-2 gC m day for annual grasses and oak trees while the two types of vegetation were exposed to different, wide ranges of inter-annual climate fluctuations: up to 5 C in daily mean soil temperature, 15% in soil moisture, and 10 mol m day in photosynthetically active radiation. 5. While both grass and oak leaf traits varied seasonally and inter-annually, they experienced temporal patterns and seasonal peaks that were distinct from one another. Multi-year means of grass leaf N, C, , and LMA were 23%, 408%, 226 and 713 g m, respectively; multi-year means of oak leaf N, C, , and LMA were 19%, 451%, 205 and 132 g m, respectively. 6. Based on the analysis of variance, seasonal and inter-annual terms were associated with A grass or A canopy up to 90% or 81%. On the other hand, variations in leaf N, LMA, C, , and their interactions could statistically explain about 53% and 26% of variations in A grass and A canopy , respectively. 7. We discussed possible biological and ecological processes involved in regulating seasonal and inter-annual variability in ecosystem-level photosynthesis. Clearly, seasonal and inter-annual variation in ecosystem photosynthesis was strongly associated with the dynamics of leaf traits.
3599027|1. Ecologists have long recognized that plants occurring in areas of low rainfall or soil nutrients tend to have smaller leaves than those in more favourable regions. 2. Working with a large data set (690 species at 47 sites spread widely through southeast Australia) for which this reduction has been described previously, we investigated the morphology of leaf size reduction, asking whether any patterns observed were consistent across evolutionary lineages or between environmental gradients. 3. Leaf length, width and surface areas were measured; leaf traits such as pubescence or lobing were also scored qualitatively. There was no correlation between soil phosphorus and rainfall across sites. Further, there was no evidence that pubescence, lobing or other traits assessed served as alternatives to reduction of leaf size at the low ends of either environmental gradient. 4. Leaf size reduction occurred through many combinations of change in leaf width and length, even within lineages. Thus consistent patterns in the method of leaf size reduction were not found, although broad similarities between rainfall and soil P gradients were apparent.
10.2307/2390265|1. The `fast' and `medium' alleles of malate dehydrogenase (MDH-1) exhibit clines on three continents in Honey-bees (Nielsen, Page & Crosland 1994), suggesting that MDH-1 phenotype may have functional consequences. 2. To test the effect of MDH-1 phenotype on a relatively constant genetic and environmental background in Honey-bees, we compared slow-fast (SF) and slow-medium (SM) workers within two colonies containing medium-fast (MF) queens singly inseminated with semen from an (S) drone. Within each colony, all genes not tightly linked to MDH-1 should be randomly distributed among SM and SF workers. 3. SF bees had higher flight metabolic rates (MR) than SM bees at ambient temperatures of 21<sup></sup>C and 38<sup></sup>C, and higher wing-beat frequencies (WBF) at 21<sup></sup>C. 4. There were also highly significant differences in MR of foragers from adjacent, similarly sized, related colonies, suggesting that there are other strong unexplained effects on flight MR. Flight MR and WBF decreased while thorax temperatures (T<sub>th</sub>) increased as ambient temperature increased. 5. The data suggest that during high-intensity flight, Honey-bees reduce motor behaviour, either as a behavioural mechanism to prevent overheating or owing to direct inhibition of flight muscle metabolism by high T<sub>th</sub>. 6. Our data and a previous study (Coelho & Mitton 1988) indicate a link between MDH-1 allozymes and flight metabolism in Honey-bees, supporting the contention that MDH-1 phenotype has functional metabolic consequences which may be subject to selection.
10.2307/2390179|1. In the studies aimed at investigating energetics of animals, less accurate open-flow respirometric designs give better results. 2. If CO<sub>2</sub> is not removed from the air stream, the measurement of oxygen consumption rate bears a larger error, but allows a more accurate estimation of energy metabolism.
2390462|1. Body size is often an important character in mating success, but has been only infrequently mentioned in regard to colour polymorphism. In this study, mating success was investigated in a colour polymorphic Ladybird Beetle, Harmonia axyridis, with reference both to colour morph and to body size. 2. In the non-melanic males the mating individuals were significantly larger than solitary individuals, while in melanic males there was no significant difference. 3. The mating pattern was close to random mating with respect to colour morph and there was no significant deviation. 4. The results suggest both body size and colour morph affect the male mating success and males of different body size obtain mating advantage according to the colour morph. Colour polymorphism in this species is controlled by alleles on a single locus. Thus, the alleles on that locus significantly influence the effect of selection on the quantitative character.
3599320|1. The source of nutritional resources allocated to reproduction strongly influences reproductive and foraging strategies. While we are beginning to understand the role of adult and larval resources for nectivorous Lepidoptera, essentially nothing is known for the large number of species that feed on fruit as adults. 2. We used stable isotopes to examine allocation of larval- and adult-derived resources to egg production in a tropical frugivorous butterfly, Bicyclus anynana (Butler, 1879), under both ad libitum and semistarvation conditions. The butterfly's larval and adult host plants differ from each other in both carbon and nitrogen isotopic ratios. 3. Adult fruit feeding is required for the onset of oviposition. 4. At peak, adult fruit feeding contributed 55% of the carbon found in eggs under both feeding conditions. This is similar to values for several nectivorous Lepidoptera with similar ovarian dynamics and egg C/N. 5. Egg
20142855|1. For organisms inhabiting strongly seasonal environments, over-winter mortality is thought to be severe and size-dependent, with larger individuals presumed to survive at a higher rate than smaller conspecifics. Despite the intuitive appeal and prevalence of these ideas in the literature, few studies have formally tested these hypotheses. 2. We here tested the support for these two hypotheses in stream-dwelling salmonids. In particular, we combined an empirical study in which we tracked the fate of individually-marked brown trout across multiple seasons and multiple years with a literature review in which we compiled the results of all previous pertinent research in stream-dwelling salmonids. 3. We report that over-winter mortality does not consistently exceed mortality during other seasons. This result emerged from both our own research as well as our review of previous research focusing on whether winter survival is lower than survival during other seasons. 4. We also report that bigger is not always better in terms of survival. Indeed, bigger is often worse. Again, this result emerged from both our own empirical work as well as the compilation of previous research focusing on the relationship between size and survival. 5. We suggest that these results are not entirely unexpected because self-sustaining populations are presumably adapted to the predictable seasonal variation in environmental conditions that they experience.
2390302|1. Past work on the thermal preferences of Dipsosaurus dorsalis (Biard & Giard) has indicated that intense, exhaustive exercise causes these lizards to select a body temperature (33.5 <sup></sup>C) which is cooler than their preferred activity temperature of 40 <sup></sup>C during the first 1-2 h of exercise recovery. 2. In order to test the hypothesis that the thermal regime selected by exhausted D. dorsalis is beneficial to the process of exercise recovery, lizards were forced to undergo both exhaustive and sprinting exercise at their preferred body temperature of 40 <sup></sup>C. The peak speeds attained and the total distances travelled by these animals during these two different exercise protocols were measured and the animals were then forced to undergo a second bout of either sprinting or exhaustive exercise, following a 30-330 min recovery at either 20 <sup></sup>C, 40 <sup></sup>C or under a variable thermal regime which duplicated that selected by animals following exercise. 3. Animals recovering at a constant 40 <sup></sup>C regained their ability to repeat exhaustive activity in less than 85 min, while animals recovering under the other two thermal regimes required between 85 and 100 min of recovery to be able to repeat this activity. Animals recovering at both 40 <sup></sup>C and under the variable thermal regime regained their ability to repeat sprint behaviour within 60 min of recovery, while animals recovering at 20 <sup></sup>C required more than 100 min of recovery to be able to repeat sprint behaviour. 4. These results formed the basis of the conclusion that the post-exercise behaviour selected by D. dorsalis retards the rate at which the animals recover their ability to repeat exhaustive exercise when compared with recovery at a constant 40 <sup></sup>C but does not retard their ability to repeat sprint exercise.
10.2307/2390028|1. Volume, dry mass and nutrient content were measured in eggs from four species of polar caridean shrimp (Crustacea: Decapoda): Chorismus antarcticus, Notocrangon antarcticus and Nematocarcinus lanceopes from the Weddell Sea (Antarctic), and Eualus gaimardii from Svalbard (Arctic). Mean egg dry mass was positively correlated with female dry mass in all species, although this was not statistically significant in Notocrangon. 2. In all species examined (Chorismus, Eualus, Notocrangon) there was a small but significant trade-off between egg dry mass and fecundity when the effect of female dry mass on both variables was taken into account. The reason for this trade-off is not clear, but it argues against the suggestion that there should be a minimum egg size to ensure sufficient reserves with additional resources being directed to larger eggs only when food is plentiful. There was no relation between egg dry mass and female post-spawning condition in any species once the effect of female mass had been allowed for. 3. Data from intraspecific studies of polar shrimps and gammarid amphipods indicate that overall investment by the female (reproductive output) and investment per offspring (egg size) are not linked. Although selection acting over evolutionary time scales must set the overall constraints to these variables, the results presented here suggest that the class of reproductive ecology models that relate overall investment to investment per offspring are not appropriate for marine invertebrates. Furthermore, refinement of existing models will need to incorporate the trade-off between brood size and egg size, and co-variation of egg size with female size.
2656430|1. The theory on adaptive phenotypic plasticity assumes different fitness optima in different environments. To demonstrate these fitness differences in the field or under laboratory conditions can be difficult. 2. The size of the coloured patches on the abdomen of Eristalis arbustorum varies with rearing temperature. At low temperatures small patches develop and at higher temperatures larger patches develop. Consequently, the colour patch size varies seasonally. 3. To study the relative fitness of two extreme phenotypes in abdominal coloration in the summer, a total of 591 laboratory-reared flies were released in six large population cages. As a measure of fitness, survival was estimated. 4. In all replicate cages the survival of the pale phenotypes was higher than that of the dark phenotypes, indicating a higher fitness for the pale flies under summer conditions. 5. The fat content of flies reared under identical conditions to those released in the cages was measured. Pale flies had 0.7 mg more fat than dark flies (25% extra fat). However, it is argued that this difference in fat reserves could not have been the only cause of the observed difference in survival. 6. The results are discussed in relation to mimicry and thermoregulation.
4540079| 1. In nature, food conditions change temporally and force consumers into trade-offs during resource allocation. In particular, under poor food conditions, for example during cyanobacterial blooms, herbivores have to optimize their resource allocation to maximize fitness, and face two decisions: (i) an individual might attempt to allocate acquired essential resources to reproductive tissues or use them for its own maintenance; and (ii) an individual might decide to optimize the chemical quality of its eggs. 2. As cyanobacteria feature a deficiency in some essential lipids that leads to a decline in the growth and fecundity of Daphnia, an important freshwater herbvore, we investigated Daphnia magna's Strauss allocation of lipids such as polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and cholesterol during an experimental non-toxic cyanobacterial bloom. 3. Generally, we found a substantial maternal investment of the particularly important omega-3 (n-3) PUFAs, in particular eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), into the eggs. The concentration of EPA was 24-fold higher in eggs than in somatic tissue, a cumulative effect, which was not significantly changed under cyanobacterial food conditions. 4. Under poor conditions, D. magna not only decreased the number of eggs produced but, in principle, reduced the previously high concentrations of EPA in both eggs and somatic tissues to a similar degree. In contrast to EPA, the concentrations of -linolenic acid and cholesterol, although lower than EPA, were more homeostatic in eggs than in somatic tissues, in which concentrations decreased. 5. When food quality was improved, D. magna were able to recover completely the fatty acid concentrations in their somatic tissues and eggs. 6. This study shows that the content of particular lipids in its food clearly affects resource allocation in D. magna, and suggests that cholesterol is important for somatic growth, while PUFAs are primarily needed for reproduction. As a decreasing investment of essential lipids into eggs implies a reduced fitness of the animals' progeny under poor food conditions, this could have a strong impact on population dynamics, which might also be valid for other species. 
826641| 1. The published literature on the effects of flipper-bands on penguin ecology is reviewed. Six published studies show the following. 2. In Adlie Penguins Pygoscelis adeliae, flipper-bands directly damaged flippers, increased swimming costs by 24%, decreased survival in the first year after banding by 28%, and may have accelerated decline of a dwindling colony by 3%. 3. Adult return rates to colonies among flipper-banded Adlie, Chinstrap P. antarctica and Gentoo P. papua Penguins decreased by 8%, 12% and 25%, respectively, between single- and double-banded penguins. Juvenile return rates among Gentoo Penguins were reduced by 105%. Return rates to the colony among double-banded King Penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus were 313% and 67% lower than among single-banded birds in the first and second years after banding, respectively, and single flipper-banded birds showed annual survival rates 211% lower than those of birds fitted with subcutaneous transponders. 4. Among Royal Penguins Eudyptes schlegeli, there were no differences between chick growth, adult over-winter survival and fledging success between flipper-banded birds and birds fitted with transponders. 5. Adlie Penguin adult annual survival rates were lower among flipper-banded birds than among unbanded birds. 6. On the basis of dive profiles for Adlie Penguins, it is estimated that increased swimming costs of 5% reduce prey contact time by 10%, and of 24% reduce prey contact time by 48%. These estimated 'knock-on' or cumulative costs coupled with the survival and breeding costs shown by the majority of published field studies suggest that data collected on some flipper-banded populations are biased. 7. The advantages and disadvantages of an alternative long-term marking technique, subcutaneously implanted passively interrogated transponder tags, are discussed. Research projects currently testing transponders and flipper-bands worldwide are listed. 
2390336|1. A graphic technique is presented in which data on age-specific reproduction of individuals are portrayed using: (i) a horizontal life line, the length of which is proportional to individual longevity; (ii) colour-coded segments depicting the level of reproduction at each age; and (iii) a cohort survival schedule created by rank-ordering individual life lines from shortest- to longest-lived. 2. The resulting graphic, referred to as an event history diagram, portrays data at the individual level and thus allows visual comparisons of detailed life-history patterns such as age of first reproduction, longevity, ages of high, medium, low and zero reproduction, and post-reproductive period. 3. Example graphs are shown for reproductive and longevity data gathered on 1000 medfly females. The average female lived 35.6 days and laid 759.3 eggs and therefore the graphs display information for 35 600 fly days and the age-distribution of laying for 759 300 eggs. 4. Because the graphics provide a means for visualizing large amounts of data precisely and efficiently, they reveal details and nuances in the data that are not apparent from conventional graphic methods. 5. The advantages of longitudinal data gathered on individuals and reasons why visualizing individual-level data is important are discussed.
10.2307/2390032|1. We present a case of intrapopulational dimorphism in nectar production (nectarless/nectar producers) in the honey mesquite, Prosopis glandulosa var. torreyana (Leguminosae, Mimosoidae), and use this dimorphism as a natural experiment to explore the effects of nectar production on pollinator numbers and on pod production. In our study sites, roughly half the honey mesquites produce no nectar. 2. Controlled pollinations indicate that there were no significant differences between morphs in pod production per raceme and compatibilities, and that fruit set is significantly higher in open, cross-pollinated inflorescences. 3. There is a high abortion rate in both naturally and hand-pollinated inflorescences, regardless of nectar presence. The total daily numbers of the more abundant insect pollinators, Apis mellifera and Melissodes tristis, were the same when trees with and without nectar were aggregated, but were much higher in nectar producers when trees were in isolation. The number of pollinator species was also higher in nectar-producing trees. However, although the number of pods per raceme was apparently higher in isolated, nectar-producing trees, the differences between morphs could not be shown to be significant. 4. This result could be due to high costs of nectar in the plants that produce it, resource limitation, and/or because flowers need only one or few pollinator visits to set fruit. 5. We hypothesize that nectar dimorphism in the honey mesquite is a case of automimicry.
3599080| 1. We demonstrate the potential of extracting high-resolution dietary information from stable carbon isotopes (
3599088|1. It is widely assumed that species with broad niches will be commoner (have larger ranges) than species with narrow niches, but attempts to demonstrate this in plants and animals have generally been unsuccessful. 2. We used seasonal seedling emergence data to define the width of one important niche axis for 175 UK herbaceous species. We then compared niche width with UK range, using species as independent data points and also phylogenetically independent contrasts. 3. We found no evidence of any relationship between niche width and range. Possible reasons for this are: (i) mature plant traits are more important than seedling emergence in determining plant ranges; and (ii) ranges of most plants are strongly dispersal-limited.
10.2307/2389378|A pyroelectric vidicon infra-red camera was used to non-invasively monitor surface temperatures of small lacertid lizards. These temperatures can be measured with a high degree of accuracy and in small lizards the surface temperature corresponds very closely to cloacal temperature measured with a thermistor probe. The effects of different levels of incident radiation on heating rates and the `set point' temperatures at which basking and foraging were initiated in free-moving lizards are shown as an example of the kinds of results which can be achieved with this equipment.
2656395|1. Large herbivores living in temperate regions show different degrees of seasonal biological variation, including voluntary food intake (VFI). The decline of VFI in winter has been hypothesized to be an evolved response to lower food availability or quality, which can act as an internal constraint on food intake. 2. The hypotheses were tested that (i) animals that have a greater inherent seasonal variation of VFI, measured indoors under ad libitum conditions, would also have a greater seasonal variation in intake and grazing behaviour under field conditions, and (ii) greater seasonal variation in intake and grazing behaviour under field conditions would be expressed at a higher level of food availability. 3. The intake and grazing behaviour in summer and winter, of three breeds of sheep, were compared at two levels of food availability (at pasture heights of 3.7 and 5.4 cm). The breeds were known to have contrasting degrees of seasonal variation in food intake when fed ad libitum; the VFI of the Shetland (SH) and Scottish Blackface (BF) sheep varies greatly between seasons whereas that of the Dorset Horn (DH) is less seasonally variable. 4. All three breeds consistently increased their rates of biting and duration of grazing activity in the winter, taking many more smaller bites each day than in the summer, and both digestibility and intake were lower in winter than in summer. 5. Contrary to expectation, the DH ewes had the highest seasonal difference of dry matter intake at pasture, whereas the SH breed had the lowest variation of intake between seasons. 6. This experiment provides no evidence that differences between seasons in intake and foraging behaviour in the field vary with the animals' degree of endogenous seasonal variation in VFI. Variation between seasons was consistent at both levels of resource availability, suggesting that it resulted from seasonal changes in food quality (digestibility) rather than biomass availability. It is not easy to extrapolate from laboratory feeding studies, where animals' own physiological constraints apply, to foraging ecology in the field, where constraints imposed by the environment may be more important.
3599164| 1. Seed reproduction of a plant species is strongly affected by the spatial structures of its population through gene flow patterns. We assessed the effects of the spatial arrangement of genetically compatible mates on the seed set and gene flow of a heterostylous perennial species, Primula sieboldii E. Morren (Primulaceae), using a patchy experimental population. 2. Seed set was significantly higher in patches containing opposite-morph genets than in patches without opposite-morph genets. Pollen flow within patches explained 769% of total pollen flow, while 135% was ascribed to pollen flow between patches. Mean and maximum pollen dispersal distances within the experimental population were 723 and 89 m, respectively. 3. Mean and maximum seed dispersal distances were 104 and 230 cm, respectively. 4. Our results suggest a profound effect of the spatial arrangement of compatible mates within the patchy population on seed set and gene flow. Investigations using experimental populations in combination with molecular markers will provide highly effective means for evaluating the influences of spatial structures on plant gene flow and reproduction, and will also provide valuable information for conservation efforts. 
20142891|Replacement series designs have been criticized because they may inaccurately predict the outcome of competition, particularly when species' vital rates respond to competitor density in strongly nonlinear ways. Here we explain that despite this concern, experiments manipulating frequency can still effectively quantify the strength of niche differences in stabilizing coexistence, the goal of an experiment we proposed in an earlier paper. Niche differences cause species to have greater per capita growth rates when rare than when common, and we demonstrate that this result is robust to variation in total density. We also emphasize that our proposed experimental design does not call for fixing density across species' frequency gradients, thus differing from a traditional replacement series design. We show that our approach and the more labor-intensive response surface design share the same theoretical foundation and both are apppropriate for quantifying the role of niche differences in stabilizing the dynamics of coexisting species.
10.2307/2389321|In social insect colonies the sterile individuals that assume the worker role realize their reproductive potential through working and rearing the queen's brood. We have examined the role of the presence of brood in the nest as a determinant of caste in the social wasp Polistes exclamans Viereck. We predicted that wasps in colonies where there was no brood would behave like future queens, while wasps in colonies in which brood care was an option would behave like workers. Brood presence was manipulated by removing eggs and larvae or the whole nest from experimental colonies and leaving brood in control colonies. Ability to tolerate cold temperatures was used as an indicator of caste when comparing females emerging in experimental colonies to females emerging in control colonies. Females emerging in experimental colonies survived longer at cold temperatures than those emerging in control colonies. This indicates that females developed characteristics more typical of future queens in response to deprivation of brood. P. exclamans is characterized by small colonies whose nests are destroyed frequently. Therefore caste plasticity in adult females of P. exclamans is advantageous.
10.2307/2389489|Twenty-two species of Nothofagus were collected from South America, New Zealand, Australia, New Guinea and New Caledonia and grown under common conditions in controlled environment growth cabinets. This enabled us to measure genetically determined differences in carbon isotope discrimination () of leaves. Discrimination is a long-term measure of intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> levels and estimate of water-use efficiency. It is known to be positively related to intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> concentration and stomatal conductance and negatively related to CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation rate and water-use efficiency. Genetic differences were then explored in relation to the native environments of the individual species. The species originating from tropical latitudes showed less discrimination (16.5-19.8%) than the species originating from higher latitudes (20.9-23.5%). There were no differences between the ranges of values recorded in species native to New Zealand, Australia or South America over a similar latitudinal range. When the -values of some species from Australia, New Guinea, New Caledonia and New Zealand (grown under common conditions) were regressed against climate parameters of their native environment, the highest correlation was obtained with mean rainfall from December to March (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.81). It is hypothesized that the species at high latitudes, where the warmest months are usually the driest, have evolved physiological and/or morphological mechanisms which allow continued water uptake and high stomatal conductance during periods of mild water deficit. This would allow the continuation of photosynthesis and potentially higher net productivity under these conditions than in species which close their stomata in response to relatively small water deficits. In climates where water deficits are rare, stomatal sensitivity may allow some avoidance of mild water stress, without the larger costs imposed by other adaptations.
3599228|1. Characteristics of internal seed dispersal (endozoochory) by European Brown Hares were compared with similar dispersal by Brent Geese. Hares deposited more seeds of mid-successional, perennial, high-marsh species than did geese, which deposited more seeds of early successional, annual, low-marsh species. 2. Seed survival and germination of salt-marsh species were higher after ingestion and passage through the digestive system of hares compared with geese. Both hares and geese had a negative effect on the percentage of seeds that germinated in comparison with uningested seeds. 3. Small herbivores (hares and geese) dispersed two orders of magnitude fewer seeds than those dispersed by tidal water. 4. Thus these herbivores are not likely to be important filters (constraints) in community assembly at this salt-marsh site on a coastal island in the Netherlands.
2390422|1. A model was developed for the growth of intertidal algae with photosynthesis simulated both in air and in a tidal water column. Morphological data on dry mass per unit area and length-area relationships were used to separate the growth of different fucoid species. The relative growth rate of fronds at any height on the shore depended on a trade-off between net photosynthetic performance and tolerance to desiccation. 2. The simulated zonation patterns and growth rates were consistent with those observed previously for Fucus spp. and Pelvetia canaliculata. 3. The simulated growth of Ascophyllum nodosum was always slower than for the other species. This species did not form its characteristic distribution zones in simulations without including further processes in the model. However, Ascophyllum collected from the field could be separated into upper and lower shore morphologies which formed separate zones when they were simulated in competition with each other. 4. Several hypotheses were proposed concerning the relative locations and sharpness of interspecies boundaries on the shore. Zonation patterns were relatively insensitive to changes in most model parameters except the desiccation rate.
2656382|1. Extensive research has been carried out on the biological, physical and chemical characteristics of surfaces that promote, or prevent, marine fouling. The texture of the substratum is probably the most important factor affecting settlement of the Acorn Barnacle Semibalanus balanoides in the field. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between fractal and Euclidean descriptions of substratum surface complexity and settlement of the Acorn Barnacle. 2. Replicate settlement panels with smooth, fine, medium and coarse surfaces were manufactured using a precise and accurate technique. Two-dimensional profiles were measured using a laser profilometer, and two surface complexity indices, potential settling sites (PSS) and the Minkowski fractal dimension (MFD) were calculated. PSS is a Euclidean measure of the surface complexity taking into account the body size and settlement behaviour of the barnacle larvae, whereas MFD is a fractal dimension related to the complexity of the surface at a variety of scales. 3. In a field experiment, settlement density of S. balanoides was positively related to both PSS and MFD. To break the correlation between PSS and MFD, surfaces were modified by sandblasting with either 64-125-m or 250-500-m grains. This decreased MFD but did not affect PSS. 4. A further field experiment found that this erosion using small-scale sand particles had no effect on settlement of the barnacle. It was concluded that S. balanoides larvae were responding to characteristics of the surface related to PSS and not MFD. 5. Although a correlation was found between species abundance and the fractal complexity of its habitat, further experimentation showed that there was no causality in this relationship. Many surveys, with no experimentation, of aquatic and terrestrial communities have shown relationships between organisms and their habitat and assumed causality; however, care must be taken in interpretation of such studies.
4139386|1. The effects of soil texture (low or high sand) and defoliation (clipped or unclipped) on root diameter distributions and nitrogen uptake were studied in the Serengeti grasses Digitaria macroblephara (Hack.) Stapf and Themeda triandra Forssk. in glasshouse cultures. 2. At the end of the experiment, plants were harvested and images of the washed roots were digitized using a scanner. Root size distributions were distinctly bimodal and were described with pairs of lognormal distributions with six parameters used as variables in subsequent analyses. To investigate N uptake, a nitrate solution containing
2656452|1. Growth of seedlings of 15 rain-forest tree species was compared under controlled conditions, at six different light levels (3, 6, 12, 25, 50 and 100% daylight). 2. Most plant variables showed strong ontogenetic changes; they were highly dependent on the biomass of the plant. 3. Growth rate was highest at intermediate light levels (25-50%) above which it declined. Most plant variables showed a curvilinear response to irradiance, with the largest changes at the lowest light levels. 4. There was a consistent ranking in growth between species; species that were fast growing in a low-light environment were also fast growing in a high-light environment. 5. At low light, interspecific variation in relative growth rate was determined mainly by differences in a morphological trait, the leaf area ratio (LAR), whereas at high light it was determined mainly by differences in a physiological trait, the net assimilation rate (NAR). 6. NAR became a stronger determinant of growth than LAR in more than 10-15% daylight. As light availability in the forest is generally much lower than this threshold level, it follows that interspecific variation in growth in a forest environment is mainly owing to variation in morphology.
41319627|1. Climate change has caused a phenological mismatch between the timing of reproduction and the local food peak in many bird species. Late breeding birds therefore experience reduced food availability during chick rearing and are thus predicted to have an increased energy expenditure. Observational studies, however, show mixed results, perhaps because they compare energy expenditure across rather than within individuals at different levels of food availability. 2. In a cross foster experiment, we measured daily energy expenditure (DEE) twice within individuals during chick feeding (when chicks were 6 and 14 days old) for 28 free-living female great tits (Parus major). To avoid confounding effects of chick age, these females reared on both occasions a standardized foster brood of eight 10-day-old chicks during the 24-h measuring period. For all birds, food availability declined between the two measurements. 3. We show that DEE during chick feeding increased within females when food availability decreased. Variation in DEE within females is partly explained by brood visit rates, food availability and temperature. 4. DEE during chick feeding could be affected by the investment in previous stages of the reproductive attempt. However, energy expenditure during chick feeding was not correlated to energy expenditure during egg laying, measured in these same females. 5. Understanding of energetic costs during all phases of the reproductive cycle is important to forecast the consequences of climate warming on timing of reproduction.
10.2307/2390242|1. Pots containing a mixture of the grasses Agrostis capillaris and Festuca rubra and the forbs Trifolium repens and Veronica chamaedrys were exposed to ozone in open-top chambers ventilated with charcoal-filtered air. Total ozone exposure ranged from 800 nl 1<sup>-1</sup> h above 40 nl 1<sup>-1</sup> to 15 000 nl 1<sup>-1</sup> h above 40 nl 1<sup>-1</sup>. 2. Half of the pots in each chamber were cut fortnightly. Linear relationships were fitted between biomass or proportion of each species and ozone exposure. 3. In uncut pots T. repens biomass decreased with increasing ozone but biomass of F. rubra increased, so that total biomass was unaffected. 4. Trifolium repens also declined in cut pots, in which the proportional reduction of its biomass was much greater. Agrostis capillaris biomass increased with ozone in cut pots, so that again total biomass did not decline significantly. The response of proportion of forbs to ozone was significantly greater in cut pots. 5. It is concluded that ozone exposures experienced in the UK may potentially affect the species composition of semi-natural grasslands, that cumulative exposure above a threshold of 40 nl 1<sup>-1</sup> may be used to express critical levels of ozone for such communities, and that cutting or grazing may influence community responses to ozone.
10.2307/2389621|The host selection behaviour of two larval endoparasitoids of Drosophila was studied under field conditions. An optimal host selection model was used to analyse this behaviour. Encounter rates with hosts were consistently low. Therefore the model predicted the acceptance of most host species. This was in agreement with field observations. The acceptance of parasitized hosts was also predicted by the model, suggesting that superparasitism is an adaptive strategy under field conditions. The occurrence of superparasitism was confirmed by the number of parasitoid eggs and larvae found in host larvae collected in the field. The numbers of offspring produced by female parasitoids that behave optimally according to the model is only slightly larger than that of females adopting alternative host selection strategies, suggesting that selection for the optimal strategy is weak. It is therefore expected that a mixture of foraging strategies will occur within a population of parasitoids.
10.2307/2389745|The use of path analysis has grown rapidly in recent years, yet few studies employ recent advances in the field of structural equation modelling (SEM). Here I illustrate the capabilities of SEM for path analyses, using data from a study of hummingbird pollination. The main drawback to conventional path analysis is that the overall agreement between the path diagram (or `model') and the data is not quantified; this also means that there is no clear way to directly compare competing models of the same system. One of the major advantages of SEM is that it can test the descriptive ability of different models, thus allowing them to be compared. When unmeasured latent variables are required (e.g. to circumvent problems with multi-collinearity to include estimates of measurement error, or to represent general `factors' such as size), SEM can directly incorporate them as well. Furthermore, SEM provides `modification indices' that indicate areas where the fit of a given model is especially poor, and therefore point to further observations or models that might adequately describe the data. Beyond these advantages, SEM also provides all the information provided by standard path analysis, including path coefficients, measures of explained variance, and total effects. These capabilities make structural equation modelling a powerful tool with which to apply path analysis to observational data sets in ecology and evolution.
3599068|1. Hydraulic redistribution may have important consequences for ecosystem water balance where plant root systems span large gradients in soil water potential. To assess seasonal patterns of hydraulic redistribution, we measured the direction and rate of sap flow in tap-roots, lateral roots and main stems of three mature Prosopis velutina Woot. trees occurring on a floodplain terrace in semiarid south-eastern Arizona, USA. Sap-flow measurements on two of the trees were initiated before the end of the winter dormancy period, prior to leaf flush. 2 Despite the absence of crown transpiration during the dormant season, sap flow was detected in lateral roots and tap-roots of P. velutina. Reverse flow (away from the stem) in the lateral root and positive flow (towards the stem) in the tap-root was observed in one tree, indicating the presence of hydraulic lift. Conversely, reverse flow in the tap-root and positive flow in the lateral root was observed in the second tree, indicating hydraulic descent. 3 Hydraulic descent was induced in the roots of the former tree by wetting the rooting zone in the upper 70 cm of the soil surface with 50 mm of irrigation. 4 Patterns and rates of nocturnal sap flow in roots of a third tree measured during the growing season were similar to those observed during the dormant season. Nocturnal reverse flow in the lateral root and positive flow in the tap-root was observed prior to the onset of the summer monsoon. Hydraulic descent commenced immediately following the first large monsoon rain event, and continued after subsequent rain events. After adjusting for differences in sapwood area, maximum diurnal rates of hydraulic descent in the tap-roots of trees instrumented during the dormant season were 73 and 69% of the maximum night-time rate of hydraulic descent observed during the growing season. 5 Despite very limited potential for direct infiltration, volumetric soil moisture content in deep soil layers (1.5-9.5 m) increased 2-8% by the end of the monsoon (late September), indicating that plant roots were redistributing non-trivial amounts of water to deep soil layers. 6 Roots of P. velutina apparently redistribute significant amounts of soil water during the growing season, but also during periods of crown dormancy in winter. In arid regions dormant-season hydraulic descent may buffer plants from water and nutrient deficits during initial stages of the growing season by transferring soil water derived from winter precipitation to deep soil layers and away from zones of evaporation in surface layers and shallow-rooted herbaceous plants.
10.2307/2389755|Photosynthetic activity of the cortical tissues of Cytisus scoparius. Link stems were examined in regard to individual biomass production and allocation, structural attributes of stem tissue, chlorophyll content, photosynthetic rates and ability to recover from herbivory. Biomass production and allocation were assessed through growth analysis of plants given one of four treatments: all stems loosely wrapped with aluminium foil; plants defoliated once; plants defoliated repeatedly; and controls. Stem photosynthesis made a significant contribution to growth and biomass production of this mesic species. Cortical stem tissue is structurally very similar to leaf tissue. Chlorophyll content and biomass accumulation of stems, leaves, roots, and nodules changed significantly with simulated herbivory. Apparently, in Cytisus scoparius, stem photosynthesis helps meet different needs, depending on which factor or combination of factors are most critical in any given habitat. For an invasive, weedy perennial like Cytisus scoparius, this flexibility may itself be the most important benefit of having photosynthetic stems. Photosynthetic stems may play an important role in the success of leguminous shrubs in general and in the success of invasive leguminous shrubs in particular.
10.2307/2389729|Non-random mating can affect the success of a plant's offspring by altering the identity and diversity of pollen donors that sire the seeds. Wild radish is known to discriminate among pollen donors within fruits and to selectively fill those fruits which have been multiply sired. In this study, the order of pollinations was varied along branches in order to test whether these plants also regulate mating by differential filling of fruits sired by pollen donors that are locally common or locally rare on branches. Overall, fruits sired by pollen donors that were locally rare had larger individual seeds and larger total weights of seeds per fruit, but the responses of the five maternal families studied were quite heterogeneous. Some families showed no response. One family showed increased size of fruits sired by a rare pollen donor, but the result was not due to the process we were testing. In that case, one donor was a poor donor and fruits of the better donor were large when rare because they had little competition for resources. Only one of the five families showed selective filling of fruits with rare genotypes. This process acts to allocate resources where offspring diversity is highest and it acts in the same direction as selective filling of multiply sired fruits. The result was very strong in the family where it occurred. While this process, like other characters in wild radish, is highly variable, the data show that regulation of mating at the level of the branch can operate in the same direction as regulation of mating within fruits.
20142856|1. Reproductive effort typically scales as
2656374|1. Four Lotus corniculatus genotypes differing in cyanoglycoside and condensed tannin concentrations were grown in either low (350 ppm) or high (700 ppm) atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> environments. Larval performance, consumption and conversion efficiency of Polyommatus icarus feeding on this plant material were measured. 2. Plants grown under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> contained less cyanoglycosides, more condensed tannins and more starch than control plants. However, water concentration, nitrogen and protein as well as nitrogen concentration in relation to carbon concentration did not differ between CO<sub>2</sub> treatments. 3. The four genotypes differed significantly in condensed tannins, cyanoglucoside, leaf water and leaf nitrogen but no genotype-CO<sub>2</sub> interaction was detected, except for total phenolics and condensed tannins in which two plant genotypes showed stronger increases under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> than the other two. 4. Larvae of P. icarus consumed more plant material and used and converted it more efficiently from plants grown at high atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub>. 5. Larvae developed significantly faster and were significantly heavier when fed plant material grown under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. The observed difference in mass disappeared in the pupal and adult stages. However, lipid concentration of adults from the elevated CO<sub>2</sub> treatment was marginally significantly higher than of controls. 6. It is concluded that the higher carbohydrate concentration of L. corniculatus plants grown at elevated CO<sub>2</sub> renders leaves more suitable and better digestible to P. icarus. Furthermore, differences in allelochemicals might influence the palatability of L. corniculatus leaves for this specialist on Fabaceae.
10.2307/2389283|1. We examined the variation in relative testis size among northern populations of Peromyscus to test if mice from populations with shorter breeding seasons had larger testes than mice from populations with longer breeding seasons. If natural selection on relative testes size in mammals is ultimately due to copulatory frequency and if sperm production is limited, then a decrease in the number of days in which a constant number of matings occurs should promote selection for larger testes. 2. Relative testis size (testis length/body length) significantly varied among 10 populations of P. maniculatus and three populations of P. leucopus. Variation in testes size among P. maniculatus was positively related to length of the breeding season, rather than negatively as we predicted. The positive association was probably due to the increase in young-of-the-year breeding in populations with long breeding seasons. This would promote selection for larger testes due to the increase in the number of receptive females and increased male-male competition. 3. We found no evidence to indicate that differences in mating systems accounted for the observed intraspecific variation in testes size.
3806588|1. The pituitary hormone prolactin is thought to play an important role in the promotion of parental care in birds and mammals. The level of care parents provide is, however, likely to be influenced by additional factors, such as their physiological condition at the time of breeding. 2. We examined relationships between parental body condition, plasma prolactin levels and reproductive performance in Gould's Petrels (Pterodroma leucoptera), a long-lived seabird. We predicted that parental body condition would correlate positively with both prolactin level and parenting intensity, as measured by the quality of the chick they produced. We also examined the effects of parenting intensity on parental body condition and reproductive success in the subsequent breeding season. 3. Body condition of male parents positively correlated with prolactin levels at the start of their second protracted incubation bout. The body condition of both parents correlated positively with the body condition of their chick at its peak mass. However, producing a good-quality chick did not negatively affect parental body condition or reproductive success the following year. 4. These results suggest that prolactin reinforces parental behaviour in parents in good body condition, which facilitates production of good-quality chicks. Moreover, good-quality parents consistently produce good-quality chicks with no apparent tradeoff to their physical condition.
3806591|1. The immune system of newly hatched birds is relatively immature; therefore pathogens can be particularly virulent. Females transfer passive immunity in terms of immunoglobulins to the eggs to protect their young against infections in the crucial early life stages. 2. As transmission of antibodies is likely to be nutritionally costly, mothers are expected to allocate these components differentially to eggs according to their own condition, the quality of their mate or the laying order of eggs. 3. We found that in Collared Flycatchers (Ficedula albicollis), yolk antibody levels positively correlated with female body condition, but showed no relationship with maternal age or body size. Furthermore, females with higher plasma heterophil : lymphocyte ratio and heterophil count, which may indicate higher level of stress, deposited lower amount of immunoglobulins to their eggs. These results suggest that females of better physiological condition were able to invest more immunoglobulins to their eggs. 4. Neither the plumage characteristics, nor the age of the male parent was related to yolk antibody concentration, and thus no evidence for differential allocation of antibodies in relation to male quality or attractiveness could be detected. 5. Last-laid eggs contained higher yolk immunoglobulin concentration than earlier-laid eggs within a clutch. This pattern could be interpreted as a way to improve the survival probability of the disadvantaged last-hatching nestling.
10.2307/2389387|It has been widely assumed that the existence of a pelagic larval phase in the life cycle of many sedentary/sessile species of marine invertebrate facilitates large-scale dispersal potential and results in gene flow between populations. Population genetic evidence presented here, for an intertidal nudibranch mollusc (which displays a pelagic lecithotrophic larva), shows considerable spatial heterogeneity over relatively short geographical distances (3 km). This genetic heterogeneity was temporally stable between three succeeding generations. The data are interpreted as indicating that actual larval transport (and hence gene flow) is considerably abbreviated over that which might be expected on the basis of larval culture data alone.
3599318|1. Data were collected on metabolic activity and growth in pectinid bivalves from published studies. The resulting database comprised three types of data sets: (i) synoptic data (13 populations, 7 species), where both individual growth performance and metabolism are known, (ii) 'metabolism only' data (82 populations, 13 species), and (iii) 'growth only' data (198 populations, 26 species). 2. In pectinid bivalves belonging to different species and living under different environmental conditions metabolic activity (standard metabolic rate, SMRAvg,
10.2307/2389345|The physiological adaptations required to survive exposure to low temperatures must be of great importance in allowing nematodes to colonize extreme terrestrial environments, such as Antarctic fellfields. Seasonal variation in the cold hardiness of three species of free-living nematodes was studied by monitoring supercooling points from approximately monthly samples over a period of 2 years. Two species, Teratocephalus tilbrooki Maslen and Plectus antarcticus de Man coexist within the relatively sheltered cushions and carpets of a moss, whilst the third species, Ditylenchus sp.B, is found in the more exposed aerial thalli of a lichen. Ditylenchus sp.B shows consistent supercooling ability, low enough (c -28<sup></sup>C) to avoid any significant incidence of freezing during the study period. Both of the moss-dwelling species, which exhibit bimodal supercooling point distributions with a high group at c -7<sup></sup>C and a low group at c -22<sup></sup>C encounter field temperatures likely to result in freezing. Only T. tilbrooki exhibits any degree of freeze tolerance. P. antarcticus is unique amongst these three species in showing a marked pattern of seasonal change in cold hardiness. Juvenile nematodes show greater supercooling ability than adults. Increased body pigmentation, possibly related to recent feeding activity, increases the likelihood of P. antarcticus freezing at high temperatures (> -10<sup></sup>C), but has no effect on the supercooling ability of Ditylenchus sp.B. Ditylenchus sp.B appears to be capable of preventing the accumulation of any nucleating agents which would cause freezing at high temperatures.
10.2307/2390574|1. The concentrations of total phenolics and condensed tannins were measured in mature and immature leaves of 41 species of tree and shrub found growing wild in Singapore. The species came from trema belukar, the typical secondary forest produced by disturbance of primary lowland rain forest, adinandra belukar, an early successional community of extremely infertile soils, or mangrove. The trema belukar habitat has higher levels of available resources than the other two. 2. Trema belukar species had the highest mean level of total phenolics, significantly higher than the other two communities. The three communities did not differ significantly in foliar concentrations of condensed tannins. These results contradict the predictions of the resource-availability hypothesis of plant defence and are discussed in this light. 3. Immature leaves were generally about 70% higher than mature leaves in their total phenolic coincentration and 78% higher in condensed tannin concentration across the three communities.
10.2307/2389674|The common frog (Rana temporaria L.) occurs in areas where waters are naturally acid and where breeding sites are susceptible to acidification from anthropogenic sources. Acid conditions have been shown to cause embryo mortality. They can also delay metamorphosis and reduce size at metamorphosis among individual tadpoles. Time of metamorphosis and size at metamorphosis may also be influenced by crowding effects. It is conceivable that reductions in tadpole density arising from embryo mortality will offset depressant effects of acid conditions on individual tadpoles. Furthermore, interactions among tadpoles may be modified by individuals' responses to acid conditions. To investigate such possible effects, common frog tadpoles were raised to metamorphosis in the laboratory at three densities (4, 8 and 16 tadpoles litre<sup>-1</sup>) and two levels of pH (nominally pH 4 and pH 7) on a limiting ration. Overall, the effects of density on size at metamorphosis and time of metamorphosis far outweighed those of low pH. The depressant effect of low pH on mean development rate and mean size at metamorphosis decreased with increasing tadpole density. Low pH accentuated hierarchical effects within density replicates, and dominant tadpoles suffered little or no net retardation of growth or development due to low pH. Tadpoles which grew and developed rapidly at low pH suffered debilitating limb deformities. The implications of these interactive effects of density and pH are discussed in the context of freshwater acidification and its possible effects on frog populations. The response of individuals in a group is likely to be more important than the mean response of the group.
3599243|1. Fire is important in the dynamics of savanna-forest boundaries, often maintaining a balance between forest advance and retreat. 2. We performed a comparative ecological study to understand how savanna and forest species differ in traits related to fire tolerance. We compared bark thickness, root and stem carbohydrates, and height of reproductive individuals within 10 congeneric pairs, each containing one savanna and one forest species. 3. Bark thickness of savanna species averaged nearly three times that of forest species, thereby reducing the risk of stem death during fire. The allometric relationship between bark thickness and stem diameter differed between these two tree types, with forest species tending to have a larger allometric coefficient. 4. The height of reproductive individuals of forest species averaged twice that of congeneric savanna species. This should increase the time necessary for forest species to reach reproductive size, thereby reducing their capacity to reach maturity in the time between consecutive fires. 5. There was no difference in total non-structural carbohydrate content of stems or roots between savanna and forest species, though greater allocation to total root biomass by savanna species probably confers greater capacity to resprout following fire. 6. These differences in fire-related traits may largely explain the greater capacity of savanna species to persist in the savanna environment.
3599275|1. The leaf size-twig size spectrum is an important spectrum of variation between species, although the costs and benefits of larger vs smaller leaf size are poorly understood. This study quantified the dry mass costs of deploying leaf area in relation to leaf size, across 70 species from four sites contrasted on the basis of rainfall and soil nutrients in east-temperate Australia. 2. Leaf mass fraction beyond 10 mm
41239436|1. Predators could reduce disease prevalence in prey populations by culling infected hosts and reducing host density. However, recently observed positive correlations between predator density and disease burdens in prey/hosts suggest that predators do not always ' keep the herds healthy'. Several possible mechanisms could explain this 'unhealthy herds' effect, including a predator-induced change in prey/host traits which enhances susceptibility or alters other epidemiologically important traits. 2. Here, we use an invertebrate predator, zooplankton host, yeast parasite system to demonstrate such trait-mediated indirect effects. We exposed ten genotypes of the prey/host Daphnia dentifera to infochemicals ('kairomones') produced by the invertebrate predator Chaoborus and to a yeast parasite. 3. We found that kairomone exposure induced larger and more susceptible D. dentifera. Clones that showed substantial increases in body length also yielded more spores upon death. However, exposure to kairomones did not alter reproduction from uninfected hosts. All of these results were captured with a dynamic energy budget model of parasitism. 4. Overall, our empirical and theoretical results show that predators can have strong indirect effects on host-parasite interactions that could produce positive correlations between predation intensity and disease burden.
20142860|1. Symbiotic relationships with microbes may influence how plant species respond to environmental change. Here, we investigated how a fungal endophyte symbiosis affects the growth and survival of a rare, mid-western United States grass species under altered water availability. In a 12-week long greenhouse experiment, we compared the performance of endophyte-infected and endophytedisinfected grove bluegrass (Poa alsodes, Poaceae) subjected to two levels of water availability. Gravimetric water measurements indicated that the low water treatment had 24% less soil moisture than the high water treatment. 2. In the high water treatment, the performance of endophyte-infected plants and disinfected plants was similar. However, under low water, endophyte-infected plants had 17% more total biomass than disinfected plants. Despite localization of the endophyte in above-ground plant tissues, effects of the endophyte were stronger below-ground: Under low water, endophyte-infected plants produced 24% more root biomass, but just 14% more shoot biomass than disinfected plants. When water-limited, disinfected plants had 29% greater leaf senescence than endophyte-infected plants. 3. We investigated several plant traits that may underlie benefits of symbiosis. Under low water, disinfected plants had significantly higher relative leaf water content than endophyte-infected plants, consistent with the hypothesis that endophytes cause plants to up-regulate water conservation mechanisms faster in response to drought. There were no strong differences between endophyteinfected and disinfected plants in root morphology, leaf area or water use efficiency, although plants with the endophyte had slightly shorter leaves. 4. Our results suggest that endophyte symbiosis may ameliorate the negative effects of drought stress for grove bluegrass. The heritable transmission of endophytes from plants to seeds provides opportunities for environmental change to influence selection on native grass-endophyte symbioses.
10.2307/2389916|1. Quantification of the energetic needs of reproducing animals provides a basis for understanding patterns in reproduction. The doubly labelled water technique enables this to be carried out under natural conditions. 2. Daily energy expenditure of 32 female Great Tits (Parus major) tending nestlings 11-12 days old (DEE
10.2307/2389982|1. To test the predicted relationship between growth rate and biomass allocation in relation to nutrient availability, seedlings of 34 woody species from the tropical deciduous forest in Mexico were grown under two contrasting nutrient conditions. 2. Dry biomass, relative growth rate (RGR), root/shoot ratio (R/S), specific leaf area (SLA), leaf area ratio (LAR), leaf weight ratio (LWR), root weight ratio (RWR), net assimilation rate (NAR) and the nitrogen and carbon leaf percentage were determined following an initial and final harvest. In all the parameters evaluated, the trend followed by the species under low nutrient conditions was similar to the trend attained in high nutrient conditions but with different magnitude. 3. The species with the largest seed biomass was Thevetia ovata (3808.6 mg). Lagrezia monosperma had the smallest seeds (0.13 mg) and the highest RGR in the high nutrient treatment. However, the relationship between RGR and seed biomass among the 34 species studied was weak (r=-0.50 in low and -0.62 in high nutrients). 4. Higher biomass allocation to roots was shown under low nutrient condition but the relationship between RGR and root/shoot ratio was non-significant. 5. Species variation in RGR to both the nutrient treatments employed is followed by species variations in LAR (r=0.50) more than changes in NAR (r=0.20). Changes in LAR are explained by LWR (r=0.62) and SLA (r=0.70). Under low and high nutrients, the RGR was highly correlated with SLA (r=0.67 and 0.60), suggesting the importance of both the total leaf area produced and the leaf morphological characteristics in determining the RGR. 6. A general characteristic of the distribution of the species' responses in RGR to both nutrient treatments was the existence of a continuum, for all of the parameters studied. This suggests differences in the species' resource utilization and tolerance, which are reflected in different plastic capacities.
10.2307/2390261|1. The hypotheses tested were that foraging behavioural responses (number of meals consumed, the number of encounters with prey and feeding time) and activity (swimming time) of the freshwater predatory leech Nephelopsis obscura were higher in the dark than in the light, increased with the size of the predator and increased with the length of the starvation period prior to feeding. 2. While swimming activity was longer in the dark, not all the foraging behaviour variables followed this pattern. There was an inverse relationship between swimming time and the number of meals consumed and the poor correspondence between swimming time and number of prey encounters indicates that swimming is not always directly associated with increased foraging and might be related to movements between micro-habitats. 3. The effect of body size on feeding is complicated by its interaction with hunger levels and the ability of the predator to handle prey.
4540095|1. Most animals do not grow at their maximal rate. This might appear puzzling because the early attainment of a large body size incurs several selective benefits, such as reduced risk of predation and earlier reproductive output. Several hypotheses have been suggested to explain this paradox. Among them, the cost due to high levels of oxidative stress, as the consequence of sustained metabolic activity during growth, has been put forward. 2. In this study, we wished to assess this cost in captive zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). In order to manipulate access to food and consequently early growth, hatchlings were randomly assigned to reduced or enlarged broods. Even though nestlings raised in enlarged broods were smaller when 20-days-old compared to nestlings raised in reduced broods, they grew faster during the following 20-day period. 3. When 60-days-old, we measured the resistance of red blood cells against a free radical attack and correlated these values to nestling growth rate. In agreement with the prediction, we found that red blood cell resistance to free radicals was negatively correlated with growth rate, nestlings that grew faster being those with the weakest capacity to resist a free radical attack. These results support the hypothesis that oxidative damage might constrain growth rate. Furthermore, the fact that the relationship was only established during the period of accelerated growth after the initial delay also suggests that compensatory growth can negatively affect the individual resistance to oxidative damage.
2390322|1. As part of a long-term study of the effects of elevated CO
20142770|1. In early secondary successional forest, we analysed whether lianas convert mass more efficiently to height increment and leaf production, thus enabling them to capture more light per unit mass than trees. 2. Vertical biomass distribution, plant height, stem properties and crown structure were measured for individual plants of three short-lived pioneers (SLP), four long-lived pioneers (LLP) and three lianas in a 05 and 4-year-old secondary forest stand. Daily light interception per individual (
41239222|1. Herbivores consume a large portion of the biomass produced by plants in virtually all ecosystems, which has dramatic effects on both the ecology and evolution of plants. In response to this threat, plants have evolved a diverse arsenal of direct and indirect defences to reduce herbivory and the impacts of damage on plant performance. 2. This special feature is a broad synthesis of the evolution and ecology of plant defences. The first objective of this special feature is to provide a review of what we have learned about plant defences against herbivores. The second objective is to stimulate debate and sow fresh ideas for the future research. 3. The 11 articles in this issue address three fundamental questions: (i) How do plants defend themselves against a diverse array of enemies? (ii) Why do plant species vary in defence? And (iii) What are the ecological and ecosystem-level consequences of plant defence? In addressing these questions the articles cover the interdisciplinary nature of plant-herbivore evolutionary ecology, from genes to global patterns. 4. The articles contained in the special feature question existing paradigms and provide new analyses of data. In some cases, influential hypotheses are firmly supported with new analyses (e.g. the Resource Availability Hypothesis), whereas in other instances conventional wisdom is called into question (e.g. the importance of secondary metabolites in the microevolution of resistance) and popular hypotheses are rejected (e.g. the Apparency Hypothesis, the Latitudinal Biotic Interaction Hypothesis). 5. This is an exciting time for research on the evolutionary ecology of plant defences. The articles in this special feature provide a guide to how we can move forward in resolving existing problems and tackling new questions.
3806596|1. A fundamental assumption in evolutionary immunology is that the immune system is costly to develop, maintain or activate. 2. Two plausible costs of activation of the immune system are decreased resources for growth and reproductive investment. However, few studies have estimated direct effects of an immune challenge, in particular in ectotherm vertebrates. We studied the consequences of an immune challenge in reproductive female dragons, Ctenophorus fordi, and in their offspring by exposing lizards to bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS). 3. The immune challenge led to decreased reproductive investment in terms of egg mass, but with no effect on probability of future reproduction. 4. Maternal immune challenge did not influence the response of their offspring to the same challenge. However, juveniles that were induced to mount an immune response had a higher thermal preference and showed reduced growth, but the magnitude of the growth effect was dependent on the date of oviposition, indicating maternal effects on offspring immunity. 5. Our results suggest that costs of immune activation may be important in shaping growth and reproductive strategies in ectotherms.
2656555|1. Marine Iguanas (Amblyrhynchus cristatus) inhabiting the rocky shores of the Galapagos Islands apply two foraging strategies, intertidal and subtidal foraging, in a seasonal climate. Effects of both foraging strategy and seasonality on the daily energy expenditure (DEE) were measured using doubly labelled water. 2. Difference in foraging mode did not result in significant differences in DEE. 3. On Santa Fe the DEE in the warm season was significantly higher than in the cool season (67.8  21.8 kJ kg<sup>-0.8</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> vs 38.0 kJ kg<sup>-0.8</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>). This difference can be explained by body temperature. A model estimate of the body temperature was used to predict monthly DEE figures, giving a year round budget. On average a 1-kg iguana would need only 47 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>, or 17 mJ year<sup>-1</sup>. This is lower than previous estimates in which body temperatures were not taken into account. 4. The water flux of the Marine Iguana increases with increasing foraging time. The linear rise per minute foraging is roughly two times as high for subtidally foraging animals as for intertidal foragers.
10.2307/2390029|1. Parasite-host interactions are important in the study of evolutionary biology, but the direct fitness consequences of blood parasites have not been well studied. Blood was sampled from 48 female and 37 male Tengmalm's owls (Aegolius funereus) in 1991 and from 49 females and 48 males in 1992. The samples were randomly selected from between 93 and 128 breeding pairs trapped in western Finland. 2. The avian haematozoas found in the blood films were Haemoproteus noctuae (prevalence 3% for females and 2% for males), H. syrnii (10% and 1%), Leucocytozoon ziemanni (97% and 94%) and Plasmodium circumflexum (0% and 1%). 3. Leucocytozoon ziemanni reduced clutch size of females in 1991 when the abundance of the main food (voles) was intermediate, but had no apparent detrimental effect in 1992 when food abundance peaked. 4. We suggest that leucocytozoids can cause anaemia in female owls and compete for the nutritional resources that are used in egg production. Egg-laying females are dependent on male provisioning and may thus apportion substantial energy to parasite resistance only under good food conditions. 5. No evidence that blood parasites are associated with male mating and reproductive success was found.
10.2307/2389499|The quantitative genetical technique can provide a qualitative and a quantitative measure of trade-offs between characters in a genetically polymorphic population. Quantitative genetical analysis of the life history of female Callosobruchus maculatus (F.) shows that egg to adult development rate is genetically negatively correlated with both adult longevity and fecundity, while the last two traits are positively correlated. These results are consistent with the existence of trade-offs between development rate, adult longevity and fecundity, constraining the animal's evolutionary options in the culture environment. The trade-offs come about because of effects of adult body weight. Heavier genotypes take longer to mature, but then enjoy increased fecundity and live longer.
10.2307/2389439|Variation in gas exchange and water relations during drought, and in leaf morphology were studied in 1-year-old greenhouse-grown Acer rubrum L. seedlings originating from four contrasting sites in central Pennsylvania: bog (hydric), valley (mesic), ridge and barrens (xeric). During the middle and later stages of drought. bog plants had lower net photosynthesis and leaf conductance than did the three upland sources. Bog plants also had higher (less negative) shoot water potential at the incipient wilting point. Day-to-day instantaneous measurements of leaf water potential were unobtainable due to foam from the phloem which obscured initial xylem sap exudation. Bog plants had higher pre-drought osmotic potentials than the barrens plants and were the only source to osmotically adjust between pre- and peak drought. During peak drought there were no differences in osmotic potentials, relative water content at zero turgor or tissue elasticity among any of the sources. Barrens plants had leaves with relatively high stomatal density and small guard cells, whereas leaves of bog plants had high specific mass and stomatal density and intermediate guard cell length. Most differences observed in this study were between the bog vs upland sources, and not among the latter. The lack of differences among the upland sources may be due to gene flow between sites or the relatively recent invasion of A. rubrum to the sites.
826588|1. Ecological studies commonly assume that it is possible to extrapolate from a response shown by a fixed set of species to the response when the species composition is allowed to change. However, as described by Simpson's paradox, this is not necessarily a reasonable expectation. 2. The impact of Simpson's paradox on an ecological question was tested using a meta-analysis of data on plant responses to arbuscular mycorrhizas. Although species-level response commonly declines as phosphorus availability increases, we hypothesized that the community-level response could either decline or remain constant. 3. As expected, mycorrhizal response of individual species declined significantly as P supply increased. The response averaged across multiple species was negative but not robust, so we cannot distinguish clearly between the hypotheses. 4. It is impossible to assume that community-level responses to environmental gradients are the same as those found at species level. We recommend that experimental tests of hypotheses should allow species identity to change with the environment.
10.2307/2389874|1. The effect of foliage orientation on light interception and photosynthesis within two tussock grasses, Agropyron desertorum and Pseudoroegneria spicata, was assessed with a new three-dimensional simulation model. The model can account for spatial differences in foliage distribution within the tussock as well as differences in physiological properties of the foliage elements. 2. Light interception and net photosynthesis are calculated for sunlit and shaded foliage. Model predictions of whole-plant net photosynthesis (A<sub>tuss</sub>), transpiration (E<sub>tuss</sub>), water-use efficiency, expressed as the ratio A<sub>tuss</sub> to E<sub>tuss</sub>, and average intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> compared very well with measurements in the field taken with a whole-plant gas-exchange system. 3. Results of simulations indicate that for well-developed tussocks of Agropyron desertorum, steep foliage orientation provides a slight advantage in daily net carbon gain over plants with more horizontally oriented foliage, but these relationships change considerably with time of day. Foliage orientation had little effect on daily net carbon gain of Pseudoroegneria spicata. The differences in carbon gain related to foliage orientation between these species are probably due to differences in tussock foliage density. 4. Substantially lower midday incident fluxes in tussocks with steep foliage orientation could greatly reduce the potential for photoinhibition over plants with more horizontally oriented foliage.
4540049|1. Understanding the relationship between age and size at maturity is essential because these traits are pivotal determinants of an organism's fitness. 2. The relationship between age and size is commonly addressed using optimization and quantitative genetic approaches. Here we argue that the value of such studies is often limited by an insufficient consideration of organismal ontogeny. 3. On the basis of a simple conceptual framework of hierarchical resource allocation, we identify key aspects of ontogeny that prove critical to a fuller understanding of the relationship between age and size, and which, to date, have been insufficiently explored. In particular, these include intrinsic variation in growth rate within and among populations, and the physiological nature of the maturation process that co-ordinates growth and reproductive function in an organism. 4. We also provide some guidance to the empirical investigation of these aspects, anticipating that a wider theoretical, but especially empirical appreciation of ontogenetic detail will greatly increase the explanatory and predictive power of life-history studies.
3599029| 1. Theoretical models predict that animals will vary their effort to maximize different currencies such as time and energy when the constraints of reproduction change during breeding, but this has been poorly studied in free-ranging animals. 2. Foraging effort (energy per unit time) was examined by comparing mass changes, foraging costs and activity-specific behaviours of Wandering Albatrosses (Diomedea exulans Linnaeus) during the incubation and chick-brooding stages. In 1998, 38 albatrosses (20 during incubation and 18 during brooding) were injected with doubly labelled water and equipped with satellite transmitters and activity data loggers. 3. During incubation, albatrosses travelled 37 times farther and were at sea 32 times longer, yet foraging costs were significantly lower than trips made during brooding (incubation
2656352|1. Female mammals increase energy expenditure during lactation to support the high cost of milk production. The extent to which lactation in a small phocid species, the Harbour Seal Phoca vitulina L., was fuelled by food vs body stores, how this allocation varied with maternal body mass and the consequences of maternal expenditure on offspring growth were studied. 2. The proportional body composition of 30 females was independent of initial postpartum body mass, but larger females had absolutely more stored energy than smaller ones. 3. Females lost 32% of postpartum body mass and 62% of body energy by late lactation; 97% of energy loss was derived from body fat. Percentage loss of body energy was independent of initial body mass, indicating that females limit their allocation of body stores to offspring by expending a constant proportion of stores rather than a constant amount. 4. Females spent more time diving and individual dives were deeper and longer as lactation progressed. By late lactation, these characteristics of diving were inversely proportional with initial postpartum mass. 5. During early lactation, female expenditures were covered mainly by a reduction in body energy stores. By late lactation, food intake increased six-fold but the extent of this increase varied inversely with postpartum mass. 6. Pup growth rate and weaning mass were positively related to postpartum mass and total daily energy expenditure of females, but were independent of the source of energy used by females during lactation. Pups of heavy females had higher survival than pups of light females. 7. Our results support the hypothesis that maternal body mass is an important determinant of lactation strategies in pinnipeds.
10.2307/2389448|A new device for measuring the fracture toughness of leaves is described, based on a `cutting' system. This has the advantage of producing a measure of toughness that is comparable to that of other materials, biological and non-biological.
3599220|1. The consequences of globally declining biodiversity and climate change for ecosystem functions are intensively debated topics in ecological research. However, few studies have investigated potential interactions, or the combined effects of both scenarios, for ecosystem functioning. In the work presented here we tested the hypothesis that increasing plant diversity acts as insurance for ecosystem functions during extreme weather events which are predicted by climate change scenarios. 2. We measured the effect of plant diversity on above- and below-ground productivity in semi-natural grasslands following experimentally induced early summer drought. To test the insurance hypothesis directly, we determined in each community the range of 
10.2307/2390148|1. The question of whether flowers reabsorb nectar was investigated in Grevillea robusta (Proteaceae), which bears large inflorescences with copious dilute nectar exposed to the atmosphere. 2. Each flower secreted nectar for 2 days and secretion rates were strongly dependent on temperature. 3. Reabsorption of nectar was shown indirectly, as has been done for other species, by comparing the accumulated nectar (standing crop) with the much greater cumulative rate of secretion measured during repeated sampling. 4. Experimental manipulation of nectar volumes and concentrations permitted the direct demonstration of nectar reabsorption under field conditions, shown by a decrease in sugar content of overfilled flowers. This occurred from both a high volume and a high concentration. 5. The results indicate active regulation of nectar sugar content by the flowers, with a balance between secretion, evaporation and reabsorption.
10.2307/2390097|1. The braconid Asobara tabida is a widespread parasitoid of Drosophila larvae in fermenting substrates. 2. Across its geographic range, survival probability in D. subobscura larvae is high and fairly constant; survival probability in D. melanogaster larvae shows much variation. 3. When females of different strains are offered a choice between larvae of the two host species, the degree of preference for D. subobscura larvae is linked to the difference in survival probability in the two host species. 4. Host selection behaviour of the females matches the predictions made by an optimal foraging model. 5. Survival probability in D. melanogaster also depends on temperature and host selection behaviour appears to be influenced by temperature as well. 6. It is concluded that host selection behaviour of A. tabida is a trait with phenotypic plasticity on top of genetic differences.
2390536|1. A simple device called a `pocometer' (POlar COordinate METER) was developed to measure three-dimensional structure of plants. It consists of a tape-measure to measure distance and two protractors to measure zenith angle and azimuth angle. 2. The pocometer can determine locations of points within a few metres distance with a resolution of less than 1 cm. Location of any point on a plant can be measured in 10 to 30 s depending on the ease of pulling the tape measure to the point of interest. 3. A system to use data obtained with the pocometer to calculate plant light capture was developed. The degree of shading at any point on a plant is estimated by checking obstruction by other plant parts of the view toward the sky at that point. 4. Photon flux density (PFD) on leaf surfaces was estimated for Aucuba japonica, a broad-leaved evergreen shrub, using the above system. The estimated PFDs for individual leaves of a plant corresponded to the sensor-measured PFDs with correlation coefficients of 0.67 to 0.92.
40963549|1. Functional traits have been extensively used to describe, group and rank species according to their functions. There is now growing evidence that intraspecific functional variability, as well as interspecific variability, can have significant effects on community dynamics and ecosystem functioning. A core hypothesis for the use of functional traits expressed as species means, that their intraspecific variability is negligible compared with their interspecific variability, has however been too rarely tested empirically. We then addressed four questions: Is intraspecific functional variability across species ranges negligible compared with interspecific variability? Are the major resource economics trade-off and functional strategies robust to individual trait variability? Are species rankings or ordination robust across species ranges once considering intraspecific variability? Can species be discriminated by their leaf traits? 2. Using an environmentally stratified sampling design within an alpine catchment, we collected five functional traits for 13 common plant species with contrasting life histories and traits. Several populations from a range of environmental conditions were then sampled for each species across their ranges. 3. With an original combination of single-trait and multi-trait analyses, we highlighted a nonnegligible contribution of intraspecific variability to overall functional trait variability (~30%). Although not affecting general and well-known functional trade-offs and strategies, intraspecific functional variability had the potential to alter species ordination and produced a functional continuum rather than a clear-cut species classification. 4. Deciding whether intraspecific functional variability can be considered as negligible  species being represented by mean trait values , or not  species being represented by multivariate trait distributions , is an essential question for multiple ecological issues. However, this decision cannot be generic, but will depend on the studied system and selected traits and species, as well as on study objectives.
3599307|1. Immune defence has recently been viewed as a life-history trait that shows trade-offs with other life-history traits. However, studies exploring correlations between different components of immune defence and other life-history traits are scarce. 2. In this study, two measures of immune function, body size, and development time were studied in the Mediterranean Field Cricket, Gryllus bimaculatus. 3. We found no differences between the sexes, but differences in the correlation between the measure of immune function, development time, and body size. In both sexes, encapsulation rate was negatively correlated with body size and development time, whereas lytic enzyme activity was positively correlated with these two traits. Furthermore, encapsulation rate and lytic activity were themselves negatively correlated. 4. These results indicate that there is no single trait that can be termed 'immunocompetence' and that an understanding of trade-offs between the different types of immune function and life-history traits will require a more detailed analysis of the physiological basis of the traits.
10.2307/2389297|Melanic forms occur commonly in small species of coccinellid like Adalia bipunctata (L.) but are rare or absent in large species like Coccinella septempunctata L. Under direct irradiation coccinellids that are melanic show a greater temperature excess than non-melanic individuals. This was demonstrated for naturally occurring morphs of A. bipunctata and the normal non-melanic and artificial melanic forms of C. septempunctata. Temperature excess was shown to be a function of the elytral surface area that is coloured black. It is suggested that large species of coccinellid are not melanic because if they were their body temperatures would frequently reach deleterious levels on sunny days.
2390303|1. One temperature shift from 20 to 30 <sup></sup>C in darkness induces 30-40% germination in Rumex obtusifolius seeds. The same germination percentages are found with heat treatment varying between 1 and 6 h duration, indicating that the total heat sum of the temperature shift is not important. 2. Germination is greatly enhanced by three consecutive heat shifts of 1 h at 30 <sup></sup>C separated by 1 h periods at 20 <sup></sup>C. 3. The seeds are activated to a small extent after a slow warming (+2 <sup></sup>C h<sup>-1</sup>) from 20 to 30 <sup></sup>C, followed by incubation for 1 h at 30 <sup></sup>C. Germination is much higher after rapid heating (+10 <sup></sup>C h<sup>-1</sup>) to 30 <sup></sup>C, followed by 1 h incubation at this temperature. Repeated fast heating treatments on four consecutive days enhances germination. Moderately rapid heatings (+3.3 <sup></sup>C h<sup>-1</sup>) give intermediate results. 4. The rate of cooling does not influence the germination percentage. Cooling alone cannot induce germination. 5. Heating alone from 15 to 25 <sup></sup>C without cooling also activates germination. In this temperature range the seeds are more activated by rapid warming than by slow warming. 6. The ecological relevance of the response to different warming rate is discussed. The insensitivity of seeds to a slow warming might keep deeply buried seeds in a dormant stage.
10.2307/2390191|1. Nutritional effects of ingested quebracho, a condensed tannin, were examined in two marsupial folivores: Trichosurus vulpecula and Pseudocheirus peregrinus. These hindgut fermenters normally consume a diet including tannin-rich leaves. 2. Dry matter digestibility, neutral detergent fibre (NDF) digestibility, nitrogen digestibility and nitrogen balance were not reduced by quebracho. 3. There was no cost in terms of a reduced conversion of digestible to metabolizable energy. Much of the tannin was recovered in the faeces, indicating that urine was not the major route of excretion. 4. Results are consistent with previous studies on these folivores, but contrast with the effects of quebracho on some eutherians and two macropodids. They support the hypothesis that capacity to deal with tannins and other allelochemicals should be associated with the level of their normal consumption, and therefore with feeding niche.
10.2307/2389633|Although the effects of temperature on ectotherm physiology have been generally recognized, consequences for animal performance in the field have seldom been assessed. We experimentally investigated the thermal dependence within the body temperature range 20-35<sup></sup>C, of distinct behavioural and physiological functions related to feeding (sprint speed, prey-catching rate, prey-handling rate, gut-passage rate, voluntary food intake, mass change) in the lizard Lacerta vivipara Jacquin. All functions examined were strongly dependent on body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>); their rate generally increased rapidly within the range 20-30<sup></sup>C and then levelled. Exceptions were gut-passage rate and the amount of weight change, which exhibited a decline at 35<sup></sup>C. Some small but consistent differences in thermal sensitivities between performance functions were evident. Gut-passage rate and weight change were maximal at T<sub>b</sub>  30<sup></sup>C, which is slightly lower than the optimal temperature of the other functions (32-34<sup></sup>C). Passage rate had the widest, whereas prey-catching rate and weight change had the narrowest 80% thermal performance breadth. These results indicate that no single T<sub>b</sub> maximizes all behavioural and physiological processes and therefore supports the `multiple optima' hypothesis. We predicted performance levels in the field by integrating results of the thermal sensitivity experiments with data on T<sub>b</sub>s of field-active L. vivipara. Lizards seem to be able to achieve >80% of their maximum capacity for most of the time, at least during sunny weather. Under cloudy/variable conditions, when lizards suffer impaired possibilities to thermoregulate, performance levels were reduced. This depression is less accentuated for gut-throughput rate and weight change. We discuss our results in the context of the overall thermal biology of this cool-climate lizard.
40205484|1. In insects, cuticular melanization and immune function are strongly dependent on the quantity of dietary protein ingested. However, relatively little is known about the role played by the quality of nitrogenous resources in determining phenotypic variation in the degree of melanization and correlated immunological functions. We explored this issue in a generalist-feeding caterpillar, Spodoptera littoralis, by providing larvae with one of two semi-artificial diets differing in their quality of protein supplement (high-quality casein vs. low-quality zein). 2. Larvae given a high-quality protein diet had higher survival and faster growth rates than larvae on the low-quality protein diet; they also had more heavily melanized cuticles. Two components of constitutive immunity were assayed: lysozyme-like antibacterial activity and phenoloxidase (PO) activity. PO activity was not affected by diet quality, but antibacterial activity was higher for insects on the high-quality diet, providing a potential physiological mechanism for observed survival differences between the two dietary treatments. 3. Analysis of nitrogen conversion efficiency using chemically defined diets indicated that protein-quality had little effect on ingestion rates (i.e. nitrogen acquisition), but that post-ingestive utilization of nitrogen was reduced for larvae on the low-quality protein diet. This result implies that proteinquality had a significant influence on the nitrogen pool potentially available for investment in melanin production and immune function. 4. A split-plot, full-sib family breeding experiment was used to dissect the genetic control of cuticular melanization from the effects induced by dietary treatment. Estimates of broad-sense heritability indicated that the expression of melanization had a significant genetic basis, but there was little evidence for a genotype x environment interaction. 5. These results suggest that nutrition is a key factor that influences insect melanization and mediates its coupling with important physiological functions linked to survival.
4139371| 1. Distribution and abundance patterns are influenced by cellular responses to abiotic stressors. 2. The freshwater clam Sphaerium sp. inhabits swamp/stream systems in Uganda, in which dissolved O (DO), pH and water transparency form ecotonal gradients along tributary streams. Along a swamp/stream transect, clam abundance was negatively related to DO, pH and transparency; clams were most abundant in the hypoxic/acidic swamp, less abundant in the ecotone, and absent from stream sites (neutral pH and higher DO). 3. We tested the hypothesis that individuals living in low abundance at the distribution edge have increased stress by assessing cellular-level stress indicators in clams from four sites: dense swamp interior (reference site), swamp margin, ecotone and stream. Compared with swamp interior clams, stream clams had decreased RNA: DNA ratio (decreased protein synthesis and growth) and increased DNA and RNA oxidation (free radical damage). Of seven stress proteins related to general damage and free radical detoxification, expression of nearly all were higher in margin and ecotone clams than in swamp interior or stream clams. 4. This pattern, which includes the first measurement of DNA and RNA oxidation in a natural population, demonstrates that stress increases along the transect, inversely to clam abundance. Additionally, this pattern is consistent with free radical stress, which suggests that inhabiting swamp conditions minimizes oxidative damage in this species. 
826611|1. A neotropical hunting spider, Cupiennius salei, was studied to test whether spiders optimize venom use. 2. A prey-choice experiment was performed with several cockroach species. These easily accepted prey species are especially suitable for such an experiment because the LD
3599357|1. A long-standing theoretical problem in biology is the relation between organism size M and metabolic rate Q. 2. This long history of research into such a basic pattern is due to the particular shape of the relationship: it is generally observed that the relation is well described as
2656351|1. Natural enemies are likely to influence the interactions between herbivorous insects and their host plants. In particular, selection exerted by natural enemies could favour host-plant switches and cause, or maintain, oviposition preference for a host species that is nutritionally inferior to another acceptable host. 2. In a previous study, it was shown that larvae of the leaf beetle Oreina elongata perform better on Adenostyles alliariae (Asteraceae) than on Cirsium spinosissimum (Asteraceae). Moreover, A. alliariae provides larval and adult beetles with sequestrable chemical defences. However, in the field, egg densities are much higher on C. spinosissimum than on adjacent A. alliariae. 3. In this study, it was investigated whether this oviposition pattern could be maintained by C. spinosissimum, providing the eggs of O. elongata with better protection from natural enemies. In a field experiment, the survival of eggs was quantified on plants of each of the two species, with and without enemy exclusion. 4. Egg survival was equal for both host species when enemies were excluded from the plants, but it was higher on C. spinosissimum than on A. alliariae when enemies were allowed to the plants. It was also experimentally tested whether the higher egg densities observed in the field on C. spinosissimum are actually due to oviposition preference by the beetle. In a no-choice test, females laid more eggs on C. spinosissimum than on A. alliariae. 5. It can thus be confirmed that C. spinosissimum is really preferred for oviposition and it is concluded that this preference is likely to be maintained, at least partly, by a higher egg survival on C. spinosissimum due to enemy-free space provided by this host plant.
10.2307/2389937|1. Sonication is a seemingly effective method for foraging insects to extract pollen rapidly from poricidal anthers. However, without a dispensing mechanism to limit the pollen extraction a single forager might be able to glean all of the pollen from a flower in a single visit. 2. The vibratory release mechanism of a buzz-pollinated flower species, Solanum laciniatum, and its relationship with time was investigated. 3. The sonication vibration magnitude required to eject pollen from the anthers increased with frequency; vibrations at frequencies below 180 Hz were particularly effective owing to the low (124 Hz) natural frequency of the stamens and the good transmission of low-frequency vibration by the anthers. The natural frequency of stamens was low compared with the sonication frequencies of bumble-bees and did not change significantly when sonicated. 4. Large amounts of pollen (72 000 grains) were released in initial sonications, but this was a small percentage (18%) of the total available pollen; pollen release continued in metered quantities over time. 5. The stamen vibration mode created centrifugal forces, which forced pollen out of the apical pores, and the gradual dehydration of the tapetal fluid remaining in lower regions of dehiscent poricidal anthers produced a timed release mechanism. 6. The frequency increase from the flight wing-beat frequency to the sonication buzz enables bumble-bees to generate high accelerations, which are able to release pollen from the anthers, using thoracic vibrations, which are limited by the maximum possible displacement of the indirect flight muscles.
10.2307/2390108|1. Density of germinable seeds was determined in each of 128 blocks of surface soil, each 7 x 7 cm, together forming a 112 x 56 cm rectangle, taken from a lowland, species-poor sown grassland in Devon. 2. The turf contained only six species, but seeds of 27 species germinated from the soil. The commonest species in the turf, Festuca rubra, was absent from the seed bank. The second most frequent species in the seed bank, Coronopus didymus, was absent from the turf. Trifolium repens was common in both. The seeds of several weed species had survived in the soil for up to 10 years. 3. Buried seeds of all the common species were significantly clumped. For species common to both, there was no evidence of significant correlation between small-scale abundance in the turf and the seed bank. 4. From the beginning of September to the end of December 1986, all worm casts (339 in total) were collected from 1 m
40205566|1. Baldwin (1896) suggested that behavioural flexibility could allow organisms to persist in novel environments, thus buying time for the evolution of genetic adaptations to the new environment. This has proven true for free-living organisms invading novel habitats. Behavioural flexibility could also allow parasites to exploit novel hosts, but this hypothesis has not been tested, despite the fact that parasitism is one of the most common lifestyles on earth. 2. In this study, I compare the behavioural flexibility of two relatively host specific groups of feather lice (Phthiraptera: Ischnocera) that parasitize pigeons and doves: 'wing' lice (Columbicola columbae and C passerinae) and 'body' lice (Campanulotes compar and Physconelloides eurysema). 3. Wing and body lice are similar in many aspects of their natural history, but they differ in their relationship to host body size. Wing louse size is tightly correlated with host body size, whereas body louse size is not. Even so, experiments have shown that wing lice can establish on different sized novel hosts just as well as body lice. 4. Behavioural flexibility may facilitate the establishment of wing lice on different sized novel hosts. To test this hypothesis, I experimentally transferred wing and body lice to a series of different sized novel host species. Once the louse populations established (two generations) I compared the microhabitat preferences of wing and body lice on novel hosts vs. native host controls. 5. Wing lice shifted their microhabitat use on novel host species, and the magnitude of the shift was correlated with host size. In contrast, body lice rarely shifted microhabitat and when they did, the shift was not correlated with host size. 6. Behavioural flexibility may play a pivotal role in the ability of wing lice to establish on different sized novel host species, and could be an important factor for other parasites faced with novel hosts.
10.2307/2390227|1. The mosses Brachythecium rutabulum and Pseudoscleropodium purum were subjected to a nutrient `pulse' consisting of eight daily additions of a solution of KH
40205475|1. While rising atmospheric CO has the potential to enhance plant growth and biomass accumulation, rates of these processes may be constrained by soil nitrogen (N) availability. Despite much effort, it is still uncertain how elevated CO affects long-term soil N dynamics. 2. We used open-top chambers to examine the effect of 5 years of elevated atmospheric CO concentration (720 vs. 368 p.p.m.) on N dynamics in a semi-arid grassland ecosystem in northeastern Colorado, USA. In the first year 05 g m of ammonium nitrate-N, 999 atom% N, was added to each plot. We examined the effect of elevated CO on N mineralization and plant N uptake by tracking the labelled and total N in plant and soil over the following 5 years. 3. Plant growth and plant N uptake remained significantly higher under elevated than under ambient CO. The fraction of labelled N (expressed per unit of total N) in above-ground biomass declined over time, and this decline was greater under elevated CO. The amount and fraction of labelled N in the soil did not change with time and was unaffected by elevated CO. These results suggest that with time, N released from mineralization in the soil diluted the labelled N in aboveground biomass and that this dilution effect caused by N mineralization was greater under elevated CO. More of the mineralized N ended up in the above-ground biomass of Stipa comata and forbs (C) than in Bouteloua gracilis (C) under elevated CO. 4. Increased soil moisture under elevated CO likely supported higher rates of N mineralization, thereby reducing N constraints on plant growth. Therefore, in semi-arid systems, plant growth and species composition responses to elevated CO may be more persistent than in mesic systems where N mineralization is less constrained by soil moisture.
40205512|1. Personality is highly relevant to ecology and the evolution of fast-slow metabolic and lifehistory strategies. One of the most important personality traits is exploratory behaviour, usually measured on an animal introduced to a novel environment (e. g. open-field test). 2. Here, we use a unique comparative dataset on open-field exploratory behaviour of muroid rodents to test a key assumption of a recent evolutionary model, i. e. that exploration thoroughness is positively correlated to age at first reproduction (AFR). We then examine how AFR and exploratory behaviour are related to basal metabolic rate (BMR). 3. Inter-specific variation in exploratory behaviour was positively correlated with AFR. Both AFR and exploration behaviour were negatively correlated with BMR. These results remained significant when taking phylogeny into account. 4. We suggest that species occupying unproductive and unpredictable environments simultaneously benefit from high exploration, low BMR and delayed AFR because exploration increases the likelihood of finding scarce resources, whereas low BMR and delayed reproduction enhance survival during frequent resources shortages. 5. This study provides the first empirical evidence for a link between personality, life-history, phylogeny and energy metabolism at the inter-specific level. The superficial-thorough exploration continuum can be mapped along the fast-slow metabolic and life-history continua.
3599095| 1. We investigated the relationship between seed mass and the suitability of microsites for germination for five small-seeded (< 24 mg fresh mass) photoblastic neotropical pioneer trees. We determined the germination response of these species to the ratio of red to far-red irradiance (r:fr) and compared it to r:fr measured under varying conditions of canopy openness, litter and soil thickness. 2. At a constant temperature the germination percentage of each of the species increased sharply with increasing r:fr above a species-specific threshold r:fr. The smallest-seeded species, Miconia argentea, had the lowest r:fr threshold for germination (012) while the larger-seeded Cecropia species and Solanum hayesii possessed higher values (021-027). The largest seeded species, Solanum hayesii, also showed a positive germination response to a 10 C temperature fluctuation, which was independent of the response to r:fr. 3. The mean r:fr at ground level declined with decreasing gap size but not sufficiently to suppress the germination of these five species. However, a covering of one litter leaf in direct sunlight reduced the r:fr to between 018 and 083 depending on the species and leaf wetness. The top-soil at our study site was aggregated and irradiance was transmitted or reflected between soil aggregates with little change in r:fr. Light did not penetrate the aggregates. 4. We suggest that photoblastic germination in neotropical pioneers has evolved to inhibit germination in response to conditions most likely to alter within the life of an individual seed (i.e. superficial burial by leaf litter or incorporation into the surface soil), rather than to fine scale variation in canopy openness. Among photoblastic species, the pattern of response to r:fr suggests that smaller-seeded species would germinate in a broader range of microsites than larger-seeded species. This lower degree of discrimination may be associated with their higher risk of mortality and therefore more limited persistence in the soil seed bank. 
826561|1. Every plant will die if light, water or nutrients are withheld for long enough. It is natural to think of plants in general as having evolved a strong drive for resource acquisition as a survival mechanism. All else being equal, an individual that sequesters more material from the environment than its neighbour must be at a competitive advantage. 2. But the resource capture imperative seems at odds with the profligacy of some characteristic developmental and metabolic processes in many plants. Here, using leaf senescence as a vantage point, we consider whether a kind of wilful inefficiency of resource use may not be essential for success as a terrestrial autotroph.
40205519|1. Theoretical models predict that large-seeded species should germinate more rapidly than smallseeded species, since large seeds are more likely to have higher post-dispersal seed predation than small seeds. A prompt germination strategy would therefore enable large seeds to reduce risks of mortality. 2. To assess this predicted relationship between seed mass and mean time to germination (MTG), we used a meta-analysis of published data sources. Our data base contained information for these two traits for 1037 tree species from five tropical areas worldwide (Brazil, India, Ivory Coast, Malaysia and Panama). Both cross-species analyses and phylogenetically independent contrasts (PIC) were conducted on the log-transformed values of seed mass and MTG. 3. Log-seed mass was a significantly phylogenetically conserved trait in all five data sets. Log-MTG was significantly phylogenetically conserved in all sites except for Malaysia and India. 4. Log-MTG and log-seed mass were significantly positively correlated in all sites except for Malaysia. PIC analyses showed a significantly positive relationship in Brazil, India and Ivory Coast but not in Malaysia and Panama. When all sites were combined, PIC analyses indicated a significant positive relationship between these two traits. 5. Our findings do not support the hypothesis that large seeds germinate faster than small seeds, but rather that small seeds germinate faster. We interpret our results in light of phylogenetic and biophysical constraints. We propose four alternative mechanisms that could account for the observed pattern, including developmental constraints, water absorption and investment to physical defences.
10.2307/2389828|1. Litter size, food quality and water availability can influence growth rate and survival of offspring of mammals. 2. Fat sand rats have litters that range in size from one to eight pups. They are able to thrive and reproduce and lactating females can raise young while consuming only the saltbush Atriplex halimus, a chenopod low in energy content but high in water and electrolyte content. Water content of A. halimus differs greatly among seasons, but energy content and concentration of electrolytes of dry leaves do not. 3. We hypothesized that birth body mass and growth rate of fat sand rat pups are affected by litter size and water content of A. halimus leaves consumed by the pregnant and lactating female. We predicted that birth body mass and growth rate of pups will decrease with an increase in litter size and with a decrease in dietary water content. 4. Our hypotheses were supported. The equation describing the effects of litter size (L) and dietary water content (W) on birth body mass (m
20142812| 1. Plants are frequently observed to increase carbon allocation to below-ground sinks and particularly, to accelerate fine root turnover in response to rising atmospheric CO concentration. While these strong below-ground responses have predominantly been observed in rapidly expanding systems, late successional plant communities have rarely been studied. 2. In an ongoing free air CO enrichment (FACE) experiment, we assessed below-ground responses to elevated CO after 4 years, in a treeline ecosystem in the Swiss Central Alps (2180 m a.s.l.) dominated by a late successional ericaceous dwarf shrub community (Vaccinium myrtillus, V. uliginosum, Empetrum hermaphroditum), and a sparse overstorey of 30-year-old Larix decidua and Pinus uncinata trees. Measurements included quantification of fine root growth using ingrowth root cores and parallel standing crop harvests and decomposition of roots using litter bags. 3. Elevated CO did not stimulate root growth of the treated vegetation (although some significant above-ground growth responses were observed), nor did altered root decomposition occur. Root quality measurements indicated that elevated CO resulted in significantly higher starch concentrations, but no change in N concentration, or root dehydrogenase activity. 4. The use of the stable isotope C permitted us to trace the new carbon entering the system through our CO enrichment treatment. We observed that only c. 30% of new root biomass (&lt 2 mm) was formed by new carbon indicating a rather slow root turnover in this system. 5. Our data show that fine root growth may be much less stimulated by elevated CO in systems with late successional elements than has been reported in ecosystems with a rapidly expanding plant community biomass. 
2656335|1. A general hypothesis is presented to explain interspecific differences in size-independent resting metabolic rate. This hypothesis is based on a presumed trade-off between a low resting metabolism and adaptations of metabolism during activity. 2. With such a trade-off, selection to reduce resting metabolism is less intense in active species than in species where resting metabolism constitutes a large proportion of the daily metabolic costs. Those animals that spend more energy on activity should therefore have a higher resting metabolic rate than animals that spend less energy on activity. 3. A literature review reveals that flying insects have higher resting metabolic rates than species that use energetically less demanding types of locomotion. 4. Insects producing acoustic advertisement signals can be shown to have higher mass-independent resting metabolic rates than closely related species without this energetically demanding behaviour. 5. Literature data on vertebrate resting metabolic rates are also consistent with the presented hypothesis: the more energy animals spend on activity, the higher the mass-independent resting metabolic rate.
40603059|1. Static animal colour patches may function among competitors to minimize conflict escalation over resources, by serving as a signal of resource holding potential or aggressiveness. Empirical evidence for the use of colour patches in conflict resolution is largely restricted to pigment-based colours (melanins and carotenoids) and rarely defines the context in which the signals are used. 2. Here we test whether structural-based ultraviolet (UV) crown colouration functions in conflict resolution among dyads of first-year male blue tits Cyamistes caeruleus in captivity, in a context that is known to favour aggressive individuals. 3. We found that on first encounter in a pairwise context, experimentally UV-reduced males were significantly more likely to lose to control-treated opponents than expected by chance. However, this disparity was less pronounced when conflicts were settled with physical fighting or when the opponent was considerably smaller in size. 4. When the same dyads were tested again several weeks later, but with the UV treatment reversed among opponents, none of the effects remained significant, but instead the winner was most likely to be the individual that won at their first encounter. 5. Our results suggest that structural-based UV colouration can affect the outcome of an interaction, but that size differences and the outcome of initial interactions between opponents can override the influence of this signal in conflict resolution. Whether there is a functional basis to maintain a link between aggressiveness and colouration may thus be highly dependent on the general context under which individuals compete in the wild.
3599177|1. Sierra Nevada populations of the Willow Beetle Chrysomela aeneicollis (Schaeffer) experience extreme elevated and subzero temperatures in nature. In these populations, frequencies of phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI) alleles vary with latitude and altitude and respond to climate change. PGI genotypes differ in expression of a stress-inducible heat shock protein (Hsp70). 2. Here, differences in tolerance of elevated and subzero extreme temperatures were compared for field-acclimatized and laboratory-acclimated larvae and adults possessing three common PGI genotypes (PGI 1-1, 1-4 and 4-4). Three indices of thermal tolerance were measured
3598958|1. Vascular plant growth forms in northern peatlands differ in their strategies to cope with the harsh climate, low nutrient availability and progressively increasing height of the Sphagnum carpet in which they grow. Climate change may therefore affect growth forms differentially, both directly and through changes in the length growth of Sphagnum mosses. However, the role of mosses as modifiers of climate-change effects on vascular plants has been largely overlooked so far. We investigated the direct and Sphagnum-mediated effects of experimental changes in summer, winter and spring climate on four species of contrasting growth forms (evergreen and deciduous shrubs, graminoid, forb) in a subarctic bog, by studying their biomass and nitrogen losses through leaf litter, and the length growth of the two shrubs. 2. Direct and indirect effects of summer warming differed among the growth forms. Enhanced Sphagnum overgrowth of leaves due to summer warming initially stimulated leaf litter losses of the evergreen shrub Empetrum nigrum. However, changes in its shoot morphology, related to an apparent small increase in its length growth, prevented further effects. A stronger increase in stem growth of the deciduous shrub Betula nana in response to summer warming directly reduced its leaf litter mass, N concentration and N losses. The changed allocation prevented indirect, Sphagnum-mediated effects on its leaf and N dynamics through overgrowth of buds. In contrast, leaf litter mass, N concentrations or N losses of the forb Rubus chamaemorus and the graminoid Calamagrostis lapponica were not affected by summer warming or enhanced Sphagnum growth. 3. Increases in winter snow cover, with or without spring warming, did not affect shrub growth, nor the total shoot leaf litter mass or N dynamics of any of the growth forms. 4. Altogether, summer warming is likely to enhance Sphagnum overgrowth of small shrubs with a limited growth response such as Empetrum. Moreover, increased vertical growth may allow Sphagnum to keep pace with inclined growing, responsive shrubs such as Betula. This might prevent net longer-term positive effects of summer warming on the vascular plant canopy height. However, leaf litter and N losses are more likely to be affected by direct warming effects on shoot morphology and allocation than by Sphagnum growth. The different responses of the growth forms to summer warming suggest that both direct and Sphagnum-mediated climate effects have the potential to change the vascular plant community and N dynamics in peatlands.
10.2307/2389737|Relationships between competition and the most relevant niche axes are central to understanding coexistence in natural guilds. We performed short-term laboratory experiments on freshwater detritivores to analyse the relationships between competitive ability and niche responses on the resource axis and on absorption rate (used as if it was a niche axis). Individuals of Echinogammarus veneris Heller (Amphipoda), Planorbis sp. (Gastropoda) and Proasellus coxalis Dollfus (Isopoda), were maintained separately or in mixed species groups on resources labelled with <sup>32</sup>P to assess food transfer from each resource to each individual. E. veneris, which had intermediate daily absorption rate, was limited by co-occurrence and showed diet shifts resulting in trophic specialization in mixed-species conditions. P. coxalis and Planorbis showed niche modifications too, but these occurred mainly or only on the intrapopulation components of absorption rates. Moreover, absorption rates for P. coxalis increased under co-occurrence. Reductions in mean realized overlaps, with respect to the potential ones, support an adaptive interpretation of the niche modifications observed between conspecifics. The results also confirm the use of absorption rate as a niche axis for benthic detritivores and emphasize the concomitant role of the two niche axes on the strength of interspecific competition among species pairs.
41239356|1. In wild birds, incubation period shortens and the general pace of life quickens with distance from the equator. Temperature and various biotic factors, including adult behaviours, cannot fully account for longer incubation periods of equatorial birds and only explain some of the variation between tropical and temperate life histories. Here we consider the role of differences in light in driving variation in incubation period. In poultry, incubation periods can be experimentally shortened by exposing eggs to light. The positive influence of light on embryonic growth, called photoacceleration, can begin within hours after an egg is laid. 2. We artificially incubated house sparrow (Passer domesticus) eggs under photoperiods similar to those found at temperate (18Light : 6Dark) and tropical (12L : 12D) latitudes. We also measured embryonic metabolic rate during light and dark phases. 3. Eggs of house sparrows collected from the wild developed more rapidly under 'temperate' than 'tropical' photoperiods and had higher metabolic rates during phases of light exposure than during phases of darkness. Metabolic rates during light phases were high enough to account for a 1 day difference in incubation periods between temperate and tropical birds. 4. Based on a synthesis of photoacceleration studies on domesticated galliformes and our experimental results on a wild passerine, we provide the first support for the testable hypothesis that differences in photoperiod may influence variation in the rate of embryonic development across latitudes in birds.
10.2307/2389356|At 15<sup></sup>C, Nephelopsis obscura Verrill behaved as predicted for an iteroparous species, decreasing the rate of energy allocation to reproduction as ration declined. At 20<sup></sup>C, under high ration, N. obscura deviated from predictions for both iteroparous and semelparous species by reducing the rate of energy allocation to reproduction at high rations. This temperature-related shift of energy allocation to reproduction is explained in terms of the relative mortality risks associated with breeding at 15<sup></sup>C and 20<sup></sup>C, and shows that N. obscura has a flexible life-history strategy, which is an adaptive response to breeding in a variable environment.
10.2307/2389898|1. With only a few exceptions, the potential contribution of heterospecific prey to the evolution of cannibalism and accompanying morphologies in amphibians and other taxa is unknown. In this study we tested the role of invertebrate and vertebrate prey in controlling variation in frequencies of a non-cannibal and an environmentally cued cannibal morph among populations of the Arizona tiger salamander, Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum. 2. In parts of its range, A. t. nebulosum is syntopic with larvae of the chorus frog, Pseudacris triseriata. Our field measurements revealed a significant positive correlation between the frequency of cannibal morphs in larval tiger salamanders and density of chorus frog tadpoles. Cannibal frequency did not correlate significantly with larval salamander density, although frequency of cannibals varies positively with conspecific density in the laboratory. Analysis of stomach contents of salamanders revealed that cannibalism was low in the populations studied and P. triseriata larvae comprised about 24% of the volume of prey in the stomachs of cannibals. 3. We raised larval salamanders with various prey to test the effect of invertebrates, tadpoles and salamander larvae on expression of cannibalism. 4. Our experiments demonstrated that a diet of only P. triseriata tadpoles did not induce the cannibal morphology in salamander larvae. Likewise, salamanders fed only invertebrates failed to express the cannibal morphology, but those fed invertebrates while also having access to conspecifics as potential prey developed as cannibals. 5. These results support the conclusion that availability of conspecifics as prey is a key proximate factor controlling expression of the cannibal morphology in A. tigrinum and suggest this trait evolved as an adaptation to predation on conspecifics and not as a general response to selection for feeding on heterospecific vertebrates or invertebrates.
10.2307/2389712|A model is produced to predict the dependence of parental investment (measured in Joules) on female body weight within species. It is shown that in species where females do not change much in weight over the course of their reproductive lifespans, the energy females devote to reproduction should scale on W as W<sup>0.5</sup> to W<sup>0.8</sup>, where W represents body weight. In species where each individual female often reproduces several times over a wide range of body weights (e.g. many fishes), the energy invested in reproduction by females is predicted to scale on body weight more steeply than this. Data from 62 species of fishes, over 90 species of aphids and five species of Asellus are in agreement with this prediction.
40205510|1. Biologists have long been concerned with measuring thermal performance curves and limits because of their significance to fitness. Basic experimental design may have a marked effect on the outcome of such measurements, and this is true especially of the experimental rates of temperature change used during assessments of critical thermal limits to activity. To date, the focus of work has almost exclusively been on the effects of rate variation on mean values of the critical limits. 2. If the rate of temperature change used in an experimental trial affects not only the trait mean but also its variance, estimates of heritable variation would also be profoundly affected. Moreover, if the outcomes of acclimation are likewise affected by methodological approach, assessment of beneficial acclimation and other hypotheses might also be compromised. 3. In this article, we determined whether this is the case for critical thermal limits using a population of the model species Drosophila melanogaster and the invasive ant species Linepithema humile. 4. We found that effects of the different rates of temperature change are variable among traits and species. However, in general, different rates of temperature change resulted in different phenotypic variances and different estimates of heritability, presuming that genetic variance remains constant. We also found that different rates resulted in different conclusions regarding the responses of the species to acclimation, especially in the case of L. humile. 5. Although it seems premature to dismiss past generalities concerning interspecific and acclimationrelated variation in critical thermal limits, we recommend that conditions during trials be appropriately selected, carefully reported and rigorously controlled.
20142851|1. Despite its wide ecological relevance, we know little about the physiological mechanisms underlying the growth vs. mortality by predation trade-off. Here, we test for two costly, potential physiological correlates of the fight-or-flight response that may contribute to the growth reduction under predation risk: induction of stress proteins (Hsp60 and Hsp70) and of antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, SOD and catalase, CAT), in larvae of the damselfly Enallagma cyathigerum. 2. Under predation risk, there was a growth reduction and an increase in oxygen consumption, indicative of the fight-or-flight response. Predation risk did not affect Hsp60 levels but induced an increase in energetically costly Hsp70 levels. 3. Under predation risk, levels of SOD remained constant and those of CAT decreased. Together with the increase in respiration, this should inevitably result in oxidative stress. 4. Our results suggest that induction of stress proteins may contribute to the partly physiologically mediated growth reduction under predation risk and that oxidative stress is a novel cost of predation risk that may have important long-term negative fitness consequences for the prey. The latter adds to the recent insight that costs of stressors and life-history trade-offs may not always directly operate through increased energy consumption and differential allocation, but, may also work through the increased production of reactive oxygen species.
10.2307/2389658|The effects of mycorrhizas on interactions between seedlings and larger plants were investigated. Two seedlings of Plantago lanceolata L. were grown in a narrow vertical layer of sterilized dune sandy soil, either alone or with older P. lanceolata, and with or without vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza. <sup>32</sup>Phosphorus was injected into the sand at a depth reached only by the roots of the large plants. When the test seedlings were 5 weeks old, they had more mycorrhizal infection if grown with mycorrhizal large plants than if they were grown alone. The biomass, nitrogen content, and phosphorus content of the seedlings were all reduced to a similar extent by competition with large plants, regardless of whether they were mycorrhizal or not. The seedlings acquired little <sup>32</sup>P, and the evidence indicates that most of the <sup>32</sup>P did not reach them from the roots of large plants via hyphal links. Thus, the principal interactions between large plant and seedling were competitive and the competitive balance was not markedly altered by mycorrhizas.
3806604|1. Data were compiled consisting of 1240 observations (614 species) from 83 different experiments published in 37 different studies, in order to quantify the relative importance of net assimilation rate (NAR,
4139368|1. Within a single year, long-distance migrants undergo a minimum of four cycles of fuel storage and depletion because their migrations have at least one stopover. Each cycle includes an almost twofold change in body mass (m
41319631|1. Measuring the costs imposed by specific environmental challenges is difficult, because organisms adapt in ways that reduce those costs. Invasive species provide an opportunity to quantify environmental impacts before organisms can make adaptive changes. 2. The native range of cane toads (Rhinella marina) lies within the wet neotropics; although part of this range experiences seasonal drought, many of the places recently invaded by this large anuran species are much more arid. 3. Five years' fieldwork from a seasonally arid site in the Australian wet-dry tropics shows strong seasonal shifts in the toads' (i) population structure, reflecting seasonality in breeding and recruitment; (ii) adult morphology (secondary sexual characteristics in males); (iii) growth rates; (iv) energy balance; (v) spatial ecology (philopatry, dispersal rates) and (vi) adult mortality rates. 4. Some of these patterns accord with intuition: for example, wet-season conditions resulted in higher rates of growth, reproduction and movement, better body condition and more pronounced secondary sexual characteristics. However, seasonal patterns for other traits were nonintuitive: for example, neither hematocrit levels (reflecting hydration state) nor corticosterone levels (reflecting stress) showed significant seasonal variation, and mortality rates were higher in the wet season than the dry season. 5. The toads' ability to flexibly adjust their behaviour and ecology to local hydric conditions has allowed them to thrive even under climatic conditions that preclude activity, feeding and reproduction for most of the year.
10.2307/2389518|1. The influence of (a) plant density and (b) artificial canopy shading (reducing red/far-red ratio=R/FR) of only the basal parts of plants, on the growth of three morphologically different clones of Festuca rubra was investigated in field experiments and in a growth room. 2. In all three clones both treatments resulted in lower tiller number, lower tiller natality and higher maximum height of tillers of treated plants. It seems that both responses may be elicited by a lower R/FR ratio of the light reaching the basal parts of the plant. 3. The three clones displayed different sensitivity which seems to be correlated with canopy density of original stands. Such features of the clones could modify their competitive abilities and hence canopy structure.
10.2307/2389413|A 33-year series of data on seed production in Dacrydium cupressinum Lamb. (rimu), a common wind-pollinated tree in the lowland and lower montane forests of New Zealand, shows marked mast seeding. Mast years showed higher percentages of sound seed as well as higher total seed crops per unit area. The percentage of sound seed (a measure of pollination success) was bimodally distributed, allowing mast years to be objectively defined. At least 6 of the 15 mast years followed immediately after other mast years. Low seed production and cool temperature 2 years previously and warm temperatures in the summer of seedfall are necessary for the occurrence of a mast year. The interaction of seedfall in one year with that 2 years previously is linked to the long reproductive development period in rimu and provides an example of competition between overlapping cohorts of reproductive structures in the same plant. The seedfall data also suggest that male and female reproductive effort is synchronized in rimu, which is dioecious. Of the two existing hypotheses which could favour mast seeding, resource matching is incompatible with observed data while predator satiation is only one of a group of possible economies of scale. For example, wind pollination could also provide economies of scale, as appears to be the case in rimu.
40603112|1. Embryo mass growth curves of 36 species of bird and 18 species of mammal were fitted by sigmoidal Gompertz functions, in which k (days) describes the rate at which the embryo approaches an asymptotic mass A (g). 2. The parameters of the Gompertz function were uncorrelated with parameters of power functions fitted to the same growth data, indicating that the two models describe different aspects of growth. 3. Asymptotes of the Gompertz functions for embryonic growth averaged 2-5 times neonate size, but were well below adult mass. Thus, the pre-and postnatal phases of growth are distinct and have different target sizes. 4. Embryo growth rate (k) decreases as the -1/4 power of neonate size; values for mammals were 63% of those of birds, on average. 5. Embryo growth rate can be predicted solely by the length of the incubation or gestation period, regardless of the size of the neonate, with the same relationship for birds and mammals. 6. Postnatal growth rate (k G ) scales linearly with embryonic growth rate (k G ) , but is nearly fivetimes more rapid, on average, in birds than in mammals. k G and k have similar magnitude in birds, but k G is relatively much slower than k in mammals. 7. Rate of actuarial senescence  (year), measured by the increase in mortality rate with age, is positively related to the rate of embryo growth in both birds and mammals, but is higher in the latter. Moreover, rate of ageing in birds is uniquely related to embryo growth while that in mammals is uniquely related to postnatal growth rate. Thus, development and ageing appear to be differently connected in birds and mammals, although the basis for these relationships is not known.
3806576|1. The allometry of metabolic rate has long been one of the key relationships in ecology. While its existence is generally agreed on, the exact value of the scaling exponent, and the key mechanisms that determine its value, are still hotly debated. 2. The network model of West, Brown & Enquist (Science 276, 122-126, 1997) predicts a value of 3/4 but, although appealing, this model has not been generally accepted. 3. Here we reconstruct the model and derive the exponent in a clearer and much more straightforward way that requires weaker assumptions than the original model. Specifically, self-similarity of the network is not required. Our formulation can even be used if one or several assumptions of West et al. (1997) are considered invalid. 4. Moreover, we provide a formula for the proportionality constant (i.e. the intercept of the allometric scaling relation) that shows explicitly where factors as temperature and stoichiometry affect metabolism.
10.2307/2389412|A principal components analysis of floristic and associated environmental data from coastal heathland in south-eastern Australia provided evidence for an axis of variation seemingly associated with a gradient of water availability. A collateral principal component analysis of a range of water relations parameters measured for a suite of woody species distributed along segments of the gradient strongly suggests that a majority of the sampled species exhibit some physiological adaptation to this gradient.
20142745|1. Physical defence traits of stems and leaves should enhance biomechanical strength and survival of seedlings. For eight neotropical tree species that differ widely in life-history strategies, we compared stem and leaf biomechanical traits of 1 and 7-month-old seedlings grown in the shaded forest understorey and in the laboratory. 2. Material traits (biomechanical traits per unit volume, mass or cross sectional area) were positively associated with seedling survival across species. Shade tolerant species that survive well in the forest understorey had stems and leaves with greater modulus of elasticity (stiffness), fracture toughness (resistance to tear), tissue density and fibre contents, compared to less shade tolerant species. 3. Seedling survival was most strongly correlated with stem tissue density at both 1 and 7 months (Spearman's correlation coefficient
40205521|1. Wet tropical savannas have high grass productivity despite the fact that nitrogen is generally limiting for primary production and soil nutrient content is typically very low. Nitrogen recycling, and especially nitrification, is supposed to be a strong determinant of the balance between conservation and loss of nutrients at the ecosystem level. The important primary production observed in wet tropical savannas might be due to a tight nutrient cycling and the fact that some grass species inhibit soil nitrification. 2. Using a general theoretical ecosystem model taking both nitrate and ammonium into account, we investigate analytically, using a four-compartment-differential-equation system the general conditions under which nitrification inhibition enhances primary production. We then estimate the quantitative impact of such a mechanism on the dynamics and budget of nitrogen in a welldocumented ecosystem, the Lam to savanna (Ivory Coast). This ecosystem is dominated by the grass Hyparrhenia diplandra, which drastically reduces nitrification in the whole savanna except for a small zone. While this small zone supports a lower grass primary production, nitrification is higher, most likely due to the presence of another genotype of H. diplandra, which has no effect on nitrification processes. Ultimately, we test whether differences in nitrification fluxes can alone explain this variation in primary production. 3. Model analysis shows that nitrification inhibition enhances primary production only if the recycling efficiency - that is, the fraction of nitrogen passing through a compartment that stays inside the ecosystem-of ammonium is higher than the recycling efficiency of nitrate. This condition probably manifests itself in most soils as ammonium is less mobile than nitrate and is not touched by denitrification. It also depends partially on the relative affinity of plants for ammonium or nitrate. The numerical predictions for this model in the Lamto savanna show that variations in nitrification inhibition capacity may explain observed differences in primary production. 4. In conclusion we find that nitrification inhibition is a process which probably enhances ecosystem fertility in a sustainable way, particularly in situations of high nitrate leaching and denitrification fluxes. This mechanism could explain the ecological advantage exhibited by native African grasses over indigenous grasses in South-American pastures.
10.2307/2389276|1. In an even-aged population individuals differ in weight. Differences may be due to variability in embryo size, variability in growth rates or to unequal (contest) competition between individuals. Observation of the weight distribution within a population, and how it changes with time and density, can distinguish between these causes. 2. Plant populations generally show positively skewed weight distributions, with the skew increasing with both time and density. This suggests that, in plants, contest competition is the cause of the observed variability in weights. 3. This study estimates the skewness of the weight distribution in animal population age classes using data on the minimum, maximum and mean weights of populations. For birds and mammals only a small proportion of studies (12 and 8%) were estimated to possess a positively skewed weight distribution. The proportion was higher in fish populations (28%). 4. There was no general tendency for the skew to increase with time or density. 5. Some reasons why animal populations may tend to possess more normally distributed weight distributions, in contrast to plants, are discussed. Simple models which predict skewed weight distributions in animal populations fail because they omit important features of real populations such as emigration and size-dependent mortality.
3806608|1. An organism's ability to adjust its physiological traits to changes in environmental conditions is central for its ecological success. However, the effect of ecological interactions on physiological flexibility has rarely been investigated. Here we carry out a factorial experiment to analyse how food limitation (a potential result of competition) and tail loss (a potential result of sub-lethal predation) affect anatomical and physiological traits of the South American lizard Liolaemus nitidus. 2. The size of several internal organs was affected by food availability. Small intestine mass increased with food consumption, allowing animals to keep constant digestibility at greater levels of digesta, which in turn permitted higher rates of food assimilation. Organs related to energy storage reached larger sizes in autotomized animals with high food availability, but tail regeneration rate after 3 weeks did not change with food availability. 3. Metabolic rate was affected by tail loss, and animals regenerating their tail showed higher metabolic rates than tailed ones. Because this increase in metabolic rate was independent of internal organ mass, a local effect of tail regeneration process (e.g. cell proliferation) on metabolic rate is suggested. 4. When anatomical and metabolic data are jointly considered it follows that lizards adopt different physiological strategies, changing both energetic inputs and expenditures. This fact illustrates the complex interplay between ecological factors and physiological flexibility, which ultimately determine an organism's fitness.
40407749|1. Among vertebrates, herbivores have longer digestive tracts than animals at higher trophic levels, a pattern thought to reflect a trade-off between digestive efficiency and tissue maintenance costs. However, phylogenetic influences on this pattern have rarely been considered. Taxa that have undergone diversification accompanied by dietary shifts provide a powerful opportunity to examine the relationship between diet and intestine length while accounting for phylogeny. 2. In this paper we assess the relationship between diet and intestine length in the cichlid fishes of Lake Tanganyika, which are renowned for their diversity of species and trophic strategies. 3. First, we test the effect of trophic position on intestine length across 32 species, while controlling for phylogeny. Trophic position was inferred from nitrogen stable isotopes, which provide a temporally integrated, quantitative perspective on the complex diets of tropical fish. Second, we examine patterns of intraspecific variation in intestine length of an algivorous cichlid (Tropheus brichardi) along a natural spatial gradient in algal nitrogen content. 4. Trophic position explains 51% of size-standardized variation in intestine length after accounting for phylogeny. Accounting for phylogeny does not substantially alter the relationship between trophic position and intestine length, despite the existence of phylogenetic signal in both traits. Thus, diet is a strong predictor of variation at the interspecific level. 5. There is a striking inverse relationship between intestine length and algal nutrient content among populations of T. brichardi, suggesting substantial plasticity in response to food quality, and thus a strong dietary influence on patterns of intraspecific variation. 6. Diet is a strong predictor of intestine length at both intra-and interspecific scales, indicating that fish adjust their phenotype to balance nutritional needs against energetic costs. Furthermore, functional explanations for trophic diversification of cichlid fishes in the African Great Lakes have long focused on jaw structures, but our results indicate that intestinal plasticity in response to diet quality may also be an important mechanism for accommodating trophic shifts during evolutionary radiations.
10.2307/2389682|Field measurements were made of altitudinal variation in photosynthesis and stomatal conductance in Vaccinium myrtillus L. and Nardus stricta L., between 200 and 1100m in central Scotland during July 1986 and June 1987. Under saturating irradiance and similar vapour pressure deficits (0.9-1.2 kPa) both species showed either constant or increasing rates of photosynthesis and increasing stomatal conductance and leaf nitrogen per unit leaf area with altitude. Leaf <sup>13</sup>C values for both Nardus and Vaccinium increased (though not significantly) with altitude in 1986 but decreased in 1987. It is suggested that the change in slope between years is related to marked differences in annual climate. The short-term measurements of gas exchange were better predictors of <sup>13</sup>C in 1986 than in 1987.
10.2307/2389972|1. Nine species of insectivorous bats in southern Sweden were monitored with a bat detector to assess which species regularly forage around streetlamps and which do not. Only the fast-flying species that use long-range echolocation systems (Nyctalus noctula, Vespertilio murinus, Eptesicus nilssonii and occasionally Pipistrellus pipistrellus) did, whereas Myotis spp. and Plecotus auritus did not. 2. Bats foraging near streetlamps were monitored with a bat detector from a car. Bat density along illuminated roads was 1-5 km<sup>-1</sup>. More than 90% of the bats detected were E. nilssonii. 3. In and around a small town, E. nilssonii was predominantly found in residential and rural parts, and avoided areas without trees. Vespertilio murinus, in contrast, was observed in all habitats. The difference was probably related to differences in the foraging behaviour of the two species. 4. The attractiveness to insects by streetlamps was determined photographically. The various lamp types attracted insects in relation to the amount of short wave-lengths emitted. Bats were attracted to the same lamp types as insects. 5. The gross energy intake of E. nilssonii foraging around streetlamps was more than twice as high (0.5kJ min<sup>-1</sup>) as previously recorded in woodlands (0.2kJ min<sup>-1</sup>) but slightly lower than over pastures where dung beetles occurred (0.6kJ min<sup>-1</sup>). 6. The results have implications for the conservation of bats. Generally, the fast-flying species will probably be least likely to suffer from a general decline in insect abundance. Priorities should therefore be given to the needs of the slow-flying bat species.
2656474|1. Barrett & Lowen (1998) and Waser (1976) attempted to explain the net monthly and yearly displacements of Grey-Cheeked Mangabeys using observed short-term step lengths and assuming a random walk, with and without boundaries. This paper reanalyses their data. 2. Analytic approaches require the root-mean-square step length, not the mean. However, a more flexible approach to making and testing predictions is Monte-Carlo simulation. With a random walk long-term displacements have a large variance, so a single observation is unlikely to disprove this null hypothesis. 3. Restricting movement to a square lattice is a reasonable approximation even when rectangular boundaries are incorporated. Describing the boundary configuration accurately is more important. 4. The observed non-uniformity in turning angles should have been incorporated as it has a large effect on predicted net displacements, unless the arena is tightly constricted. Randomness of movement within a day can be distinguished from that between days. For Waser's population it makes sense to predict long-term displacements using only long-distance daily displacements. 5. There are better approaches to establish both whether boundaries exist and whether movements follow a random walk.
3806617| 1. Male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) colour their sexually selected plumage with carotenoid pigments, and there has been much interest in the factors that affect their ability to become bright red rather than drab yellow. 2. There is good support for the notions that health, nutritional condition and total carotenoid intake influence colour expression, but there are also suggestions that acquiring particular types of carotenoids from the diet may be important for developing red plumage. 3. We used high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to analyse the types and amounts of endogenous (in plasma and liver) and integumentary (in newly grown feathers) carotenoids in a wild, native population of moulting male and female House Finches from the south-western United States to determine the carotenoid-accumulation strategies for becoming optimally colourful. 4. Four plant carotenoids - lutein, zeaxanthin, -cryptoxanthin and -carotene - were detected in plasma and liver. However, as was found previously, 11 carotenoids were observed in colourful plumage, with xanthophylls (e.g. lutein, dehydrolutein) predominant in yellow feathers and ketocarotenoids (e.g. adonirubin, 3-hydroxy-echinenone) in red feathers. This indicates endogenous modification of ingested carotenoids. 5. Birds that accumulated more of one type of carotenoid in plasma and liver did not necessarily accumulate more of all other types, suggesting that individuals are not employing a simple 'more is better' strategy for coloration. Instead, when forward stepwise regression was used to examine the ability of individual types of carotenoids in plasma and liver to explain variation in red plumage pigments and plumage redness, we found that the lone variable remaining in all models was -cryptoxanthin concentration. 6. This supports the idea that, unlike some other songbirds (e.g. yellow Carduelis finches), there is a specialized biochemical strategy that male House Finches follow to become red and most sexually attractive - to accumulate as much -cryptoxanthin in the body as possible. -Cryptoxanthin is a less common dietary carotenoid than the typical xanthophylls and carotenes in grains and fruits and may be limited enough in the diet that, to become colourful, House Finches might adopt selective foraging strategies for the most -cryptoxanthin-rich foods. 
41239281|1. While it is well known that many plant species enhance the dispersal of seeds by wind via traits such as lift-promoting wings and drag-producing fibres, we hypothesized that natural selection would also increase dispersal capacity through the evolution of mechanisms that promoted abscission by updrafts rather than downdrafts. 2. An experiment with the cosmopolitan weed, Tragopogon dubius, showed that a combination of simple morphological traits and achene orientation made updrafts from three to five times more likely than downdrafts to abscise a seed over the vertical wind speed range of 0.2-0.5 m s -1 . (Abscission will not occur at speeds lower than about 0-2 m s -1 while vertical speeds > 0.5 m s -1 near ground level would be extremely rare.) Horizontal winds were even more effective than updrafts at abscising seeds at any wind speed. 3. We speculate that mechanisms causing an updraft abscission bias are quite common and will eventually be seen as a crucial component of long distance seed movement for almost all winddispersed species.
10.2307/2390212|1. Few species from the tallgrass prairies exhibit compensation to herbivory while most species from the montane grasslands of Yellowstone Park compensate for herbivory. This difference prompted the question whether plants which compensate may actually be competitively superior after herbivory. 2. Two grasses, Andropogon gerardii from the tallgrass prairie of Oklahoma and Phleum pratense from the montane grasslands of Yellowstone National Park, USA, were studied. 3. A labelled nitrogen fertilizer was applied to plants subjected to different clipping regimes. Procurement of labelled nitrogen from a distance equivalent to the species' competitive radius was equated to an active uptake rate of nitrogen. Phleum pratense showed significant uptake of labelled nitrogen when it was clipped while Andropogon gerardii showed uptake only when all of its surrounding neighbourhood was clipped, but it was left unclipped. Thus, species which compensate may be competitively superior following herbivory if the distance from which nitrogen is procured is an indication of the rate of uptake of nitrogen. A size-oriented hierarchy may be important for determining competitive dominance, although size was not significantly correlated with uptake of labelled nitrogen. 4. Knowledge of the mechanism of plant response to herbivory is necessary to make predictions of competitive interactions following grazing.
40963563|1. As a fundamental unit within a landscape, habitat patches create spatial heterogeneity. On a gradient of habitat patch size, one sees patches of denser vegetation cover occurring in otherwise open habitats (e.g. bushes in the desert, forest fragments in grasslands). 2. The resulting habitat fragmentation and consequent edge effects continue to concern conservation biologists, landscape ecologists, and wildlife managers due to their role in influencing wildlife abundance and distribution on broad geographic scales. 3. Although ecological processes near habitat edges often differ from processes away from edges, an animal's suitable habitat may increase or decrease by 'positive' or 'negative' edge effects. Such effects can be measured using behavioural indicators and experiments based on the costs and benefits of foraging under diminishing returns. 4. We used live trapping, giving-up densities [amount of food left behind in experimental food patches  giving-up density (GUD)] and geographic information system (GIS) analyses to test for spatial and temporal habitat selection by the four-striped grass mouse (Rhabdomys pumilio) inhabiting a grassland containing distinct 'islands' of woody vegetation (500 m of average area). We investigated how these woody islands influence the quality of the grassland in terms of activity patterns, feeding opportunities, predation risk and habitat suitability. We used R. pumilio's GUDs to explicitly map and measure habitats of varying quality using GIS. 5. Our results showed that R. pumilio perceived the wooded patches as habitats with no opportunities and yet highly risky when opportunities are provided. Furthermore, the wooded patches had a negative edge effect, their unsuitability extended for 1-3 m into the otherwise suitable habitats. 6. The combination of live-trapping and giving up densities provided an unbiased and controlled measure of a prey's perception of habitat use and foraging costs when equal opportunities are simultaneously provided. These techniques and concepts should be broadly applicable by conservationists and ecologists interested in understanding and managing edge effects. 7. This approach aims to effectively quantify edge effects and extrapolate predation risk on a landscape scale, thereby developing recommendations for managers to improve the quality or amount of edges for wildlife.
10.2307/2389692|Alboglossiphonia heteroclita (L.) is a relatively immobile suctorial carnivore of freshwater macroinvertebrate prey. It possesses a large, diverticulated gut. The energy maximization principle predicts that cumulative ingestion rate (m t<sub>m</sub><sup>-1</sup>) should remain constant with feeding time (t<sub>m</sub>) on each prey item but for A. heteroclita it continually reduced with t<sub>m</sub>. This reduction was attributed to both a food and feeder constraint. Additionally, the rate of gut emptying decreased exponentially with intercatch interval (t<sub>i</sub>). An empirical model, derived from the observed trends in gut emptying, was used to predict meal size for a given t<sub>i</sub> and it was found that A. heteroclita conformed to the predictions, suggesting that it filled its gut at each meal.
826626|1. Most studies of the thermoregulatory ecology of bats have been limited to laboratory experiments or studies of individuals roosting in artificial structures. 2. We investigated the interaction between thermoregulatory behaviour and roost choice in reproductive female Western Long-Eared Bats, Myotis evotis (H. Allen), roosting solitarily in natural rock crevices. The study was conducted in the badlands of the South Saskatchewan River Valley, Alberta, Canada, during 1997 and 1998. 3. Individuals used torpor every day and the amount of time spent in torpor was primarily influenced by the amount of time available to do so. Minimum body temperature was influenced by ambient temperature, although the form of this relationship differed between pregnant and lactating females. Pregnant females used deep torpor more frequently than lactating females. 4. All individuals roosted in rock crevices but pregnant and lactating females chose roosts that were different in structure and thermal characteristics. Pregnant females chose horizontal roosts that cooled at night but warmed quickly during the day, thus allowing passive rewarming from torpor. Lactating females chose vertical roosts that stayed warm at night when non-volant pups were present, thereby minimizing thermoregulatory costs to the young. 5. The behaviours observed are adaptive, but differ from those of other temperate-zone insectivorous bats that have been studied in the past. This highlights the importance of studying free-ranging animals living in natural habitat if we are to have an accurate view of thermoregulatory strategies and the importance of roost characteristics for roost-site selection.
10.2307/2389811|Fleshy fruits from 14 plant species were fed to bulbuls (Pycnonotus xanthopygos) and blackbirds (Turdus merula). Minimal retention times of seeds in the digestive systems were recorded. Ingested seeds were placed in soil to germinate and their germination rate compared to that of intact seeds, as well as to seeds artificially extracted from the fruit pulp. Only nine of the 14 species germinated. Freeing the seeds from the pulp had a variable effect on germination: in 14 out of 28 combinations seed germination was not affected by pulp removal, while in the other 14 cases germination increased significantly when seeds were extracted from the pulp. Mostly, the bird species did not produce a specific effect on germination. However, seeds ingested by blackbirds usually showed substantially higher germination percentages than those ingested by bulbuls. This tendency can be partially explained by the longer retention times of seeds in digestive systems of blackbirds, compared with those for bulbuls, which might cause a stronger effect of seed coat abrasion and hence better germination. Generally, seed ingestion had no consistent influence on germination. However, we suggest that a certain predictable tendency does exist concerning the response of seed germination of different species to bird ingestion: affected seeds were those which stayed longer in the birds' digestive systems, compared with unaffected ones. Presumably, abrasion of their seed coat increased permeability and consequently enhanced germination.
4139375| 1. Moya-Larao et al. (2002; Evolution 56, 420-425) showed that female-biased sexual size dimorphism is more pronounced in tree-dwelling spider species than in species inhabiting lower-lying substrates. They proposed the Gravity Hypothesis for sexual size dimorphism: small size should be advantageous for males in habitats where successful mate searching requires climbing, because mass-specific power and hence the speed of climbing against gravity, must decrease with increasing size. 2. Their biomechanical model is based on a false premise, that the cross-sectional area of a muscle determines its power output. In fact, muscle power is proportional to muscle volume, and hence mass-specific power should be independent of size. We therefore predict, contrary to the Gravity Hypothesis, that climbing speed should be independent of body size. 3. We tested these contrasting predictions using adult male Western black widow spiders Latrodectus hesperus, a species in which males span a broad range of sizes. 4. In accordance with our prediction, and contrary to the Gravity Hypothesis, we found no relationship between vertical climbing speed and any of a series of size measures, whereas on a horizontal surface, speed was positively related to size. 5. Our results, as well as the error we exposed in the biomechanical model underlying the Gravity Hypothesis, indicate that selection for vertical climbing speed in males cannot account for patterns of sexual size dimorphism in spiders. 
40205555|1. Patterns of floral scent are generally assumed to have been shaped by pollinator-mediated natural selection. However, while many studies document behavioural responses of pollinators to floral scent, few document the relationship between floral scent and fitness. 2. In this study, we explore the effect of variation in floral scent emission in colour polymorphic Hesperis matronalis on both pollinator visitation and seed fitness. 3. Using target inflorescences augmented with colour-specific floral scent extracts, we find that diurnal floral visitors significantly prefer night-scent extracts to non-augmented controls; inflorescences augmented with day-scent extracts receive an intermediate level of visits. Colour did not have a significant effect on visitation. 4. We characterized the relationship between natural variation in floral scent emission rate and seed production for plants under two settings: in small experimental arrays exposed to either dayor night-flying pollinators, and in wild populations exposed to all pollinators. In arrays, we found greater emission rate led to higher seed production, but only in plants exposed to day-flying pollinators. In contrast, we found a significant positive relationship between night-time floral emission rate and seed fitness in wild populations. In neither setting did floral anthocycanin concentration (colour) affect fitness. 5. This study reinforces the idea that scent-mediated pollinator visitation is an important component of plant fitness. Moreover, our results suggest that plants emitting more scent have higher fitness, although there is variation as to when this positive relationship occurs (i.e., at day or night). Research connecting floral scent and fitness is a necessary first step in understanding the evolution of floral scent.
10.2307/2390153|1. The relationship between specific growth rate (G
2656464|1. Spatial heterogeneity in resource abundance creates opportunities to exploit patchiness at different scales. The ability to subdivide patches into smaller micropatches is termed micropatch partitioning. At various scales, patches can be recognized by distinct boundaries or by vague boundaries delineated by changes in resource abundances. The ability to micropatch partition was tested for and the effect on foraging of vague vs distinct boundaries was assessed for two species of coexisting desert rodents, the gerbils Gerbillus allenbyi and G. pyramidum. To do so, the distribution of seeds in experimental resource patches in a large enclosure were manipulated. 2. Both G. allenbyi and G. pyramidum are imperfect micropatch assessors. When seeds were concentrated into micropatches, there were lower patch-wide giving-up densities (GUDs) than if seeds were randomly distributed throughout the patch. Both species could micropatch partition at scales of 0.14 m<sup>2</sup>. 3. GUDs in experimental micropatches were greater than expected for perfect assessors. 4. With G. allenbyi, a micropatch with fewer vague boundaries was foraged to a lower GUD. In contrast, GUDs for G. pyramidum were similar regardless of the types of patch boundaries. 5. Gerbillus allenbyi showed greater error in the assessment of micropatch size. 6. These results have implications for diet selection and coexistence. These species coexist via temporal partitioning, with G. pyramidum biasing its activity to early in the night when resource patches are richer and G. allenbyi biasing its activity to later in the night. Gerbillus pyramidum encounters a richer and more variable environment where errors in patch assessment are costlier, and micropatch partitioning is more valuable. Gerbillus allenbyi encounters a poorer environment where resources vary at larger spatial scales.
20142850|1. Clustering lessens heat loss in euthermic animals by decreasing exposed surface area. However, clustering is also used during heterothermic periods such as hibernation, when heat loss should be minimal because body temperature (
3806571|1. Egg laying is costly for birds, as eggs must contain all the energy and nutrients needed by the developing embryo. As nutrients are limiting, there is a conflict between provisioning eggs and conserving nutrients for future health and survival. 2. Life-history theory suggests that females should choose how to invest resources in relation to the value of the reproductive attempt. Females may manipulate egg composition in relation to the attractiveness of their mate, ensuring chick survival and assuming that the offspring will themselves be more attractive and have higher reproductive success. Antioxidants are an important component of egg composition: they are vital for embryonic and posthatching chick development and survival. 3. Here we demonstrate that female Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata) mated to attractive males deposit more carotenoids and alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) in later-laid eggs, shown by a significant interaction between laying order and antioxidant concentration. This bias may increase the probability of chick survival from later-laid eggs and potentially the lifetime reproductive success of the laying female. 4. The body condition of the laying female, measured as fat reserves, was found to be a significant predictor of yolk carotenoid concentration but not of yolk alpha-tocopherol concentration.
10.2307/2389620|Leaf-cutting ants have been reported to selectively harvest leaves of different densities as a function of ant size. I examined how foragers locate resources appropriate to ant size by collecting laden and unladen ants on trails to food baits that differed in particle mass and leaf density. Ants retrieving whole corn kernels were significantly larger in size and carried significantly heavier loads than foragers at opposing baits of finely-cracked corn, indicating that resource matching is independent of leaf cutting. Ants harvesting tough Ligustrum (Ligustrum japonicum Thunberg, Oleaceae) leaves were significantly larger and carried heavier loads than ants at opposite piles of soft Rhus (Rhus toxicodendron L., Anacardiaceae) leaves. Size-related trail following occurred in field manipulations. Unladen outgoing ants on trails to whole corn kernels were significantly larger in size than ants on trails to finely-cracked corn. Unladen ants on trails to Ligustrum were significantly larger than on trails to Rhus, while unladen ants recruiting to mixed Ligustrum-Rhus leaves were intermediate in size. Mean sizes of ants and their loads decreased over a 24 h period at finely-cracked corn baits as larger bait particles were removed, suggesting ants adjusted forager size to the changing resource. Mean ant size on trails to leaf baits did not increase for Ligustrum or decrease for Rhus over a 6-day period. Whole corn burden/ant weights [(mass<sub>ant</sub> + mass<sub>load</sub>)/mass<sub>ant</sub>] were significantly larger than those for finely-cracked corn, but there was little difference in Ligustrum and Rhus burden/ant weights. Whole corn burden/ant weights were several-fold larger than those for transported leaves, suggesting that some factor other than mass limits the size of leaf loads. Within-trail correlations between ants and their corn and leaf loads were generally insignificant, but the overall trend suggested a positive association between ant size and load.
10.2307/2389317|Individual physiological performance is often assumed to be consistent and repeatable. We examined the individual consistency of maximum oxygen consumption (VO<sub>2</sub>max) in deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus Wagner). Correlations of repeated measures on individuals were studied over time, short-term captivity, long-term cold acclimation to 3<sup></sup>C, and acclimation to low (340 m) and high (3800 m) altitudes. The latter three treatments are known to induce significant changes in VO<sub>2</sub>max. Two measurement protocols, severe cold exposure and intense exercise, were used to elicit VO<sub>2</sub>max. The VO<sub>2</sub>max as elicited by exercise and cold exposure were strongly and significantly correlated for all experimental treatments. Individual correlations across experimental treatments were generally strong for whole-animal VO<sub>2</sub>max data, using both the exercise and cold exposure protocols. Correlations were weaker, but usually remained significant, when effects of body mass were removed. Across-altitude correlations were significant in most cases but correlation coefficients were lower than for other treatments. Our results suggest that in many cases, individual VO<sub>2</sub>max measurements in one experimental situation are useful indicators of performance relative to the group mean in other situations or acclimation regimes.
2390468|1. Termite nitrogenase activity was highest in autumn and spring ( 3  g N<sub>2</sub> fixed termite fresh mass (g)<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>) and lowest in winter and summer ( 0.8  g N<sub>2</sub> fixed termite fresh mass (g)<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>). 2. The nitrogenase activity of worker termites was significantly higher than all other castes (1.58  0.27  g N<sub>2</sub> fixed termite fresh mass (g)<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>). 3. Worker termites constituted the largest proportion of all the castes throughout the study period (90%). 4. The localized input of fixed nitrogen by termites may reach 15.3 mg N log<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> and 5.6 g N log<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>.
3599270|1. Akebia quinata Decaisne is a monoecious woody vine. As the plants are self-incompatible, separation of sex functions between flowers may function to avoid sexual interference rather than to avoid inbreeding depression. To investigate whether self-pollen on stigmas affects outcrossed seed production in A. quinata, we carried out an artificial pollination experiment in which self-pollination was conducted either simultaneously with, or 24 h before, cross-pollination. 2. Compared with cross-pollination, fruit set was significantly reduced by prior self-pollination. Simultaneous self- and cross-pollination also reduced fruit production. Overall, self-pollen on a stigma reduced seed production by 85% compared with cross-pollination. 3. Growth rate of self-pollen tubes in carpels did not differ from that of cross-pollen tubes, and self-pollen tubes could reach ovules. This indicates that A. quinata has late-acting self-incompatibility, which may cause sexual interference if self-pollination occurs. 4. These results support the idea that monoecy in A. quinata functions to avoid sexual interference, which imposes a fitness cost, at least on female function.
2390316|1. Parasites may affect breeding success of their host since they compete for the same resources as their host. Reproduction may also increase the susceptibility of a host to parasite infections owing to lowered resistance to parasites during breeding. 2. We studied the association between breeding performance and haematozoan parasite infection in the Pied Flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) by using both natural data on reproduction and data from clutch size manipulations. 3. The most frequent blood parasites of the Pied Flycatcher in central Finland were Haemoproteus pallidus, Haemoproteus balmorali and Trypanosoma avium complex. 4. We did not find evidence that these haematozoan parasites have any debilitating effects on either reproduction or survival. The variation in reproductive effort did not seem to influence susceptibility to new blood parasite infections. 5. The intensity of Haemoproteus balmorali tended to increase in infected males as the brood size was artificially enlarged. Also, in females intensity of H. pallidus infection tended to increase with the level of clutch size manipulation. Thus, increased reproductive effort seems to debilitate the ability of Pied Flycatcher to control chronic infections. 6. Individuals with enlarged clutches/broods increased their reproductive effort at the expense of defence towards parasites. The cost of current reproduction may then be at least partly mediated by haematozoan infections.
40407726|1. Small-scale distributions of rocky intertidal organisms may be determined in part by temperature and desiccation stress during low tide and the ability of organisms to resist such stresses. Biophysical modelling techniques, coupled with data on the physiological tolerance of organisms can be used to predict the frequency and severity of abiotic stress events. 2. The limpet Lottia gigantea is a major competitor for primary space on rocky shores along the west coast of North America. The goal of this study was to quantify the thermal and desiccation tolerance of this species and to predict the frequency of stressful events at Hopkins Marine Station (HMS) in Pacific Grove, CA, USA. 3. Lottia gigantea were exposed to thermal stress regimes in the laboratory using protocols designed to mimic prolonged exposures in the field. The production of heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) was measured as an indicator of sub-lethal stress, and mortality rates were measured. 4. Peak expression of Hsp70 occurred during exposures at 32 C, while the lethal limits of the limpets ranged between 30 and 42 C, depending on the exposure regime. Lethal temperatures were approximately 5 C lower in 50-60% relative humidity conditions compared to 100% relative humidity trials. 5. Results from the physiology experiments were compared to field surveys of the upper limits of L. gigantea at HMS and with heat-budget model predictions of limpet body temperatures on a variety of substratum orientations. 6. The highest frequency of sub-lethal and lethal stress events was predicted to occur on highshore westerly and southerly slopes and horizontal surfaces, microhabitats where L. gigantea is comparatively rare at HMS. Predicted stress and mortality events were rare at low-shore sites, vertical surfaces, and sloping rock faces oriented towards the northeast and northwest. 7. The combination of direct measurements of sub-lethal and lethal temperature thresholds using realistic stress exposures and predictions from a heat-budget model give insight into the role of thermal disturbance in affecting the local-scale distributions of intertidal organisms. These methods hold great promise for enhancing our understanding of the role of abiotic factors in limiting species distributions and making predictions about responses to future climatic conditions.
20142826|1. Leaves are the key active sites for energy and matter transfer in plants, and therefore the total one-sided area of leaves per square metre of ground (leaf area index, LAI) is a critical variable used for scaling up from plant to ecosystem level properties. 2. A commonly held belief is that LAI remains constant during the self-thinning phase of stand development, and allometric relationships between tree density, mean tree size and leaf area (or leaf mass) are frequently used to provide a mechanistic explanation for the observed thinning relationships. 3. We investigated variations in leaf allometry, stand LAI and other canopy properties along a developmental sequence of naturally occurring mono-specific self-thinning stands of mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) in New Zealand. 4. Stand age had a consistent significant effect on both the slope and the intercept of both the leaf mass and the leaf area allometric relationships (increasing slope, decreasing intercept). This was due to trees of a given basal area having more leaf area (or leaf mass) when growing in a neighbourhood of smaller trees, than equivalently sized individuals surrounded by a lower density of trees larger than itself. 5. A peaked (non-constant) relationship was observed between LAI and stand age during self-thinning, with the mean LAI values peaking in intermediately aged large sapling stands (708) compared with the small sapling stands (542) and older pole stands (570). Stand level leaf mass per unit area (LMA) varied with canopy height and stand age, being highest at the top of canopies and in older stands. 6. We propose that the observed increase in canopy depth during the early stages of stand development (but after canopy closure has occurred) could be driving the increase in stand LAI due to a more even distribution of light within the canopy. 7. Our findings suggest that the commonly held assumption of constant LAI should be abandoned in favour of the notion of leaf area being at a dynamic maximum during self-thinning, with the maximum possible leaf area being influenced by age-related changes in canopy structure that occur during stand development.
20142749| 1. The potential for seed dispersal by fish (ichthyochory) is likely to vary within aquatic plant species, depending on intraspecific variation in phenotypic seed traits. 2. We studied the effect of seed size variation within the unbranched burreed (Sparganium emersum) on the potential for internal dispersal by the common carp (Cyprinus carpio), by feeding them light (&lt 10 mg), medium (10-20 mg) and heavy (&gt 20 mg) seeds, seed mass being positively related to seed size. 3. We hypothesized: (i) that ingestion, retention time, survival during gut passage and viability after gut passage of S. emersum seeds would be affected by seed size; and (ii) that this would translate into intraspecific variation in dispersal probability and dispersal distance among seed size categories. 4. Ingestion was negatively related to seed size, while survival during gut passage was positively related to seed size. Seed viability after gut passage was not affected by seed size. Since the negative effect of ingestion was counterbalanced by an equally strong but positive effect on seed survival, the probability of dispersal did not differ between the tested seed-size categories. 5. The time that seeds remained in the digestive tract of carp did not differ between seed sizes, suggesting equal potential dispersal distances for all seeds. Based on optimum swimming speeds of carp, ranging from 0.9 to 1.8 km h, maximum dispersal distances will most likely range from 13.5 to 27 km. 6. This study highlights the importance of studying all stages of the endozoochorous dispersal process in order to estimate the effect of a phenotypic seed trait on plant dispersal. 
2656392|1. Biogenic emission of isoprenoids may be involved in protecting plants against pathogens and may interfere with the chemistry of atmosphere. Pinus pinea (L.) is one of the most widespread conifers in the Mediterranean area and is a potentially strong emitter of monoterpenes. 2. We demonstrated by gas-exchange studies that monoterpenes other than trans--ocimene are not emitted significantly by intact primary and secondary needles of 3-year-old P. pinea plants. 3. Trans--ocimene emission is light- and CO<sub>2</sub>-dependent. Therefore this compound is probably formed from photosynthetic carbon in the chloroplasts and does not originate from the same biochemical route as other monoterpenes stored in resin ducts. 4. Trans--ocimene emission starts in spring, peaks in summer and ceases at the end of summer. This strong seasonality may mark a phase-shift in needle ontogeny, but is not related strictly to changes in photosynthesis. 5. Wounded needles, either illuminated or darkened, massively release monoterpenes contained in the ducts, primarily limonene and -pinene. Monoterpene release from wounded needles rapidly decreases but does not cease altogether, even after 24 h. The amount of monoterpenes emitted from wounded needles in 24 h can be estimated at about 1200 and 120 mol g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> (dry mass) of limonene and -pinene, respectively. Wounded needles are a main contributor to monoterpene emission by vegetation. 6. Monoterpene content is two to three times greater in primary than in secondary needles. In primary needles, typical only of young plants, the elevated content of monoterpenes may allow plant survival against pathogenic attacks.
3599044|1. Leaf size and specific leaf area (SLA) are major traits in determining a plant's ecological functions. Differences in these leaf traits are characterized by cell division, expansion and maturation processes during leaf development. In this study, 16 C
4139343| 1. Most life-history models assume a trade-off between reproductive investment and parental survival. Several studies have documented reproductive costs in terms of reduced locomotor performance in terrestrial habitats. However, few studies have determined the reproductive costs of pregnancy in aquatic environments, or compared pregnancy-induced locomotor costs among habitats. This knowledge gap is important because many organisms rely on multiple habitat types during pregnancy. 2. We compared sexual differences in maximum locomotor velocity and the relative impacts of pregnancy on locomotor performance in aquatic and terrestrial environments for a semi-aquatic snake (Seminatrix pygaea). In addition, because most life-history models predict a direct trade-off between reproductive investment and reproductive costs, we quantified the relationship between reproductive investment and postpartum increase in velocity for both habitat types. 3. Both males and non-pregnant females always swam faster than they crawled, but males were significantly faster for their size than were non-pregnant females. These results mirror sexual differences known to exist in other snakes, but differ in that the degree of sexual divergence in velocity does not vary with habitat for S. pygaea. 4. Pregnancy significantly reduced both crawling and swimming velocity. Moreover, pregnancy impaired crawling velocity significantly more than swimming velocity. The mean (1 SE) percentage increases in crawling and swimming velocity after parturition were 728216 and 594128%, respectively. There was a direct trade-off between reproductive investment and aquatic locomotor impairment: snakes that invested more in offspring experienced larger decreases in swimming velocity. However, evidence for such a trade-off in the terrestrial habitat was weaker. 5. Our results demonstrate that the cost of reproduction for semi-aquatic organisms may differ between aquatic and terrestrial habitats in complex ways. Swimming may be more effective than crawling for escaping predators during pregnancy, because swimming results in faster velocities and is less impaired by pregnancy. However, the assumption of a direct trade-off between reproductive investment and locomotor impairment may be stronger for swimming performance compared with crawling performance. 
20142807|1. Weapons are specialized structures that are commonly used by animals to signal fighting ability and resource holding potential during agonistic encounters. Current theory predicts weapon size should reliably indicate weapon strength and unreliable signals should only occur at very low frequencies in nature. However, a recent study found weapon size was an unreliable signal of strength during agonistic interactions among males of the slender crayfish (Cherax dispar). 2. In this study, we investigated the relationship between morphology, performance and social dominance in females of C. dispar. Based on current theory, we predicted chela size would reliably indicate chela strength and would relate indirectly to dominance via its influence on strength. 3. We found females that possessed large chelae were more likely to possess stronger chelae, and those individuals with stronger chelae were more likely to win competitive bouts. The best predictive model of the relationships among morphology, performance and dominance indicated chela size indirectly affected social dominance via its influence on strength, thus demonstrating displays of weaponry are reliable signals of fighting ability. 4. Reliable signals of strength among females of C. dispar supports current theory predicting stable signalling systems should largely consist of honest displays of strength. However, this contrasts with previous work demonstrating that male C. dispar routinely uses unreliable signals of weapon strength during agonistic encounters.
2390358|1. The effect of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> on tissue composition in an alpine grassland (Swiss Central Alps, 2500 m) under both natural and increased nutrient supply (NPK) is summarized. 2. During 3 years of CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment the concentration of total non-structural carbohydrates (TNC) in leaves increased by 32% in Leontodon helveticus (largely sugar) and by 56% in Trifolium alpinum (largely starch) but did not change significantly in the dominant sedge Carex curvula and in Poa alpina, currently a rare species at this site. 3. Enhanced mineral nutrient supply (unlike elevated CO<sub>2</sub>) greatly stimulated growth but did not reduce the CO<sub>2</sub>-induced TNC accumulation. 4. Under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> nitrogen concentrations (per g TNC-free dry matter) of green leaves decreased in Leontodon (-21%) and in Trifolium (-24%) but not or only slightly in Carex and in Poa. NPK addition compensated this CO<sub>2</sub> effect on nitrogen concentration in Trifolium but not in the other species. 5. In below-ground tissue neither TNC nor nitrogen concentration responded to CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization. 6. The nitrogen pool per unit land area at peak season biomass remained unaffected by the CO<sub>2</sub> treatment. 7. Overall our results suggest that the late successional dominant sedge Carex curvula remains unaffected by elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, independently of mineral nutrient supply, whereas the co-dominant and sub-dominant forbs Leontodon helveticus and Trifolium alpinum show both an increase of TNC as well as N depletion under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. 8. None of these changes in active plant tissue translate into compositional changes in naturally senesced litter suggesting caution with predictions of CO<sub>2</sub> effects on decomposition based on data from green plant material.
3599053| 1. Small nectar-feeding birds have high energy turnover and must respond rapidly to changes in food concentration or feeding opportunities. A previous study showed that Rufous Hummingbirds (Selasphorus rufus) were unable to adjust their intake rates after a midday fast and thus ended the day with energy deficits that necessitated the use of torpor. 2. We examined the ability of Whitebellied Sunbirds (Nectarinia talatala) to cope with a similar loss of foraging time (lights out from 10.00 h to 12.00 h). During the experiment, birds were kept at 10 C and fed 20% w/w sucrose solution. 3. In contrast to hummingbirds, sunbirds increased their rate of afternoon feeding following the fast, consuming 14.3  SD 10.0% (n = 8) more than on the afternoon of the control day, and maintaining evening body mass at control levels. However, morning body mass on the third day was significantly lower than on the previous 2 days, indicating that compensation for reduced feeding time was probably incomplete. Nectar-feeding birds show varied and flexible responses to energy challenges. 
40407733|1. Offspring locomotor performance has been shown to influence fitness related traits in a wide range of taxa. One potential mechanism by which viviparous animals can increase the performance (e.g. sprint speed) of their offspring is by prolonging pregnancy (beyond that required for complete development). However, to date studies examining this potentially important maternal effect have been largely descriptive. 2. The skink Egernia whitii is an ideal candidate species to examine the consequences of delayed parturition on the performance of offspring as it routinely gives birth asynchronously despite synchronous offspring development. 3. Using correlative data from a natural population and experimental manipulations of birthing asynchrony, we tested the prediction that, within litters, last born offspring have a better locomotor performance than first born offspring. 4. We show that prolonged pregnancy does significantly influence average offspring locomotor performance; however, contrary to predictions, the direction of this effect is dependent on gestation length and thus offspring date of birth. Last born offspring had significantly poorer performance than first born offspring in litters early in the season with this pattern reversed late in the season. 5. These results do not support the hypothesis that prolonged retention of fully formed offspring consistently increases offspring performance; however, they may help us understand the asymmetries in offspring competitive ability generated by birthing asynchrony.
826585| 1. Many ecological models of plant growth assume balanced growth: that biomass is allocated preferentially to leaves or roots to increase capture of the limiting external resource. An alternative explanation is based on nonlinear (allometric) allocation as a function of plant size. The objective of this study was to test between these two alternative explanations. 2. A total of 1150 plants from 22 different herbaceous species were grown in hydroponic sand culture in factorial combinations of high (1100 mol m
3598983|1. Many animals respond to environmental demands with phenotypic plasticity of morphology and physiology. We examined the effects of ambient temperature and parasitism on morphology and physiology of wild-derived house mice (Mus musculus) that were exposed to cold and/or experimentally infected with a naturally occurring intestinal nematode (Heligmosomoides polygyrus). 2. Parasitized mice had changes in some organ masses, decreased ability to digest food, and lower rates of glucose transport but similar total glucose transport capacity as unparasitized mice. Wild-derived house mice did not use fat stores to respond to parasitism but did increase mucosal mass in the small intestine enough to maintain glucose acquisition at a similar level to unparasitized mice. 3. Cold-exposed mice showed increased masses of some organs, lower rates of glucose transport but similar total capacity to transport glucose as warm acclimated mice. 4. The effects of cold exposure and parasite infection were largely independent of each other for the morphological and physiological parameters we measured. 5. The more recent exposure of wild-derived house mice to fluctuating temperatures and to parasite infection may help to explain the subtle differences that we observed in how wild-derived mice respond to environmental demands compared to their laboratory mouse counterparts.
10.2307/2389552|From Fisher's (1958) theory which states that the sex ratio at the termination of parental care should reflect total cost of producing each sex, a biased secondary sex ratio towards the smaller sex has often been expected for sexually dimorphic birds. The absence of such a sex ratio bias in sexually dimorphic birds has motivated studies which attempted to show, under the so-called sex-specific growth hypothesis, that the differential growth dynamics of males and females counters the difference in energetic costs expected from the size disparity and equalizes the energetic expenditure on males and females. These studies show that the smaller sex (1) shows faster feather growth, (2) attains adult measurements relatively faster, (3) fledges earlier and (4) shows lower variability of growth parameters than the larger sex, and argue that these developmental differences between males and females render the smaller sex as costly as the larger sex. It is shown here that the arguments used in support of the hypothesis that sex-specific growth equalizes the costs of males and females are invalid, and that some of the proposed mechanisms actually increase the cost difference between the sexes. In addition a review of male and female chick growth with respect to weight, tarsus and feathers showed no evidence in support of the sex-specific growth hypothesis in any of the dimorphic species. The energy investment in males and females may be a poor representation of parental cost. The available sex ratio data from stressed and unstressed populations suggest that the reproductive value sensu Williams (1966) is a more precise correlate of parental cost and hence is a better predictor for the sex ratio.
3599345|1. Previous workers have suggested that the evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) for investment in antipredator defences, such as toxins, will critically depend on the nature of expression of the defence. Specifically, it has been suggested that if the different levels of a defence are best described as a continuous variable, then this will lead to pure ESSs with all individuals in a population adopting similar defence levels; whereas defences that can only take on discrete levels will lead to mixed ESSs (featuring variation in defence within the population). 2. Out principal aim is to determine the validity of these viewpoints, and examine how the pure and mixed strategies predicted by the two types of defences can be reconciled with practical and philosophical difficulties in defining any given defence unambiguously as continuous or discrete. 3. We present the first model of a continuously varying defence that is solved explicitly for evolutionarily stable strategies. 4. We are able to demonstrate analytically, that the model always has a unique ESS, which is always pure. This strategy may involve all members of the population adopting no defence, or all members of the population making the same non-zero investment in defence. 5. We then modify our model to restrict the defence to a number of discrete levels and demonstrate that the unique ESS in this case can be either pure or mixed. We further argue that the mixed ESS can be a combination of no more than two defence levels, and the two levels in a mixed ESS must be nearest neighbour levels in an ordered list of the levels that the defence can take. 6. This, in turn, means that the mixed ESS will be practically identical to a pure ESS if the discrete defence is fine-grained.
826562| 1. The size and proximate composition of eggs and alevins (larvae) were measured from six full sibling families of Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar), at six stages between fertilization and first feeding. 2. Egg and alevin size measures (diameter, wet mass, dry mass) and proximate composition attributes (water, protein, fat, energy) were all highly correlated with each other (r = 089-099), suggesting that each is a reasonable surrogate for any other. 3. Most of the variation in egg size (950-970%) and composition attributes (955-979%) was partitioned between, rather than within, females. Most of this variation was attributable to differences in female size, owing to the length of time spent at sea. 4. Fat, protein and energy content varied less on a relative basis (controlling for egg size variation) than on an absolute basis, suggesting that certain combinations of egg attributes are optimal regardless of egg size. 5. Stored fat decreased by 9 6 g day
40863645|1. Cessation of agricultural practices often leads to a dramatic decline in species diversity concomitant with the increase in abundance of monopolistic species, which have been hypothesized to be strongly arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) dependent. AM can affect competitive interactions and influence plant species diversity. Few studies have tested AM effects on the competitive strategy of monopolistic species although it has been shown to be a key parameter to explain their high dominance. In addition, it is not clear whether AM effects on plant interactions can be explained by density-mediated interactions or by trait-mediated interactions. 2. We measured the competitive effect of Festuca paniculata, a widespread monopolistic species from subalpine communities, on itself and on two additional target species with and without AM (benomyl treatment) under contrasted fertilised treatments. AM effects on target species traits were quantified. 3. The three target species exhibited contrasted AM dependency and only F. paniculata was positively affected by AM presence in fertilised conditions. In the fertilised treatment, AM decreased intra-specific competition and increased inter-specific competition. Changes in competitive responses were explained by the AM effect on  inflow and species lateral spread. 4. Our results highlight AM ability to modify the performance of monopolistic species under different environmental conditions. AM provide an important mechanism by which monopolistic species can maintain a high level of dominance and dramatically decrease species diversity following agricultural abandonment.
40407729|1. An emergency life-history stage is expressed in breeding vertebrates when the immediate survival is threatened by poor energetic conditions (i.e. allostatic overload). This emergency life-history stage shifts energy investment away from reproduction and redirects it toward immediate survival. 2. In birds, this emergency life-history stage is promoted by a release of the stress hormone corticosterone. However, how corticosterone reduces the expression of parental cares remains to be clarified. One hypothesis is that the release of corticosterone may also affect prolactin levels, a pituitary hormone widely involved in regulating parental behaviours. 3. We tested this hypothesis by experimentally increasing corticosterone levels of chick-rearing black-legged kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) over a 2-day period and by monitoring prolactin levels over an 8-day period. We also investigated whether this hormonal manipulation affected nest attendance, the motivation to come back to the nest after a short-term stress and breeding success. 4. Corticosterone treatment resulted in a significant increase in plasma corticosterone levels during the first 2 days, which returned to pre-treatment values at day 3. This short-term corticosterone increase was accompanied by a 30% decrease in prolactin levels. Prolactin levels were reduced in a progressive and persistent manner and did not return to their initial levels when corticosterone levels returned to pre-treatment levels. Moreover, although corticosterone levels had returned to pre-treatment values, low prolactin levels were associated with a reduced nest attendance and a greater latency to come back to the nest after a short-term stress. This hormonal treatment also significantly reduced breeding success. 5. This experimental treatment strongly supports the idea that the secretion of these two hormones might be mechanistically linked. Thus, we showed that even a relatively short-term increase in corticosterone levels can durably affect plasma prolactin levels. Therefore, the well-established suppressive action of corticosterone on parental behaviour is probably mediated and reinforced through an effect on prolactin levels. This study highlights the need to consider the potential synergistic effects of these two hormones when studying on the hormonal basis of parental decisions.
3806609|1. To determine whether variation in kidney morphology is associated with environmental aridity in South American hystricognaths, we used conventional and phylogenetic analysis (independent contrasts) to correlate mass-independent renal variables (kidney size; relative medullar thickness, RMT; medulla/cortex ratio, MC; inner medulla/cortex ratio, MIC; relative medullar area, RMA) with environmental variables such as precipitation, temperature and a measure of primary productivity (NDVI). 2. Body mass and most renal indexes showed significant phylogenetic signal (the tendency of closely related species to resemble each other), as well as latitude, one index of minimum daily temperature (T
10.2307/2389596|The relative levels of recovery by populations of Carabidae, Staphylinidae and Linyphiidae were measured, following exposure to dimethoate, in two winter wheat field experiments. Regression analysis of the duration of recovery (the time taken for treatment plot population densities to approach those in control plots) with respect to distance from the plot boundary, revealed differences in the reinvasion potential of the three families. Staphylinidae recovered the most rapidly and Carabidae the most slowly with the Linyphiidae taking an intermediate position. The source of reinvasion differed between the three families with the carabid populations being confined within the field in contrast to the other two families which recolonized treated areas from the field boundary and beyond. The rate at which staphylinid and linyphiid populations dispersed into the plots raised questions concerning the most appropriate scale from which to obtain estimates of the duration of side-effects. More serious interpretative problems arose for the carabids since a large proportion of their apparent recovery may have been an experimental artefact. Regression analysis may provide a simple means of predicting the duration of side-effects on different taxa from field experiments, as long as these interpretative constraints are recognized. This approach incorporates an important feature of life history into predictions of pesticide hazard and may thus be more realistic than predictions based on pesticide toxicity alone.
4540055|1. Parasite transmission frequently depends on an intermediate host species being subject to predation by a definitive host. We hypothesized that the population dynamics of this type of parasite would be affected by plasticity of the predation behaviour of the final host. 2. The zoonotic tapeworm Echinococcus multilocularis Leuckart is transmitted to foxes (Vulpes vulpes L.) by predation on infected rodents. One possible mechanism underlying the significant decrease in the prevalence of E. multilocularis in red foxes observed towards the centre of Zurich (Switzerland) is that the relative abundance of intermediate hosts varies between different urbanized habitats. 3. The water vole, Arvicola terrestris scherman L., which is the major intermediate host, was less abundant in urban compared with peri-urban areas, due to both a reduced availability of suitable habitats and lower numbers within those habitats. Stomach content analyses indicated that foxes in urban areas consumed more anthropogenic food but preyed less frequently on rodents - and those rodents taken belonged to species less susceptible to E. multilocularis infection. 4. We conclude that the functional response of final hosts to changes in supply of intermediate hosts and alternative food sources can significantly affect the transmission dynamic of dixenous parasites, such as this zoonotic tapeworm.
10.2307/2389510|Studies that measure maximum relative growth rates in a large number of plant species must often accept compromises between accuracy of estimation and the number of species that can be studied. In this paper is shown that one can obtain equivalent accuracy in estimating average maximum relative growth rate by using only aboveground tissues as when using whole plant biomass. The regression of whole-plant relative growth rate (R<sub>w</sub>) on above-ground relative growth rate (R<sub>a</sub>) was: R<sub>w</sub> = -0.003 + 1.017 R<sub>a</sub>, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.984, SE of the estimate = 0.008. If these results are generally valid then it will be easier to obtain the data necessary to test adequately recent models of community dynamics and structure which include maximum relative growth rate as a state variable.
10.2307/2390193|1. Variation in late-winter xylem embolism, phenological traits, growth parameters, xylem anatomy and allozyme characteristics were examined in four populations of European beech (Fagus sylvatica) from different geographical origins in Italy. 2. Ultrasonic acoustic emissions from plant stems were measured during winter. Late-winter xylem embolism was quantified before budburst. The timing of budburst was recorded and plant growth parameters were monitored during the spring. The dimension and density of xylem conduits were measured. The genetic variability was investigated using isoenzymes as genetical markers. 3. Significant differences between populations in the rate of acoustic emissions, late-winter embolism, phenological traits and spring growth parameters were observed. Xylem embolism was higher in populations that displayed a higher rate of acoustic emissions during winter. The most embolized population displayed later budburst and slower growth in the spring. No significant differences in xylem anatomy were found. 4. Six out of 10 isoenzymatic loci showed significantly different allele frequencies between populations, but no clear association was found between the genetic variation and the variation of the other traits investigated.
2656321|1. It is common practice to express measurements of leaf composition and morphology using dry mass as a basis. Relationships established using those measurements are difficult to interpret because the leaves may have different liquid contents or fractional air space. 2. In a previous theoretical investigation, we showed that the liquid content of leaves was important and the following hypotheses were proposed: (1) the mass of nitrogen per unit mass of liquid is relatively constant within leaves and (2) the surface area to volume ratio of leaves is proportional to leaf liquid content. That investigation also proposed that fractional air spaces were important, because they confer plasticity in construction, with apparently minimal cost in terms of CO<sub>2</sub> uptake. In this paper we use a set of comprehensive measurements to address the above hypotheses and to assess whether the fractional air space does vary in a consistent manner. 3. We found that the specific gravity of the non-gaseous fraction in the leaves we measured was within the range 0.9-3.0 and increased with the fractional air space in a regular manner. Consequently, the specific gravity varied over a much smaller range (0.9-1.4). The specific gravity at high liquid contents approached unity but at low liquid contents it was variable. 4. The mass of nitrogen (N) per unit mass of liquid was found to be relatively constant (0.01  0.003, n=76). 5. The surface area to volume ratio was positively correlated with the liquid content (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.87, n = 27). 6. The mass of carbon (C) per unit dry mass was relatively constant (0.49  0.04, n = 76). Because N was a constant fraction of the liquid mass but C was a constant fraction of the dry mass, the N:C ratio was positively correlated with the liquid content (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.76, n =27). 7. A comparison with leaf measurements from several external databases confirm that the relationships described above are widely applicable. 8. It is concluded that the composition and morphology of leaves are linked and that leaf function is a consequence of that linkage. Both the liquids and air spaces are integral to leaf function and need to be considered in analysis of experimental results.
3599347| 1. To determine the relationship between basal thermotolerance and hardening capacity across related taxa, these traits were quantified for eight Drosophila species: D. melanogaster, D. simulans, D. sechellia and D. yakuba of the melanogaster subgroup and D. auraria, D. vulcana, D. serrata and D. birchii of the montium subgroup. The effects of pretreatment temperature and recovery time between pretreatment and heat shock on thermotolerance were also assessed. 2. For any given species, all elevated temperature pretreatments (31 C, 33 C and 35 C) equally increased thermotolerance. 3. For any given species, increasing recovery time between pretreatment and heat shock increased thermotolerance, though this effect may be related to factors other than hardening. 4. Basal thermotolerance and absolute hardening capacity (pretreated thermotolerance minus basal thermotolerance) varied considerably among the species, and was not phylogenetically clustered. 5. Though unmodified and phylogenetically corrected correlations indicated a relationship between basal thermotolerance and absolute hardening capacity, this result was largely due to the presence of one species, the highly thermotolerant D. melanogaster. 6. Relative hardening capacity (absolute hardening capacity divided by basal thermotolerance) was fixed for all species at approximately 025. 
10.2307/2389460|Energy budgets were constructed for Phoxinus phoxinus (L.) held in the laboratory at different rations and temperatures. The pattern of energy allocation among components of the energy budget varied with ration and temperature but was independent of temperature at maximum rations. This phenomenon of a constant pattern of energy allocation at maximum rations may be general for fishes and so provides a standard for comparing the energy budgets of different species.
41239453|1. Biological invasions threaten biodiversity, and understanding the factors that influence a community's susceptibility to invasion informs both management of invasive species and conservation efforts towards promoting biodiversity. 2. In this study, we examined the native-exotic richness relationships (NERR) at two spatial scales and asked what variables mediate the relationship between native and exotic species richness in 1-m plots among old fields. We also tested whether the favourable environment and spatial heterogeneity mechanisms alter the relationship between native and exotic richness. Additionally, we identified biotic, abiotic and landscape factors that accounted for patterns of exotic species richness across spatial scales, from 50-m transects (i.e. local scales) to entire old fields (i.e. landscape scales). 3. We found that native and exotic richness were positively related at both local and landscape spatial scales, with the strength of their relationship greater at the landscape scale. In old-field communities with lower foliar cover, native and exotic plant richness were negatively related across 1-m plots, whereas in old fields with higher foliar cover, native and exotic plant richness were positively related across 1-m plots. Overall, predictors of exotic species richness depended on spatial scale: at local scales, native plant richness, light and landscape factors accounted for most of the variation, but biotic factors alone accounted for most of the variation at the landscape scale. 4. Our findings suggest that fields favourable for native species are also suitable for exotic species, and management efforts towards exotic richness should be tailored to spatial scale.
10.2307/2389806|The optimal clutch size is usually defined as that which gives rise to the largest number of recruits. In birds it is often estimated from a second order polynomial regression of brood size on clutch size. If loads of ectoparasites differentially affect the reproductive success of differently sized broods, for example, because of density-dependent population growth of parasites related to host clutch size (i.e. larger clutches incur larger parasite populations), then optimal clutch size of hosts should vary inversely with parasite load. I tested this in the case of the haematophagous mite Ornithonyssus bursa (Berlese) and its swallow Hirundo rustica L. host by including an interaction term between parasite load of nests and clutch size in a regression model. O. bursa reduced the reproductive success of their swallow hosts in a number of ways. Mite loads significantly reduced the most productive clutch size of the swallow (i) in unmanipulated broods, (ii) in broods where parasite loads were experimentally manipulated, and (iii) in broods where both clutch size and parasite loads were experimentally manipulated. Female swallows were apparently unable at the start of egg laying to predict the mite load of their nests at fledging, since clutch size was not significantly correlated with parasite loads. Females were therefore unable to track fluctuations in optimal clutch size created by parasites, but since mites had greater effects on larger clutches this would reduce the geometric mean fitness by swallows laying large clutches.
20142869|1. A growing number of ecologists are turning to the enumeration of white blood cells from blood smears (leukocyte profiles) to assess stress in animals. There has been some inconsistency and controversy in the ecological literature, however, regarding their interpretation. The inconsistencies may stem partly from a lack of information regarding how stress affects leukocytes in different taxa, and partly from a failure on the part of researchers in one discipline to consult potentially informative literature from another. 2. Here, we seek to address both issues by reviewing the literature on the leukocyte response to stress, spanning the taxa of mammals (including humans), birds, amphibians, reptiles and fish. 3. We show that much of the early literature points to a close link between leukocyte profiles and glucocorticoid levels. Specifically, these hormones act to increase the number and percentage of neutrophils (heterophils in birds and reptiles), while decreasing the number and percentage of lymphocytes. This phenomenon is seen in all five vertebrate taxa in response to either natural stressors or exogenous administration of stress hormones. For the ecologist, therefore, high ratios of heterophils or neutrophils to lymphocytes ('H: L' or 'N: L' ratios) in blood samples reliably indicate high glucocorticoid levels. Furthermore, this close relationship between stress hormones and N: L or H: L ratios needs to be highlighted more prominently in haematological assessments of stress, as it aids the interpretation of results. 4. As with hormone assays, there are challenges to overcome in the use of leukocytes profiles to assess levels of stress; however, there are also advantages to this approach, and we outline each. Given the universal and consistent nature of the haematological response to stress, plus the overwhelming evidence from the veterinary, biomedical and ecological literature reviewed here, we conclude that this method can provide a reliable assessment of stress in all vertebrate taxa.
10.2307/2389908|1. The aim of this work is to formulate a methodology for the use of trait analysis to classify European riverine wetlands into functional vegetation types. Plant species and data on biological traits and survival strategy were collected from sites in England (Bradford Mill and Kismeldon, River Torridge). France (R. Allier at Apremont and the R. Loire at Decize) and Ireland (R. Shannon at Clonmacnoise and the Little Brosna near Banagher) during 1991. 2. Linear and multiple discriminant analyses were used to distinguish objectively between plant populations with a priori-selected strategies. There appeared to be very little variation in disturbance-tolerance (D) between the wetland plant populations studied. Competitive and stress-tolerant plants were found to be significantly different by linear discrimmant analysis using 12 descriptive parameters. Multiple discriminant analysis permitted a distinction to be drawn between competitive (C), stress-tolerant (S) and intermediate strategy plants, and retrospectively classified the populations in accordance with the strategies suggested for them by previous work. 3. Stepwise multiple regression was used to identify the important survival traits for predicting competitive ability and stress tolerance. Significant predictors of the C strategy were the height of the plant and the dry weight of the leaves; and of the S strategy the dry weight of stems and weight per seed. Use of the predictive equations permitted the importance of the C and S strategy elements to be determined for 78 plant populations. 4. Weighted for plant cover, mean C and S scores of the plant populations present in each sample unit of vegetation were utilized to determine the functional vegetation type (FVT) in terms of competitiveness (CFVT) and stress tolerance (SFVT). Vegetation samples were ordinated using CFVT and SFVT values. CFVT and SFVT values were highly inversely correlated: a trade-off between competitive ability and stress tolerance in wetland plants was apparent.
10.2307/2390271|1. Young leaves often contain higher concentrations of chemical defences than mature leaves. They may be better protected against herbivores because they are more valuable. 2. The youngest leaves of the rosette plants of Cynoglossum officinale, contain 50-190 times higher concentrations of pyrrolizidine alkaloid (PA) than old leaves. PAs act as defences against generalist herbivores. 3. We examined a model, which predicts optimal defence allocation in plants, based on the assumptions that photosynthetic activity declines with leaf age, herbivory decreases with increasing PA concentration and PA production is costly but can be reallocated without costs. For optimally distributing plants we predict how the concentration of defences decreases with leaf age. 4. The concentration of defences decreases with increasing resource availability and effectiveness of the defence. Reallocation of defences is most advantageous in slow-growing plants. The distribution of PAs over leaves of C. officinale observed in the field can be explained with the model, suggesting that plants indeed are `smart' investors.
826731| 1. A new method (the iterative approach) is presented by which growth analyses can be conducted on plants that have been subjected to significant losses in biomass and leaf area between harvests. The method is particularly useful to analyse the effects of defoliation on growth and biomass allocation. 2. Values for the following parameters can be estimated: absolute growth rate (g day
10.2307/2390270|1. Flower nectar robbers which extract flower rewards to pollinators but do not pollinate, may reduce the fitness of the plant. In this study we combined field observations and experimental manipulations to assess the role of a primary nectar robber, the bird Diglossa baritula, on flower nectar secretion and reproductive output of two hummingbird-pollinated plant species with contrasting breeding systems. We used the hermaphroditic Salvia mexicana and the androdioecious Fuchsia microphylla. In addition, because the distinction between pollinators and robbers is not so sharp, we compared the pollination efficiencies of D. baritula and of five species of hummingbirds visiting the flowers of the same plant species. 2. Flowers of the two plant species were frequently robbed (92 and 37% of the flowers in Salvia mexicana and Fuchsia microphylla respectively). For both species, field censuses of robbed and unrobbed flowers showed no differences in fruit set. Experimentally induced nectar robbery did not affect the cumulative production of nectar in both plant species. However, in S. mexicana, but not in F. microphylla, intact flowers produced more concentrated nectar. 3. The role of D. baritula and hummingbirds on seed production per flower, was assessed by exposing individual flowers to different schedules of visitation by caged flower visitors. In S. mexicana, the number of seeds produced by flowers visited by the robber only was similar to that of flowers visited by the least efficient pollinator but lower than that of those visited by the other pollinators. 4. In F. microphylla, seed production by flowers visited by the robber only was lower than that of flowers visited by all other pollinators. 5. For both plant species visitation by the robber plus hummingbirds yielded a similar number of seeds as flowers visited by the more effective pollinator. 6. There was no field evidence that nectar robbery by D. baritula damages nectaries or ovules and, since under natural conditions flower visitation by the robber only was very rare, we conclude that for these two plant species D. baritula may be regarded as a commensal or even a low-efficiency pollinator.
41319630|1. Morphic detritus, including coarse particulate organic matter such as terrestrial tree leaves and wood, is consumed by few fishes in temperate stream systems but is ingested by abundant and diverse groups of specialized fishes in tropical rivers; physiological assimilation and partitioning of morphic detritus by fishes remain poorly understood. 2. This study examines seven species of Neotropical suckermouth-armored catfishes (Loricariidae) that live among and feed on coarse woody debris. Five species represent two unrelated evolutionary lineages showing convergent morphological specializations for gouging into and eating wood, small particles of which fill their guts. Two morphologically distinct species unrelated to wood-eaters and to each other forage along the surface of wood. 3. We examined six jaw functional morphological characteristics of each loricariid species as well as and N stable isotope ratios of blood plasma, red blood cells and fin tissue of three wood-eating species and muscle tissues of all seven species. Consumer isotopie signatures were compared among species and with isotopie signatures of potential food resources, including biofilm, seston and both bulk wood and holocellulose extracted from bulk wood. 4. Wood-eating species had robust jaws specialized for gouging wood,  C signatures consistent with assimilation of cellulosic wood carbon (not bulk wood carbon or lignin) and elevated  N values (> 5.8) relative to wood that were consistent with assimilation of N from intermediate microbial decomposers in the environment rather than direct assimilation of N from wood or from endosymbiotic N-fixers. Two non-wood-eating species occupied divergent regions of jaw functional morphospace, and isotopie signatures were consistent with assimilation of from biofilm and seston, respectively, and N from enriched sources such as microbes, macroinvertebrates or seston. 5. Food resources associated with the surfaces of coarse woody debris in Neotropical rivers are partitioned among at least three guilds of loricariid consumers with divergent jaw morphologies specialized for wood gouging, surface grazing and macroinvertebrate probing. Direct consumption of morphic detritus by specialized Neotropical fishes constitutes a potentially important but poorly understood component of detritus processing and nutrient cycling in tropical rivers.
3598989|1. Soil sustainability implies a sufficient diversity and abundance of organisms to perform soil functions and to resist environmental stress. Previous studies have shown the importance of functional biodiversity for soil organisms. 2. Soil samples have been collected within the framework of a long-term monitoring programme in the Netherlands. Nematological and microbiological techniques were combined to facilitate a more comprehensive understanding of possible below-ground effects of land management. 3. A possible bias due to stochastic circumstances was investigated. The Mantel test showed that the diversity at species level is largely related to air temperature, but at genus level the effect of temperature disappears. No direct influence of rainfall on the soil biodiversity was found in our model. 4. To extrapolate our data to a national level, habitat-response relationships for soil organisms have been derived. Generalized linear models (GLMs) and Monte Carlo simulation allowed the estimation of the probability of occurrence at a given abundance for 95 nematode genera. 5. Our study describes the influence of abiotic conditions and land use intensity on the composition of nematode communities in grasslands on sand. The results obtained reveal a major influence of pH and livestock density on the diversity of the nematode community at both taxonomic levels as well as at different trophic levels (feeding habits). The presence and abundance of soil nematodes decrease with cattle pressure. 6. Functional diversity decreases with increasing management intensity. It is shown that the Shannon diversities of bacterial feeding nematodes and fungal feeding nematodes are strictly related to cattle pressure, whereas the bacterial biomass occurring under organic farming scores higher than in other farming systems.
3599002| 1. Dwarf stands of the mangrove Rhizophora mangle L. are extensive in the Caribbean. We fertilized dwarf trees in Almirante Bay, Bocas del Toro Province, north-eastern Panam with nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) to determine (1) if growth limitations are due to nutrient deficiency; and (2) what morphological and/or physiological factors underlie nutrient limitations to growth. 2. Shoot growth was 10-fold when fertilized with P and twofold with N fertilization, indicating that stunted growth of these mangroves is partially due to nutrient deficiency. 3. Growth enhancements caused by N or P enrichment could not be attributed to increases in photosynthesis on a leaf area basis, although photosynthetic nutrient-use efficiency was improved. The most dramatic effect was on stem hydraulic conductance, which was increased sixfold by P and 25-fold with N enrichment. Fertilization with P enhanced leaf and stem P concentrations and reduced C: N ratio, but did not alter leaf damage by herbivores. 4. Our findings indicate that addition of N and P significantly alter tree growth and internal nutrient dynamics of mangroves at Bocas del Toro, but also that the magnitude, pattern and mechanisms of change will be differentially affected by each nutrient. 
10.2307/2389616|Eight species of herbs that reach peak abundance at different times during the first 50 years of secondary succession on a nitrogen impoverished sand plain were grown at both low and high density for one and two field seasons along an experimental nitrogen gradient. The data demonstrate that intraspecific competition is strong even on extremely nitrogen poor soils. The dependence of relative growth rates (RGR), biomass per plant, yield per pot, root:shoot ratios and seed:shoot ratios on soil total nitrogen were determined. These nitrogen-dependent characteristics were compared with the known successional status of the species. Species most abundant on early successional, nitrogen poor soils tend to have higher RGR<sub>max</sub>, lower root:shoot ratio, higher yield per pot and higher seed:shoot ratio than late successional species of more nitrogen rich soils. This suggests that early successional species may be inferior nitrogen competitors but have faster growth rates and better colonization abilities than later successional species. This supports the hypothesis that the successional dynamics of these herbs are the transient dynamics of colonization and competitive displacement, but tends to refute the equilibrial version of the resource ratio hypothesis of succession (i.e. succession caused by changing nitrogen to light ratios).
40205526|1. Laboratory studies on genetically modified strains may reveal important information on mechanisms involved in coping with thermal stress. However, to address the evolutionary significance of specific genes or physiological mechanisms, ecologically relevant field tests should also be performed. 2. We have tested the importance of inducible heat shock proteins (Hsps) under different thermal conditions using two heat shock factor (Hsf) mutant lines (either able (Hsf) or unable (Hsf) to mount a heat stress response) and an outbred laboratory adapted wild-type line of Drosophila melanogaster under both laboratory and field conditions. 3. In the field, there was a tendency towards better performance of Hsf flies relative to Hsf flies, but as compared with wild-type the performance of both mutant lines was very low. 4. In the laboratory tests, Hsf flies had higher heat knock-down resistance relative to Hsf flies but in other assays on heat, cold and desiccation resistance there was either no difference between the two mutant lines or the Hsf line had higher performance. Also, the superiority of the wild-type flies under field conditions was trait specific. 5. The results emphasize that the ecological relevance of specific molecular mechanisms should be tested under a range of conditions both in the laboratory and in the field. Genetically modified lines cannot be assumed to represent the performance of natural populations, especially for field and/or ecologically relevant studies. 6. As evident in this study, ideal controls and adequate replication of genetically modified strains can be difficult to obtain. Thus, caution is needed when interpreting results comparing the performance of genetically modified lines with that of control lines.
40407741|1. Applying Keeling plot techniques to derive C of respiratory input in a closed non-equilibrated chamber can lead to large errors because steady-state diffusion rules are violated in a non-steady-state environment. To avoid these errors, respiratory C can be derived using equilibrated closed chambers. 2. We introduce a new method to obtain stem respired $CO_2 \delta ^{13} C(\delta _{st - r} )$ with closed equilibrated stem chambers (E-SC). We present a theoretical model describing the equilibration process, test the model against field data and find excellent agreement. The method is further tested by comparing it with closed non-equilibrated stem chambers (NE-SC); we found no difference between these methods. 3. Our theoretical model to describe CO diffusion from the respiratory pool into the chamber and the equation to derive the C of the efflux are general. They could be applied to other ecosystem components (e.g. soils). 4. Our method is easy to implement, cost effective, minimizes sources of error and allows for rigorous leak detection. One major limitation is its inability to detect rapid change; the equilibration process requires 15  2 h. A second limitation is that it cannot be used for species that produce abundant pitch at sites of stem wounding (e.g. Pseudotsuga menziesii). 5. Investigating C of CO respired by different ecosystem components is necessary to interpret C of ecosystem respiration. This parameter has major implications with respect to global carbon cycle science.
10.2307/2389814|In autumn, needles on the parent shoot of branches of Pinus contorta Doug. bearing male cones had significantly higher photosynthetic rates compared to needles on vegetative shoots and those branches bearing female cones. There were no significant differences between the assimilation rates of needles on vegetative shoots and branches bearing female cones in any of the three sample periods (spring, summer or autumn). It was suggested that needles on branches bearing male cones had higher autumn assimilation rates because of: (1) reduced needle complement on the current year's growth and (2) presence of a developing male cone bud. Needles on branches bearing female cones had higher respiration rates than needles on vegetative branches, at all three sample times, and significantly higher respiration rates than needles on branches bearing male cones in the spring and summer sample periods. It is suggested that the higher dark respiration rates associated with branches bearing female cones were the result of the simultaneous growth and extension of both female cones and the current year's shoots.
40205529|1. Tree architecture is a major determinant of performance, such as height growth, light capture, and mechanical stability. Studies both in temperate and tropical forests have shown significant architectural differences associated with adult stature and light demand. 2. However, studies in temperate forests have not been as thorough in examining these relationships with respect to phylogeny and ontogeny, thus preventing a complete understanding of the patterns in temperate forests and limiting comparisons of the relationship between tropical and temperate forests. Therefore, we performed a community-level analysis of the relationship between tree form and ecology in a temperate forest with statistical consideration of phylogeny and ontogeny. 3. The height-diameter relationship throughout tree development was asymptotic in most species. Crown diameter and depth increased allometrically with tree height, with no asymptote. The tree height, crown diameter, and crown depth of small trees were estimated using these relationships and were similar to those reported for tropical species. 4. Taller species had more slender stems at any reference size and narrower crowns at small reference sizes, whereas crown depth was relatively independent of adult stature. Light-wooded species had narrower and shallower crowns at medium to large reference heights. Stem thickness was virtually independent of wood density throughout the size range. 5. Our results support the hypothesis that the architecture of short or shade-tolerant species is optimized for light capture and mechanical stability, whereas that of tall or light-demanding species is optimized for height growth. These relationships generally agree with results from studies in tropical rain forests, although considerable differences exist, and may potentially promote the stable coexistence of the species.
826696|1. The impact of sample preparation, rehydration procedure and time of collection on the determination of specific leaf area (SLA, the ratio of leaf area to leaf dry mass) and leaf dry matter content (LDMC, the ratio of leaf dry mass to fresh mass) of mature leaves was studied in three wild species growing in the field, chosen for their contrasting SLA and LDMC. 2. Complete rehydration was achieved 6 h after samples were placed into water, but neither of the procedures tested - preparation of samples before rehydration or temperature applied during rehydration - had a significant effect on the final values of SLA or LDMC. 3. As expected, water-saturated leaves had a lower LDMC than non-rehydrated leaves; more surprisingly, their SLA was also higher. The impact of rehydration on SLA was especially important when the SLA of the species was high. 4. There was no significant effect of time of sampling on either trait in any species over the time period covered (09.00-16.30 h). 5. These results suggest that SLA and LDMC obtained on water-saturated leaves (SLA
10.2307/2389401|A number of laboratory studies have demonstrated mortality among amphibian embryos chronically exposed to levels of pH found in naturally-acid and acidified waters in the field. There is much less information about the effects of short-term depressions in pH. Furthermore, various experimental media have been used, in which the concentrations of major cations have often differed substantially from those typical of acid natural waters. In this study, common frog embryos (Rana temporaria L.) were exposed to low pH (4.5) for periods ranging from 6 h to 90 h at calcium concentrations of 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 and 4.0 mg l<sup>-1</sup>. Survival times decreased with decreasing pH and, at pH 4.0, with decreasing calcium concentration. Short-term depressions of pH, such as those following heavy rainfall, may be an important cause of amphibian embryo mortality in poorly buffered natural waters. The marked effect of calcium at these realistic, low levels emphasizes the importance of using appropriate media in laboratory experiments. It may be easier to detect small differences in acid tolerance by manipulating calcium concentration and duration of exposure to low pH than by varying pH itself.
10.2307/2389423|Survival costs of reproduction were examined in starved female grasshoppers (Chorthippus brunneus Thunberg) previously maintained at high and low rations. A strict measure of reproductive effort was used based on measurements of energy value, avoiding misleading conclusions. Females had a greater reproductive effort at high ration than at low. No overt survival costs were associated with this but their existence was suggested. However, survival costs of reproduction were clearly demonstrated at a given ration, even though individuals with high reproductive effort and poor survival tended to assimilate most food. Both past and present reproduction affected survival but the former was more important. The survival costs were themselves found to depend on the interaction between female body size and ration.
10.2307/2390246|1. Results of ecotoxicity tests on single species are often used for the evaluation of the environmental risk of substances. Because many tests are performed with parthenogenetic species, the question may arise, how reliable the results of these tests are when predicting the effects of a substance for both parthenogenetic and sexual species in the field. 2. In this investigation four clones of the species Folsomia candida were tested in a 35 day artificial soil test using cadmium (Cd), chlorpyrifos (CPF) and triphenyltin hydroxide (TPT-OH). 3. For Cd and TPT-OH no significant differences between clones were found, owing to a large variation within the clones. In the CPF experiment, differences between clones were small but significant. 4. Differences in the mode of action between the toxicants tested were found, these differences being the same for the different clones. 5. A new method was developed for analysis of triphenyltin and its degradation products diphenyltin and monophenyltin in Collembola. 6. No differences in uptake of Cd were found between clones. 7. The results support the conclusion that interclonal variation in sensitivity to soil toxicants in F. candida is not so large as to prohibit the use of this parthenogenetic species for soil ecotoxicity evaluations.
10.2307/2389887|1. Running endurance and running direction changes of both bipedal (Dipodomys, Microdipodops) and quadrupedal (Chaetotipus, Heteromys, Liomys, Perognathus) heteromyid rodents were measured to determine if locomotor performance is enhanced in bipedal species. 2. Running endurance was significantly higher in bipedal Dipodomys species (kangaroo rats) compared to quadrupedal species of similar size. Bipedal Microdipodops (kangaroo mouse) had even lower endurance than the quadrupedal species as a group. 3. Both running speed and body mass were found to influence running direction changes. The effects of body mass and speed accounted for more running direction changes in Dipodomys species than the quadrupedal species and the bipedal Microdipodops. 4. Bipedal locomotion in general does not enhance running endurance or the ability to change running direction. However, bipedal Dipodomys had higher running endurance than quadrupedal species of comparable size and, given their size and speed, change running direction as often as a small quadrupedal species. 5. These enhancements of locomotor performance in Dipodomys should improve the predator-escape capabilities of these species relative to quadrupedal species.
10.2307/2389752|The interactions between a root-chewing insect, Phyllopertha horticola, and a leaf miner, Chromatomyia syngenesiae, mediated through the annual forb, Sonchus oleraceus, were tested by a factorial experiment. While there was no effect of either foliar or root herbivory on vegetative plant biomass, a decrease in the number and size of leaves was recorded. Only foliar herbivory caused a reduction in root biomass. Root herbivory increased the pupal weight (a measure of fecundity) of the leaf miners. This was attributed to changes in food quality, as the amount of leaf consumed by the leaf miners was not affected by root herbivory. Total foliar nitrogen was measured as an indicator of food quality and was reduced by leaf miners, but not significantly by root herbivory. Foliar herbivory reduced the growth rate of the chafer larvae. The results are discussed in terms of competition between spatially separated herbivores. The interaction is asymmetric, with the leaf miners benefiting from root herbivory, while the chafter larvae are disadvantaged by foliar feeding. The `plus-minus' nature of this interaction provides an example of contramensalism.
3599300| 1. The faecal shield of cassidine larvae is generally thought to have evolved as a defence against predators, but field evidence for this is only anecdotal. We investigated the effectiveness of the shield as defence against natural enemies and as protection from ultraviolet (UV-B) radiation in the shield beetle Cassida rubiginosa Mller (Coleoptera, Chrysomelidae). We also investigated if the construction and bearing of the shield is associated with fitness costs for the larvae in the absence of natural enemies. 2. Using continuous video surveillance of individual prey, we determined the predator complex of the larvae in the field. Against the main predator, the paper wasp Polistes dominulus Christ (Hymenoptera, Vespidae), the faecal shield was not effective at all. Only few other generalist predators attacked the larvae and thus represented no major mortality factor. By contrast, the faecal shield was highly effective against parasitoids, an unexpected trait described here for the first time. 3. In dual-choice bioassays we found no attractive effect of the faecal shield on the endoparasitoid Foersterella reptans (Hymenoptera, Tetracampidae), but a removed faecal shield facilitated oviposition. 4. There was no protective effect of the faecal shield against UV-B radiation in a laboratory experiment. However, irradiated larvae suffered from a higher mortality rate and reached a lower pupal weight, independent of whether or not they carried a shield. 5. We found no measurable fitness costs for the larvae associated with bearing the faecal shield. Advantages (protection from desiccation, wind) seem to outweigh the costs, even in the absence of enemies. 6. Although many studies on the defensive function of Cassidine shields have been published, this is to our knowledge the first to consider the actual predation pressure in natural situations. This step is rarely undertaken in studies on proposed defensive traits. However, verification that a proposed selection pressure is in fact present in the field is crucial for demonstrating the value and function of any trait. 
10.2307/2389572|Genetic variation in relative growth rate (RGR) was studied in Plantago major L. Inbred lines of subspecies major had on average a 14% lower RGR than ssp. pleiosperma lines. A detailed growth analysis was done with two inbred lines. W9 (ssp. major) had a 20% lower RGR than A4 (ssp. pleiosperma). The higher RGR of A4 was associated with an 11% lower net assimilation rate. Photosynthesis and shoot dark respiration per leaf area was 23% and 30% lower in A4. The root respiration rate per gram dry weight was 20% higher in the fast growing line. A 30% higher specific leaf area (SLA) was associated with the higher RGR, while leaf thickness was the same. The leaf weight ratio was slightly higher in A4 and thus also contributed to its higher RGR. The high SLA of A4 was associated with a low ratio between dry weight and fresh weight of leaves and roots. The epidermal (adaxial) cell number per leaf area was 27% lower in A4. We conclude that the lower RGR of W9 is due to a changed allocation pattern, which was only partially compensated for by its higher photosynthetic rate.
826630| 1. Prairie Voles (Microtus ochrogaster Wagner) are among the smallest vegetation-feeding mammalian herbivores, and thus show a high ratio of energetic expenditure to energy content of ingested food that may lead to digestive bottlenecks. By varying the periodicity of 3 h of food availability, it was found that energy assimilation in Prairie Voles is not limited by the time required to consume food, but by the time required to digest and absorb food. 2. Three hours is all the time that is necessary for a Prairie Vole to consume the food needed for 1 day. Although voles offered food in one 3-h block per 24 h increased dry matter digestibility, they could not consume enough food to maintain body mass. However, when offered 3 h of food availability but divided into six 30-min periods evenly spaced throughout 24 h Prairie Voles reached a level of food intake similar to that of control voles fed ad libitum and stabilized body mass similar to controls. 3. It is suggested that a vole's stomach capacity limits intake for each feeding bout, regardless of how empty the following chambers are after any period of food restriction and the rate of stomach emptying may dictate the feeding bout periodicity. The amount of stomach contents (11-14 g) found in voles held under similar conditions to those in our experiments closely resembles the amount of food consumed (078-14 g) during each of the six 30-min periods of feeding. 4. The bottleneck limits intake of food and keeps feeding bouts spaced. The time required for digestion may be the cause for a vole's observed 2-4 h ultradian activity rhythm. Evidence is given that spacing between activity periods may be adjusted to the metabolic demands of the species. 
10.2307/2389337|The two main proximate causes of intratree variation in individual seed mass of lodgepole pine [Pinus contorta var. latifolia (Dougl. ex Loudon)] were space constraints within cones and between-branch position effects. Cone scales get smaller near the distal tip of the cone. Seed predation has selected for the production of the fertile zone in the distal tip of the cone where cone scales are smaller. Thus, seed and wing size were constrained by cone scale size, and decreased from the base to the tip of the cone. Heavier seeds had larger seed wings, but wing loading (fruit mass/wing area) was independent of seed mass. Although it is possible that seed mass variation might be selected because it increases dispersal effectiveness, several factors - the consistent within-cone positional variation in seed mass, wing area, and wing loading; the dependence of seed mass, wing area, and wing loading on cone size; and the positive relationship between seed mass and wing area - suggest that variation is caused by constraints by scale size.
2656522|1. In addition to genetic drift, both natural and sexual selection may be responsible for interspecific differences in male and female size and coloration. Comparative methods were used to analyse the patterns of dimorphism in the Anseriformes (wildfowl) in relation to mating patterns, nest placement, insularity and number of closely related, sympatric species. 2. The following predictions were tested about the evolution of dimorphism: (a) that evolutionary changes are more common in male than in female coloration; (b) that the intensity of sexual selection is correlated with the evolution of bright coloration and sexual dimorphism; (c) that the nature of nest sites influences the evolution of bright coloration in females via its effect on predation risk, and the extent of size dimorphism via the limits to the size of females using cavities; (d) that insular species show more size dimorphism and less colour dimorphism than mainland species; and (e) that sexual dichromatism is more common in species living in sympatry with a larger number of similar species. 3. Evolutionary changes in plumage brightness were found to be more frequent in males than in females. Changes in mating patterns were significantly correlated with changes in plumage brightness in both males and females and in plumage dichromatism, but not with changes in size dimorphism. Evolutionary transitions from open to hole nesting did not affect plumage dichromatism or size dimorphism. A significant association was detected between insularity and the probability of changes in male brightness, but there was no relationship between insularity and size dimorphism. Sexual dichromatism and bright male (but not female) plumage tend to occur in wildfowl sympatric with a high number of species from the same tribe. 4. In conclusion, mating patterns, insularity and sympatry appear to have evolved in correlation with changes in sexual dichromatism and plumage brightness in the Anseriformes, but not with changes in sexual size dimorphism.
40863626|1. Initial work on oxidative stress and antioxidant defences described basic chemical and biochemical properties and processes and applied this information to issues of animal health and husbandry. Seminal experimental investigations on the damaging effects of oxidative stress and the mitigating effects of antioxidant defences were conducted primarily in domesticated organisms. 2. In recent years, ecologists have taken to studying antioxidants and oxidative stress in free-ranging organisms and have integrated principles of oxidative stress into several core evolutionary concepts, such as life-history trade-offs (e. g. survival vs. reproduction), senescence and sexual selection. This initial flurry of studies has provided major advances in our understanding of how antioxidant defences evolve and function. 3. In this overview, it is our goal to provide ecologists with an accessible summary of (i) the biochemical basis and conceptual frameworks behind oxidative stress and antioxidants, (ii) the research questions and hypotheses that are generated by incorporating antioxidants and oxidative stress into models of life-history theory, ageing, mate selection, and honest signalling, and (iii) the trends in the evidence that have emerged from initial studies in these areas. 4. Though much progress has been made on the ecological and evolutionary relevance of antioxidant and oxidative stress physiology, no consensus has emerged regarding the primacy of how oxidative stress challenges or antioxidant limits or values shape organismal life-histories. However, there are many taxonomic biases in studies to date and several ideal environmental systems that are as-of-yet untapped.
40963561|1. Many organisms respond to threats such as stress and predation by expressing a defended phenotype (phenotypic plasticity) or inducing the expression of a defended phenotype in offspring (transgenerational phenotypic plasticity). While defended phenotypes can increase resistance to a predator or stress, in the absence of the inducing agent defended phenotypes often have poorer performance. Producing a defended phenotype unnecessarily has been termed a phenotype-environment mismatch. 2. Most studies have focused on the benefits of a defended phenotype along a single environmental gradient (i.e. the presence/absence of the inducing agent) but in nature, organisms must face conditions that vary across a number of environmental gradients simultaneously. By focusing on the costs and benefits of a defended phenotype in a single dimension alone we risk underestimating the strength and likelihood of phenotype-environment mismatches. 3. For the marine bryozoan Bugula neritina, we examined the performance of individuals with an induced, defended phenotype (pollution resistance) relative to individuals with an undefended phenotype across a number of different environments. We found that individuals with the defended phenotype were more sensitive to osmotic stress, but surprisingly, were less susceptible to predation than individuals with the undefended phenotype. 4. Our findings suggest that the costs and benefits associated with expressing a defended phenotype are more complex than previously realized because the full consequences of induced phenotypes are only unmasked when performance in multiple environments is examined.
826645|1. CO
4540046|1. Nutrient additions often result in species dominance/compositional changes in wetland ecosystems, but the impact of nutrients may be constrained by different salinity levels. Wetlands of northern Belize, distributed along a salinity gradient, are strongly phosphorus-limited and dominated largely by three species of emergent macrophytes: Eleocharis cellulosa Torr., Cladiumjamaicense Crantz and Typha domingensis Pers. 2. We conducted a mesocosm experiment to assess changes in growth characteristics [biomass allocation, plant height, relative growth rate (RGR), rhizome length] and nutrient uptake of these three species in response to simultaneous changes in levels of nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) and salinity. 3. The growth characteristics of Typha and Eleocharis responded positively to N and especially P addition, whereas the growth response of Cladium was largely insignificant. The RGR of Typha increased under P addition, while RGR of Eleocharis increased with N and decreased with salinity addition. Nutrient addition increased the rhizome number of both Typha and Eleocharis. However, plasticity in rhizome length was observed only in Typha, which showed increased rhizome length at medium and high P. 4. Salinity decreased plant height and shoot and root biomass of Cladium and Eleocharis, while in Typha it reduced only height. Rhizome number and length were decreased only in Eleocharis. 5. Both medium and high P additions increased tissue P content in all three species, but Eleocharis accumulated significantly more P than Cladium and Typha. Nitrogen additions increased tissue N content in Cladium and Eleocharis, but not in Typha. 6. Cladium exhibited strong morphological constraint and behaved as a stress-tolerator that was well adapted to low nutrients. Typha - characterized by its plastic, opportunistic guerrilla growth strategy, fast and efficient space occupancy, and rather wasteful nutrient management - behaved as a typical competitor. Eleocharis responded rapidly to nutrients but displayed limited rhizome plasticity, and its growth was affected at higher salinity. 7. According to recorded traits, we hypothesize that P input into wetlands will result in expansion of Typha, leading to competitive exclusion of both co-occurring species. The only conditions allowing coexistence of all three species are those limiting vertical and horizontal growth of Typha: low P and higher salinity. To ensure the stability of Belizean wetlands, the maintenance of oligotrophic status is therefore crucial.
40863638|1. Growth rate is a fundamental property of organisms. In trees, growth is indeterminate and varies in space and time depending on resource availability, genetic constraints, competition and stress from biotic and abiotic environmental factors. 2. The ratio between the abundance of RNA and DNA in the tissue has been used to indicate recent growth rates in many systems, but not for trees. We assessed the applicability of using RNA : DNA ratios for assessing intraspecific and interspecific differences in growth rates in two species of mangrove trees under field conditions. We manipulated growth by fertilizing mangrove trees over a period of 4 years and measured tree growth as increments in linear extension of tagged shoots. The C, N and  contents per unit biomass were measured to test the hypothesis that faster growing organisms require more  per unit biomass (the Growth Rate Hypothesis). 3. We found that interspecific differences in the RNA : DNA ratio clearly reflected the difference in shoot elongation rates between the species. Intraspecific differences in RNA : DNA were significantly correlated with growth rates only for Avicennici marina and not for Ceriops australis. C:N and C:P ratios were lower in trees with higher growth rates and exhibited a negative correlation with RNA : DNA ratios. 4. Our results indicate that RNA : DNA ratios can reliably predict interspecific differences in growth rates between the two mangrove species and that RNA : DNA ratios can be used as an indication of variation in growth rate for Avicennia marina. The interaction between : N :  ratios, RNA : DNA ratios and growth rates supported the Growth Rate Hypothesis on an interspecific level, but not on an intraspecific level.
40205534|1. Recently, ecologists have shown interest in examining antioxidant protection in wild animals; carotenoids in particular have received attention as antioxidants that play an important role in mediating health, life-history trade-offs and sexual selection. However, we know almost nothing about the relationships among levels of different antioxidants in wild animals or whether variation in antioxidants can be viewed as a single coherent system. 2. Here we use a data set of 903 individuals from 99 bird species to examine covariation among concentrations of three types of antioxidants (uric acid, vitamin E and four carotenoids), and their relationship to a summary measure, Trolox-equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC), both inter- and intraspecifically in 30 species. 3. Three axes were necessary to adequately describe variation in nine antioxidant measures, and these axes corresponded to the basic categories of antioxidant measured: uric acid, vitamin E and carotenoids. There was substantial heterogeneity in the correlations across species. 4. TEAC covaried strongly with uric acid levels, both interspecifically and in 23 of the 30 species. Concentrations of different carotenoids covaried both inter- and intraspecifically, but there was also substantial variance explained by each carotenoid independent of the others. Vitamin E concentration did not robustly correlate with any other antioxidant parameters. 5. Overall, we show that although antioxidants tend to covary with those of similar type, these correlations demonstrate evolutionary lability and/or ecological heterogeneity. Even the most general associations are absent in some species, suggesting that conceptualization of a single antioxidant system is oversimplified and that ecological studies attempting to examine antioxidant function should use multiple measures.
10.2307/2389703|A battery-operated field-portable instrument designed to measure the ratio of red/infra-red (R/IR) light beneath grassland canopies on a microscale is described. Because the ratio is correlated with leaf area index, a grid of ratio measurements may be used to map the location and size of canopy gaps. These are potential entry points into the vegetation for new individuals and for new species of plants. Measurements are made with a 1.5 mm diameter fibre optic probe which scans beneath the canopy under the control of a portable microcomputer. Data are stored on magnetic tape and processed by mainframe computer to produce contour maps of R/IR ratio.
826601|1. Resources vary critically in space and time so the ability of animals to utilize them necessarily does so in sympathy. For hermit crabs in coastal SW Madagascar, a critical resource is a suitable shell to habit, as is typical of the group. Quantification of resource status should therefore be as straightforward as counting shells on a beach. Only certain shells are exploitable, however, based on their condition, occupier status and attributes (such as size). 2. The total, total exploitable and empty shell densities (size classed) per unit area were measured from the shallow subtidal to landward range (100 m inland) of hermit crabs. The population density of resource exploiters (hermit crabs) was also measured (grouped by size classes) over a similar area, enabling calculation of the total number of exploitable shells per individual (based on appropriate match of resource and resource user) and the nested subset of empty exploitable shells per individual. 3. Resource bottlenecks and surpluses occurred at different (resource exploiter) life stages and at different positions on the shore. The proportion of available shell types used by hermit crabs was found to increase down shore despite the number of shell types availability showing the converse pattern. 4. Multiple regression models of shell use by hermit crabs were constructed that showed species and genus level trends. Five or more variables were almost equally significant in each of the models. Overall hermit crab size, site, habitat and local shell diversity were most important in determining the number of shell types used. 5. The proportion of interspecific vs intraspecific competition at each shore level was estimated using observed species-specific shell use patterns and population size class sizes. Observed competition followed the predicted sigmoidal pattern across the littoral zone but that of intensity of competition was different and bimodal. 6. Ordination (detrended correspondence analysis) showed that resource exploiter (species) specific shell suites heavily overlap in multidimensional niche space as is near universally described in the literature. When shell suites are ordinated by size class, however, species niches separate, even across sites, except at sizes where resources are not restricted. Niches are distinct but cryptic.
10.2307/2390507|1. During a 5<sup></sup>C warmer-than-average winter in north-eastern Sweden, Vaccinium myrtillus suffered lethal injuries. During the following, equally mild winter a retrospective investigation was carried out to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. 2. Rehydrated shoots were most cold tolerant when tested in early winter, intermediate tolerant in mid-winter and least tolerant in late winter. 3. Solute content of shoots decreased considerably over winter. 4. It is suggested that the damage is caused by the progressive respiratory loss of cryoprotective sugars. 5. Based on gas exchange it was estimated that initial carbohydrate reserves would have lasted 4 months only if tissue water content had remained high. 6. As snow cover was thin and weather often clear, shoots were dehydrated which improved their cold tolerance 5-10<sup></sup>C. This may explain why dieback did not occur during this winter, but during the preceding winter when misty and rainy days were twice as frequent. 7. In addition to long-term dehardening, a short-term dehardening was described following transition to constant non-freezing temperatures, which was similar to a phenomenon observed in Picea abies. 8. Chlorophyll fluorescence as a tool for probing freezing damage was evaluated. This revealed a high capacity for recovery from initial damage.
20142808|1. Phylogenetic shifts in habitat use often impose strong selective forces on locomotor systems; for example, the transition from terrestrial to aquatic existence has stimulated the evolution of laterally compressed 'paddles' on the tails, feet or fins of a diverse array of vertebrate taxa. 2. Under the traditional gradualist model of evolutionary change, even a small paddle is predicted to enhance aquatic locomotion but impose a cost in terrestrial performance. However, direct evaluation of those early evolutionary stages is impossible from modern-day aquatic species, because the initial steps have been obscured by complex subsequent adaptations of morphology, physiology and behaviour. 3. Unlike most major features of locomotor-system morphology (e.g. leg length, muscle mass), the caudal paddles of aquatic snakes are morphologically so simple that they can be recreated experimentally. We attached artificial paddles to the tails of juvenile tigersnakes (Notechis scutatus) to assess the effect of tail shape on locomotor performances. 4. The presence of a small paddle on the tail greatly increased swimming speeds (by 25%) but decreased crawling speeds on land (by 17%). A small paddle (35% of tail length) was more effective for aquatic locomotion than a larger paddle (84% of tail length). 5. Presumably, larger paddles are effective only after adaptive modification of musculoskeletal propulsive systems. Our experimental manipulations thus provide unusually direct evidence of a functional advantage to modest lateral flattening of the tail in the earliest aquatic snakes, mediated via enhanced locomotor speeds in water.
10.2307/2389831|1. Natural populations are heterogeneously distributed in space and often form dense local aggregations. 2. Here, we examine the ability of the freshwater zooplankter Daphnia pulex to modify its spatial position in response to food gradients that span the natural range encountered in lakes and ponds. 3. When presented with a food gradient, individuals chose to feed at the high-food end of gradients whose upper range is typical of field conditions, and they avoided the high-food end of very `high-food' gradients that are atypical of the field. 4. In addition, the degree to which individuals aggregated along the gradient varied in a non-linear manner with overall food concentration. The strongest aggregative response was obtained at intermediate food levels typical of the field. 5. We also show that the behavioural response occurs on a relatively fast time-scale. Individuals were capable of tracking food gradients that were destroyed and recreated over a time-scale of 3-4 h.
41239367|1. Annual variation in the timing of avian reproduction is associated with predictive cues related to ambient temperature. Understanding how these cues affect timing, and estimating the genetic variation in sensitivity to these cues, is essential to predict the micro-evolutionary changes in timing which are needed to adapt to climate change. 2. We carried out a 2-year experiment with great tits Parus major of known genetic background, which were kept in pairs in climate-controlled aviaries with simulated natural photoperiod and exposed to a seasonal change in temperature, where the two treatments differed by 4 C. We recorded the dates of laying the first and last eggs and timing of moult, as well as physiological proxies associated with reproduction: plasma luteinizing hormone (LH), prolactin, and gonadal size at four-weekly intervals. 3. The temperature treatments did not affect first-egg dates, nor gonadal growth or plasma LH and prolactin concentrations. However, birds terminated egg laying, regressed their testes and started their moult earlier at higher temperatures. 4. There were marked family differences in both the start of egg laying, with sisters from early laying maternal families laying early, and in the termination of laying, indicating that there is heritable variation in sensitivity to cues involved in timing. 5. Our experiment, the first to use genetically related individuals in an experimental design with a natural change in photoperiod and biologically realistic temperature differences, thus shows that genetic adaptation in cue sensitivity is possible, essential for species to be able to adapt to a warming world.
4139356| 1. To assess low temperature limits of root growth in woody plants from periodically cold climates, we exposed seedlings of broadleaved and conifer taxa to contrasting soil temperature gradients under unlimited nutrient supply. 2. Five of the six species tested (Alnus viridis, Alnus glutinosa, Picea abies, Pinus sylvestris, Pinus cembra) produced hardly any (<3%) new roots at temperatures below 6 C, while Betula pendula did produce a few roots. Across all species, 85% of all new roots in the cold profile were confined to the rooting zone above 9 C. Total root production in the gradual 16 to 2 C temperature profile was only 40% of that obtained at a constant temperature of 16 C. 3. New shoot growth (21-23 C) was unaffected by these soil temperature differences. Neither specific root length nor root width responded to treatments. Low and high elevation taxa did not differ in any of the traits or responses tested. 4. Given that shoots were experiencing optimal conditions, the root data suggest a direct growth (sink) limitation by low temperatures during spring at low elevation, and potentially year-round limitation at the high-elevation climatic treeline. The critical temperature for significant root growth is 6 C, which is close to the worldwide mean soil temperature at climatic treelines. 
20142777|1. A host's defence reaction against one parasite species can modulate the habitat quality for other parasites in two ways: it can provide cross-resistence against closely related species due to antigenic similarity, or it can reduce resistance to other cohabiting species, since the mounting of multiple defence reactions is more costly. 2. Here we test whether two completely unrelated parasite species can influence each other across host generations, that is, whether a hen flea-induced maternal effect known to protect great tit (Parus major) nestlings against flea infestations will also alter tick (Ixodes ricinus) feeding behaviour on nestlings. 3. We infested experimental great tit nests with hen fleas (Ceratophyllus gallinae) prior to egg-laying to induce the maternal effect, while all parasites were removed in control nests. Nestlings from the two types of nests were then cross-fostered into flea-free foster nests to produce broods that contained both, nestlings with and without the flea-induced maternal effect. Five days after hatching, we put five larval ticks on each nestling and assessed tick feeding behaviour. 4. We found that ticks feeding on nestlings with the flea-induced maternal effect detached significantly earlier than ticks feeding on controls. The result is compatible with the hypothesis of a transgenerational parasite-parasite interaction, that is, it suggests that the flea-induced maternal effect alters tick feeding behaviour and that it may protect nestlings against tick-borne diseases by reducing tick attachment times. In addition, we found that more ticks attached on male than on female nestlings, suggesting that males are more susceptible to parasites than females as shown in other vertebrates.
826682|1. The size of nematodes is an operational indicator of fecundity. The variation in size due to chemotherapy was studied with a benzimidazole anthelmintic in susceptible and resistant nematodes. Teladorsagia circumcincta circumcincta (Stadelmann 1894), a nematode endoparasite of sheep and goats, was investigated as many components of its fitness are already known. 2. Susceptible worms submitted to increasing selective pressure by anthelmintics increased in size (by 6-10%); it was hypothesized that this was partly under the control of sheep, as treated lambs may mount and maintain a better response when infected (premunition). 3. The resistant worms, whatever the anthelmintic pressure, were always 3% larger than susceptible ones. 4. Thus, size may increase in susceptible worms and resistant worms for very different reasons. If resistance does not emerge, massive chemotherapy should lead to larger nematodes, and hence to more fertile worms.
10.2307/2389446|1 The ability to survive sand burial involves both a plant's ability to grow up through the sand, and also the ability to survive darkness whilst it does so. Ability to survive temporary sand deposition is also important on dunes. 2 An experiment with 29 native and introduced New Zealand dune species examined the length of time the species survived complete darkness in a lightproof box. 3 Survival times ranged from 19 to 140 days. The longest survivor was a small herb Hydrocotyle novae-zelandiae but the shortest survivor was another small herb Gnaphalium audax. Marram grass, Ammophila arenaria, survived twice as long as the foredune grass Elymus farctus. Plantago triandra, a rosette herb, responded to darkness by its leaves moving towards the vertical. 4 Sand burial responses from an earlier experiment correlated significantly with results from this study. Some species, e.g. Hydrocotyle novae-zelandiae, were tolerant of both sand burial and darkness per se, and some intolerant to both, e.g. Gunnera albocarpa. In some species there was little correlation, e.g. Centrella uniflora reached the sand surface from the deepest burial depth but needed to achieve this in less than 29 days. 5 Dark survival showed a poor correlation with field distribution. 6 Ordination of a number of variates from four autecological studies involving salt spray, root salinity, sand burial and dark survival gave one axis based on salt tolerance; species were well distributed along this axis. The second axis involved dark survival and burial. Species responses were individualistic, and it is suggested dark survival of dune species is often a pre-adaptation.
3599204| 1. Brood hierarchies established through hatching asynchrony are supposed to be costly for small chicks because of impaired growth and survival. An additional cost that has remained unexplored is the stress imposed by competition for resources in the nest. 2. In the present study of broods of Eurasian kestrels, we have used the level of heat shock proteins such as Hsp60 and Hsp70 in peripheral blood as well as the heterophile/lymphocyte ratio to detect stress in nestlings. The sex of nestlings and their Caryospora sp. oocyst excretion were included in analyses. 3. Nestlings showing a large size difference with respect to their largest sibling had higher levels of both stress proteins, and this effect was stronger for female chicks as indicated by a significant interaction sex  size difference, presumably because of their higher food requirements for growth. Nestlings for which the largest sibling was a female had higher levels of Hsp60 than when it was a male. The heterophile/lymphocyte index was a much poorer predictor of competitive stress. 4. Stress proteins are effective estimators of competitive, nutritional and parasite-mediated stress of nestlings in the wild. The cost of sustained stress has to be included in future analyses of the fitness repercussions of dominance hierarchies in avian broods. 
3599218| 1. Water is a key resource in tropical savannas. Changes in vegetation structure due to land-use change and increased fire frequency may affect the availability of water and the flux of water through these ecosystems. 2. We compared the seasonal soil moisture dynamics of two adjacent savanna ecosystems with contrasting tree densities in central Brazil. Our goal was to investigate the influence of tree density on deep water uptake, soil water dynamics and evapotranspiration. 3. Soil water was measured using a depth of 75 m beneath the tree-dominated cerrado denso ecosystem and to 4 m beneath the grass-dominated campo sujo ecosystem. Plant-available water (PAW) throughout the cerrado denso soil profile ranged from 293 mm at the end of the dry season to 689 mm during the wet season. In the grass-dominated site, PAW in the profile ranged from 155 to 362 mm. 4. During the dry season, 82% of the water used in cerrado denso and 67% in campo sujo was extracted from the profile below 1 m. The tree-dominated cerrado denso used 137 mm more water than the grass-dominated campo sujo. Significant deep soil water uptake was also observed during the wet season of 1998, when rainfall was below average. 5. Evapotranspiration (ET) rates (estimated as change in soil moisture over time) were higher in cerrado denso than in campo sujo during both seasons. Estimated ET ranged from 14 mm day
20142876|1. Sexually dimorphic traits often reflect factors limiting the reproductive success of animals. Thus, most sexually dimorphic traits can be directly linked to the reproductive role of each sex. Sexual dimorphism in trophic structures (e.g. beak, jaws, teeth), however, often lacks a direct link to reproduction. 2. Trophic structures can be linked indirectly to reproductive allocation via energy acquisition. The reproductive role hypothesis (also known as the dimorphic niche hypothesis) posits such an indirect link, but has received heretofore little direct empirical support. We tested this hypothesis in a molluscivorous turtle exhibiting marked female-biased trophic morphology dimorphism. 3. Bite force analysis showed that females have stronger jaws than males and dietary analysis revealed that females ingest snails closer to their maximum biting capacity than males. Body condition of both sexes and reproductive output of females increased with relative head width, indicating that fitness is tightly linked to head size and bite force. 4. Our study provides strong evidence that reproductive role contributes to sexual dimorphism in trophic morphology. Our findings should apply to any animal in which energy intake is limited by trophic morphology.
826635|1. We investigated the genotypic effects of selection by herbivory by the dorcas gazelle, Gazella dorcas Linnaeus 1758, on the production of calcium oxalate crystals in the lily Pancratium sickenbergeri C. et Barbey in the Negev Desert. 2. A completely crossed experimental design was used to assess the effects of soil calcium concentration and herbivory (simulated by clipping) on the production of calcium oxalate crystals in the leaves of plants from four source populations with different levels of herbivory. 3. Soil calcium concentration did not have significant effects on the production of calcium oxalate crystals in the leaf. The number of crystals did not increase significantly with the clipping treatments. 4. There was no significant difference among plants germinated from seed from populations with high or low herbivory in the production of calcium oxalate. 5. There was a trade-off between investment in defence versus investment in growth, suggesting a cost to defence. Experimentally clipped plants grew more than unclipped plants. Families from high-herbivory areas had a stronger regrowth capacity in the absence of herbivory. 6. Our results indicate that crystal production by these plants is not a sink for excess calcium uptake from the soil. We conclude that in this species calcium oxalate crystal production is for defence, and that this defence is constitutive rather than inducible. The environmental unpredictability in this desert leaves plants with few cues to the onset of herbivory. Constitutive defence may be a more appropriate strategy than inducible defence in this environment, particularly when herbivory is high, and leaves are ephemeral.
2390298|1. Replicate populations of crowded, regenerating stands of Betula alleghaniensis were grown in ambient and elevated (700 p.p.m.) atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations in monoliths of forest soil. Early in the second year the seedlings were harvested and detailed measurements of individual plant root architectural parameters and ectomycorrhizal colonization were made. 2. Comparing the average responses of individual plants within the populations. elevated CO<sub>2</sub> had no significant effects on architectural parameters that improve a plant's ability to forage for and acquire soil resources. In contrast, the intensity and magnitude of mycorrhizal colonization, and whole plant C/N ratios were significantly enhanced with elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. 3. The allometric scaling relationship between total plant biomass and root biomass was not affected by CO<sub>2</sub>, suggesting that relative allocation between roots and shoots was not affected. However, the allometric scaling relationships between root architectural parameters and plant biomass, and between fine root biomass and woody root biomass were significantly altered by elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. For all of these relationships, elevated CO<sub>2</sub> reduced the `size bias' of architectural components in relation to plant size within the populations; in elevated CO<sub>2</sub> root architectural size (e.g. root length) per unit biomass was more similar between the smallest and largest individuals within the population than was the case for ambient CO<sub>2</sub>. 4. Overall, the results of this study suggest that the average individual seedling biomass and architectural growth responses within populations of plants exposed to elevated atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> levels may be unresponsive, but that mycorrhizal responses and interactions among plants within populations may be altered significantly. These findings have important implications for how we make predictions about plant growth responses to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> in natural ecosystems. Significant increases in mycorrhizal infection rates and architecture-biomass allometries suggest that below-ground competitive interactions within plant populations may be reduced in elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. Alterations in competitive interactions may lead to shifts in productivity and plant population structure.
10.2307/2390118|1. Partitioning of energy between metabolic demands can affect life-history traits and ecological successes. In this study bioenergetic and life-history traits (growth rate, ingestion, respiration, energy storage, size and age at maturity) were compared for early summer and late summer Nephelopsis obscura reared from cocoons collected from the field and maintained in the laboratory under identical conditions until sexual maturity and maximum size. 2. The late summer generation had a faster growth rate, higher lipid storage, higher proportion of energy available for growth and metabolism, earlier maturation and larger maximum size than the early summer generation. However, there were no differences in consumption of prey or respiration between the two generations. 3. Based upon the balance between energy intake and expenditure, a model predicting the size at which energy should be allocated to reproduction and maximum body size when energy absorption equals energy cost is described. 4. Gel electrophoresis of 28 enzymes showed no significant genetic difference between the early and late summer generations. 5. As both the early summer and late summer generations were hatched in the laboratory and maintained under identical conditions, in the absence of genetic differences, the observed differences in physiological ecology and life-history traits can only be attributed to differences in prehistory experienced by their parents.
10.2307/2389421|A model of vegetative plant growth was constructed upon three assumptions derived from a sand-culture experiment with Polygonum cuspidatum Sieb. et Zucc.: (1) the partitioning of dry matter and nitrogen between organs is controlled by the nitrogen concentration of the whole plant; (2) specific leaf weight (SLW) is controlled by leaf nitrogen concentration; and (3) net assimilation rate is a function of nitrogen concentration per unit leaf area. Model simulations gave the relative growth rates under steady-state exponential growth for different nitrogen uptake rates per unit root weight. The significance of phenotypic plasticity in matter partitioning and SLW is discussed, comparing the growth of plants which modify their partitioning and SLW with those less plastic in these respects. Plants with plasticity in both matter partitioning and SLW always attained the higher growth rate under varying availabilities of nitrogen in the environment. Plasticity also contributed to the efficient use of nitrogen in plant growth.
41319634|1. Immunity may trade-off against other important life history traits, with recent work suggesting that reproduction and parental care in particular impinge on immune defence. However, whereas the effect of parental care on immunocompetence has been intensively studied in birds and mammals, virtually nothing is known about how it affects insect immunity. 2. Burying beetles provide extensive biparental care that includes the burial, preparation and defence of a carcass, as well as the subsequent feeding of the larvae. In addition, they cover the carcass with anal exudates that have been shown to serve an antimicrobial function (social immunity sensu Behavioral Ecology, 21, 663-668). We examined the effect of sex, mating and parental care on measurements of individual and social immunity in the burying beetle Nicrophorus orbicollis. 3. Both males and females showed a rapid upregulation of the encapsulation response upon discovery of a carcass. The high encapsulation rate was maintained during the entire period of parental care. Lytic activity in anal exudates, a measure of social immunity, likewise increased. Mating had no effect on individual or social immunity, but females generally exhibited higher individual immunity than male N. orbicollis. 4. Our results suggest that the unusual breeding environment of burying beetles -a microbe-rich carcass -has selected for an atypical pattern of immune defence, with a significant upregulation of individual and social immunity during the physically demanding period of reproduction and parental care. The simultaneous investment in two life history traits that normally compete for resources may be an adaptive response in species that breed in environments with high densities of micro-organisms.
40205489|1. Little information is available on the ecological interactions between ticks and their hosts under natural conditions, and particularly so for avian hosts. To understand this host-parasite interaction it is necessary to assess the physiological harm ticks can do to their host. 2. We combined observational and experimental (field and laboratory) data to examine the effects of a common tick species with major economic importance, the sheep tick (Ixodes ricinus), on the health status of a common passerine bird, the great tit (Parus major). 3. In the laboratory experiment a parallel group design was carried out in which the birds of the experimental group were infested with 3-10 nymphs, whereas the birds of the control group were kept free of ticks and received a sham treatment. Both groups were stratified according to age and sex. Health parameters were measured the day before and 3 days after infestation or sham treatment: haematocrit level, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, leucocyte concentration and general body condition (body mass corrected for body size). 4. No effects of age were observed on any of the health parameters. The decrease in haematocrit level in the experimental group was significantly greater than in the control group. Moreover, infested males suffered more blood depletion than infested females. The increase in sedimentation rate was greater in the experimental group than in the control group. Surprisingly, no treatment effects were found on leucocyte concentrations, which may indicate immunoregulation by the ticks on components of the birds' cellular immune response. Also no difference in general body condition between the treatment groups was found. None of the infested birds died during infestation. 5. Lower haematocrit levels in infested birds, but unaffected leucocyte concentrations and general body condition are confirmed by field data (experimental and observational) of adult birds during breeding season. 6. Neither haematocrit level nor general body condition was associated with parasite intensity among infested birds, suggesting that immature Ixodes ricinus are not resource limited at high natural densities. Still, the measurable direct harm caused by sheep tick infestations calls for further study on its importance for the evolutionary ecology of passerine hosts.
2390297|1. Provenances of Castanea sativa from populations adapted to different climatic areas of Turkey were grown in a field trial in Italy. Carbon isotope discrimination () in leaf dry matter and in leaf soluble sugar, were measured, along with photosynthesis, stomatal conductance and mesophyll conductance, to study the variability of primary productivity and its ecological significance in European Chestnut. 2. Genetic variations were found in RuBP carboxylase, chlorophyll, leaf soluble protein and leaf thickness. 3. Carbon isotope discrimination () in leaf dry matter was greater in drought-adapted than in wet-adapted provenances. A similar variation of  was observed in leaf soluble carbohydrates either under watered or drought conditions. Possible environmental effects of variables such as vapour pressure difference, on the relationship between transpiration efficiency and carbon isotope discrimination are discussed, on the basis of short-term and long-term results. 4. Generally low values of  encountered among provenances were explained not only by low values of intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure but also by consistently low values of mesophyll conductance leading to reduced chloroplastic CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure. A decrease in mesophyll conductance was induced by water shortage. Coordination was found between stomatal and mesophyll conductance, with the drought-adapted provenances showing much higher mesophyll conductance than the wet-adapted provenances. Variations in mesophyll conductance were related to differences in leaf protein content. 5. Possible ecophysiological adaptive mechanisms are discussed taking into account stomatal sensitivity, modulation of photosynthetic capacity and water-use efficiency under drought conditions.
40205508|1. Biomechanical trade-offs have been proposed to constrain trajectories of evolutionary diversification. In songbirds, however, one such trade-off may facilitate diversification; adaptations that enhance bite force capacity are assumed to constrain vocal performance by hampering velocities of beak gape modulations required for vocal resonance tracking during song production. Resulting divergence in vocal mating signals may thus generate mating isolation between groups that eat foods of differing size and hardness. 2. We tested for a force-velocity trade-off in jaw function in Darwin's finches, by measuring bite forces and jaw movements during song production in birds on Santa Cruz Island. Bite force and speed of jaw closing varied broadly in our sample, and were negatively correlated both within and among species. Moreover, these correlations were largely independent of overall body size and phylogenetic relationships. 3. Adaptations to varying food types thus appear to drive divergence not only in beak size and bite force, but also in jaw closing velocity and vocal performance capacity. These results support a biomechanical link between adaptive divergence and mating signal divergence, the two key features that were assumed to have driven this radiation.
10.2307/2389884|1. The coexistence of different clones and, in general, the clonal structure of parthenogenetic populations have been linked to differences in the ecological requirements. 2. Previous field and laboratory work demonstrated the effect of temperature on the seasonal succession of electrophoretic clones of Heterocypris incongruens in an Italian ricefield. 3. Here we report the results of laboratory experiments on the effect of photoperiod on life-history traits (age and carapace length at first reproduction, age at death, number of resting and total eggs) of these clones. 4. Clonal differentiation is greater at 16:8 L:D than at 12:12 L:D. 5. The winter clone responds to longer light hours by slowing down its growth and producing a larger number of resting eggs. In contrast, the summer clone, when exposed to long days (16:8 L:D), has faster growth and higher survival while producing almost no resting eggs. 6. No clear effect of photoperiod was found in a clone rare in the field in all seasons. 7. The pattern of response to longer daylight hours validates the hypothesis of an important role of photoperiod in determining the seasonal clonal succession observed in the field.
20142788| 1. Recent findings indicate that the interactions among CO, temperature and water can be substantial, and that the combined effects on the biological systems of several factors may not be predicted from experiments with one or a few factors. Therefore realistic multifactorial experiments involving a larger set of main factors are needed. 2. We describe a new Danish climate change-related field scale experiment, CLIMAITE, in a heath/grassland ecosystem. CLIMAITE is a full factorial combination of elevated CO, elevated temperature and prolonged summer drought. The manipulations are intended to mimic anticipated major environmental changes at the site by year 2075 as closely as possible. The impacts on ecosystem processes and functioning (at ecophysiological levels, through responses by individuals and communities to ecosystem-level responses) are investigated simultaneously. 3. The increase of [CO] closely corresponds with the scenarios for year 2075, while the warming treatment is at the lower end of the predictions and seems to be the most difficult treatment to increase without unwanted side effects on the other variables. The drought treatment follows predictions of increased frequency of drought periods in summer. The combination of the treatments does not create new unwanted side effects on the treatments relative to the treatments alone. 
41319596|1. Long range transportation via ocean currents and air of various organochlorines (OCs) has resulted in their intrusion in the high Arctic marine food web. At the Spitsbergen archipelago, including Bear Island (Norway), bioaccumulation in top predators like glaucous gulls (Larus hyperboreus) is high, severely affecting their breeding performance and survival. 2. In the present study, we examined the sex ratio of glaucous gull offspring at hatching in relation to the OC blood levels of female parents. Glaucous gulls have male-biased size dimorphism and females under stress with high levels of OCs are expected to skew the sex ratio towards the less costly female offspring. 3. Our data strongly suggest that among females with low levels of OCs, mothers in good body condition had a hatching sex ratio skewed towards males while those in poor body condition had a skew towards female offspring. However, contrary to expectations, females with high levels of OCs had a strong skew in sex ratio toward male offspring and this was most apparent among females in poor body condition. 4. Hatching body masses of male chicks (controlled for egg size) were negatively related to OC blood level of female parents. There was no such relationship for female offspring. 5. We discuss the skew in hatching sex ratio experienced by OC contaminated glaucous gulls in light of three hypotheses. One is that OC pollutants may mimic hormones and influence the sex determining processes suggested to be under control of steroids. Another is that female transfer of OCs to eggs may increase female embryo mortality. A third hypothesis is that elevated levels of OCs could trigger increased parental investment (terminal investment) which may represent an abortive strategy for OC contaminated gulls, further aggravating the negative impact of OCs on gull population parameters.
2390393|1. The chrysomelid beetle, Gastrophysa viridula and the rust fungus, Uromyces rumicis both occur on leaves of Rumex obtusifolius growing in a wide range of soil nutrient conditions. We investigated the effect of fertilizing plants with eight nitrate and four ammonium concentrations on the components of this tripartite interaction in a controlled environment. 2. Leaf weight, area and total plant weight increased as both nitrate and ammonium concentrations increased up to 15 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>. Between 15 and 50 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> added nitrate, leaf and total plant weight decreased. Total plant weight was unaffected by increasing ammonium fertilization from 15 to 25 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>. 3. The density and percentage of U. rumicis pustules sporulating 8 days after infection decreased with increasing nitrate but were unaffected by increasing the concentration of ammonium fertilization. 4. Leaf area consumed and number of eggs laid by G. viridula decreased as the concentration of nitrate fertilization increased. Increasing the concentration of ammonium decreased leaf area eaten. 5. First instar mortality of G. viridula was increased and gregariousness and adult fecundity was decreased additively by the combination of U. rumicis infection and decreasing the nitrate concentration fed to plants from 10 to 1 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>.
10.2307/2389556|Evidence is presented for a fast-slow continuum of life-history traits across 474 species of parasitoid Hymenoptera. Individuals from more fecund parasitoid taxa invest less in each egg, lay eggs at a faster rate and start to reproduce sooner after eclosion than individuals from less fecund parasitoid taxa, as is the case in the other animal taxa studied. This continuum is not dependent on either adult size or taxonomic association. There is a positive relationship between adult size and fecundity, when egg size is controlled for by partial correlation. Relationships between fecundity and aspects of parasitoid ecology were reexamined in the light of this correlation, but failed to reveal any associations.
2390480|1. Simple mechanical models (random walks and the `gas model') were used to investigate the movement patterns and intergroup encounter rates of a high- and low-density subpopulation of Grey-Cheeked Mangabeys (Cercocebus albigena johnstoni, Lydeker) at two sites in the Kibale Forest, Western Uganda. 2. Random walk simulations showed that the presence of conspecific groups could act as `social barriers' which constrained group movements, and promoted high levels of site attachment to a specific home range area. 3. Encounter rate models showed that in the low-density subpopulation (Kanyawara), intergroup encounters occurred no more frequently than expected if groups were moving randomly and mdependently of each other. This was in contrast to previous analyses which suggested that Grey-Cheeked Mangabeys employed a social spacing mechanism (mediated by male loud calls) in order to reduce the frequency of encounter to below chance levels. 4. Encounters in the high-density subpopulation (Ngogo) were found to occur less frequently than expected at short range (within 100 m). This was suggested to be due to the operation of a territorial mate defence strategy by males at this site.
2390490|1. Net photosynthetic capacity (A<sub>max</sub>, defined as light-saturated net photosynthesis under near optimal ambient environmental conditions) of mature leaves often depends on the level of leaf nitrogen (N), but an assortment of relationships between these variables has been observed in studies of diverse plant species. Variation in leaf structure has been identified as an important factor associated with differences between the area- and mass-based expressions of the A<sub>max</sub>-N relationship. In this paper we test the hypothesis that leaf structure, quantified using a measure of leaf area displayed per unit dry mass invested [specific leaf area (SLA)], is more than just a conversion factor, but itself can influence A<sub>max</sub>-N relationships. We test this using several kinds of comparisons, based on field data for 107 species from sites representing six biomes and on literature data for 162 species from an equally diverse set of biomes. 2. Species and genera with thicker and/or denser leaves (lower SLA) consistently have flatter slopes of the A<sub>max</sub>-N (mass-based) relationship than those with higher SLA. These and all other contrasts usually applied as well using area-based expressions, although such relationships were less consistent and weaker overall. A steeper slope indicates greater incremental change in A<sub>max</sub> per unit variation in N. 3. Functional groups (e.g. needle-leafed evergreen trees, broad-leafed trees or shrubs. forbs) show the same patterns: groups with lower SLA have lower A<sub>max</sub>-N slopes. Functional groups differ in mean leaf traits as well as in A<sub>max</sub>-N relationships. Forbs have the highest SLA and mass-based N and A<sub>max</sub>, followed by deciduous species (whether needle-leafed or broad-leafed, shrub or tree), with lowest values in evergreen species (again regardless of leaf type or functional group). 4. Interspecific variation in mass-based A<sub>max</sub> is highly significantly related to the combination of leaf N and SLA (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.86). At any value of leaf N, A<sub>max</sub> increases with increasing SLA and at any value of SLA, A<sub>max</sub> increases with increasing leaf N. Because this relationship, between A<sub>max</sub> and the combination of N and SLA, is similar in two independent data sets, and as well, across broad taxonomic and geographic gradients, we hypothesize that it is universal in nature. Therefore, for broad interspecific contrasts among dicotyledons in any biome, we can reasonably well predict A<sub>max</sub> based on the combination of SLA and leaf N. These findings have important implications for convergent evolution of leaf adaptation and great potential utility in models of global vegetation functioning.
41319595|1. Prey can increase the probability of escaping a predator attack by adopting either behavioural tactics that provide more time or less distance to escape or by increasing their escape performances. It is assumed that the ability to improve escape performances is reserved for species that respond to chronic prdation risk by substantially altering morphological traits related to locomotion. This thinking is at odds with fundamental predictions of physiological stress theory that suggest performance should be enhanced both independently of and in addition to morphological change. 2. The purpose of this study was to determine whether and how prey raised under chronic risk of predation can improve their escape performance independent of conspicuous morphological changes. 3. We reared herbivore grasshopper in field mesocosms with and without disarmed hunting spiders and measured their outdoor jumping performance. Grasshoppers were then transferred to the laboratory where we measured the biomechanics of their jumping to elucidate mechanisms that differentiate performance between rearing treatments. We collected second generation nymphal offspring from the field mesocosms and measured their morphology and escape performances to reveal costs associated with antipredator responses. 4. Chronically scared grasshoppers made adjustments in jumping technique that enabled them to take-off 12 times faster, which, in combination with additional in-flight behavioural adjustments, led to 26 times longer jump distances. These improvements were independent of conspicuous morphological changes but were accompanied by attendant costs: grasshoppers reared in risky environments produced smaller and less athletic offspring than grasshoppers from risk free environments. 5. The results suggest that prey do not need to undergo conspicuous morphological changes in locomotor traits before they can improve escape performance, revealing an adaptive and possibly common aspect of physiological stress reaction to predation.
4139381|1. Soil organisms, such as earthworms, accelerate mineralization of soil organic matter and are thought to be beneficial for plant growth. This has been shown in short-term microcosm experiments. It is thus legitimate to ask whether these increases in plant growth are due to brief pulses of mineralization or whether these increases are long-lasting. 2. This question was addressed using a system of differential equations modelling the effects of decomposers on nutrient cycling via trophic (nutrient assimilation) and nontrophic effects (through their ecosystem engineering activities). 3. The analytical study of this model showed that these processes increase primary production in the long term when they recycle nutrients efficiently, allowing a small fraction of the recycled nutrients to be leached out of the ecosystem. 4. Mineralization by the ecosystem engineering activities of decomposers seems to deprive them of a resource. However, it was shown that a decomposer may increase its own biomass, through its ecosystem engineering activities, provided the created recycling loop is efficient enough. 5. Mechanisms through which earthworms may modify the efficiency of nutrient cycling are discussed. The necessity of measuring the effect of earthworms on the nutrient input-output balance of ecosystems under field conditions is emphasized.
20142887|1. Plants can host microbial communities whose integrated functions are often responsible for their success. Understanding mechanisms regulating such functions is thus a major goal in ecology. 2. Fungal endophytes of grasses, particularly of the genus Neotyphodium, have been reported to reduce colonization of their host plant by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. However, it is unclear which mechanism(s) may explain the effects produced by the endophyte and whether these effects are present in nature. 3. We used Schedonorus phoenix (syn. Lolium arundinaceum) plants that were endophyte-free or infected with one of two strains of Neotyphodium coenophialum known to produce different putative allelochemicals to test the hypotheses that (i) allelopathic effects of the endophyte reduce AM fungal spore germination; and (ii) the allelochemical compound(s) are leached into the soil even after the death of S. phoenix, where they reduce AM fungal colonization of other plants. 4. In a first experiment, aqueous extracts from the shoots of S. phoenix were applied onto spores of the AM fungus Glomus intraradices to test germination effects. Both endophyte strains reduced spore germination by approximately 10% relative to endophyte-free controls. 5. In a second experiment, we placed dried shoot material ('thatch') on the soil surface of pots containing Bromus inermis, which were either inoculated with G. intraradices or not. We watered the plants through the thatch, relying upon leaching to translocate potential allelochemicals to the soil. AM fungal colonization of B. inermis was significantly reduced when thatch was infected with the common strain, but not with AR542, compared to the endophyte-free thatch. Furthermore, the arbuscule: vesicle ratio was 11-fold smaller when thatch was infected with the common strain compared to endophyte-free thatch, suggesting that G. intraradices was stressed by the presence of common strain-leachate. 6. We observed situations whereby two ecologically widespread plant-microbe symbioses interact. Potential mechanisms may include allelopathic effects, although other factors are also possible, and leaching is a mode of entry of putative endophyte-induced AM fungal inhibitors in soil. Understanding these processes is important as they affect AM fungal communities which contribute to plant success and, consequentially, grassland ecosystem dynamics.
3598988|1. Patterns of leaf attributes were compared at regional and global scales in relation to the seasonal availability of water. 2. Light-saturated assimilation rate
2390466|1. Inducible heat-shock proteins are synthesized when temperatures are increased to levels substantially above normal. The functional role of these proteins is well known at the cellular level. Today increasing interest has been directed towards the importance of heat-shock proteins for resistance of whole organisms to high-temperature stress and other environmental stressors. 2. Here the functional relationship between the heat-shock protein, Hsp70, and thermal resistance in adult Drosophila melanogaster was examined by comparing thermal resistance, i.e. survival at 39 <sup></sup>C for 85 min, and levels of Hsp70 at various times elapsed (2, 4, 8, 16, 32 and 64 h) after thermotolerance was induced by short-term acclimation/heat hardening at 37 <sup></sup>C for 55 min. 3. Levels of Hsp70 in both males and females were highest 2 h after heat hardening and declined with longer times elapsed. The rate of decrease initially was very fast but diminished with increasing time. After 32 h the level of Hsp70 approached the level in flies that were not hardened. Levels of Hsp70 in males exceeded that of females during the entire period. 4. Survival of both sexes increased with increasing time after heat hardening and reached an optimum between 8 and 32 h. Thereafter resistance decreased with longer times elapsed. Survival of females generally exceeded that of males except after 16 and 64 h. 5. Regression analysis applied to the data on Hsp70 levels revealed that the model describing these data could not explain the data for survival. Also, higher levels of Hsp70 in males compared with females were not associated with greater survival in males. However, statistical analysis on paired measurements of Hsp70 and survival revealed a positive association between Hsp70 level and survival at each time elapsed after induction of thermotolerance.
10.2307/2389812|To estimate the heritability of budburst, seedlings from up to 10 birch trees at each of 10 sites in Scotland (seven of Betula pubescens Ehrh. and three of B. pendula Roth) were grown together in a randomized field experiment near Penicuik, Scotland (55<sup></sup> 51'N, 198 m). Using a nine-stage scale, budburst and leaf elongation were assessed in late April 1984 and 1986. Heritability of budburst varied from 0.00 to 0.65. The potential for dates of budburst to evolve within birch populations in response to climatic warming depends on the amount of additive genetic variation and on the rate at which the environment is changing. The selection differentials needed for populations to change in response to climatic warming of 2<sup></sup>C over a period of 60 years show that, even in the most genetically variable populations, the rate of change in temperature (assuming an increase in mean annual temperature of 0.7<sup></sup>C every 20 years) is too rapid for native populations to evolve in the absence of gene flow from birch populations with earlier dates of budburst.
20142773|1. We examine variation associated with phylogeny in the scaling of body temperature in endotherms, using data from 596 species of mammal and 490 species of bird. 2. Among higher groups of mammals there is statistically significant scaling of body temperature with mass in Marsupialia (positive), Ferae and Ungulata (both negative). In mammalian orders where data are available for at least 10 species, scaling is negative in three orders (Carnivora, Erinaceomorpha and Artiodactyla), positive in one (Chiroptera) and not significant in seven others. There is no relationship apparent between the scaling of body temperature and the existence of gut fermentation. As expected, monotremes exhibit the lowest body temperatures, but within marsupials diprotodonts have a mean body temperature higher than several placental groups; the traditional ranking of body temperatures in the sequence monotremes -- marsupials -- placentals is thus misleading. 3. In birds, scaling relationships are significant only for Ciconiiformes (strongly negative) and Passeriformes (weakly positive). 4. When allowance is made for phylogenetic effects, there is no significant relationship between temperature in body mass in mammals overall, but an inverse and almost significant relationship in birds. 5. This study indicates a complex relationship between body mass, body temperature and metabolic rate in mammals and birds, mediated through ecology.
3599161|1. Variation among mature plants reflects mortality that has occurred during the seedling phase. Our earlier studies have shown variation in resistance to insect and vole herbivory among Silver Birch genotypes that represent variation in a naturally regenerated birch stand. The aim of this study was to examine whether seedling mortality varied among these genotypes, and whether insect and field vole herbivory affected mortality. The 20 genotypes studied competed with each other in dense stands, which were randomly assigned to insect and vole exposure and fertilization treatments. 2. Insect herbivory and fertilization increased mortality significantly (by 98 and 68%, respectively). The fertilization effect was probably due to accelerated self-thinning among fast-growing seedlings. Although vole browsing removed considerable biomass, it did not affect seedling mortality. 3. Mortality was context-dependent. The genotypes differed both in their overall mortality and in their response to insect herbivory. However, the effect of insects on a genotype depended more on its success in competition than on its resistance: even small amounts of feeding were detrimental to short, shaded seedlings, while taller seedlings in the canopy were affected less, although they were eaten more. 4. It is concluded that moderate levels of insect herbivory can increase seedling mortality considerably. Furthermore, herbivory can change the genetic structure of birch populations through selective mortality, which in dense stands is dependent on competitive traits.
10.2307/2390058|1. Dormancy in Sorghum halepense seeds as affected by intermittent water stress imposed on the mother plant during seed development was investigated. The drought treatment was imposed in cycles within the maturation period by with-holding water for 5 days, rewatering at the end of each drought cycle and withholding water again. 2. The results showed that two sources of dormancy exist in S. halepense seeds: one is inherent in the caryopsis itself and is not affected by water stress during seed development. The other is imposed by the presence of the glumes which cover the caryopsis completely, and is susceptible to removal by drought during seed development. As a result dormancy levels in seeds that had matured in water-stressed mother plants were lower than those recorded in control seeds. Differences in dormancy level were maintained even after 3 months of moist chilling. 3. An attempt was made to identify the nature of the inhibitory properties found in glumes from spikelets that had ripened in well-watered mother plants, and to explain the lack of glume-imposed dormancy in droughted seeds. No water-soluble germination inhibitor was detected in control glumes, and imbibition of the caryopses was shown not to be prevented by the presence of control glumes. However, results obtained with experiments in which oxygen uptake by different parts of the spikelets was measured, suggested that control glumes might be acting as an effective barrier for the satisfaction of oxygen requirements of the caryopses enclosed within them. It is concluded that water stress during seed development reduces dormancy of S. halepense seeds through modifications in the properties of the glumes that, apparently, result in an enhancement of their permeability to oxygen diffusion. We discuss the ecological implications of the observed responses.
10.2307/2389946|1. Soil microbes are fed primarily by root-derived substrates, fulfil functions such as mineralization, immobilization, decomposition, pathogeneity and improvement of plant nutrition, and form the basis of the below-ground food web. Hitherto, below-ground processes have generally been monitored using a `black-box' approach, thereby ignoring effects of global change at a finer level of resolution. We describe shifts in the activity between microbial functional groups associated with roots of Artemisia tridentata, and the influence of this change on higher trophic levels. 2. We tested the hypothesis that elevated atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> causes the soil community to change qualitatively. We measured the responses of several soil microbe and soil microfaunal parameters to a double-ambient CO<sub>2</sub> concentration and nutrient additions. The soil community, as measured by those parameters, showed great changes in response to the treatments. There was a very strong interaction between elevated CO<sub>2</sub> and the nutrient addition. 3. Under low nutrient conditions, total microbial biomass did not change under elevated atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub>, but doubled under conditions of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> and added nutrients. As we increased the resolution of our analysis, however, results shifted. Under low nutrient conditions, mycorrhizal fungi responded positively to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, whereas with added soil nutrients they responded negatively to the same elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. Bacteria and non-mycorrhizal fungi did not respond under the former conditions but more than doubled in biomass under conditions of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> and added nutrients. Soil fauna was also affected by the treatments. Overall, elevated CO<sub>2</sub> shifted carbon flow in the plant-soil system to a more mutualistic-closed, mycorrhizal-dominated system, whereas the combination of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> and nutrient addition shifted carbon flow to a more opportunistic-open, saprobe/pathogen-dominated one. 4. This indicates that elevated atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> may lead to far less predictable feedback patterns than previously thought and that qualitative shifts in the soil community may be far more important than mere changes in total C sink strength.
10.2307/2390187|1. Theoretical equations and experimental data were utilized to examine the effect of leaf flutter on the CO<sub>2</sub>-exchange characteristics of two species of poplar (aspen, Populus tremuloides and cottonwood, Populus fremontii). 2. In order for bulk flow to enhance CO<sub>2</sub> flux substantially, the pressure gradient created by leaf flutter would have to be greater than the pressure gradient across a fixed leaf normal to the flow, which was shown to be unlikely. 3. As aspen has hypostomatous leaves, and therefore low permeability coefficients, bulk flow would be even less important for CO<sub>2</sub> flux in aspen than in cottonwood. 4. Leaf flutter may increase the boundary-layer conductance to CO<sub>2</sub> by as much as 20-60% over constrained leaves in laminar flow. However, even at high stomatal conductances, a 40% increase in boundary-layer conductance would increase total conductance by only 10% creating only a minimal increase in carbon assimilation rates. With increased turbulence and decreased stomatal conductances (which are normal conditions in the field), the benefit of leaf flutter on CO<sub>2</sub> exchange would be much smaller. 5. Therefore, it is concluded that the functional significance of leaf flutter can not be related to the enhancement of CO<sub>2</sub> flux.
40407739|1. Climate change is predicted to bring earlier bud break and perhaps a greater risk of frost damage to developing leaves and flowers. Given the rarity and unpredictability of major frost events and limited community-level phenological observations, comparisons among deciduous forest species experiencing frost damage and refoliation are rare. 2. This study used phenological observations ongoing at the time of a hard freeze to compare leaf and flower development, frost damage and leaf refoliation of 20 deciduous woody species in Trelease Woods, Champaign Co., IL, USA. Freezing temperatures from 5 to 9 April 2007 followed 22 days after very warm temperatures began in March. 3. Bud break was the earliest in 17 years. Frost caused damage to leaf buds, developing shoots and/or expanding leaves of canopy trees of six species and saplings of two species. Undamaged species were inactive, or in bud break or shoot expansion. Among damaged species, 11-100% of individuals exhibited some frost damage. Mean damage level per individual ranged from 20% to 100% among species. 4. Refoliation from dormant buds led to mean final canopy fullness that ranged from 46% to 99% among damaged species, but time of full leaf expansion was extended by 16-34 days for refoliating species. 5. Frost damaged flowers, but not flower buds or developing fruit, of five of eight species that flowered during the frost period. 6. The extent of frost damage in 2007 was unusual; damage was greater than any of the other 4 years with frost damage from 1993 to 2009 because record-breaking March temperatures in 2007 caused more species to be at later vulnerable stages with the advent of subfreezing temperatures in April. 7. Differences among individuals and species in frost damage and ability to refoliate caused strong selection on individuals and differences in carbon gain that could, in the long-term, affect species' abundances. The frost also reduced fruit/seed abundance for insects and mammals.
41239439|1. Natural populations are exposed to multiple stressors, including both anthropogenic challenges such as xenobiotics and natural stressors associated with exposure to parasites and predators. While there is increasing concern and interest in the combined impact of current exposure to multiple stressors, little attention has been given to how past exposure to a stressor and its evolutionary response shapes the effects of current stressors. 2. Here, we performed a life-table experiment using the water flea Daphnia magna to study combined effects of current exposure to the pesticide carbaryl, parasite spores and fish predation risk and how these effects depend upon past exposure to carbaryl using clones obtained from a previous carbaryl selection experiment. 3. The current exposure to all three treatments affected life-history traits. Exposure to fish kairomones increased intrinsic population growth rate, while carbaryl and parasite exposure decreased this fitness measure. The three treatments interacted only in a few cases: carbaryl and fish kairomone exposure interacted in shaping intrinsic population growth rate and its component individual reproductive performance, yet the latter only in the animals not exposed to carbaryl stress in the past. 4. Our data revealed not only adaptive evolution of carbaryl resistance but also associated evolutionary costs in terms of reduced resistance to parasites, corroborating results of an earlier study. Importantly, both the evolutionary benefits and costs of past exposure to carbaryl stress were conditional on current environmental conditions, exposure to predation risk and parasites, respectively. 5. The emerging pattern showed that past stress interacted with current stress in shaping life history. Such evolution-driven carry-over effects across generations have been often ignored and may complicate the prediction of effects of current exposure to single and combined stressors even long after the past stress has disappeared.
10.2307/2390226|1. The effects of nitrogen and phosphorus additions on the relationship between leaf photosynthesis, biomass and nutrient concentrations were investigated in Cassiope tetragona, Dryas octopetala and Salix polaris at Ny Alesund, Svalbard (79
20142848|1. Maximum aerobic metabolic rate, measured in terms of rate of oxygen consumption during exercise (
4139361|1. Both foliar and root herbivory can alter the exudation of carbon from plant roots, which in turn can affect nitrogen availability in the soil. However, few studies have investigated the effects of herbivory on N fluxes from roots, which can directly increase N availability in the soil and uptake by neighbouring plants. Moreover, the combined effects of foliar and root herbivory on N fluxes remains unexplored. 2. We subjected the legume white clover (Trifolium repens L.) to defoliation (through clipping) and root herbivory (by an obligate root-feeding nematode, Heterodera trifolii Goggart) to examine how these stresses individually, and simultaneously, affected the transfer of T repens-derived N to neighbouring perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) plants using
3806597|1. Adult males average 10% larger than females in natural populations of Yarrow's Spiny Lizard (Sceloporus jarrovii). In two previous studies of free-living animals, we found that (1) this sexual size dimorphism (SSD) develops because yearling males grow more quickly than females and (2) the sex steroid testosterone (T) may regulate this sex difference in growth: castrated males (CAST) grow more slowly than either intact control males (CON) or castrated males treated with exogenous T (TEST). 2. In the present study, we tested the environmental sensitivity of these sex and treatment effects on growth by raising captive males (CAST, CON, TEST) and females under identical 'common garden' conditions. 3. Sex and treatment effects on growth rate were absent in captivity. The development of SSD was suppressed because captive males grew more slowly than free-living males of equal size, while experimental treatments failed to affect male growth because CAST grew more quickly in the laboratory common garden than in the field. 4. Individual growth rates were strongly related to food consumption, but feeding rate did not differ between sexes or among male treatments. 5. Our results call attention to the environmental sensitivity of sex-specific endocrine growth regulation and illustrate the importance of combining laboratory and field studies of growth and SSD.
2656450|1. Increasing carbon dioxide concentration (E: 680 l CO<sub>2</sub> litre<sup>-1</sup> vs ambient, A: 355 l CO<sub>2</sub> litre<sup>-1</sup>) around late-successional Alpine sedge communities of the Swiss Central Alps (2450 m) for four growing seasons (1992-1995) had no detectable effect on symbiotic N<sub>2</sub> fixation in Trifolium alpinum-the sole N<sub>2</sub>-fixing plant species in these communities (74  30 mg N m<sup>-2</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>, A and E plots pooled). 2. This result is based on data collected in the fourth growing season showing that elevated CO<sub>2</sub> had no effect on Trifolium above-ground biomass (4.4  1.7 g m<sup>-2</sup>, A and E plots pooled, n = 24) or N content per unit land area (124  51 mg N m<sup>-2</sup>, A and E pooled), or on the percentage of N Trifolium derived from the atmosphere through symbiotic N<sub>2</sub> fixation (%Ndfa: 61.0  4.1 across A and E plots) estimated using the <sup>15</sup>N dilution method. 3. Thus, it appears that N inputs to this ecosystem via symbiotic N<sub>2</sub> fixation will not be dramatically affected in the foreseeable future even as atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> continues to rise.
10.2307/2389438|Survival of eggs and larvae of a specialist insect herbivore, Heliconius melpomene (L.), were negatively correlated across clones of its host plant, Passiflora menispermifolia HBK. This is consistent with the hypothesis that clones could be defended successfully either against eggs or against larvae of this herbivore. In this system, there is the possibility that plant defences could evolve by shifting herbivore mortality to early, non-destructive stages of the herbivore life cycle, without necessarily affecting overall herbivore fitness. Because of this, selection pressures for herbivore counter-traits would not be generated. Such relationships necessitate a broader perspective of plant-herbivore coevolution than a straightforward arms race analogy
3806587|1. The genus Cinclodes is unique among passerines because it includes two species that can be considered marine/coastal and also includes several species that inhabit freshwater streams or that shift habitats between terrestrial/fresh water and marine habitats. The Cinclodes clade satisfies two criteria of an adaptive radiation: it is monophyletic and it experienced recent speciation accompanied by rapid phenotypic diversification. 2. We focused on the osmoregulatory traits of five Cinclodes species to determine if the clade also satisfies the criterion of adaptive phenotype-environment correlation that characterizes adaptive radiations. We used the 
2656552|1. Faidherbia (Acacia) albida is a multipurpose tree widely distributed in semiarid Africa, notably in agroforestry parklands. It is in leaf during the dry season and defoliated during the rainy season, displaying therefore a peculiar reverse phenology. The related water-use strategy, including leaf water potential, sapflow, hydraulic conductance and depth of uptake, were monitored on adult trees in a Sudanese west-African parkland. 2. Despite a severe drought in the superficial soil layers, the predawn leaf water potential of F. albida dropped only to ca. - 0.5 MPa during the end of the dry season, indicating only a moderate water stress. 3. Radial trunk growth ceased before the end of the dry season and could have been affected by the moderate drought stress. However, leafiness remained constant during the dry season. Leaf shedding occurred after the first rains and was probably independent of drought. 4. Faidherbia albida displayed large transpiration rates under favourable conditions but the ratio of sapflow to Penman evapotranspiration and the soil-to-leaf specific hydraulic conductance decreased severely towards the end of the dry season. 5. Roots of F. albida were distributed through the weathered rock, down to a depth of 7 m, and vanished in the vicinity of a permanent water-table. The isotopic composition of oxygen in the xylem sap (<sup>18</sup>O) remained very close to the values recorded in the water-table during the course of the year. Phreatophytism thus explained the maintenance of growth and transpiration during the dry season. Nevertheless, during early rains, <sup>18</sup>O of sap switched towards the composition of the superficial soil layers, indicating facultative phreatophytism. 6. Reverse phenology, low density and depth of water uptake of F. albida indicated a low competition with annual crops for water; the fraction of annual rainfall used by the trees was estimated to remain below 5%.
10.2307/2389738|This paper documents the effects of phosphorus supply to Sinapis alba L. (Brassicaceae) and of mycorrhizal infection and phosphorus supply to Abutilon theophrasti Medic. (Malvaceae) on offspring vigour. Both maternal phosphorus supply and mycorrhizal infection of maternal plants had significant effects on seed weight, seed nitrogen content and seed phosphorus content but did not influence emergence rate. In all but a few cases, maternal phosphorus supply did not significantly affect growth or root:shoot allocation of offspring in either Sinapis or Abutilon. Mycorrhizal infection of Abutilon maternal plants, however, did have significant effects on offspring vigour as measured by shoot weight, root weight, height and leaf area. Some of the variation in these variables (about 25%) could be attributed to variation in total seed phosphorus content, but mycorrhizal infection may have influenced offspring vigour through effects on variation in phosphorus fractions within the seed. The results suggest that mycorrhizal infection may influence fitness through effects on offspring vigour.
41239231|1. Plant tolerance to herbivory has been accepted as a mechanism of defense that can be expressed jointly with resistance. Recent advances have partially validated previous theoretical predictions and improved our understanding of tolerance. Here, I highlight the necessity of integrating tolerance into ecological and co-evolutionary theory to better understand the biology of this defensive mechanism. 2. Existing work has been biased toward understanding the adaptive nature and constraints acting on tolerance rather than its ecological implications. Increasing consensus that tolerance may alter the classical antagonistic dynamic between plants and herbivores suggests possible avenues to explore its population and community consequences. 3. In this review, I summarize previous advances in the ecology and evolution of tolerance to herbivory. I also discuss recent evidence that improves our understanding of unresolved issues such as the specificity of tolerance in response to herbivory, its role as an agent of selection on herbivores, and its ecological and evolutionary consequences which include a role of tolerance during biological invasions. 4. Although there is good support for an adaptive role of tolerance in response to herbivory damage, tolerance can itself impose selection on herbivores. Furthermore, tolerance can influence herbivore population dynamics and coexistence, as recent studies show that tolerance responses increase diversity of the associated herbivore communities on individual host plants. 5. Future studies that take into account the role of herbivores on the expression of tolerance will provide novel insight that will help disentangle the mechanisms of tolerance and its ecological and evolutionary implications.
3598970| 1. Calidris mauri Cabanis (Western Sandpiper) exhibits a pronounced post-growth age-dependent difference in small intestine size during southward migration, such that the later-migrating juveniles have larger small intestines than do the adults. Potential causes and consequences of this age-dependent difference are examined. 2. Premigrant juveniles of full structural size had small intestines that were 10% longer than those of the premigrant adults, even though the juveniles had not attained asymptotic body mass. The elongated small intestines of premigrant juveniles appear to be growth-related. 3. Adults and juveniles exhibited parallel increases in intestinal length (70%) and circumference (95%) in association with the initiation of migration; these effects are consistent with migratory hyperphagia. 4. Refuelling juveniles had small intestines that were 85% longer than those of the refuelling adults. Retaining an enlarged small intestine during migration confers increased digestive capacity to the juveniles, which may be under selection to minimize stopover duration. 5. Refuelling juveniles had a higher prevalence of cestode infection than refuelling adults in one of two years, and the length-corrected mass of the small intestine was 97% heavier in infected individuals. Cestode infection may be an important determinant of migration-related mortality for juveniles, by compromising their health and increasing stopover duration. 
10.2307/2389388|Previous laboratory studies on the cyclic parthenogen, Daphnia magna Straus, demonstrated marked differences in the survivorship and fecundity of clones in response to temperature. Here, I examine the extent to which similar ecological differentiation exists within a natural population by using isozymes as genetic markers to distinguish clonal groups. The frequency and fecundity (parthenogenetic and sexual) of Daphnia magna genotypes that were electrophoretically marked at the phosphoglucose isomerase locus (PGI, E.C. 5.3,1.9) were recorded for 2 years (July 1981-July 1983) at six sites within a lake. Fecundity was estimated by determining the absolute fecundity (mean number of parthenogenetic eggs per adult female) and reproductive ratios (the proportion of adult females with eggs) of each PGI genotype. There were extensive fluctuations in genotype frequency during each year, but changes were remarkably uniform throughout the lake, suggesting selective responses to seasonal variables. Two of the PGI genotypes (Pgi<sup> 110/110</sup> and Pgi<sup>100/100</sup>) exhibited seasonal succession over 2 years, predominating respectively in summer and winter, and changes in frequency were significantly correlated with genotypic differences in parthenogenetic egg production. At certain times of the year, up to 10-fold differences in the relative fecundity of genotypes were recorded, suggesting marked ecological differentiation between PGI genotypes. The persistence of PGI fitness differences was checked by re-sampling the population in January and July 1987. Genotype frequencies and fecundities were in keeping with predictions based on original samples: high fitnesses of Pgi<sup> 110/110</sup> and Pgi<sup>100/100</sup> genotypes in summer and winter respectively. Findings demonstrate rapid responses to selection pressures, which in the present population were adaptively significant.
3599341| 1. Nearly all fish evade predation strikes by rapidly accelerating out of the strike path, a behaviour called the fast-start evasion response. The many studies investigating morphological, behavioural and ecological correlates of fast-start performance assume that faster starts increase the probability of evasion. 2. We tested this faster-start hypothesis by measuring the effect of acceleration ability on evasion outcome (success, failure) in Guppies (Poecilia reticulata) evading the strike of a natural predator, the Pike Cichlid (Crenicichla alta). 3. Four parameters affect evasion outcome: two parameters important to the predator-prey interaction but not to the faster-start hypothesis -- (1) the time required to reach the prey by the striking predator (measured by the initial distance between predator and prey and strike velocity), (2) the evasion path of the prey relative to the strike path of the predator; and two parameters relevant to the faster-start hypothesis -- (1) the ability of the prey to generate rapid tangential acceleration (measured by net distance travelled, maximum velocity, and maximum acceleration), and (2) the ability of the prey to rapidly rotate during the initial stage of the fast start. 4. On average, a one standard deviation increase in fast-start performance increases the odds of surviving a predation strike 23-fold. These results support the assumption that faster starts increase the probability of successfully evading a predation strike. 
2656508|1. An extensive data set describing the composition of New Zealand's remaining indigenous forests was used to estimate the degree of correlation between measures of both soil and atmospheric water deficit and the distribution of common tree species. 2. For most species, regression models incorporating measures of air saturation deficit in early autumn, as well as an annual integral of root zone water deficit, provided the best explanation of spatial distribution. This accords strongly with the mechanistic effects of air saturation deficits on transpiration from trees, and the hydraulic risks experienced by trees under high evaporative demand. 3. Adjustment of root zone water deficits to account for reductions in rainfall in dry years substantially improved model predictions. This suggests that extreme climatic events, such as the El Nino phase of the Southern Oscillation, are likely to have strongly influenced the historic composition of forests in New Zealand's drier eastern lowlands.
10.2307/2390172|1. Bats are the only terrestrial mammals to have reached isolated oceanic islands without human assistance. Despite the fact that the greatest evolutionary divergence would be expected on such islands, very few studies on the divergence of oceanic island fauna from their mainland counterparts have focused on bats. This study investigated divergence of the insular Hawaiian Hoary Bat, Lasiurus cinereus semotus, from its North American subspecies, L. c. cinereus. 2. Divergence in the Hawaiian Hoary Bat involved characters related to flight and feeding. 3. The Hawaiian bat has undergone a 45% reduction in body size with allometric responses in the size of its wings. These changes resulted in a combination of low wing loading (ratio of weight to wing area) with relatively long, narrow wings. The low wing loading permits slower and more manoeuvrable flight near vegetation, while the relatively long, narrow wings enable enduring flight in open areas. This increased flexibility in flight behaviour has allowed the Hawaiian bat to expand its foraging habitat to include open habitats similar to those of L. c. cinereus, and closed habitats that are not used by L. c. cinereus. 4. Divergence in characters related to feeding involved relative increases in size of the gape, size of the masseter muscle and the height of the coronoid process. These changes give the jaw more crushing power for more efficient processing of large and hard-bodied prey. This has enabled the Hawaiian bat to include large, and hard-bodied insects (not taken by L. c. cinereus) in its diet despite a marked reduction in body size.
10.2307/2389789|Egg-laying rates of female Panolis flammea (D&S) were greater on some provenances of Lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta Douglas) than others. The shorter the pre-reproductive delay, the greater the number of eggs that was laid. Egg weights were negatively correlated with the total and daily number of eggs laid. Eggs laid on hosts affording good nutrition for larval growth were smaller than eggs laid on poor hosts. The life span of fed moths was greatest on those hosts that also gave the greatest oviposition rate. Lifespan and fecundity were not correlated with adult weight. These results are discussed in relation to current life-history theories.
40863642|1. A lack of warm nest-sites prevents oviparous reptile species from reproducing in cool climates; such areas are dominated by viviparous species because sun-seeking pregnant females can maintain high temperatures for their developing offspring. 2. Our field and laboratory studies show that one oviparous species (the grass snake, Matrix matrix) escapes this cold-climate constraint (and hence, extends much further north in Europe than do other oviparous taxa) by ovipositing in a thermally distinctive man-made microhabitat (manure heaps on farms). 3. In the field, temperatures inside manure heaps averaged 30.7 C, much higher than compost heaps (20.6 C) or potential natural nest-sites under logs and rocks (15.5 C). 4. In the laboratory, higher incubation temperatures not only hastened hatching, but also increased hatching success and modified the body sizes, colours, and locomotor abilities of hatchlings. Incubation temperatures typical of manure heaps (rather than alternative nest-sites) resulted in larger, faster offspring that hatched earlier in the season. 5. Thus, anthropogenic activities have generated potential nest-sites offering thermal regimes not naturally available in the region; and grass snakes have exploited that opportunity to escape the thermal limits that restrict geographic distributions of other oviparous reptile taxa.
10.2307/2390273|1. The seedling emergence method for assessing the size of the seed bank is improved by washing soil samples on a fine sieve and spreading the thus concentrated samples in a 3-5 mm thick layer on sterilized potting compost. 2. The method largely increases the number of seedlings that emerge as compared to unconcentrated samples. Hand-sorting afterwards shows that the germination rates vary between 81 and 100% of the viable seeds present. 3. Ninety-five per cent of the seedlings will emerge within 6 weeks using this method. 4. The method greatly reduces the greenhouse space needed and enables examination of large sample volumes.
2390491|1. Root elongation as a function of soil temperature was determined for the CAM succulent Opuntia ficus-indica, under three different day/night air temperatures (15 <sup></sup>C/5 <sup></sup>C, 25 <sup></sup>C/15 <sup></sup>C and 35 <sup></sup>C/25 <sup></sup>C) and an ambient (360  mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) vs a doubled CO<sub>2</sub> concentration (720  mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) at 25 <sup></sup>C/15 <sup></sup>C, the optimum temperature for net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake. 2. Root elongation occurred at soil temperatures from 12 <sup></sup>C (at 15 <sup></sup>C/5 <sup></sup>C) to 43 <sup></sup>C (at 35 <sup></sup>C/25 <sup></sup>C) with optimum temperatures of 27-30 <sup></sup>C, similar to other CAM succulents and consistent with the distribution of this shallow-rooted species in warm regions. Although a doubled CO<sub>2</sub> concentration did not alter the optimum or limiting soil temperatures, increases of up to 5 <sup></sup>C in these temperatures accompanied the 20 <sup></sup>C increase in day/night air temperatures. 3. Root elongation rates at optimum soil temperatures ranged from 5.4 mm day<sup>-1</sup> (15 <sup></sup>C/5 <sup></sup>C), through 6.6 mm day<sup>-1</sup> (25 <sup></sup>C/15 <sup></sup>C), to 10.4 mm day<sup>-1</sup> (35 <sup></sup>C/25 <sup></sup>C) with a 25% increase under a doubled CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. Highest root elongation rates at 35 <sup></sup>C/25 <sup></sup>C may reflect changing root vs shoot sink strengths in a species with a highly plastic root system. 4. At limiting soil temperatures, the length of the cell division zone was reduced by an average of 20% and cell length at the mid-point of the elongation zone by 10%. Increased root elongation rates under a doubled CO<sub>2</sub> concentration reflected increased cell elongation. 5. The temperature response for the roots of O. ficus-indica and stimulation of elongation by a doubled CO<sub>2</sub> concentration indicate that root growth for this highly productive species should be enhanced by predicted global climate change.
2656503|1. Data were compiled on maximal sprint speed, body mass and temperature in squamate lizards from the literature and from our own data on lacertid lizards. 2. Both traditional (i.e. non-phylogenetic) and phylogenetic statistical analyses showed that sprint speed is positively correlated with body mass (`bigger is better') and temperature (`hotter is better'). 3. Additionally, we tested whether sprint speed correlates with behavioural and ecological characteristics, i.e. foraging mode (sit-and-wait or active), activity (diurnal or nocturnal), microhabitat use (saxicolous, arboreal or terrestrial) and climate (Mediterranean, xeric, cool or temperate). Lizards from Mediterranean and xeric climates, diurnal lizards, sit- and wait predators and terrestrial species are expected to run the fastest. Traditional tests suggest that lizards from Mediterranean and desert areas are faster than lizards from cool and tropical regions; that diurnal species are faster than nocturnal species; and that saxicolous animals have higher sprint capacities than do arboreal and terrestrial species. No difference was found between sit-and-wait predators and actively foraging animals. 4. However, the effects of climate, activity period and microhabitat use were no longer significant when the data were analysed in a proper phylogenetic context. This seems to suggest that differences in sprint speed reflect phylogeny, rather than ecology. The discrepancy between the results of phylogenetic and traditional analyses forms a strong case for the use of phylogenetic information in comparative studies.
10.2307/2389808|The rate of change in the standing crop of nectar allowed to accumulate in flowers, described here as the apparent secretion rate, can be resolved into two components: gross secretion rate and apparent reabsorption rate. A simple model shows how changes in these component rates may affect the apparent secretion rate. The ecological and physiological correlates of various temporal patterns of secretion are discussed in relation to whether the nectar carbohydrates originate from storage tissues or from immediate photosynthate. Experiments with Impatiens glandulifera Royle, Borago officinalis L. and Fritillaria imperialis L. gave no evidence for reabsorption, but in Brassica napus L. apparent reabsorption was revealed by a difference between the apparent secretion rate and the cumulative rate of secretion derived by repeated sampling of individual flowers at short intervals, and true absorption was revealed by net solute loss from flowers protected from insect visits. Gross secretion rate and apparent reabsorption rate both peaked at midday on day 1. Thereafter secretion almost stopped, but reabsorption continued, peaking at night and at midday on day 2, until no more nectar remained in the flowers. Reabsorption occurs in some species but not in others. We suggest that it does not occur in flowers in which nectar accumulates at a site remote from the nectary (e.g. Asclepiadaceae), or in those in which the nectary is lost when the corolla falls (e.g. Impatiens). The ecological implications of reabsorption are considered briefly.
2390372|1. Anthyllis vulneraria, Cistus creticus, Hippocrepis unisiliquosa and Pinus brutia are frequent post-fire colonizers whose seedlings are subjected to the mineral conditions imposed by ash in the early stages of growth. We test the hypothesis that the effective internal supply of mineral elements in the seeds of these species may complement the external availability of specific nutrients. 2. Newly germinated seedlings were grown in nutrient solutions, each deficient in one of the following elements: nitrogen, phosphorus or potassium. Control treatments consisted of full nutrients and distilled water. Seedling growth was monitored over 12 weeks. The final dry masses of the seedlings were taken as a measure of the availability of each element from the seeds' own stored reserves. 3. For the two legume species nitrogen was the most limiting element followed by phosphorus. Potassium deficiency had no effect on the final legume dry biomass. For Cistus, the order was nitrogen followed by potassium, while phosphorus deprivation had no effect on growth during the 12 weeks of the experiment. Deprivation of single minerals had no significant effect on seedling growth of Pinus over the same period. The two legumes and Cistus when denied nitrogen had relatively greater relative root ratios than control plants. 4. The relative seedling requirements of each species for early external supplies of the various nutrients for establishment in the field are discussed with reference to the adaptation of the four species to post-fire regeneration.
3806594|1. Little is known on the occurrence and magnitude of faster than normal (catch-up) growth in response to periods of undernutrition in the wild, and the extent to which different body structures compensate and over what timescales is poorly understood. 2. We investigated catch-up growth in nestling Alpine Swifts, Apus melba, by comparing nestling growth trajectories in response to a naturally occurring 1-week period of inclement weather and undernutrition with growth of nestlings reared in a good year. 3. In response to undernutrition, nestlings exhibited a hierarchy of tissues preservation and compensation, with body mass being restored quickly after the end of the period of undernutrition, acceleration of skeletal growth occurring later in development, and compensation in wing length occurring mostly due to a prolongation of growth and delayed fledging. 4. The effect of undernutrition and subsequent catch-up growth was age-dependent, with older nestlings being more resilient to undernutrition, and in turn having less need to compensate later in the development. 5. This shows that young in a free-living bird population can compensate in body mass and body size for a naturally occurring period of undernutrition, and that the timing and extent of compensation varies with age and between body structures.
3599050|1. There is significant concern over the impacts of plant invasions on habitat quality for native fauna. Recent research suggests that non-native Purple Loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria) invasions may negatively affect the performance of larval American Toad tadpoles (Bufo americanus), and that compounds leached from L. salicaria leaves play a direct or indirect role in this effect. 2. We raised individual B. americanus and Gray Treefrog (Hyla versicolor) tadpoles on high-quality diets in aqueous extracts of senescent leaves from L. salicaria, native Broad-Leaf Cattail (Typha latifolia), and control water to determine whether loosestrife extracts directly affect anuran tadpole performance. 3. Even at high artificial food levels, B. americanus survival was significantly lower in L. salicaria extracts compared with T. latifolia extracts and a water control. Food level strongly affected B. americanus development, but tadpoles raised in L. salicaria extract were less developed compared with conspecifics raised in cattail extract or water. Unlike B. americanus, Hyla performance was not affected by exposure to any plant extract compared with the water control. 4. Our study implicates secondary plant compounds as a mechanism underlying the impact of an invasive plant on some but not all native fauna. We hypothesize that high tannin concentrations of L. salicaria leaves have the potential to create environments that are directly toxic to B. americanus tadpoles. We hypothesize that obligate gill breathers such as B. americanus tadpoles are highly sensitive to gill damage caused by high concentrations of phenolics. Other anuran species such as H. versicolor that develop well-functioning lungs early may be less affected by high tannin concentrations.
10.2307/2389415|Phylogenetic constraints on evolution have been invoked to explain variation of traits among taxa. We argue here that such variation merely records the results of evolutionary diversification and sheds no light on differences among taxa in the evolutionary responsiveness of phenotypes to their environments. We propose, alternatively, that differences in the distribution of variation within taxa indicate taxon-dependent differences in evolution. We use a simple model of evolutionary divergence to illustrate the diversification of trait values within and among taxa through time. Phylogenetic constraints, or differences in the evolutionary interaction between phenotype and environment, are recognized with this model by the orientation and shape of bivariate or multivariate distributions of traits, in which each character serves as an internal standard for evolutionary change in all other traits. To illustrate this concept, we use jack-knifed principal component analyses to demonstrate similarities and differences in the diversification of mammalian life histories.
41239295|1. A primary determinant of movement strategies is travel speed, which modulates both power consumption and distance travelled and thus varies according to ecological circumstance. Many dense animals moving in 3D media face costs according to their movement trajectory and it should therefore equally be optimized according to circumstance. 2. We investigated the power requirements (using dynamic body acceleration as proxy for power) in relation to movement geometry of nine whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) and discovered that movement geometry significantly affects power requirements in a manner similar to travel speed. 3. Whale sharks dive repeatedly and use their negative buoyancy to glide during descents, while ascents were characterized by strong locomotory activity. Power requirements of ascents increased with the square of degrees pitch and were significantly greater than both level and descent swimming. 4. The differences in geometry of five dive types are explored using four empirical optimality models based on minimum power based on our measurements. These models suggest that some dive types minimize the horizontal cost of transport, whereas others minimize the cost of vertical transport. Whale sharks are presumed to shift diving geometry with changing currencies and ecological context. The adaptive significance of appropriate diving geometry and associated power requirements is discussed with regard to current hypotheses for diving in gill-breathers: search, orientation and travel. 5. Movement geometry significantly affects the cost of locomotion and is probably modulated by animals according to ecological circumstance. The in situ measurement of animal trajectory and locomotory activity via accelerometers now permits testing context-dependent movement geometry in free-ranging animals.
2390313|1. The process-based model SIMFORG, based on the pipe theory, was parameterized for Scots Pine at six locations along a north-south gradient in Europe. The ratio of foliage mass to stem cross-sectional area was changed as a function of potential evapotranspiration as proposed by Berninger et al. (1995). 2. Allocation to the stem differed between the locations and affected consequently the stemwood production. Variation in the net primary production and differences in the pipe model parameters were responsible for these differences. There was good agreement between measured and simulated data. 3. Increase in primary production, as predicted by climate-change senarios, increased allocation to the stem. However, the results were sensitive to changes in the foliage mass to stem sapwood cross-sectional area ratio. The changes in allocation were higher in the north than in the south.
4540042|1. Dispersal and gene flow can have a variety of interacting effects on evolution. These effects can either promote or constrain adaptive divergence through either genetic or demographic routes. The relative importance of these effects is unknown because few attempts have been made to conceptually integrate and test them. 2. We draw a broad distinction between situations with vs. without strong coevolutionary dynamics. This distinction is important because the adaptive peak for a given population is more mobile in the former than in the latter. This difference makes ongoing evolutionary potential more important in the presence of strong coevolu dynamics than in their absence. 3. We advance a conceptual integration of the various effects of gene flow and dispersal on adaptive divergence. In line with other authors, but not necessarily for the same reasons, we suggest that an intermediate level of gene flow will allow the greatest adaptive divergence. 4. When dispersal is quite low, we predict that an increase will have positive effects on adaptive divergence, owing to genetic/demographic rescue and 'reinforcement.' The rescue effect may be more important in small populations and in homogeneous environments. The reinforcement effect may be more common in large populations and in heterogeneous environments. 5. Once a certain level of dispersal is reached, we predict that a further increase may have negative effects on adaptive divergence. These effects may arise if carrying capacity is exceeded or maladaptive genes are introduced. 6. Many additional effects remain to be integrated into this framework, and doing so may yield novel insights into the factors influencing evolution on ecological time-scales.
10.2307/2389471|Alternative formulae have been derived from those of Kuppers (1984) to compute transpiration and stomatal conductance for the Li-Cor LI-6000 portable photosynthesis system. Analysis shows that the LI-6000 tends to underestimate these parameters with the largest errors occurring when using small chambers, with high flow rates through the water vapour bypass or long measurement intervals. A simple equation has been derived to correct transpiration and stomatal conductance estimates from the LI-6000. Internal CO<sub>2</sub> concentration (C<sub>i</sub>) is derived from these parameters and the photosynthetic rate and should be recomputed using the corrected estimates.
20142803|1. Infant carrying behaviour occurs across diverse taxa inhabiting arboreal, volant and aquatic environments. For mammals, it is considered to be the most expensive form of parental care after lactation, yet the effect of infant carrying on the energetics and performance of the carrier is virtually unknown. 2. Echelon swimming in cetacean (dolphin and whale) mother-infant dyads, described as calf in very close proximity of its mother's mid-lateral flank, appears to be a form of aquatic 'infant carrying' behaviour as indicated by the hydrodynamic benefits gained by calves in this position which enables them to maintain proximity of their travelling mothers. Although this behaviour provides a solution for minimizing separations of mother-infant dyads, it may be associated with maternal costs. 3. Through kinematic analyses this study demonstrates empirically that 'infant carrying' impacts the locomotion of dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) mothers as evident by decreased swim performance and increased effort. 4. The mean maximum swim speed of mothers swimming in echelon only represented 76% of the mean maximum swim speed of these mothers swimming solitarily. In addition, there was a concomitant 13% reduction in distance per stroke for mothers swimming in echelon compared to periods of solitary swimming. 5. Thus, 'infant carrying' in an aquatic environment is associated with maternal costs, and could ultimately impact maternal energy budgets, foraging efficiency and predator evasion.
10.2307/2390216|1. A root-shoot model of partitioning during vegetative plant growth is described, which simulates the transport of water, labile nitrogen (N) and labile carbon (C) through the xylem and phloem, and in which C, N and water interact to determine growth. 2. It is assumed that a fraction () of the N taken up by the root passes upwards in the xylem to the shoot where it is transferred to the phloem. The remaining fraction (1-) is transferred directly to the root phloem. Phloem translocation of labile C and N downwards from the shoot to the root is driven by a shoot-root gradient of labile C concentration, in accordance with the Munch flow hypothesis. 3. Shoot and root growth rates are assumed to be functions of local water potentials and of the local concentrations of labile C and N. 4. It is shown that, when the fraction of N that passes in the xylem to the shoot () is less than or equal to the fraction of plant biomass contained in shoot, the Munch flow mechanism of phloem translocation ensures that there is a higher labile N concentration in the root than in the shoot, opposite to the concentration gradient of labile C. This behaviour, in conjunction with the high to low root-shoot gradient of water potential, means that the model's root-shoot partitioning responses to changes in the availability of C, N and water are consistent with observations. 5. In particular, root-shoot responses to changes in C and N supply are more directly related to the existence of counter-gradients of C and N substrate concentration, than to the actual pathways of solute transport through the xylem and phloem that are involved. A more general analysis shows that, in balanced exponential growth, the establishment of counter-gradients of C and N depends only on the net transport of substrates between the shoot and root. 6. The model provides a mechanistic basis for interpreting observed root-shoot responses to deficits of other minerals such as phosphorus and magnesium.
826688| 1. Individual variation in physiological traits may have important consequences for offspring survival rates and adult fitness. Variance in offspring phenotypes is due to interindividual differences in genotype, environment or maternal effects. This study examined the contributions of family identity, egg incubation environment and maternal effects to individual variation in growth rates in the common Snapping Turtle, Chelydra serpentina. 2. The growth rates of 254 individuals, representing 24 clutches, were measured for approximately 6 months. 3. Mean growth rate for all individuals was 7 21 mg g
3599114|1. The flower of Brassica napus L. appears to be typically zoophilous (suited to animal pollination) because of its visually attractive petals, robust stigma and nectaries. Pollination by wind is feasible, however, and its likely effectiveness is not immediately foreseeable because of the complexity of interactions between objects and windborne particles. 2. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and wind-tunnel experiments were used to investigate the aerodynamic interactions between the flower and a windborne suspension of its pollen. 3. The flower's petals handicapped wind pollination by reducing the target efficiency of the upwind-facing stigma. For downwind-facing flowers, pollen reception was negligible. 4. Several aspects of the plant's architecture (floral structure, pollen cohesiveness, inflorescence structure) are uncompromisingly zoophilous. Estimates of the amount of wind pollination suggest that it is unlikely to be important for the long-distance dispersal of B. napus genes such as those from genetically modified varieties. 5. This study illustrates how CFD may become a powerful tool in future analyses of wind pollination.
3599224|1. In many animals, the size of secondary sexual ornaments is known to be related to the probability of victory in fights between males, and hence to fighting ability. However, few studies have attempted to link fighting ability to any physical performance measures. 2. Here we show that horn size in the dung beetle Euoniticellus intermedius accurately predicts two types of whole-organism performance, independent of body size, that are likely to play an important role in male contests: the force required to pull a beetle out of a tunnel, and the distance the beetle was able to run before exhaustion (maximum exertion). 3. Body length is also a statistically significant predictor of force, but not of exertion, suggesting that horn size is a more reliable predictor of performance than body size alone, a result that is consistent with a previous finding that horn size becomes more important in determining victory in male-male contests as body size increases. 4. This study is the first to establish direct links between whole-organism performance abilities, male armaments and fighting ability in the same species. Our findings suggest that physiological performance capacities are important factors underlying the evolution of signal expression in E. intermedius, and should be considered in future studies of the evolution of animal signalling.
10.2307/2389798|Temperatures and aerodynamic resistances of the apical meristems of Pinus sylvestris L. and the dwarf shrubs Arctostaphylos uva-ursi (L.) Spreng. and Loiseleuria procumbens (L.) Desv. were measured simultaneously at four stations along an altitudinal transect in the Cairngorm Mountains of Scotland. Net radiation, air temperature and water vapour pressure were also recorded. Dwarf shrubs, at high altitude stations, experienced tissue temperatures that were no lower than those of trees growing at low altitudes. This resulted from the larger temperature differences between surface and atmosphere experienced by the dwarf life forms. On sunny days with very low windspeeds, the meristems in the short vegetation could be as much as 15<sup></sup>C warmer than those of the atmosphere above, whereas in the tall vegetation the meristems of trees were never more than 7<sup></sup>C warmer than the atmosphere. On windy or dull days the differences were smaller. Lapse rates of mean air temperature were negative over the altitudinal range 450-850 m (-9<sup></sup>C km<sup>-1</sup>) whereas the lapse rates of tissue temperature were practically zero because of the greater tissue-to-air temperature differentials in the shorter vegetation at higher altitudes. The high tissue-to-air temperature differentials are attributed to the higher aerodynamic resistances measured for the dwarf shrubs, which form an aerodynamically smoother canopy than the trees. The role of the stature/surface temperature relationship in the distribution and evolution of montane life-forms is briefly considered.
10.2307/2389772|The Patagonian steppe consists of shrubs encircled by relatively dense stands of grasses; the areas between shrubs have scattered tussocks, interspersed with bare soil. This study investigates the seed bank and the establishment of a perennial grass, Bromus pictus, around shrubs and in the scattered-tussock patches, with special attention to root competition. About 20 times more seeds of B. pictus were found in the soil of the dense grass zone around shrubs than in the scattered-tussock patches. B. pictus seeds were placed in both types of patches, either with the natural level of below-ground competition present, or experimentally reduced by a fine mesh. Seedling survival and growth were reduced by root competition. Where root competition was experimentally reduced, the aerial protection afforded by the shrub increased the growth of seedlings. We conclude that root competition between adult plants and seedlings is mainly for soil water, and is greater near shrubs than in the scattered-tussock patches. Root competition from established plants is greater than the aerial protection afforded by shrubs, in the area close to shrubs.
10.2307/2389520|1. A number of aquatic or semi-aquatic plant species are capable of extensive adventive spread. Two species common in saltmarshes throughout the Arctic, Puccinellia phryganodes and Carex subspathacea, undergo extensive clonal reproduction. Seed set has never been observed in the grass and the sedge sets seed infrequently. 2. The production of vegetative propagules is enhanced by the foraging activities of geese. Large numbers of leaves, shoots and rooted tillers are released into the environment. Some of these establish in soft sediment. 3. Experimental studies show that these different types of plant fragments are capable of developing into mature plants when planted in pots filled with coastal sediment and when planted directly in saltmarsh sediments. 4. The activities of the herbivore result in both the destruction of existing swards and the production of propagules capable of recolonizing disturbed areas affected by the geese.
3599175|1. Many studies discuss the adaptive value of plant architecture, but few have actually measured architectural effects on plant growth and survival. In this study, sapling growth and survival are related to crown traits for two tree species, Trophis mexicana (Liebm.) Bur. and Pseudolmedia oxyphyllaria Donn. Sm., in the Los Tuxtlas lowland rainforest of Mexico. The traits investigated were crown width, crown depth, number of leaves, number of leaves per unit crown area (horizontal self-shading), and number of leaves per unit shilhouette area (vertical self-shading). 2. Self-shading indices decreased with crown size, but were unaffected by the number of leaves per tree. Larger crowns thus had more diffuse foliage, with less self-shading. 3. The number of leaves had positive effects on growth and survival, while self-shading indices had no effect. This indicates that shaded leaves do not necessarily have negative carbon balances. 4. Negative effects of crown width on horizontal crown growth, and positive effects on vertical crown growth, suggest that saplings tend to grow towards a shape intermediate between the narrow and wide crown extremes. 5. Survival was positively correlated with crown width in Pseudolmedia, and with the number of leaves in Trophis. Apparently, dependence of survival on crown traits differed among species. 6. Crown traits affected plant growth and survival, but the hypothesis emerging from light-limited carbon acquisition was confounded by other factors, such as tree size and the inherent branching patterns. 7. Crown traits are good and rather simple predictors of future sapling growth and survival, and may help foresters to select potential crop trees.
4540099|1. Contrasting results of relations between standard metabolic rate, behaviour and performance suggest that the evolutionary trade-offs in energy allocation between metabolisms and other parts of the energy budget depend on environmental conditions. Here, we show how habitat complexity changes the relationship between standard metabolic rate, behaviour and performance (winter energy loss-rates) in juvenile Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.). 2. Juvenile Salmon, individually screened for standard metabolic rate, were stocked in replicated semi-natural stream channels with and without sheltering possibilities under ledge cover. We recorded the use of ledged areas, energy-loss rates and feeding activity during a 61-day period. 3. In the channels with ledge cover, individuals with relatively higher standard metabolic rates used areas outside of the cover more frequently and had higher feeding frequency than individuals with lower standard metabolic rates. No relationship was apparent between areas used, feeding and standard metabolic rate for the individuals within the no-cover treatments. In channels without cover, there was a negative relationship between standard metabolic rate and performance (energy balance), whereas standard metabolic rate did not affect performance in channels with ledge cover. 4. The effect of standard metabolic rate on performance depended on habitat complexity expressed through differences in behaviour. In channels with ledge cover, individuals with higher standard metabolic rates were apparently able to compensate for higher metabolic costs by utilizing a riskier habitat outside the cover and attaining a higher feeding success. 5. The present study demonstrates that the relationship between standard metabolic rate and performance may be dependent on habitat complexity and vary on small spatial scales, contributing to the persistence of large variation in standard metabolic rate within populations.
40205557|1. Plant species employ several direct and indirect defence strategies to protect themselves against insect herbivores. Most studies, however, have focused on shoot-induced responses. Much less is known about interactions between below-and above-ground herbivores and how these may affect their respective parasitoids. 2. Here, we quantify the impact of below-ground induced responses vs. that of above-ground induced responses in a feral Brassica on the performance of Pieris brassicae and its endoparasitoid Cotesia glomerata. Jasmonic acid (JA) was applied to induce the plants above- or below-ground. The glucosinolate, sugar and amino acid levels of the leaves were analysed. 3. Pieris brassicae larvae grew significantly slower on shoot JA-induced (SJA) plants than on root JA-induced (RJA) and control plants, which were treated with acidic water. On RJA and control plants they showed similar developmental trajectories. Pupal masses, survival till eclosion and egg load, however, were similar on all plants. 4. The development of C. glomerata larvae on SJA plants was significantly longer than that on RJA and control plants. In contrast, the parasitoid's pupal stage lasted longer in hosts feeding on control plants. The total developmental times eventually were similar in all groups. However, the masses of male and female C. glomerata adults that developed hosts on control and RJA plants were significantly larger than those from hosts on SJA plants. JA application increased total glucosinolate contents and decreased the sugars and total amino acids levels independent of whether JA was applied. However, the trajectories of herbivore-induced glucosinolate levels differed between RJA and SJA plants. 5. These results show that the differential effects of above-and below-ground-induced responses on herbivores also affect higher trophic levels in a nonlinear fashion via differential changes in host plant quality. In particular, the indirect effects that below-ground herbivores have on the performance of above-ground parasitoids may exceed the direct effects of plant chemistry on herbivore performance. Consequently, above-ground and below-ground interactions mediated by induced plant responses have the potential to mediate insect community structure and function in complex ways.
2656558|1. Growth hormone (GH) treatment increases the growth rate and competitive ability of salmonids under laboratory conditions. Since fast growth should increase fitness, why is endogenous secretion of GH not higher in wild fish? To address this question, three hypotheses were suggested. H<sub>1</sub>: high GH levels reduce antipredator responses and may therefore increase mortality from predation. H<sub>2</sub>: high GH levels reduce long-term (e.g. over winter) survival by reducing allocation to critical energy reserves. H<sub>3</sub>: GH is not beneficial for growth under natural conditions. 2. To test these hypotheses, the performance of GH-treated juvenile Brown Trout (Salmo trutta) and control (placebo) trout was compared in an enclosed stream section subjected to natural predation. Four experiments were conducted during winter, spring, summer and autumn, respectively. 3. Mortality rates were not significantly different between GH-treated and control trout in any of the four experiments so H<sub>1</sub> was not supported. Energy reserves were generally lower in GH-treated fish, which is consistent with H<sub>2</sub>, whereas growth rates in mass were higher in GH-treated fish than in controls so H<sub>3</sub> was not supported. This suggests that GH promotes growth at the expense of investment in maintenance. 4. Judging from growth and mortality rates, the fitness of GH-treated and control trout appeared similar. Thus, escaped GH-manipulated fish may compete successfully with wild fish. 5. Hatchery-raised trout with higher initial condition index suffered higher mortality rates than more slender fish. This novel finding may be explained by reduced escape ability related to body morphology, reduced behavioural responses towards predators by high-condition trout, or predator preferences for high-condition fish.
10.2307/2389279|1. In rain forests the young leaves of many species are white, red or blue, and have low levels of chlorophyll throughout leaf expansion. We examined the implications of this delayed greening pattern for photosynthesis in gap and understorey species in Panama. 2. For three species with delayed greening, young leaves had three times less Rubisco and two-fold lower rates of O<sub>2</sub> evolution than two species with normal greening. Species with delayed greening were not at photosynthetic compensation under saturating light until the leaves were fully expanded. Thirty additional days were required for full maturation of the photosynthetic apparatus. After the leaves with delayed greening were fully expanded, the rate of dark respiration was five to 10 times higher than that of mature leaves, possibly due to the metabolic demands of completing chloroplast development. In contrast, at the end of leaf expansion, species with normal greening had Rubisco contents, CO<sub>2</sub> fixation rates, O<sub>2</sub> evolution rates and dark respiration rates that were close to those of mature leaves. 3. Both delayed and normal greening patterns were found within a single family, the Annonaceae, indicating that phylogeny need not constrain leaf development. The three species with delayed greening were from three different families and orders but had very similar patterns of development. Such strong convergence suggests that the same physiological and ecological factors must have led to the evolution of delayed greening in all three taxa.
10.2307/2389353|1 Clonal plants of Dactylis glomerata L. from a cliff-ledge shallow soil (clone L) and a deep, moist alluvial soil (clone A) were established in open-bottomed cylinders of soil maintained at `field capacity'. 2 When roots had reached the bottom of the soil cylinder, each container was placed on top of an identical cylinder filled with soil at either `field capacity' or a water potential of -1.45 MPa (8% w/w). 3 Watering was ceased and the plants harvested when wilting of the drier treatment commenced. Fresh and dry weights of shoot and root in upper cylinder and root in lower cylinder were measured. 4 Roots of both clones penetrated the soil in the lower cylinders of both water treatments but clone L produced significantly more root (P < 0.05) in the drier soil than either clone in the moist soil or clone A in the drier soil. 5 The drier treatment inhibited root development of clone A in the upper cylinder but clone L was unaffected (P < 0.01). 6 Clone A plants removed more water from the soil of the upper cylinder than clone L (P < 0.05) and this was reflected in water loss-rates of individual plants. 7 Differences in water use are consequences of morphological adaptation: clone L produced less leaf than clone A but transpired at the same rate per unit leaf area.
10.2307/2389562|Small variations in the natural abundance of stable isotopes are becoming widely acknowledged as important in explaining both ecosystems and physiological processes, but there are considerable technical problems of sample preparation. Conflicting claims for precision also confuse the potential user. To recover both N<sub>2</sub> and CO<sub>2</sub> from samples of plant tissues, we use a combustion method which is simpler than some previously described methods in that: 1 It uses a relatively low vacuum in the preparation line. 2 It uses activated charcoal for capturing N<sub>2</sub>. 3 It does not require separate freezing of CO<sub>2</sub> and water vapour. We have overcome the problem of low N (and high C) contents of plant samples by pooling replicates of combusted samples on the vacuum line. We store and transport N<sub>2</sub> gas in sealed glass tubes. These modifications simplify previously described methods without sacrificing precision.
2390350|1. Previous studies have shown that among British species, seeds that persist in the soil tend to be small and compact compared with non-persistent seeds. We tested whether or not this pattern is repeated among 101 Australian species, from a range of habitats. 2. Seed mass was plotted against variance of seed dimensions, across all species. Species with persistent seeds were found across the whole range of seed mass (0.217-648.9 mg) and variance (0.0000-0.2497), providing no evidence for a critical mass or variance which separated persistent from transient seeds. 3. We tested whether or not divergence within individual clades between persistent and transient seeds was associated with increased seed mass or seed dimension variance, using phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs). There was no consistent tendency found. 4. Thus for Australian species, persistent seeds were not smaller or more compact than transient seeds when compared across all species or when compared using PICs. Presumably the natural history of burial and disturbance operates differently in British and Australian habitats.
2390523|1. In Mediterranean ant communities, a close relationship has been found between activity rhythm in the period of maximum activity and position in the dominance hierarchy: subordinate species are active during the day, when conditions are more severe, while dominants are active during the afternoon and the night. 2. Results obtained in this study confirmed that the species foraging at higher temperatures were closer to their critical thermal limits than the species foraging at lower temperatures. 3. This enabled two extreme strategies of foraging in relation to temperature to be distinguished: (1) heat-intolerant ant species behaved as risk-averse species, foraging at temperatures very far from their critical thermal limits; and (2) heat-tolerant ant species behaved as risk-prone species, foraging very near their critical thermal limits and running a high heat mortality risk. 4. Heat-tolerant species benefited from this strategy by having better foraging performance at high temperatures. 5. This wide range of thermal niches may be one reason why Mediterranean ant faunas are so diverse in the face of limited diversity in vegetation and habitat structure: the daily range of temperature may be sufficiently great to meet the requirement both of heat-adapted and cold-adapted species as well as a spectrum of intermediate forms.
10.2307/2389398|The ability of insects to see and avoid webs is an important factor affecting the foraging success of orb-spinning spiders. Web visibility results from the relative contrast between webs and their backgrounds. Here I manipulate web and background contrast to explore their affect on insect encounter with spider webs. In three different light environments, insects intercepted webs suspended in front of white and black backgrounds with equal frequency. However, when the reflective properties of webs were experimentally enhanced, insects were able to see and avoid them. Because web stickiness and brightness are a function of the viscid material that coats the web spiral thread, the data suggest an interdependence between insect retention in webs and their visibility. Spiders occupying nocturnal or dim, diurnal sites may not be constrained by the reflective properties of viscid silks and thus able to capture prey that can only be retained by extremely sticky, and hence reflective, webs. These spiders may make use of alternative resources and evolutionary opportunities not available to spiders foraging in bright, visual environments.
3599233|1. Experimental field data and interspecific comparative analyses were used to detect effects of seed mass on seedling performance within and among seven species of Psychotria sown in gaps and shaded rainforest sites. In addition we compared the effects of seed mass within and among species to detect concordance between the two ecological scales. We used two comparative methods: phylogenetically independent contrasts and cross-species correlations. 2. Among species, we detected weak evidence of a positive correlation between seed mass and the probability of emergence in the shaded forest, and no effects of seed mass in gaps. 3. Among species, no significant correlations between seed mass and either seedling survival or seedling recruitment were found in any habitat. Other variables specific to each subgenus appear to be more important than seed mass in determining survival in the shaded forest. 4. There was a negative correlation between seed mass and relative growth rate (RGR) in both habitats. In gaps, small-seeded taxa exhibited particularly high RGR, compensating for the initial advantages of higher seed mass. 5. All species studied exhibited recruitment in gaps equal to or higher than that in the shaded forest. However, recruitment success in shaded forest relative to gaps increased with seed mass, indicating a higher affinity for shaded forest among larger-seeded taxa, but this relationship was only detected using PICS analysis. 6. Correlations between seed mass and seedling mass are similar within and among species, indicating a simple principle of mass transference. In contrast, correlations between seed mass and seedling emergence, seedling survival, seedling recruitment and RGR depend on the scale at which they are observed.
41239287|1. Accurately predicting isotope ratio discrimination is central to using mixing models to estimate assimilated diets of wild animals. This process is complicated when omnivores consume mixed diets because their discrimination is unlikely to be the weighted average of the various dietary constituents as occurs in current models. 2. We sought a basic understanding of how protein quality and quantity determine  N and  S in mammals and birds. Dietary protein is the primary source of both elements in many plants and animals. Low protein quality and high protein content have the potential to increase N by increasing protein turnover. 3. Protein quality, defined as the relative amount of the most limiting amino acid, accounted for 87-90% of the variation in N when mammals and birds consumed plant matter and mixed diets of plants and animals with protein of intermediate quality and quantity. However, foods containing relatively large amounts of high quality protein (i.e. vertebrate flesh) and foods with exceptionally low quality protein (e.g. lentils, Lens culinaris) had disparate nitrogen discriminations relative to what would be predicted from protein quality alone. 4. Supplementation of plant and animal diets with nitrogen-free carbohydrates and fats to reduce protein quantity did not reduce N in three plant-based diets fed to laboratory rats, but reduced N in two of three meat diets with > 50% protein. 5. S was weakly correlated with N (R = 0.48) but was highly correlated with dietary S (R = 0.89). Because methionine, a sulphur amino acid, was the most limiting amino acid in all diets, sulphur should be highly conserved as indicated by the lack of any change in S when diets were supplemented with carbohydrates and fat to both provide additional energy and reduce protein content. 6. Predictive equations incorporating both protein quality and quantity accounted for 81% of the variation in N and offer the opportunity to create more realistic mixing models to accurately estimate assimilated diets for omnivores.
41319579|1. Mammalian species from hot and arid environments often have elevated nitrogen isotope values compared to animals from similar trophic levels in more temperate climates. This pattern has most often been explained as the result of a physiological response by animals to heat and water stress. However, a positive correlation between rainfall and the N values of plants and herbivorous mammalian species suggests that diet may be responsible. 2. This study uses the horn keratin of desert-adapted bovids (Dorcas gazelle and Nubian ibex) to test whether the N values of herbivore body tissues are determined by heat and water stress or by the isotopic composition of their diet. The N values of horn keratin are compared against several climatic factors that affect heat and water stress to determine if a relationship exists. In addition, the range of N values measured in desert vegetation is used to evaluate the contribution of the diet to the isotopic values of bovid body tissue. 3. The N values of desert bovid horn keratin were correlated against individual climatic factors that induce water stress and were not found to be significant. When climatic factors were combined, a significant positive correlation was found between the N values of Dorcas gazelles and temperature, humidity, and rainfall. This observation contradicts the physiological stress hypothesis that predicts a negative correlation between rainfall and humidity and N values. Instead, this correlation is likely attributable to denitrification processes in the soil that directly affect the isotopic values of the plants. Values for N of horn keratin fall within the range predicted by discrimination between diet and consumer ( = 41) which supports the diet hypothesis. 4. The results suggest that the isotopic composition of the diet is the dominant factor determining the N values of herbivore body tissue.
826751| 1. Breeding female Macaroni Penguins (Eudyptes chrysolophus) were implanted with heart rate, temperature and depth data loggers in order to estimate their rate of energy expenditure from heart rate. 2. The estimated average daily metabolic rates (ADMR) of birds during the brood and crche phases of the breeding season were 8 17 0 44 W kg
10.2307/2390170|1. We construct a simple strategic population model to investigate optimal allocation of resources (in excess of those required for maintenance) to growth and/or reproduction. 2. Analysis of the model for a constant environment demonstrates that determinate growth (where growth ceases at reproductive maturity) is always the optimal strategy. 3. We conduct numerical competition experiments to investigate optimal allocation in randomly varying environments, under three different noise models. 4. Indeterminate growth (simultaneous growth and reproduction over some of the individual's lifetime) is optimal in varying environments where the variability is intense and on a time-scale comparable with that of an individual's lifetime. 5. The long-run growth rate and the correlation between phenotype biomass and environment are maximized by sucessful competitors in the numerical contests. The presence of a competitor is shown to be an essential component defining the `environment'. Optimization of various fitness measures in a single phenotype situation does not reveal the optimum for the competitive situation.
2390532|1. To maintain energy intake Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) in winter should compensate for reduced day-length by increasing both the proportion of time spent feeding and diving efficiency, defined as the proportional duration of a dive bout within a dive cycle. Common Eiders swallowed Blue Mussel (Mytilus edulis) whole with their shells where any behavioural compensation in relation to short days may be limited by digestive processes. 2. Based on time budget studies conducted from mid-December to the end of April in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Quebec, Canada, diving and feeding efficiency were compared for three seasonal periods varying in day-length (from 557 to 890 min). 3. Results showed that eiders were compensating for short days by feeding 56% of the time in mid-winter compared with 33% in spring. However, diving efficiency remained constant through the season and apparently no compensation occurred at this level of their foraging behaviour. Despite this, the daily rate of prey ingestion was much higher in mid-winter than in spring. 4. Ingestion rate values for mid-winter individuals approached or even exceeded the rate at which prey items are defecated and it was concluded that shell crushing performed by the muscular gizzard is physiologically more demanding during that period. On this basis, gizzard mass should be larger in winter when ingestion rates are higher. Data presented support that hypothesis and suggest that compensation in relation to short days can be both behavioural and physiological.
10.2307/2389301|In the majority of monocarpic plant species there is an increase with plant size in the ratio of allocation of female function (seeds) to male function (flowers or pollen). A graphical model is presented that develops the general hypothesis that this may be due to fitness returns from the male function decreasing faster with increasing size than the returns from expenditure on the female function. Model and data are discussed with reference to the evolutionarily stable strategy-approach (E.S.S.) of Lloyd & Bawa (1984).
826606| 1. Previous studies have shown that arbuscular mycorrhizas (AM) enhance the growth of the invasive forb Centaurea maculosa when growing with native grass species. Using
10.2307/2389487|Exposure to light breaks dormancy in seeds of many species. Dark dormancy prevents germination of seeds in the soil, which could otherwise be fatal. However, seeds may not be dark dormant upon dispersal, or exposure to stimulatory doses of light before burial may still cause the seeds to germinate in the soil. The induction of dark dormancy when germination was inhibited during incubation in polyethylene glycol has been investigated in three species. The process was faster at high than at low temperatures. In Origanum vulgare L. dark dormancy was re-established rather slowly. Disappearance of phytochrome in the far-red absorbing form (Pfr) and re-establishment of phytochrome control, from which the seeds had escaped, were involved. Induction of dark dormancy was much faster in Plantago major L., due to a reduction in responsiveness to light, absence of escape from phytochrome control and a high threshold level of Pfr for breaking dormancy. Not all seeds of O. vulgare and P. lanceolata L. were initially dark dormant; a light requirement was induced in the former, but not in c 25% of the seeds of the latter species. The importance of these findings for the formation of a seed bank in the soil is discussed.
2656379|1. Flexible shelled eggs of squamate reptiles normally take up substantial amounts of water, and swell accordingly, during development. However, most water uptake occurs after oviposition, beginning immediately or soon after oviposition, and water uptake is severely restricted in eggs that are retained in utero past the normal time of oviposition. 2. These observations suggest that some aspect of retention in the oviductal environment limits the amount of water eggs can absorb prior to oviposition. 3. This paper presents evidence, from two species of Sceloporus lizard, supporting the hypothesis that limited space within the mother's body cavity physically constrains the ability of eggs to expand, and thereby their ability to absorb water. When adjusted for maternal body size, the water content of a female's clutch of eggs is negatively correlated with the dry mass of her clutch (the space available in the body cavity is finite, and thus a greater dry mass content leaves less volume for water). 4. If such a constraint on water uptake is widespread, it can have important implications for our understanding of the evolution of viviparity, the costs of reproduction, and the determinants of reproductive output in squamate reptiles.
10.2307/2389824|1. From previously published measurements of soil respiration rate (R) and temperature (T) the goodness of fit of various R vs T relationships was evaluated. 2. Exponential (Q
40407732|1. Reactive oxygen species, produced as a by-product of normal metabolism, can cause intracellular damage and negatively impact on cell function. Such oxidative damage has been proposed as an evolutionarily important cost of growth and reproduction and as a mechanistic explanation for organismal senescence, although few tests of these ideas have occurred outside the laboratory. 2. Here, we examined correlations between a measure of phospholipid oxidative damage in plasma samples and age, growth rates, parasite burden and investment in reproduction in a population of wild Soay sheep on St. Kilda, Scotland. 3. We found that, amongst females of different ages, lambs had significantly elevated levels of oxidative damage compared to all other age classes and there was no evidence of increasing damage with age amongst adult sheep. 4. Amongst lambs, levels of oxidative damage increased significantly with increasing growth rates over the first 4 months of life. Neither mean damage nor the effect of growth rate on damage differed between male and female lambs. 5. Amongst adult female sheep, there was no evidence that body mass, current parasite burden or metrics of recent and past reproductive effort significantly predicted oxidative damage levels. 6. This study is the first to examine age variation in an assay of oxidative damage and correlations between oxidative damage, growth and reproduction in a wild mammal. Our results suggest strong links between early conditions and oxidative damage in lambs, but also serve to highlight the limitations of cross-sectional data for studies examining associations between oxidative stress, ageing and life history in free-living populations.
3599043|1. There is growing consensus that much of the marked broad-scale spatial variation in species richness is associated with variation in environmental energy availability, but at least nine principal mechanisms have been proposed that may explain these patterns. 2. The evolutionary-rates hypothesis suggests that high environmental energy availability elevates rates of molecular evolution, promoting faster speciation, so that more species occur in high-energy areas because more evolve there. Direct tests of this hypothesis are rare and their conclusions inconsistent. Here we focus on assessing the support for its underlying assumptions. 3. First, the evolutionary-rates hypothesis assumes that high energy levels promote mutation. There is certainly evidence that high levels of ultraviolet radiation increase mutation rates. High temperatures may also reduce generation times and elevate metabolic rates, which may promote mutation. On balance, data support a link between rates of metabolism and mutation, but a link between the latter and generation time is more equivocal and is particularly unlikely in plants. 4. Second, the evolutionary-rates hypothesis assumes that mutation rates limit speciation rates. This may be true if all else was equal, but correlations between mutation and speciation are probably very noisy as many other factors may influence rates both of sympatric and allopatric speciation, including the occurrence of physical isolation barriers, the magnitude of selection and population size. 5. Third, the evolutionary-rates hypothesis assumes that there is a strong correlation between current and historical energy levels. Factors such as tectonic drift may weaken such relationships, but are likely to have had negligible effects over the time period during which the majority of extant species evolved. 6. Fourth, the evolutionary-rates hypothesis assumes that changes in species ranges following speciation do not sufficiently weaken the correlation between the rate of speciation in an area and species richness. The ranges of many species appear to alter dramatically following speciation, and this may markedly reduce the strength of the relationship, but to what extent is unclear. 7. In sum, the degree to which the evolutionary-rates hypothesis can explain spatial variation in species richness remains surprisingly uncertain. We suggest directions for further research.
4540107|1. Theoretical models predict that ejaculate expenditure will positively covary with the level of sperm competition but trade-offs between either different measures of sperm quality or sperm quality traits and sperm number are expected. However, empirical results have generally failed to find trade-offs between sperm number, size, velocity and longevity or viability. 2. We analyzed the sperm traits of the grass goby, Zosterisessor ophiocephalus, and the black goby, Gobius niger, two fish characterized by alternative male reproductive tactics, long lasting egg deposition and intra-specific variability in ejaculate characteristics. Indeed, in both species sneaker males release ejaculates with greater sperm number and lower seminal fluid content than territorial ones. 3. We showed that sperm of grass goby males have a similar quality, whereas in the black goby sneakers have faster swimming speeds, greater viability and higher ATP content than those of territorial males. The effectiveness of territorial male mate guarding differs in the two goby species and might account for the observed difference in the intra-specific variability of sperm quality. 4. The pattern of variation that we found in the investment of sperm numbers and sperm quality in goby territorial and sneaker males, supports the results found in other species of fish with alternative mating tactics, suggesting that ejaculate quality traits are usually not traded off one against the other when ejaculate effort is increased in response to increased levels of sperm competition.
41319573|1. Ecological immunology and disease ecology are two relatively young disciplines that apply ecological approaches and principles to traditionally non-ecological fields. In both cases, an ecological perspective has allowed new insights to emerge by focusing attention on variation over space and time, and by emphasizing the role of the environment in shaping individual responses and the outcome of host-pathogen interactions. Here we review the growing conceptual interface between these two rapidly evolving fields. 2. Areas of synergy between ecological immunology and disease ecology aim to translate variation in within-host processes (e.g. immunity) into between-host dynamics (e.g. parasite transmission). Emerging areas of synergy include potential immune mechanisms that underlie host heterogeneity in disease susceptibility, teasing apart the effects of environmental factors such as seasonality and climate on host susceptibility and pathogen dynamics, and predicting the outcome of co-infection by functionally distinct groups of parasites that elicit different immune responses. 3. In some cases, practical limitations have constrained the merging of ideas in ecological immunology and disease ecology. We discuss several logistical challenges, including dissecting the relative roles of host exposure and susceptibility, establishing links between measures of immunity and pathogen resistance in wild populations, and incorporating relevant immune variation into prevailing disease ecology modeling frameworks. 4. Future work at the interface of these two fields should advance understanding of life-history theory, host-pathogen dynamics, and physiological ecology, and will also contribute to targeted approaches for wildlife health and zoonotic disease prevention.
3599301|1. We analyse diet and propagule selection by the harvester ant Messor barbarus (L.) in Mediterranean grassland and scrubland in central Spain. 2. Diet was estimated by the identification of worker-transported prey in 34 colonies per system type, and compared with seed and fruit availability in the foraging areas. Propagules were characterized by six morphological traits: total weight; weight of seed content; the three main dimensions; and shape. 3. The effect of propagule attributes on selectivity was analysed after transforming data into phylogenetically independent contrasts. Propagules from a small number of species dominate the diet of M. barbarus in the study area, in terms of both frequency and contribution in seed weight. In grassland, prey selection depends on ln(prey length) and ln(prey weight)
826744| 1. Non-directional asymmetries (fluctuating asymmetry, FA) from bilateral symmetry in morphological traits have been used as an indicator of environmental stress and may become an important diagnostic tool in environmental sciences, such as ecotoxicology. 2. In this study the relationship was examined between wing feather asymmetry, measured as the difference between the length of the third primary on the left and right wing, and blood concentration of selected persistent organochlorines (OCs) in Arctic breeding Glaucous Gulls (Larus hyperboreus, Gunnerus). 3. There was a positive relationship between primary asymmetry and blood concentrations of two PCB (polychlorinated biphenyl) congeners (P < 0.05), oxychlordane (P < 0.05), DDE (pp-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene) (P < 0.05), and especially HCB (hexachlorbenzene) (P < 0.001). At HCB levels above 30 ng g
2656543|1. Waggle dances of honey-bees (Apis mellifera L.) were decoded to determine where and how far the bees foraged during the blooming of heather (Calluna vulgaris L.) in August 1996 using a hive located in Sheffield, UK, east of the heather moors. The median distance foraged was 6.1 km, and the mean 5.5 km. Only 10% of the bees foraged within 0.5 km of the hive whereas 50% went more than 6 km, 25% more than 7.5 km and 10% more than 9.5 km from the hive. 2. These results are in sharp contrast with previous studies in which foraging distances were much closer to the hive. In May 1997 the mean foraging distance was 1 km, showing that long-range dancing is not the rule in Sheffield. 3. The observed foraging distances described in this study may not be exceptional in a patchy environment where differences in patch size and patch quality are large. When travel distances to patches are large, distant patches can probably be utilized only by individuals that live in groups and recruit foragers to the patches found. Only then are the benefits of scouting for distant patches high enough to enable the exploitation of these patches.
10.2307/2390176|1. Crowding is a common ecological phenomenon that has been widely studied from the perspective of competition for limiting resources. The extent to which crowded plants and sessile animals are positively affected by their neighbours, however, has received much less attention. Here, we use four salt-marsh plant species to examine the hypothesis that crowding leads to morphologically modified individuals that are dependent on their neighbours for structural support. 2. In the spring, crowded and isolated treatments were created for the four species (Juncus gerardi, Spartina alterniflora, Iva frutescens and Salicornia europaea). By the end of the growing season, crowded plants (a) were generally taller, thinner and produced less above-ground biomass, (b) were more susceptible to breaking and (c) grew closer to their theoretical maximum heights. 3. To explicitly test the hypothesis that crowding leads to plants that are dependent on their neighbours for support, we thinned crowded plant stands at the end of the growing season and compared the survivorship of these secondarily isolated plants with that of permanently isolated plants. For all four species, a significant number of previously crowded plants fell over, whereas plants grown in isolation remained upright. 4. Our results show that crowded plants often develop morphologies that cause them to be structurally dependent on their neighbours for support. Thus, the continuing presence of neighbours provides a positive benefit that may mitigate the negative effects of crowding. Our findings contribute to a growing body of evidence that positive interactions among crowded plants and sessile animals are a more pervasive feature of natural assemblages than is generally acknowledged.
41239280|1. Quantification of stomatal responses to environmental variables, in particular to soil water status, is needed to model carbon and water exchange rates between plants and the atmosphere. 2. Models based on stomatal optimality theory successfully describe leaf gas exchange under different environmental conditions, but the effects of water availability on the key optimization parameter [the marginal water use efficiency (WUE),  = A/E]has resisted complete theoretical treatment. Building on previous optimal leaf gas exchange models, we developed an analytical equation to estimate  from gas exchange observations along gradients of soil water availability. This expression was then used in a meta-analysis of about 50 species to investigate patterns of variation in . 3. Assuming that cuticular water losses are negligible  increases under mild water stress but decreases when severe water stress limits photosynthesis. When cuticular conductance is considered, however,  increases monotonically with increasing water stress, in agreement with previous theoretical predictions. Moreover, the shape of these response curves to soil water availability changes with plant functional type and climatic conditions. In general,  is lower in species grown in dry climates, indicating lower marginal WUE. 4. The proposed parameterization provides a framework to assess the responses of leaf gas exchange to changes in water availability. Moreover, the model can be extended to scale leaflevel fluxes to the canopy and ecosystem level.
40407722|1. Bite force is an important performance measure for vertebrate and is related to a variety of ecological challenges. Phyllostomid bats present highly diversified feeding habits associated with extensive cranial shape divergence. Biomechanical models predict that the cranial shape changes are linked to dietary variation through bite force. However, the relationship of cranial shape, diet and bite force had not been explicitly tested before. 2. Here we use a combination of geometric morphometric techniques and comparative methods to test for morphological correlates of bite force and diet in 14 phyllostomid bat species. Skull and mandible shape variation were assessed by vectors, derived from a two-block partial least squares analysis of geometric shape and size-independent bite forces. The relationship between bite force, skull shape and diet was assessed by phylogenetic generalized least square regressions. 3. Most variation in the bite force data examined here (approximately 74%) was explained by size variation alone, but the shape vectors for both skull and mandible explained a significant part of the residual variation in bite force (83% and 56%, respectively), as did the dietary differences (56%). Although the first principal component of diet variation is associated with a negative correlation between insectivory and frugivory, residual bite force and cranial shape are not associated with this diet contrast. Shape and residual bite force variation in the sample were strongly associated with the second diet component, depicting an increase in nectarivory. 4. Species with stronger bites (insectivorous and frugivorous) than expected for their sizes presented a shorter rostrum and mandible, higher skulls, and more developed muscle attachment areas. On the other hand, the characteristic cranial elongation of nectarivorous species (supporting the long tongue) is a trade-off with bite force. These morphological correlates of bite force are similar to those observed in carnivores and non-herbivorous marsupials, and can be related to morphological characters used in biomechanical models for bite force prediction. 5. Our results reinforce the effectiveness of statistically integrating geometric shape variables to bite force and diet information in the investigation of patterns of cranial shape change and trophic radiation in ecologically diverse vertebrate groups.
10.2307/2389486|Cold-induced photoinhibition was studied in relation to the distribution of juvenile Eucalyptus pauciflora Sieb. ex. Spreng near the low temperature limits of its distribution in south-eastern Australia. In early autumn, there were no differences in the photosynthetic properties of leaves from juvenile plants naturally growing in canopy-shaded or fully exposed sites, with all leaves having photosynthetic characteristics typical of leaves from high light environments. In mid-winter, cold-induced photoinhibition, as indicated by loss of quantum yield, increased with increase in exposure to high irradiances, with quantum yield in the most exposed leaves averaging 51% less than that expected in fully functional leaves of C<sub>3</sub> species. However, decrease in photosynthetic efficiency at limiting photon flux densities was not accompanied by a parallel decrease in photosynthetic capacity at higher light intensities. This implies that cold-induced photoinhibition in E. pauciflora was due to protective dissipation of absorbed light energy rather than damage to photosystem II. The density of juveniles was highest in canopy-shaded sites on the eastern to south-western sides of trees where juveniles received intermittent high intensity irradiance from sunflecks but were protected from prolonged exposure to bright sunlight, particularly in winter when solar angle is low and the sun follows a more northerly path. Thus, the distribution of juvenile plants was correlated with the occurrence and severity of cold-induced photoinhibition.
20142882|1. The covering of clutches with nest material is generally considered to improve the thermal environment of developing embryos. Here we tested an alternative hypothesis: that this behaviour reduces the risk of clutch detection by predators and hence, fulfils a cryptic anti-predation function in a ground-nesting non-passerine bird, the mallard. In addition, we assess the anti-predation function of the direct presence of an incubating parent on the nest for the first time in a ground-nesting non-passerine bird. 2. We compared predation rates of real mallard nests with two types of artificial clutches: (i) covered with nest material and (ii) uncovered. In addition, the cryptic effectiveness of nest material, female body presence, and uncovered clutch were assessed using a simulated search for nests on photographs by human volunteers. This allowed us to evaluate separately the impact of overall crypsis (covering of the clutch by nest material and colouration of the female feather) and the direct protective capacity of the incubating female. 3. Our data demonstrate that in mallards, concealment of the clutch with nest material reduces the risk of nest predation. Although the incubating female seems to provide less effective crypsis to the nest than nest material alone, the presence of the female on the clutch enhanced nest survival, suggesting a significant anti-predation capacity of the incubating parent in this species. 4. Contrary to some previous studies, the relative effects of crypsis and parental anti-predation behaviour on nest survival did not differ with respect to nest concealment by surrounding vegetation.
2390413|1. The objective of this research was to determine the extent to which regrowth rate after clipping and the specific leaf area (SLA) of genotypes of Lolium perenne were influenced by soil nutrients and endophytic fungi. 2. Twelve infected genotypes were cloned into ramets. Half were treated with a systemic fungicide that greatly reduced endophyte levels; half were untreated and retained high endophyte levels. Ramets of each genotype were subjected to low, medium or high levels of nutrients in a glasshouse for 11 weeks. 3. Plants were clipped at soil level at 11 weeks, allowed to regrow for 14 weeks and clipped again. SLA was determined at 11 and 25 weeks. Regrowth rate was calculated based on changes in leaf area and leaf dry mass between 11 and 25 weeks. 4. As a main effect, endophytes had no influence on regrowth rates and mean endophyte levels, as measured by hyphal counts within the leaves of five genotypes at high and low nutrients, were not correlated with regrowth rates. However, after clipping, regrowth responses to soil nutrients and endophytes were genotype-specific. Some genotypes in the high endophyte group showed an enhancement of regrowth, whilst others showed no response or a depressive effect of endophytes. 5. At the time of leaf clipping, SLA was significantly affected by genotype, nutrients and endophytes. At medium nutrients, the SLA of high endophyte plants was significantly lower than that of low endophyte plants. However, the SLA of the regrowth was affected by nutrients but not endophytes. Mean endophyte levels, as measured by hyphal counts within the leaves of five genotypes at high and low nutrients, were not correlated with SLA at 11 or 25 weeks. 6. For both high and low endophyte plants, regrowth rate was negatively correlated with SLA. 7. Perennial ryegrass possesses genotypic variation in the ability to regrow following defoliation and this ability is conditioned by abiotic (nutrients) and biotic (endophyte) factors.
4139338|1. Large body size is typically strongly favoured by sexual selection in males and by fecundity selection in females, while disadvantages of large size are poorly documented. Two contrasting physiological hypotheses have been suggested to affect selection on body size. According to the relative efficiency hypothesis, large body size confers more efficient energy use; according to the absolute energy demand hypothesis, large body size requires more energy to be sustained, a disadvantage particularly when food is limited. 2. We investigated the effect of food availability on glycogen and lipid allocation to reproduction in Yellow Dung Flies (Scathophaga stercoraria; Diptera: Scathophagidae) of varying body sizes. Male and female flies stemmed from selection lines artificially selected for large and small body size for 11 generations. Flies were reared at unlimited and limited larval food (dung), and the emerging adults were further held at low and high adult food (prey). 3. Adult food conditions strongly influenced reproductive maturation and energy reserves in both sexes, while larval food conditions played a minor role primarily in males. Unlimited adult food led to earlier maturation and larger clutches and egg volumes, and female investment of glycogen and lipids into the clutch was proportionally greater, supporting the relative efficiency hypothesis. 4. In contrast, at limited adult food females selected for small size matured earlier and had relatively larger clutches than large line females (when correcting for body size), in correspondence with greater glycogen investment in reproduction. Small line males at limited prey also tended to reproduce sooner. These correlated genetic responses to artificial selection support the absolute energy demand hypothesis. How important these admittedly small effects are in nature remains to be investigated.
20142878| 1. We apply a cost-benefit model to investigate whether bimodal turtles change their diving behaviour in response to changing energetic costs of aerial vs. aquatic respiration. This question is significant both in the context of the evolution of specialized respiratory structures in bimodal turtles, and the ecological role of respiratory partitioning. 2. Elseya albagula is a bimodally respiring turtle that can extract oxygen from water via specialized cloacal bursae and can vary its reliance on aquatic respiration. We examined the effect of water depth, velocity and temperature on the surfacing frequency of E. albagula through analysis of submergence durations (dive length). We applied a model of resource gain maximization to predict that as the cost of surfacing increases there will be longer dives made possible by the increased reliance on aquatic respiration. Diving behaviour of juvenile turtles was recorded in a large observation tank at varying water depths (50, 100 and 150 cm) and temperatures (20, 25 and 30 C). Diving behaviour of adult turtles was also monitored in a flume at water velocities of 5, 15 and 30 cm s. 3. Dive length significantly increased with water depth, with dives at 150 cm twofold longer than dives at 50 cm. Dive length was also significantly influenced by temperature, with shorter dives at 30 C than 20 C. In contrast, water velocity had no effect on dive length or on the proportion of a trial adult E. albagula spent using a velocity refuge. 4. Juvenile E. albagula possess the flexibility to adjust dive length in response to changes in water depth and temperature in a manner we would expect if energy use were being optimized. We advance the proposition that the driving force for the evolution of specialized aquatic gas exchange structures in E. albagula is the reduced cost of transport to and from the surface. 
4139367|1. Egg size is an important maternal trait that can have major consequences on offspring phenotype. However, the effects of the variation of different components of cleidoic eggs have been little investigated. 2. Here, we addressed whether a reduction of the relative egg albumen content within the natural range of variation affects viability, time to hatching, early post-natal begging displays, morphology and immune response of yellow-legged gull Larus michahellis chicks. 3. Egg mass strongly positively predicted chick size and mass at all ages, while time to hatching positively predicted tarsus length and immune response, irrespective of albumen removal. Variation in time to hatching may thus affect immune system maturation. 4. Albumen removal resulted in a lower embryonic viability and increased time to hatching of individual eggs. The probability that an egg originated a chick surviving until 8 days of age increased with original egg mass among controls, but not among chicks hatching from eggs with reduced albumen content ('albumen chicks'). 5. Begging rate increased with laying order among albumen chicks while it decreased among controls. Concomitantly, begging rate decreased with egg mass among controls while it did not vary among albumen chicks. Surprisingly, albumen removal did not affect body mass or tarsus length except at 8 days of age, when control chicks were lighter than albumen chicks. 6. In conclusion, our study indicates that a reduction of the relative egg albumen content can have complex effects on offspring development, behaviour and viability of a semiprecocial bird, suggesting that the relative albumen content of the eggs represents an important mechanism of maternal effects.
10.2307/2389925|1. Larvae of the leaf-mining fly Pegomya nigritarsis cause blotch mines on leaves of Rumex obtusifolius. 2. Effects of mines on net photosynthesis, water vapour conductance and stomatal functioning were measured. 3. Net photosynthesis of mined tissue was on average 20% of healthy tissue. 4. Water vapour conductance was significantly higher from the abaxial surface than the adaxial. Conductance from the adaxial surface of younger (smaller) mines was significantly lower than from adjacent healthy adaxial epidermis. For older (larger) mines, conductance was higher from the mined area than from adjacent healthy lamina. 5. Water loss from detached leaves with mines occurred at a faster rate than from undamaged leaves. 6. Stomata in the epidermis above mines did not function properly. In smaller mines stomata tended to remain closed whereas in older mines stomata tended to remain open. 7. Consequences arising from insect damage in the field are discussed.
2390325|1. Survival and reproduction in different habitats of a heterogeneous environment are affected by intrinsic habitat properties as well as by habitat-independent extrinsic factors. It is argued that the ranking of habitats according to quality may depend on extrinsic environmental factors that act with the same intensity in all habitats. This can happen if, across habitats, high reproductive success in the absence of extrinsic mortality is coupled with late reproduction. 2. In a model of a semelparous organism with overlapping generations that uses two habitats, the effect of different patterns of extrinsic mortality on habitat quality are analysed, as measured by the reproductive value of an egg, which estimates its expected contribution to the future gene pool. 3. Measurements of fitness components in Callosobruchus maculatus (F.) (Coleoptera: Bruchidae) on four host species demonstrate that, across hosts, long development can be associated with high reproductive success in the absence of extrinsic mortality. As a result, the quality ranking of three out of the four hosts would be different in a stable population regulated by intraspecific competition and egg parasitoids than in a growing population or a stable population regulated by age-independent larval mortality. 4. It is suggested that habitat-independent mortality may play a role in the evolution of ecological niches.
40863580|1. The acute phase immune response, which includes fever and sickness behaviours, carries high costs in energy and time, but enhances pathogen clearance in diverse hosts. Hypotheses based upon pathogen pressures and life-history trade-offs predict that costly immune responses will decrease in strength as latitude increases. However, whether the acute phase response shows latitudinal patterns among free-living, wild populations remains unknown. 2. Here, we studied fever and sickness behaviours during the early breeding season in free-living song sparrows (Melospiza melodia) along a latitudinal gradient in southern California (CA), Washington (WA), and Alaska (AK). In 2007 and 2008, we injected males with lipopolysaccharide and assessed sickness behaviour by measuring changes in territorial aggression. In 2008, we monitored fever and sickness behaviour in A and WA birds using a novel telemetrie technique: skin-mounted radio transmitter s with temperature sensors. 3. In 2007, territorial defence varied by latitude, with a lower probability of territorial response at 24 h after injection in CA, but not in WA or AK. Radiotelemetry in 2008 revealed that CA birds showed pronounced and prolonged lethargy and fever (c. 2 C above control males throughout the night), whereas WA birds showed only moderate lethargy and fever (c. 1 C, returning to control levels during the night). 4. This study establishes radiotelemetry as a powerful method for quantifying fever and sickness behaviours in small, free-living vertebrates. Moreover, our data suggest that latitude predicts the strength of these responses. These results can provide insight into disease susceptibility and spread among wild populations.
10.2307/2390077|1. The hypothesis that herbivory pressure (defined as the per cent of the photosynthetic tissue biomass and production consumed daily by herbivores) increases with increasing plant growth rate was tested. The basis for the test was a compilation of 56 published reports on biomass, production and herbivory, from a wide range of aquatic and terrestrial plant communities. 2. Herbivory was independent of ecosystem primary production and the fraction of plant production and biomass daily consumed by herbivores increased as the 0.6 and 1.6 power of plant turnover rate, respectively. 3. These results suggest that the tendency of fast-growing plants to support lower biomass of photosynthetic tissues than slow-growing ones can be accounted for by the tendency of herbivore control of plant biomass and production to increase with increasing plant growth rate. 4. It is concluded that herbivory should be most important as a control mechanism for fast-growing plant communities, whereas it represents but a modest percentage of losses of photosynthetic tissues of slow-growing plants.
3599251|1. Iberian Rock Lizard (Lacerta monticola, Boulenger 1905) males produce copulatory plugs that harden and adhere firmly inside the female cloaca immediately after copulation and occlude both oviductal openings. 2. To determine whether plugs reduce the chance of females being inseminated by rival males, two hypotheses were tested: (i) that plugs reduce female attractiveness and/or receptivity to rival males; and (ii) that plugs function as 'chastity belts'. 3. There was no evidence to support either hypothesis. Neither male initiation of copulations and female termination of male copulation attempts, nor male insemination success differed significantly between trials in which males were presented with females without a plug and with females with a plug deposited by a different male 1, 3 and 6 or more hours earlier, nor between females without and with a plug. 4. Several hypotheses for the function of Iberian Rock Lizard plugs are discussed. Since rival males were frequently able to displace a plug in the female cloaca, our results are consistent with a 'sperm protection' function of male postcopulatory mate guarding in squamate reptiles, but this remains to be tested.
826690|1. A new method to evaluate the interaction between individuals competing for light in a monospecific stand is presented. 2. Light intercepted by a leaf of a target individual is influenced by its own leaves and those of neighbours higher in the canopy. We assume that light intercepted by the leaf is the sum of the light that penetrates the foliage of the target and the foliage of neighbours. We define the degree of the interaction as the fraction of the intercepted light that penetrated the foliage of neighbours. 3. To determine the degree of interaction, we established experimental stands of an annual, Xanthium canadense Mill., and measured light interception directly with lightsensitive films attached to leaves. We calculated the interaction using light absorption of individuals within the stand and of those isolated from the stand. Light interception of an individual was influenced more by its neighbours' leaves than by its own. The degree of interaction was greater in the stand of higher density. 4. The method presented here may be useful in studying the role of architectural characteristics in light competition in relation to evolutionarily stable strategies of individuals in monospecific stands.
20142809|1. We investigate how resource level affects reproduction in matrotrophic (Poeciliopsis prolifica) and lecithotrophic (P. monacha) fishes. 2. One of our goals was to test an assumption of the Trexler-DeAngelis model for the evolution of matrotrophy, which was that matrotrophic species can adjust litter size by aborting offspring in low food conditions. Our more general goal was to elucidate other differences between the reproductive modes. 3. Both species have superfetation and c. 30-day development time. Females of each species were assigned to high or low food availability for 30 days, or one gestation period. Any young born during that time interval would have initiated development before the initiation of the experiment. If embryos are aborted, then this would be seen as a reduction in brood size in the low food treatment relative to the high food treatment within this period. 4. Our results suggest P. monacha responds to low food by sacrificing reproduction to maintain lipids, while P. prolifica maintains reproduction at the expense of lipids. Neither species showed a significant reduction in offspring number over the course of the experiment, suggesting that these species do not abort offspring in low food conditions.
2656386|1. Xylem hydraulic properties and vulnerability to cavitation (determined using the air-injection method) were studied in six Pinaceae of the northern Rocky Mountains: Pinus ponderosa, Pseudotsuga menziesii, Larix occidentalis, Pinus contorta, Pinus albicaulis and Abies lasiocarpa. We tested whether species extending into drier habitats exhibited increased resistance to water stress-induced cavitation, and whether there is a trade-off between xylem transport capacity and resistance to cavitation. 2. At lower elevations the more drought-tolerant P. ponderosa was much less resistant to cavitation than the codominant P. menziesii. Greater vulnerability to cavitation in P. ponderosa was compensated for, at least in part, by increased stomatal control of water loss (inferred from carbon isotope discrimination) and by increased sapwood to leaf area ratios. Similar differences, but less pronounced, were found in codominant species at higher elevations. 3. Leaf specific hydraulic conductivity was negatively correlated with mean cavitation pressure. When species were separated into pines and non-pines, sapwood specific conductivity and mean cavitation pressure were also negatively correlated within each of the two groups. 4. Our results indicate that within the evergreen conifers examined, greater resistance to water stress-induced cavitation is not required for survival in more xeric habitats, and that there is a trade-off between xylem conductance and resistance to cavitation.
10.2307/2390280|1. The economic principle of spatial division of labour comprises two basic features, specialization in the performance of specific tasks and close co-operation by potentially independent, spatially separated subunits of a higher-level organizational system. Space-economic theory predicts large benefits from such a spatial division of labour if essential resources are heterogeneously distributed and if high-availability zones for these resources do not spatially coincide. In this paper, evidence is provided that a spatial division of labour may also occur in clonal plants growing in spatially heterogeneous environments. 2. Clonal fragments of the stoloniferous herb Trifolium repens L., consisting of two interconnected groups of ramets, were exposed to contrasting levels of light and water supply. Ramet groups specialized morphologically in the uptake of the locally most abundant resource and they exchanged both water and assimilates. This division of labour significantly increased the performance of the entire plant in terms of fitness-related traits such as biomass and clonal offspring production. 3. It is concluded that spatial division of labour may contribute to the apparent success of clonal plant species in many natural habitats by enabling them to efficiently exploit environmental patchiness. The implications of these results for the understanding of foraging strategies of clonal plants and the general notion of habitat heterogeneity in plant ecology are discussed.
40963556|1. Because energy is a crucial resource, adaptive significance of variation in the rate of energy metabolism, and especially in basal (BMR) and maximum aerobic (VO max ) metabolic rates, is a popular theme in evolutionary and ecological physiology. However, little is known about the association of these traits with fitness components in populations of free-living animals. 2. We studied the association between body size, the metabolic rates, and reproductive success in bank voles (Myodes glareolus) in an isolated, small island population. Correlation analyses were performed for two measures of reproductive performance: mating success (the number of partners with which an individual had any offspring), and overall reproductive success (the number of offspring trapped in the field, calculated for all individuals, including those with no offspring). 3. Direction of the selection on metabolic traits varied between sexes and over time, which could contribute to maintaining a high additive genetic variance of the traits. 4. Mating success and overall reproductive success of males ere positively correlated with body size (head width), but not with mass-independent VO max  The latter result undermines the hypothesis that evolution of high aerobic capacity could be driven by a selection for traits important in male competition. 5. Overall reproductive success was positively correlated with basal metabolic rate. The result corroborates the hypothesis that high BMR and endothermy in mammals could evolve as consequences of intensive parental care evolution. However, the generality of such a correlation remains uncertain and warrants further research.
826752| 1. Three separate experiments were conducted, involving 27 herbaceous species and 14 woody species aged 15-30 days, in order to determine the relative importance of net assimilation rate (NAR), specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf weight ratio (LWR) in explaining interspecific variations in relative growth rate. 2. Daily quantum inputs were 31 12 mol m
4540044|1. Adaptation can occur on ecological time-scales (contemporary evolution) and adaptive divergence can cause reproductive isolation (ecological speciation). From the intersection of these two premises follows the prediction that reproductive isolation can evolve on ecological time-scales. We explore this possibility in theory and in nature. Finding few relevant studies, we examine each in some detail. 2. Theory: Several models have demonstrated that ecological differences can drive the evolution of partial reproductive barriers in dozens to hundreds of generations. Barriers likely to evolve quickly include dispersal rate, habitat preference and selection against migrants/hybrids. 3. Plants: Adjacent populations adapting to different fertilizer treatments or to mine tailings can develop reproductive barriers within at least 100 generations. These barriers include differences in flowering time and selection against migrants/hybrids. 4. Invertebrates: Populations on native and introduced host plants can manifest reproductive barriers in dozens to hundreds of generations. These barriers include local host preference and selection against migrants/hybrids. 5. Vertebrates: Salmon adapting to divergent breeding environments can show restricted gene flow within at least 14 generations. Birds evolving different migratory routes can mate assortatively within at least 10-20 generations. Hybrid sculpins can become isolated from their ancestral species within at least 20-200 generations. 6. Ecological speciation can commence within dozens of generations. How far it goes is an important question for future research.
41239358|1. At the heart of the body of research on biodiversity effects on ecosystem function is the debate over whether different species tend to be functionally singular or redundant. When we consider ecosystem multi-function, the provision of multiple ecosystem functions simultaneously, we may find that seemingly redundant species may in fact play unique roles in ecosystems. 2. Over the last few decades, the significance of biological soil crusts (BSCs) as ecological boundaries and ecosystem engineers, and their multi-functional nature, has become increasingly well documented. We compiled 'functional profiles' of the organisms in this understudied community, to determine whether functional singularity emerges when multiple ecosystem functions are considered. 3. In two data sets, one representing multiple sites around the semi-arid regions of Spain (regional scale), and another from a single site in central Spain (local scale), we examined correlations between the abundance or frequency of BSC species in a community, and multiple surrogates of ecosystem functioning. There was a wide array of apparent effects of species on specific functions. 4. Notably, in gypsiferous soils and at regional scale, we found that indicators of carbon (C) and phosphorus cycling were apparently suppressed and promoted by the lichens Diploschistes diacapsis and Squamarina lentigera, respectively. The moss Pleurochaete squarrosa appears to promote cycling in calcareous soils at this spatial scale. At the local scale in gypsiferous soils, D. diacapsis positively correlated with carbon cycling, but negatively with nitrogen cycling, whereas numerous lichens exhibited the opposite profile. 5. We found a high degree of functional singularity, i.e. that species were highly individualistic in their effects on multiple functions. Many functional attributes were not easily predictable from existing functional grouping systems based primarily on morphology. 6. Our results suggest that maintaining species-rich BSC communities is crucial to maintain the overall functionality of ecosystems dominated by these organisms, and that dominance and the outcome of competition could be highly influential in the determination of such functionality.
10.2307/2390238|1. We recommend the use of bicoordinate plots, termed utilization plots, for the analysis of nutrient budgets. 2. Utilization plots explore the relationship between nutrient uptake (intake or absorption from the gut) and the various compartments to which ingested nutrients are allocated. 3. They provide more information, and are numerically less problematic, than ratio-based nutritional indices.
41239229|1. The idea that biotic interactions, including herbivory, predation and competition are more intense at lower latitudes is widely accepted and underpins several dominant theories on the latitudinal gradient in biodiversity. Current theory also predicts that the intense biotic interactions at low latitudes will select plants for greater defence against herbivores. We reviewed the literature to provide an assessment of the evidence for and against the hypothesis that herbivory is more intense at lower latitudes, and that plants from low latitudes are better defended than are plants from high latitudes. 2. Only 37% of the 38 latitudinal comparisons of herbivory showed higher herbivory at lower latitudes, and the average effect size in a meta-analysis was not significantly different from zero. Thus, the available data do not support the idea that herbivory is generally more intense in the tropics. 3. Only nine of 56 comparisons found higher chemical defences at lower latitudes, and a meta-analysis showed that overall, chemical defences were significantly higher in plants from higher latitudes. This result is counter to the predictions of much of the literature. 4. A meta-analysis showed no significant effect of latitude on physical defence. 5. A review of the literature on feeding trials and common garden experiments showed that herbivores tend to prefer tissue from high latitudes. This trend could stem from differences in overall defence that were not captured by the metrics used in the literature, but could also result from differences in nutritional quality. 6. The empirical data do not support the widespread view that herbivory is generally more intense at lower latitudes, or that plants from low latitudes are generally better defended than are plants from higher latitudes. These results are counter to the prevailing thought on this topic, and suggest that this field may be ripe for the development of new theory.
10.2307/2389571|CO
3599183|1. The potential of using stable isotope signatures of avian claws in order to infer diet and habitat use was investigated. 2. Highly significant relationships observed between stable carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios
10.2307/2389985|1. The statistical analysis of ratio-based indices (ADC and MEC) is common in studies of the digestive physiology of vertebrates: however, recent criticism has questioned the reliability of this technique. 2. We reanalysed a nutritional data set using ANCOVA, and compared the results to a previous analysis performed on ratio-based indices. 3. Our comparison suggested that the analysis of ratio-based indices failed to identify some significant effects, and identified significant spurious relationships that led to erroneous biological interpretations. 4. We used bicoordinate `utilization' plots (Raubenheimer & Simpson 1994) to aid in interpreting factors that influenced the efficiency of digestion, and we discuss some advantages and limitations of this approach. 5. Predictive relationships based on regression analyses of ratio-based indices led to errors in the estimation of assimilated energy from 1% to 8%, and errors in the estimation of utilized energy from 3% to 20.4%. 6. Our reanalysis suggests that errors due to the statistical analysis of ratio-based indices may be more serious than is generally appreciated.
10.2307/2389813|CO<sub>2</sub>-enrichment experiments were performed on 25 British native species of widely differing ecology. Two crops, one C<sub>3</sub> (sunflower) and one C<sub>4</sub> (maize), were also included. The background regime involved full-light, glasshouse conditions, non-limiting supplies of water and mineral nutrients and a daytime mean temperature of 18<sup></sup>C. Four CO<sub>2</sub> treatments were maintained at nominal concentrations of 350, 500, 650 or 800 v.p.m. over a 56-day period. Hyperbolic functions were fitted to yield vs CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. The functions were then used to generate predictions of Q<sub>540/350</sub> (the quotient of present yield under the CO<sub>2</sub> regime predicted for the year 2050) and Q<sub>700/350</sub> (the quotient of present yield predicted for a doubling of ambient CO<sub>2</sub> concentration). Values of Q<sub>540/350</sub> for whole-plant dry weight ranged from below 1.01 to 1.49, the upper values being at least similar in magnitude to those already observed in C<sub>3</sub> crops. The mean value of wholeplant Q<sub>700/350</sub> for 11 species of near-competitive strategy was 1.43. Four species of stress-tolerant or ruderal strategy had a mean Q<sub>700/350</sub> of only 1.05. High CO<sub>2</sub> responsiveness was common only within the competitive strategy and its close relations. The fitted Q<sub>540/350</sub> for species of the pure strategy was 1.38. In the centre of the strategic range the fitted value was 1.12, and at the far extreme, the value for species of ruderal or stress-tolerant strategy was only 1.03.
40205513|1. The role of the juvenile hormone (JH) as a potential mediator in the trade-off between malemale competition and immune response has not been tested, but its study could reveal a potential mechanism that mediates resource allocation between these two traits. 2. Controlling for body size, we tested whether males of the territorial damselfly Calopteryx virgo administrated with methoprene acid, an analog of the JH (JHa), compared to control males, increased their aggression and occupation time on territories but decreased their phenoloxidase (PO) activity (a key enzyme used during immune response after a bacterial challenge). We found an increase in aggression in JHa treated males compared to control males, but the opposite was found for PO activity. 3. As fat load and muscle mass are also important traits during a contest, we tested whether JHa males compared to control males showed more fat and muscle content 2 h after JHa administration. Our results did not show a significant difference between both male groups, suggesting that JHa only increased aggression. 4. These results and a review of other published articles, which have documented an effect of JH on a variety of functions in insects, suggest that JH may be a target of sexual selection: this hormone not only promotes the expression of secondary sexual characters but also seems condition-dependent and so its titers may indicate male condition.
2390351|1. The effects of defoliation and girdling on fruit production in European holly Ilex aquifolium were studied in a northern Spanish population. Three defoliation treatments (control, 50% and 100% leaf removal) were applied at branch level in 10 trees. Six branches were used per treatment in each tree and half of these branches were girdled (a ring of bark and cambium was removed from the branch base). 2. Leaf removal from ungirdled branches had little effect on fruit set, fruit production and reproductive allocation at branch level. However, these variables decreased as the extent of defoliation increased on girdled branches. 3. Fruit production in undefoliated branches did not differ between girdled and ungirdled branches, showing that girdled branches were autonomous for fruit production when undamaged. Mean fruit mass of girdled-100% defoliated branches averaged 8% of fruit mass produced by control branches. 4. Fruit production of ungirdled-100% defoliated branches did not differ from control branches, showing the importance of resource importation from other branches. Hence the branches may be regarded as only partially autonomous for fruit production. 5. Fruit production of girdled-50% defoliated branches was 42% of fruit production of control branches, while ungirdled-50% defoliated branches amounted to 70% of controls. These results also demonstrated resource importation but did not support the existence of photosynthetic compensatory mechanisms. 6. The ability of resource importation developed by fruiting branches might be a mechanism to reduce the effect of reproductive costs in this species.
10.2307/2389275|1. We tested the effect of manipulating food intake on variance in clutch size and offspring size in a viviparous snake (Thamnophis marcianus). 2. We found that among-female variance in clutch size and offspring size was unaffected by changing food intake, whereas within-female variance in offspring size was higher in females receiving more food. 3. Our data support field studies of snakes which show that among-female variance in clutch size is unaffected by changing environmental conditions. Whether the higher levels of within-female variance in offspring size are adaptive is not known.
10.2307/2389639|Phenotypic responses to photon flux density (PFD) by five populations of the herbaceous perennial Prunella vulgaris L. were compared. Plants from each population were grown in two light environments, and we measured the effect of PFD on overall performance (size) as well as the responses of several physiological traits to PFD. Both measures of size and physiological traits differed significantly between light environments and among populations. Significant population-by-environment interaction was detected for measures of size but not for any physiological traits. These results indicate significant differences among populations in the extent to which size is reduced by a decrease in PFD. However, these differences are not the result of variation in the responses of the physiological traits we measured. A comparison of the patterns of correlations among traits in the two light environments indicated signficant similarity of correlation structure between environments. This result contrasts with those of studies showing strong environmental dependence of phenotypic relationships between traits.
3599313|1. Frugivorous vertebrates may affect plant fitness by dispersing seeds to sites favourable for establishment and by passing seeds through their gut, thereby altering germination patterns. Although gut passage can inhibit germination, most studies have found that it improves germination rate and/or success. 2. However, studies that compare seeds passed through a gut to seeds directly removed from a fruit cannot quantify the overall effect of gut passage on seed germination. They address the ecologically narrow question of whether mechanical and/or chemical action in the gut affects germination. They do not address the germination potential of seeds in unconsumed fruits and therefore ignore a common seed fate, deposition in a fruit. 3. We surveyed 99 studies that included the effect of vertebrate gut passage on germination and found that only 22 included germination from intact fruits. We suggest that the strongest experimental design to evaluate the impact of gut passage should include intact fruits, since release from germination inhibitors and high osmotic pressure are mechanisms that can alter germination.
10.2307/2389771|Mammals produce neonates of varying degrees of development described by the terms altricial and precocial. I rank eutherian mammals by a comprehensive measure of development in which neonates are scored in four areas of independence: thermoregulatory, sensory, locomotory and nutritional. The association between neonatal development and nine life-history traits is examined in 239 species. The distribution of neonatal developmental rankings is associated with adult mass and is related to taxonomic level, with precocial neonates more common among orders, and altricial neonates more common among genera and species. When the effect of adult mass is controlled, precocial mammals produce heavier neonates and heavier litters, possess longer gestation periods, attain adult mass more slowly, and have smaller litter sizes. Mass at weaning, length of the total reproductive interval, and age at first parturition do not differ among developmental categories. Although the continuous nature of development is intuitively appealing, mammalian development patterns do not map onto predictable, continuous changes in life-history patterns. Length of the lactation period is extended in precocial primates but shortened in precocial rodents. Neonate mass varies continuously with stage of neonatal development, while litter size varies dichotomously, and age at first parturition and litter mass differ uniquely in only one developmental category. Thus, neonatal developmental patterns do not appear to result from one continuous axis of selection.
10.2307/2389560|Seedlings of Acacia saligna (Labill.) Wendl., an alien invasive shrub of coastal fynbos, and Protea repens (L.) L., an indigenous shrub, were grown in pots, as single seedlings and as a mixture. These were amended with one of a range of treatments representing a broad gradient in nutrient availability. When grown in isolation, both species displayed increases in dry mass, and leaf nitrogen and phosphorus contents in response to increasing levels of nutrient availability. A. saligna however, exhibited a greater response than P. repens, particularly at high levels of nutrient availability. No significant differences in root/shoot ratio were found in response to variation in nutrient availability, but A. saligna consistently allocated a greater proportion of its total dry mass to below-ground growth. When grown as a mixture, P. repens exhibited reduced growth at high levels of nutrient availability in response to competition with A. saligna, which totally overtopped the indigenous species. In root observation chambers, the depth penetration of the soil by the tap root of seedlings of A. saligna after germination was approximately twice as rapid as that of P. repens. Seed nitrogen and phosphorus contents were significantly linearly related to seed size, except the phosphorus content of A. saligna. The relatively high absolute growth rate of A. saligna seedlings, at practically all levels of nutrient availability found in the fynbos, appears to be one of the key factors which enables them to compete successfully with P. repens seedlings.
10.2307/2389869|1. The sign and magnitude of covariances between traits involved in a trade-off depend upon two factors: the trade-off pattern between the amounts of resource devoted to the traits and the transformation from amount of resource to trait. 2. Let a single resource be divided over many traits, leading to a complicated pattern of trade-offs between the traits. A trade-off pattern can be modelled as a `tree', with resource acquisition as the trunk, each allocation decision as a dichotomous `branching point' and the amount of resource devoted to a trait at the outer end of the branches. In a `major' allocation, the fractions of resource going to each of the two alternative `branches' are appreciable. 3. In the presence of variation in acquisition and in the allocations, the covariances between the amounts of resource allocated to the traits are shown to depend upon their position relative to the allocation tree and upon allocation magnitudes. The First Major Allocation after acquisition of the resource is the one most likely to lead to a negative covariance between traits. Allocations higher in the allocation tree than the First Major Allocation tend to lead to positive covariances between traits. Traits in a trade-off system will therefore show clusters, traits showing positive correlations within the cluster and negative correlations between different clusters. 4. Partial correlations might be used to find where a trait originates in the allocation tree. 5. Transformation from amounts of resource allocated to the trait itself obscures the covariance and partial correlation pattern.
2390415|1. The gelatinous cyanobacterial Collema tenax is a dominant lichen of biotic soil crusts in the western United States. In laboratory experiments, we studied CO<sub>2</sub> exchange of this species as dependent on water content (WC), light and temperature. Results are compared with performance of green-algal lichens of the same site investigated earlier. 2. As compared with published data, photosynthetic capacity of C. tenax is higher than that of other cyanobacterial and green-algal soil-crust species studied. At all temperatures and photon flux densities of ecological relevance, net photosynthesis (NP) shows a strong depression at high degrees of hydration; maximal apparent quantum-use efficiency of CO<sub>2</sub> fixation is also reduced. Water requirements (moisture compensation point, WC for maximal NP) are higher than that of the green-algal lichens. Collema tenax exhibits extreme `sun plant' features and is adapted to high thallus temperatures. 3. Erratic rain showers are the main source of moisture for soil crusts on the Colorado Plateau, quickly saturating the lichens with liquid water. High water-holding capacity of C. tenax ensures extended phases of favourable hydration at conditions of high light and temperature after the rain for substantial photosynthetic production. Under such conditions the cyanobacterial lichen appears superior over its green-algal competitors, which seem better adapted to habitats with high air humidity, dew or fog as prevailing source of moisture.
40407717|1. Although plant nitrogen (N) strategies may play an important role for community structure and ecosystem functioning, there is not a clear understanding of the link between N acquisition by roots and N utilization by shoots. Particularly, it is unclear how the co-variations between size- and physiology-related traits determine N acquisition and N utilization at the plant scale. 2. We used 13 co-occurring temperate pasture grasses to study inter-specific variations in above-ground N yield and in root N acquisition and shoot N utilization traits. N acquisition traits concerned root influx capacities for $NO_3^ - $ and $NH_4^ + $ , root mass and specific root area in ingrowth cores. N utilization traits concerned leaf life span, leaf N content, leaf N resorption, mean residence time of N and leaf N use efficiency. 3. We found evidence for three trade-offs across species concerning root N acquisition: (i) root mass increased when specific root area declined; (ii) an increase in root area was observed when total N influx capacity decreased; and (iii) $NO_3^ - $ root influx capacity increased when $NH_4^ + $ capacity declined. 4. High total root uptake capacity gave rise to high leaf N content and was associated across species to low leaf N use efficiency. Tall grasses were characterized by high shoot N yield, high root biomass and high leaf N use efficiency. Physiology-related traits and size-related traits were generally found independent. 5. Our study demonstrates how size and N uptake related root traits are associated to major axes of plant specialization ((i) plant size and (ii) conservation vs. exploitation of N) which were previously identified based on shoot traits. Contrasted N strategies were segregated across species according to four combinations along these two axes.
10.2307/2390031|1. All parameters for a biochemical photosynthetic model of Sitka spruce shoots were obtained from responses of CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation to quantum flux density and CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. Comparable parameters for needles on a shoot were derived using a shoot structure model. 2. Photosynthetic response of a shoot to absorbed quantum flux density was not satisfactorily predicted using the biochemical model unless co-limitation by potential electron transport and Rubisco was taken into account. Co-limitation of a shoot is affected by the absorbed quantum flux density and ambient CO<sub>2</sub> concentration, as well as by the structure of the shoot. Shoots grown in the forest were structurally acclimated to the environment and were able to use the absorbed quantum flux density more efficiently than shoots of seedlings grown in a growth room. The heterogeneous distribution of shoots in a canopy can further increase co-limitation of canopy photosynthesis at high incident quantum flux density. The degree of co-limitation increases from needle to shoot to canopy and enables the forest canopy to use incident quantum flux very efficiently in the natural environment. 3. Co-limitation of canopy photosynthesis is also affected by the incident quantum flux density and the beam fraction. Under a diffuse sky, co-limitation of canopy photosynthesis does not commence until the incident quantum flux density exceeds 400 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. For a beam fraction of 0.8, co-limitation commences at an incident quantum flux density of c. 200 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, and remains low over the range 1000-2000 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>.
10.2307/2389306|To test the hypothesis that alate aphids produce fitter offspring than apterous aphids, a series of experimental `migrations' using good and bad hosts was carried out under controlled conditions. On oat seedlings the apterous offspring of alate Rhopalosiphum padi (L.) reared on oats developed faster, weighed more as adults, produced more offspring and survived longer than the apterous offspring of apterous mothers reared on oats. However, the apterous offspring of similarly reared alate mothers when reared on Phleum pratense L., a poorer host, took longer to develop, weighed less as adults, produced fewer offspring and lived for a shorter time than the apterous offspring of apterous moths of similar rearing history. In the converse treatment, i.e. apterous and alate mothers reared on the poorer host (P. pratense), the apterous offspring of alate mothers were more fecund and lived longer than the apterous offspring of apterous mothers on P. pratense but took longer to develop and weighed less. When reared on oat seedlings, the apterous offspring of alate mothers developed faster, weighed more and produced more offspring than the apterous offspring of apterous mothers. However, their survival time was shorter. It is concluded that the apterous offspring of alate mothers are adapted to exploit better conditions than those which their mothers experienced, whereas the apterous offspring of apterous mothers are adapted to exploit worse or similar conditions to those experienced by their mothers. Analysis of the whole data set revealed that although weight is a fairly good predictor of initial rates of fecundity, it is a very poor indicator of total fecundity. The best predictor of total fecundity was adult life span. Adult life span was not correlated with adult weight. The relationship between life span and fecundity was common across all treatments. Thus although weight fecundity relationships may differ between treatments, the major factor determining aphid fecundity is life span.
10.2307/2390236|1. Two experiments were performed on Plantago lanceolata to examine the effects of maternal genotype and environment on (i) the response of germination to light and (ii) the response of seedlings to nutrient supply. 2. Response of germination to light was unaffected by a previous shading treatment but was increased by cold stratification and prolonged exposure to both red and far-red light. 3. Effects of the maternal canopy environment were genotype-specific and depended upon stratification; maternal genotypes also differed significantly in offspring responses to specific germination cues. 4. The effects of maternal nutrient environment on seedling growth depended upon the offspring nutrient environment and seedling age. There was also considerable variation among genotypes in the expression of maternal nutrient environment effects.
40407702|1. Plants with open flowers and exposed nectar should attract a wide diversity of flower visitors, yet, for reasons that are not yet well understood, some plants with these 'generalist' floral traits have highly specialized pollination Systems. 2. We investigated this problem in the African milkweed Pachycarpus grandiflorus which has open flowers that produce copious amounts of exposed and concentrated nectar, yet is visited almost exclusively by spider-hunting wasps in the genus Hemipepsis. 3. These wasps were the only visitors found to consistently carry pollinaria and a cage experiment showed that they are capable of successfully pollinating this plant. Furthermore, experimental hand-pollinations showed that P. grandiflorus is genetically self-incompatible and thus reliant on pollinators for seed set. 4. We investigated the roles of chemical (nectar and floral scent) and spectral properties in the selective attraction of wasps and the filtering out of other potential flower visitors. Nectar palatability experiments showed that the nectar is unpalatable to honeybees but palatable to the wasps. Choice experiments conducted in the field and using a Y-maze in the laboratory showed that wasps are attracted primarily by scent rather than visual cues. Analysis of scent using Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry showed that these inflorescences produce 36 different compounds, mostly monoterpenes and aliphatics. Analysis of spectral reflectance showed that flowers have similar colouring to the background vegetation. 5. We conclude that P. grandiflorus is specialized for pollination by Hemipepsis wasps, and in the absence of morphological filters, achieves specialization through unpalatable nectar, cryptic colouring and scent as a selective pollinator attractant. 6. This study demonstrates that plants whose flowers are not morphologically adapted to exclude particular floral visitors can achieve specialization through non-morphological filters.
10.2307/2390196|1. Seeds of two wild populations, a crop type (canola) and reciprocal crop-wild hybrids of Brassica rapa were exposed to a factorial combination of light, nutrient and stratification treatments in a growth chamber study to test differences in germination responses to environmental cues. The effects of seed density and nutrient treatment on germination were tested in a separate study. 2. Germination of each type differed in response to treatment combinations. Canola had higher levels of germination than the wild populations. Hybrid germination more closely resembled that of the maternal parent than that of the reciprocal hybrid or paternal parent. Seeds from agricultural and non-agricultural wild populations differed in germination responses to treatments. 3. Testing for viability on ungerminated seeds revealed that mortality differed in response to treatment. Overall, there was low dormancy relative to mortality in the crop, and high dormancy compared to mortality in the wild populations. Levels of dormancy vs mortality in hybrids were intermediate between parents, but more closely resembled the maternal parent. 4. There was no germination response to density for seeds exposed to nutrients. Without nutrients, germination of wild populations responded positively to higher seed densities. 5. The varied germination responses to environmental cues may be the result of different selective pressures on each type. Hybrid cross direction, which affected germination and dormancy, may influence the ability of crop-wild hybrids to persist in natural environments.
10.2307/2389853|1. The spatial distribution of Pistacia lentiscus, a Mediterranean bird-dispersed plant, in abandoned orchards was found to be strongly linked to the presence of trees or shrubs that act as perches. 2. These perches not only attract seed-disperser birds but also produce favourable microenvironmental conditions for seed germination and seedling establishment. 3. Soil moisture content after a rainfall was always greater beneath perches than not beneath perches. Favourable water potentials for seed germination were maintained for a longer time beneath a perch than elsewhere. 4. After a rainfall, soil was compacted faster where not beneath perches. Seedling radicle penetration into soil was strongly associated with soil compactation.
10.2307/2389559|Winter and spring varieties of cereals and seedlings of Scots pine were exposed to a low temperature regime of 4-5<sup></sup>C for the induction of frost hardiness. The effect of cold acclimation on the susceptibility of photosynthesis to photoinhibition was analysed using variable chlorophyll fluorescence. Winter rye responded with an increased resistance to photoinhibition upon cold hardening, whereas low temperature acclimated spring barley and Scots pine showed no increase in resistance to photoinhibition. In the case of winter rye, the leaves had to develop at low temperature in order to acquire increased resistance to photoinhibition. It is suggested that resistance to photoinhibition of photosynthesis under low temperature acclimation of cereals is important for the induction of frost hardiness. The importance of leaf orientation for the susceptibility of photosynthesis to photoinhibition at low temperatures was demonstrated; horizontal leaves were more photoinhibited than were vertical leaves (light coming from above). Most species and cultivars studied exhibited some photoinhibition during cold acclimation. Even weak light of a PPFD of 50  mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> under long day conditions and 5<sup></sup>C can induce photoinhibition of Scots pine. It is concluded that photoinhibition of photosynthesis under low temperature conditions no longer should be considered only as a high light response and that light probably is a much more significant stress factor under low temperature regimes than previously thought. The inability of the evergreen Scots pine to acquire an increased resistance to photoinhibition is discussed in relation to its natural habitat, where low temperatures and high light often occur together during winter. It is suggested that photo-inhibition of photosynthesis under conditions when overall photosynthesis is limited by temperature provides a means for controlled dissipation of excessive excitation as heat. In this view photoinhibition is a naturally occurring phenomenon of significant physiological and ecological importance for evergreen species in cold, temperate climates.
3806565| 1. Maternal effects often explain a significant amount of variation in offspring phenotype, and can be important in the evolution of life histories. Incubation of eggs is an important maternal effect, and optimal growth and development of avian embryos takes place within a narrow range of incubation temperatures, but the effect of incubation microclimate on neonate phenotype remains relatively unexplored in birds. 2. In this study of Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa Linnaeus) we examined effects of incubation temperature on the length of incubation period and neonate quality. We monitored nest temperatures and incubation periods of naturally incubated Wood Duck nests and found a strong inverse relationship between incubation period and average nest temperature. 3. Next, we collected three unincubated eggs from each of 48 nests, and randomly assigned eggs from each nest to one of three incubation temperatures (34.6, 36.0 and 37.4 C). Experimental incubation temperatures overlapped average nest temperatures of naturally incubated Wood Duck nests. 4. Hatching success varied with incubation temperature and was lowest for eggs incubated at the lowest temperature. Incubation period of experimental eggs decreased with increasing temperature but was not affected by fresh egg mass. 5. Wood Duck embryos catabolized an estimated 34-38% of egg lipids and 25-33% of egg protein during incubation. Percentage change of lipids increased with decreasing incubation temperature, but not significantly. Embryos incubated at lower temperatures used a greater percentage of protein than embryos incubated at higher temperatures. 6. In analyses using fresh egg mass as the covariate, we found that wet and dry mass of ducklings increased with increasing incubation temperature. Decreases in lipid content of Wood Duck neonates with decreasing incubation temperature were not significant, but eggs incubated at low temperatures produced ducklings that had reduced protein mass and that were structurally larger than ducklings from eggs incubated at high temperatures. 7. Our study illustrates the importance of incubation temperature on the development of Wood Duck embryos. Decisions made by incubating parents that influence egg temperature can modify incubation period and offspring phenotype. Investigations of incubation as a reproductive cost should consider how parental decisions influence both parents and offspring. 
10.2307/2389600|Interactions between waterborne metal toxicants and metal-binding ligands on the surface of fish are important in the processes of metal accumulation and toxicity. Metal toxicant-fish surface interactions in relation to the initial stages of metal toxicant accumulation were examined. Fish were exposed to short, laboratory-based episodes of Al or Zn in an artificial soft water, to simulate conditions which may occur in some freshwater environments. The gill tissue and body mucus were important sites of both Al and Zn absorption. Furthermore, Zn accumulation was exacerbated by starvation prior to episodic exposure, suggesting that both the dietary and waterborne routes should be considered in metal accumulation. Moreover, the higher rate of Zn accumulation by starved compared to fed fish can partly be explained by changes in body mucus during starvation. Mucus from fed and starved fish contained 2.0 and 0.5 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> Na<sup>+</sup> respectively, suggesting that some metal-binding ligands in mucus from starved fish remain uncomplexed and available to bind toxic metal ions. The solute chemistry of soft water may also influence waterborne metal-fish surface interactions, effecting the absorption of non-toxic essential ions like Na<sup>+</sup>. Acidification of soft water decreased Na<sup>+</sup> absorption onto the body surface by 85% indicating that metal toxicity is a process of toxic ion accumulation and a reduction in the availability of essential waterborne Na<sup>+</sup>.
20142792|1. Quantifying the effects of individual- and population-level processes on plant-community structure is of fundamental importance for understanding how biota contribute to the flux, storage and turnover of matter and energy in ecosystems. 2. Here we synthesize plant-allometry theory with empirical data to evaluate the roles of individual metabolism and competition in structuring populations of the creosote Larrea tridentata, a dominant shrub in deserts of southwestern North America. 3. At the individual level, creosote data support theoretical predictions with regard to the size dependence of total leaf mass, short-term growth rates of leaves and long-term growth rates of entire plants. Data also support the prediction that root-shoot biomass allocation is independent of plant size. 4. At the population level, size-abundance relationships within creosote stands deviate strongly from patterns observed for steady-state closed-canopy forests due to episodic recruitment events. This finding highlights that carbon storage and turnover in water-limited ecosystems can be inherently less predictable than in mesic environments due to pronounced environmental forcing on demographic variables. 5. Nevertheless, broad-scale comparative analyses across ecosystems indicate that the relationship of total abundance to average size for creosote populations adhere to the thinning rule observed and predicted by allometry theory. This finding indicates that primary production in water-limited ecosystems can be independent of standing biomass due to competition among plants for resources. 6. Our synthesis of theory with empirical data quantifies the primary roles of individual-level metabolism and competition in controlling the dynamics of matter and energy in water-limited ecosystems.
2656373|1. Agonistic behaviour can be an important trait in determining individual success under interference competition, but it also generates energetic and physiological costs. The ensuing trade-off is expected to be dependent on the individual state. This study tests whether aggression patterns of juvenile Atlantic Salmon Salmo salar are linked to the recent growth history and the developmental pathway adopted by fish (early vs late migrants). 2. By manipulating growth rates over 1 month in the autumn, three groups of fish were produced differing in body size and thereby in the length increment necessary to achieve the threshold size for migration in the following spring. Fish that had experienced reduced rations or abnormally low temperatures during the manipulation period experienced `catch-up' growth after the resumption of standard growth conditions. 3. Aggression was strongly connected to growth bimodality and the underlying developmental polyphenism. Fast-growing (upper modal group, UMG) fish (which would migrate in the spring) were more aggressive than slow-growing (lower modal group, LMG) fish (which would delay migration for another year), but they were also more vulnerable to being attacked by conspecifics. 4. Aggressive acts initiated by UMG fish were strongly biased towards fish of the same category (57-77% of aggressive acts being against other UMG fish). Under illumination conditions simulating overcast nights, UMG individuals sharply reduced their aggressiveness and were not selective in their attacks. The aggression by LMG fish was more evenly distributed between modal groups (44-74% of attacks were against UMG) regardless of light levels. 5. Recent growth history had no consistent effect on aggression rates, although under overcast night conditions the rate of attacks received by non-manipulated UMG fish was twice as high as that for fish undergoing compensatory growth. 6. These results demonstrate a link between developmental pathways and aggression patterns. They also show that individuals maintaining a fast growth strategy over the winter experience a more aggressive social environment than individuals adjusting feeding rates to ensure safe maintenance levels. The reduced involvement of LMG fish in agonistic encounters conforms to a strategy of avoidance of those energetic and physiological costs that ultimately could compromise overwintering survival.
4139360| 1. This study investigated relationships between leaf biomechanical properties and the densities of their associated insect herbivores. 2. The herbivorous insects associated with 18 co-occurring plant species were sampled over 16 months. Biomechanical properties of new and mature leaves of each plant species were measured using punching, shearing and tearing tests. 3. Significant variation in leaf biomechanical properties was found among plant species, and between new and mature leaves. 4. Total insect density was significantly negatively correlated with work to tear (r = -043, P < 005) and work to shear (r = -070, P < 001). 5. Although chewing insect density was significantly correlated with punch strength of mature leaves, sucking insect density was not. While studies of herbivory often include measures of leaf punch strength, this mechanical trait may indicate resistance to chewing insects but not sucking insects. 6. We conclude that leaf biomechanical properties are influencing the functional composition of herbivorous insect assemblages in this system. 
826728|1. Pendant flowers are common among hummingbird-pollinated plants. A downward orientation of the flower or inflorescence could represent an adaptation to avoid either flower flooding or direct pollen losses from anthers or stigmas under rainy conditions. 2. We studied the adaptive significance of this trait experimentally in Tristerix corymbosus Kuijt (Loranthaceae), a mistletoe native to the temperate forests of southern South America. We applied three treatments: (i) natural pendant inflorescences; (ii) inflorescences tethered to face up; and (iii) inflorescences tethered to face down (as a control for tethering). We also considered natural exposure to rain as a second factor. 3. The treatments did not differ significantly in either nectar volume or concentration. Flowers exposed to rain for most of their lives contained more diluted nectar than those that remained dry, but this result did not depend on either inflorescence or flower orientation. 4. We found significantly fewer pollen tubes in styles of flowers from inflorescences tethered to face up than in flowers receiving the other two treatments, but this could not be attributed to a direct effect of rain exposure. Inflorescence orientation did not affect either the number of pollen grains left in anthers or seed set. No strong evidence was found for differential visitation by hummingbirds in relation to a flower's angle. 5. The results of this work support neither the flower-flooding nor the pollen-protection hypothesis. However, a flower's orientation may affect the extent of within-flower self-pollination or the efficiency of pollen transfer from a hummingbird's bill onto a flower's stigma.
2390334|1. Males of the Fishfly Parachauliodes japonicus (McLachlan) produce sperm in bundles. Each bundle consists of hundreds of sperm with their heads agglutinated. At copulation, on average 500 bundles are packed in a single spermatophore which is attached externally to the female genitalia. The bundles swim forward by synchronous flagellate movements in viscous seminal fluids and finally enter a spermatheca of the female. Females detach the spermatophore without guarding by the male; males guard the spermatophore for 5 h. 2. In this study, the effects of sperm-bundle size and medium viscosity on their swimming velocities were examined. As sperm-bundle mass increased, the amount of time it took to move a unit length decreased. As viscosity increased, those sperm-bundles with greater mass moved faster than sperm-bundles with less mass. 3. The distance sperm move seems to be longer in P. japonicus than in most other insects that ejaculate directly or place the spermatophore internally in the female storage organs. Thus, large sperm-bundles may be an advantage for sperm of P. japonicus who move over a long distance in a viscous environment.
3599244|1. Animals should choose the feeding habitat that allows them to meet their energy requirements while minimizing predation risk, but as weather becomes more severe, animals may choose riskier, but more profitable, feeding habitats. 2. At the Tyninghame estuary, Scotland, Redshanks (Tringa totanus) chose to feed on either a mudflat or saltmarsh. Energy intake rates were 23% higher and thermoregulatory costs were 40% lower on the saltmarsh, but predation risk from sparrowhawks (Accipiter nisus) was 21 times higher. 3. The investigation tested whether the riskier habitat was chosen only when weather conditions were such that individuals were unable to meet their energy requirements in the safer habitat, and how any additional effects of weather affected this choice. 4. When starvation risk increased on the mudflat, more Redshanks selected the saltmarsh where energy budgets alone accounted for 22% of the variation in habitat choice. Temperature and wind may have had smaller additional, independent effects that were probably related to their effects on vigilance behaviour and predator detection. 5. The results show that weather may be crucial in determining habitat choice through its direct effects on starvation and predation risk, and the importance of considering a wide range of weather conditions when determining habitat requirements.
10.2307/2389919|1. Mechanisms causing costs of reproduction in birds are poorly understood. Here we focus on the renewing of feathers (=moult) which may be a possible physiological link between successive breeding attempts. 2. We performed clutch size manipulations to study whether the reproductive effort of the Pied Flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) has any effect on the initiation and progress of the moult in the late nesting period. 3. The absolute timing of breeding did not affect the onset of parents' moult, i.e. late-breeding individuals did not start moulting before nestlings were fledged more frequently than early ones. This indicates that moult was closely related to the breeding schedule of each individual bird. 4. The timing of moult was both sex and age related. Males and young birds were more likely to start moulting during the nestling period than females and older birds. 5. Both females with large original clutches and females with enlarged clutches delayed the onset of moult. This suggests a brood size-dependent regulation of moult. 6. We suggest that a trade-off between moult and current reproduction could be one possible mechanism causing costs of reproduction in birds.
10.2307/2389999|1. Undulating ground resembles cover in offering opportunities for vertebrate predators to remain hidden from prey and vice versa. Some species prefer to forage in the open so as to avoid being surprised by predators while others remain close to cover and use it as a refuge when attacked. 2. To determine if topography was important in influencing the sites chosen by sandgrouse for drinking, we measured a range of variables at water-holes used by black-bellied, pin-tailed and crowned sandgrouse (Pterocles orientalis, P. alchata and P. coronatus) in Spain and Israel. All species drank at sites reasonably close to their feeding and nesting areas. 3. In Spain, water-hole selection was quantified using stepwise logistic and linear regression analysis. The amount of dead ground surrounding each water-hole (i.e. ground not visible to drinking sandgrouse) was the most important factor influencing the birds' choice. 4. These regression relationships were used to predict the pattern of use of water-holes at two localities in Israel. The agreement between observed and expected levels of exploitation was good, confirming the strong aversive influence of dead ground. 5. Predatory birds were the biggest source of disturbance at drinking sites. By choosing sites with the least dead ground, sandgrouse probably reduced their risk of being surprised by predators while drinking.
826565|1. Previous experiments showed that Checkered Garter Snakes (Thamnophis marcianus) from south Texas, USA (an environment subject to high seasonal and annual variation in environmental conditions), demonstrated marked phenotypic plasticity in clutch size and clutch mass in response to experimental changes in prey availability. 2. In this study, the extent of phenotypic plasticity in life-history traits in Checkered Garter Snakes from south Texas was experimentally compared with a population of the same species from south-eastern Arizona, where the environment may be more constant. 3. Unlike results from south Texas, Checkered Garter Snakes from Arizona showed no significant phenotypic plasticity in clutch size, clutch mass or any other life-history trait in response to changes in food availability, at least within the boundaries of our experimental conditions. 4. The data indicate that the degree of phenotypic plasticity in life-history traits differs among populations within the same species. However, these differences are subject to both adaptive and non-adaptive explanations.
2390366|1. In addition to exhibiting preferences for particular plant species, vertebrate herbivores select particular individuals of these species whilst leaving others undamaged. This pattern of diet selection may reflect differences in the chemical composition (and hence nutritional quality) between individual plants, and/or variability in the physical constraints on intake rate, such as plant structure. 2. An experiment was conducted to test the effects of environmental manipulations on the morphology and chemical composition of Sitka Spruce saplings, and to evaluate the consequences for herbivory by Red Deer. Fertilizing the trees increased tree height, branch span and leader length, twig width and needle width, and decreased the concentrations of total phenolics, condensed tannins, fibre and lignin but monoterpene content was not altered. Shading also reduced phenolic and tannin concentrations. 3. When the fertilized and shaded trees were offered to deer in feeding trials, the probability of a tree being visited by a deer and the biomass removed were influenced by tree morphological variables, as were the bite rate and intake rate of the deer. More biomass was removed from larger trees. 4. Once the effects of tree morphology had been taken into account, there was no effect of the fertilizer and shade treatments on deer browsing behaviour that could be attributed to changes in chemical composition of the trees. The relationship between intake rate and bite size at each tree varied between individual deer, but the functional response relationship between intake rate and bite size was not influenced by the treatments applied to the trees. 5. Tree morphology may have a larger influence on deer feeding behaviour than tree chemical composition.
2390520|1. Feeding and defence against parasites are among the major simultaneous requirements for survival and successful reproduction of any animal, including colonies of social insects. Harsh environments may therefore not only negatively affect overall success, but force animals to allocate resources in different ways, for example, to reduce immune defence under adverse conditions while maintaining growth rate. 2. This study examines how colony growth, reproduction and immune defence of the bumble bee, Bombus terrestris, varies with environmental condition. In particular, the manner in which limited or unpredictable food availability affects the number and size of workers and sexuals produced, the timing of reproduction, and the level of encapsulation of a novel antigen was tested. A new experimental paradigm was applied by splitting colonies into two halves while ensuring integrity by regular swaps of the residing queen. 3. The results show that limited food availability, as expected, led to fewer and smaller workers and sexuals. Unpredictable food availability, in contrast, was associated with higher numbers of workers and heavier sexuals. Also, reproductive success was highest under unpredictable conditions, due to an increased rate of collection of resources. 4. The timing of reproduction did not vary among treatments. Contrary to expectation, also immunocompetence did not vary among treatments.
4139399|1. Large clutch size is unambiguously an ancestral state in reptiles. However, females of several lizard lineages lay just one or two eggs per clutch, called invariant clutch size. Selective forces leading to a dramatic drop in fecundity during a single reproductive bout are poorly understood. 2. We compared interspecific egg and clutch mass allometries in four lizard lineages with contrasting ways of reproduction. Lacertids and sceloporines have ancestral variable clutch size, while anoles and eublepharid geckos independently evolved invariant clutch size. To reconstruct the anoles' ancestral situation more precisely, we included data from a member of the closely related genus Polychrus, which is also arboreal but possesses variable clutch size. 3. We found the relative mass of the eublepharid double-egg clutch is comparable with the relative mass of the whole clutch in lizards with variable clutch size. Clutch mass in eublepharids and lizards with variable clutch size increases proportionally to female size. However, single-egg anole clutches show similar negative allometry as the sole egg of lizards with variable clutch size. 4. It appears that invariant clutch size evolved under (and is maintained by) selection on offspring enlargement in geckos, but selection on reducing female reproductive burden in anoles, i.e. the phenomenon of invariant clutch size apparently evolved in these individual groups for different reasons. 5. Besides understanding lizard life history, our study illustrates how singular events in life-history evolution can be reconstructed by comparing the ancestral and evolved reproductive allometries.
40603043|1. Measuring transpiration simultaneously in time and space can establish a better understanding of how to mechanistically scale spatiotemporal values. 2. This study tested the following predictions to falsify a tree hydraulic hypothesis of spatial variation in transpiration: (i) stands with larger trees will a have longer range and greater sill and nugget at a given vapour pressure deficit (D); (ii) the range, sill and nugget will decline faster with increasing D with larger trees; and (iii) soil moisture, texture and/or N levels will be correlated with transpiration. 3. We used cyclic sampling to efficiently collect spatial sap flux data from 144 trees in two forested stands in northern Wisconsin: an Aspen-dominated stand with small trees and a Maple-Pine-dominated stand with larger trees. 4. In the Maple stand, the range of spatial autocorrelation in half-hourly transpiration dropped from 80 to 20 m with increased D, whereas in the Aspen stand the range dropped from 55 to 35 m with a similar increase in D. 5. Differences in the range of spatial autocorrelation at a given D were driven by sapwood area, which is a function of tree size. 6. These results show that species and tree size as well as individual tree hydraulics drive spatial variability in transpiration with little additional variation explained by the measured edaphic conditions. 7. Scaling from individual tree transpiration to the landscape in time and space should incorporate atmospheric drivers in time and investigate other potential drivers of tree size in space such as light competition.
40205570|1. The phenotype of offspring depends on the abiotic and biotic environment in which the parents developed. However, the direct effects of competition experienced by parent plants on single-seed traits are poorly documented despite their impact on plant fitness. 2. We hypothesize that single-seed traits can differentially respond to the resource deficiencies of parent plants due to competition: seed quality may decrease as seed number does, magnifying the negative effects of competition for offspring ('passive response' hypothesis), or increase and then enhance offspring fitness to offset the reduction in offspring number ('adaptive response' hypothesis). Here we tested these hypotheses for four single-seed traits. We assessed the sensibility of their responses to changes in competition intensity due to species with different competitive effects and to contrasting soil nitrogen conditions. 3. In a common-garden experiment, four single-seed traits related to fitness - seed mass, seed nitrogen concentration (SNC), germinability and the timing of germination - were measured on a phytometer species transplanted in 14 different neighbours grown in monoculture with and without soil nitrogen limitation. 4. Under nitrogen-limiting conditions, the responses of SNC and of the timing of germination were passive and mainly related to the effects of neighbours on soil nitrogen availability, as shown by the increase in SNC with N-fixing neighbours. Within-individual seed mass variability decreased with increasing competition intensity, as an adaptive response to counterbalance the reduction in seed production. With nitrogen supplementation, competitors had no detectable effect on single-seed traits despite an overall increase in SNC and germination rate, confirming their nitrogen-dependent passive responses to competition. Germinability did not change among treatments. 5. The impact of competition on single-seed traits depends on both phytometer trait identity and resource modulation by neighbours. The passive response of seed chemical composition to competitors may magnify the competitive effects on offspring. By contrast, the adaptive response of seed size variability may offset these competitive effects. As a consequence, experiments looking at the fitness consequences of competition should not only consider the effects on fitness parameters of a target plant but also on the offspring.
3599232|1. The ingestion of fruits by vertebrate frugivores produces great variation on seed germination responses which depend on (1) the frugivorous species; (2) several factors intrinsic to the plant species; and (3) the conditions under which germination tests are conducted. Most studies on this topic have used only one or a few disperser species, and have been performed under controlled conditions. 2. The main goals of this study were to determine (1) the effect that birds (Turdus merula) and lizards (Podarcis pityusensis) have on seed emergence patterns of a group of common mediterranean plants; and (2) whether such patterns differ between field and common garden conditions. Over 2 years we compared seed emergence times with those of controls (pulp-removed seeds). 3. Emergence patterns were inconsistent for most plant species when comparing field vs. common-garden conditions. In some cases results were even contradictory: for instance lizards accelerated the emergence time of Rubus seeds in the field, but delayed it in the experimental garden; likewise Rubia seeds ingested by Blackbirds emerged more slowly than controls in the field, but faster than those in the garden. The two frugivorous species had also inconsistent effects on the same plant species. 4. Significant changes in seed weight after passage through the animals' digestive tracts were observed in most species. However, seed weight did not explain differences in seed emergence patterns between ingested and non-ingested seeds. 5. This study demonstrates the great heterogeneity in seed-emergence responses of the different plant species to ingestion by different types of frugivore, and to the different experimental conditions. Thus, caution is needed when making generalizations from studies that aim to evaluate the influence of frugivores on seed dispersal quality.
3599294| 1. Insects generally survive subzero temperatures by utilizing either freeze tolerance or freeze avoidance. Comparative analyses from a limited data set have indicated that freeze tolerance may be predominant among species at temperate latitudes in the southern hemisphere, while freeze avoidance dominates in the north. 2. We investigated the cold tolerance strategies of cockroaches and beetles from cold regions in southern Africa, including the Cederberg mountains, the Karoo desert and the Drakensberg mountains. 3. We found that 8 of 11 species are freeze tolerant. 4. Overall, 77% of species investigated in the southern hemisphere (n = 27) were freeze tolerant, which is significantly different from the 29% (n = 258) in the north (P < 0001). 5. There are regular, unpredictable subzero temperature events in the southern African habitats; such variability appears to be a general feature of many cold habitats in the southern hemisphere, which may lead to the observed interhemispheric discrepancies in cold-tolerance strategies. 
10.2307/2390019|1. We examined how Acer saccharum Marsh seedlings respond in terms of biomass and mycorrhizal colonization levels to the addition of (1) soil microarthropods and (2) decaying litter, under microcosm conditions. 2. The addition of fauna was associated with decreased arbuscular (-38%) and hyphal (-30%) colonization, and increased vesicular colonization (+112%), with no effect on plant biomass. 3. The addition of decaying litter was associated with decreased arbuscular colonization (-51%), increased hyphal (+24%) and vesicular (+117%) colonization, and extraradical hyphal length (+38%), and decreased shoot (-43%) and root (-23%) biomass. 4. However, there was a strong synergistic interaction between decaying litter and soil fauna and the addition of both was associated with enhanced arbuscular colonization (+59%), vesicular colonization (+85%) and increased shoot biomass (+32%), and shoot/root biomass ratio (+25%). 5. Understanding the dynamics involved in such interactions between soil organisms can have profound implications for soil management practices in agriculture, forestry and areas requiring revegetation.
4540104|1. In this study we address how growth rate in consumers may be regulated by nitrogen (N)- and phosphorus (P)- limitation of ribonucleic acid (RNA), using the rotifer Brachionus calyciflorus as the model organism. 2. Growth rate, RNA and weight-specific concentrations of carbon (C), N and P were analyzed in B. calyciflorus fed algae with different C : N, C : P and N : P ratios. 3. Growth rate correlated negatively with food C : N, but not with C: P or N :P, strongly suggesting N-limited growth. Growth rate also strongly correlated with tissue concentrations of RNA and P, in support of the growth rate hypothesis which states that specific P-content of organisms reflects their RNA-content and thus capacity for protein synthesis. 4. Food C :N rather than C : P regulated the growth, RNA and P in this consumer under the food conditions applied. This suggests that availability of N can also be an important regulator of cellular acquisition of P and build-up of ribosomes in that animals released from N-limitation have an increased demand for the P-rich cellular machinery for protein synthesis. 5. The data suggest a strong reciprocal regulation of consumer demands and their C : N : P stoichiometry via the intimate connections between ribosome allocation and protein synthesis and also lend support to the view that reduced protein synthesis efficiency under high growth rates may affect stoichiometry of the consumer.
20142756| 1. An assumed constant trophic fractionation of N/N between consumer and diet (usually 3.4 for diet-muscle tissue differences) allows inferences to be made about feeding interactions and trophic level in food web studies. However, considerable variability surrounds this constant, which may conceal subtle differences about the trophodynamics of consumers. 2. The feeding ecologies of herbivores and carnivores differ in terms of diet quality (in C: N terms) and food processing mechanisms, which may affect fractionation. 3. We present a new model that explores how consumer feeding rates, excretion rates and diet quality determine the N/N ratios in the consumer's tissues and hence influence the magnitude of trophic fractionation. 4. Three herbivorous reef fish Acanthurus sohal, Zebrasoma xanthurum and Pomacentrus arabicus were chosen as study organisms. Empirical estimates of diet-tissue stable isotope fractionation were made in the field, and model parameters were derived from feeding observations and literature data. 5. The trophic fractionation values of A. sohal, Z. xanthurum and P. arabicus were 4.69, 4.47 and 5.25, respectively, by empirical measurement, and 4.41, 4.30 and 5.68, respectively, by model, indicating that herbivores have a higher trophic fractionation than the currently accepted value of 3.4. 6. The model was most sensitive to the excretion rate, which may differ between herbivores and carnivorous animals. This model is the first to determine stable isotope signatures of a consumer's diet mixture without applying a constant fractionation value. 
10.2307/2389790|Relationships between whole-body protein turnover and energy metabolism are defined from studies of 15 individual Mytilus edulis L. Differences in protein metabolism are shown to affect growth rate, temperature sensitivity of metabolic rate, rate of thermal acclimation and ability to survive high temperatures. Faster growth in individuals fully acclimated at 10<sup></sup>C derived primarily from reduced metabolic requirements associated with lower intensities of protein turnover. Protein turnover may also have amplified metabolic responses upon transfer of mussels from 10 to 20<sup></sup>C, for accompanying increments of both protein synthesis and oxygen uptake were proportionally higher among slower-growing individuals. These same individuals subsequently implemented the greatest daily savings in energy expenditure, so that complete thermal acclimation had been effected within 14 days. Slow-growing mussels with the fastest intensities of protein turnover at 10<sup></sup>C were also the first to die following a further increase from 20 to 28.5<sup></sup>C. This reflected their greater temperature sensitivity; elevated metabolic demands apparently exceeding a critical threshold. We suggest that these differences are genotype-dependent but emphasize that relative fitness advantages of differential protein turnover may vary according to specific circumstances.
4540069|1. Central to theories of the evolution of conspicuous secondary sexual traits is that sexual traits honestly reflect at least one aspect of an individual's quality. In general, the reliability of sexual traits can be explained in two ways. Either sexual traits are reliable indicators of individual quality because they are costly and the costs in terms of survival are higher for an individual of low quality as compared to an individual of high quality (i.e. handicap principle) or sexual traits are reliable because of physical constraints and thus cost-free (reliability by design). 2. The distinction between indices and handicaps thus centres on whether the sexual signal under consideration entails costs in terms of survival for its bearer. Although measuring survival directly is still the most accurate way to determine whether this is indeed the case, it is often practically impossible. We propose to introduce performance measurements because one may detect potential costs at the whole-organismal level by quantifying performance traits relevant in terms of survival and reproductive success. 3. We present some examples of sexual signals that can be classified as indices or handicaps by using our performance-based approach. We also discuss some well-cited examples which could fit the model of a handicap and propose that measurements of performance could be a feasible test of this idea.
41239304|1. Physiological responses to environmental stress such as adrenocortical hormones and cellular stress proteins have recently emerged as potentially powerful tools for investigating physiological effects of avian food limitation. However, little is known about the physiological stress responses of free-living nestling birds to environmental variation in food availability. 2. We experimentally tested how hydrologically mediated changes in food availability affect the physiological stress responses of juvenile white ibises Eudocimus albus in a fluctuating wetland. We provided supplementary food to free-living nestlings during 2 years with contrasting hydrologic and food availability conditions, and used plasma (PCORT) and faecal (FCORT) corticosterone and heat shock proteins (HSP60 and HSP70) from first-hatched (A-nestlings) and second-hatched (B-nestlings) to detect relatively short-to long-term responses to food limitation. 3. Nestling physiological stress responses were relatively low in all treatments during the year with optimal food availability, but PCORT, FCORT and HSP60 levels increased during the poor food year. FCORT and HSP60 responses were clearly due to nutritional condition as elevated concentrations were evident primarily in control nestlings. Significant year by hatch order interactions for both FCORT and HSP60 revealed that these increases were largely incurred by B-nestlings. FCORT and HSP60 responses were also well developed early in neonatal development and remained elevated for the duration of the experiment suggesting a chronic stress response. PCORT and HSP70 were less informative stress responses. 4. The nutritionally mediated increases in FCORT and HSP60 provide compelling evidence that white ibis nestlings can be physiologically affected by environmental food levels. FCORT and HSP60 are effective indicators of nutritional mediated stress for nestling white ibises and potentially for other species prone to capture or handling stress.
10.2307/2390205|1. Detailed understanding of the factors that influence digestion is required for studies of ecological energetics and individual-based population modelling. With feeding trials, we quantified the effects of temperature, population of origin, lizard mass and consumption rate on apparent digestibility coefficient (ADC), urate production, metabolizable energy coefficient (MEC), and passage time in canyon lizards (Sceloporus merriami) from two populations. 2. ADC was insensitive to temperature, averaged 0.90 and was significantly affected by consumption rate only. 3. As expected, urate production was significantly affected by consumption rate, lizard mass and temperature. 4. MEC was significantly affected by consumption rate, temperature and population of origin. 5. Total passage time of marked food items was lowest at 34<sup></sup>C and significantly increased with increase or decrease in temperature. 6. We present linear regression models describing ADC, urate production and MEC in lizards from these populations. 7. Highest rates of energy extraction were achieved at 34<sup></sup>C which is the average field active body temperature of these lizards. 8. We suggest that the ecological relevance of studies concerned with environmental effects on energy extraction rate could be enhanced by integrated study of the complete digestive process and by shifting focus from ADC to MEC.
10.2307/2389344|To determine the effects of wind and wetting on rodent furs we used both empirical measurements and a mechanistic model of heat transfer within fur layers to determine the insulation of the furs of juvenile and adult rodents in free-convective conditions and the resistance of those furs to the effects of wind and wetting. Adult woodrat fur is more resistant to the effects of wind and wetting than is juvenile woodrat fur. In simulations of heat transfer in the fur, changing juvenile fur density and hair thickness to more closely resemble those of adults decreases insulation in dry, still air. These results indicate that: 1 Structural properties of fur are related to the performance of the fur as an insulator under different environmental conditions. 2 Increased insulation of fur in still, dry air may reduce the ability of the fur to resist the effects of wind and wetting. 3 Juvenile fur of woodrats appears to be specialized to provide insulation in the protected nest environment. Adult cotton rat fur is more resistant to the effects of wetting than is the fur of juvenile cotton rats; however, resistance to the effects of wind does not differ among cotton rat age classes. Our results indicate that juvenile fur structure is not merely a developmental stage during a transition to adult characteristics, but is specialized for the nest environment.
3599009|1. Plant facilitation usually changes to competition as plants age. In dioecious plants, females should be affected more negatively than males by stressful conditions because of the greater costs of female reproduction. 2. We investigated the gender effects on the post-facilitation performance of adult plants of two dioecious Juniperus species from the high mountains of eastern Spain: J. sabina L. acts as a nurse plant for J. communis L. We compared physiological (water potential, carbon isotope discrimination and nitrogen concentration), vegetative (shoot growth) and reproductive (number of male flowers, and number of fruits and seeds) characters of associated and non-associated plants of both species, to test the hypothesis that this association represents a more stressful condition for females than for males because of the greater costs of female reproduction. 3. Despite their close phylogenetic relatedness, both species showed a distinct performance pattern after the facilitation phase. Association with the nurse plant reduced the growth and reproductive capacity of both genders in J. communis, the facilitated species. In contrast, the association with J. communis did not affect the fitness of the nurse plant, J. sabina, although in accordance with our hypothesis a gender effect was found on several physiological parameters. Thus J. sabina-associated females had a more negative water potential and carbon isotope discrimination than the associated males, but there were no differences between genders when growing in isolation. 4. The consequences of the post-facilitation interaction between the two long-lived woody Juniperus species are asymmetrical: harmful for the facilitated species, but harmless for the nurse. 5. Gender had also asymmetrical consequences on some functional traits of the nurse -- but not the facilitated -- species.
40603050|1. Several alternative explanations have been proposed to account for the evolution of nestling obesity in a variety of avian groups. These predict quite different patterns of fat storage, utilization and food solicitation by chicks of different ages, yet surprisingly few studies have measured changes in begging behaviour or use of fat stores during chick development. 2. We tested the applicability of these hypotheses for Manx shearwaters Puffinus puffinus, by direct measurement of changes in plasma lipid metabolites (non-esterified fatty acids and -hydroxybutyrate) and begging behaviour throughout the chick's development until fledging. 3. Chicks metabolized fat reserves during periods of parental absence throughout their development but there was no evidence that even the poorest fed chicks were close to exhausting these reserves during the period of mass growth. Chicks begged more vigorously during the period of mass loss at the end of the nestling period than at any previous stage of their development, and mobilization of fat stores was also at a maximum during this period in well-fed chicks, coinciding with a decrease in food provisioning by parents. Increases in lipid metabolite levels occurred at an earlier age in poorly-fed chicks than in well-fed chicks and were followed by a marked decline only in poorly-fed chicks, indicating that they were exhausting their fat stores. 4. These findings are incompatible with several of the proposed explanations for nestling obesity and mainly support the hypothesis that fat stores fuel chicks through a period of several weeks of reduced food provisioning prior to fledging, when parents are unable or unwilling to maintain earlier levels of food provisioning, despite increased solicitation from chicks.
3806570|1. Growth rate is of considerable importance to the life histories of indeterminately growing organisms. Its determination of size at age can generate positive associations with several traits, although the rate at which size increases with time has been negatively linked with survival. Such a trade-off may not, however, be evident at growth rates considerably less than species-specific maxima, nor need links between growth and life history be similar for both sexes. 2. Based on a 5-year, mark-recapture study of an unexploited population of Brook Trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) near the edge of the species' range, I tested the null hypotheses that seasonal growth does not differ between sexes and that survival is independent of growth rate. Both hypotheses were rejected. 3. Faster growth by males during summer, and by females during winter, can be explained by seasonal differences, by sex, in the proportional allocation of energy to gonads and soma. 4. Survival increased with growth rate per se, independently of the latter's effects on size at age; survival among males appears more dependent on growth than that of females. 5. The results indicate that there can be fitness costs associated with slow growth, that these costs can differ between sexes, and that they may be exacerbated during periods of energetic stress. Trade-offs between growth and survival may depend on the behavioural and developmental contexts in which they are examined, need not be ubiquitous and may vary throughout a species' geographical range.
3806595| 1. In reptiles, growth is subject to proximate environmental influences, such as food availability and temperature, that may be crucial during the early stages of postnatal development. Mediterranean regions, with their severe summer drought, offer an excellent opportunity to examine the effects of environmental variations in precipitation and productivity on the timing of reproduction and growth rates of lizards. 2. In this study, we compared the incubation time, size at hatching, growth rates and changes in juvenile body condition of two nearby populations of the lizard Psammodromus algirus separated by 600-700 m altitude in central Spain. We combined a reciprocal incubation experiment at 27 and 30 C with a reciprocal transplant experiment to distinguish between environmental and population-specific sources of geographical variation. 3. At both temperatures, eggs from the high-elevation site hatched sooner. Several important phenotypic traits of juveniles were primarily determined by the growing environment: the high-elevation site provided more food and allowed hatchlings to grow faster and reach larger size. 4. Environmental effects overrode familial ones, as shown by the larger growth rate of half-sibs released at the high-elevation site. However, both the size and the growth rate of juveniles were also influenced by their mother's site of origin, which means that population differences may reflect a genetic differentiation and/or different maternal effects. 5. Low precipitation and associated food scarcity were seemingly the main factors constraining the growth rates of juveniles at the lowland site. 
10.2307/2389678|The intertidal copepod Tigriopus californicus (Baker) adjusts its intracellular free amino acid (FAA) content to regulate cell volume following osmotic stress. The near absence of either proline or alanine in the medium and increase in oxygen consumption suggests that these free amino acids are oxidized during hypoosmotic stress. The theoretical costs associated with the production of typical levels of proline and alanine following hyperosmotic stress (50 to 100% seawater) were estimated to be 11.6% of daily energy use. However, a decline in oxygen consumption rate following hyperosmotic stress was recorded, and thus supports the view that proline synthesis can interfere with Krebs cycle turnover. The rate of alanine accumulation under anoxic conditions was nearly the same as that following hyperosmotic stress but no accumulation of proline was observed. When hyperosmotically stressed under anoxic conditions, nearly 50% more alanine was accumulated by T. californicus than when only experiencing anoxia. In contrast, T. californicus under anoxic conditions accumulated only 13% of the proline normally produced following hyperosmotic stress. Copepods having high lipid levels showed a greater reliance on proline than alanine (5:1) following hyperosmotic stress compared with copepods with little or no lipid reserves (1:1). This shift in FAA accumulation from proline to alanine under restricted energy supply (i.e. anoxia and low-lipid level) would be energetically advantageous since alanine is much less costly to synthesize. The proportion of proline and alanine produced during hyperosmotic stress may be regulated at the pyruvate branch point.
10.2307/2389893|1. An understanding of seed persistence in the soil is important to vegetation management and weed control, but experimental collection of seed bank data is tedious and expensive. We report a rapid, simple method for predicting seed persistence in the soil. The method is tested on a range of British, mostly herbaceous, species. 2. Diaspore (seed or fruit) weight is plotted against variance of the three linear dimensions of the diaspore. All diaspores within an area of the graph defined by a maximum weight and variance are persistent in the soil. The critical weight is the same for fruits and seeds, but the critical variance of diaspore dimensions appears slightly higher for fruits. The great majority of diaspores outside this region are short lived, and the relatively few ambiguous cases can be resolved by reference to habitat. 3. The generality of the suspected underlying mechanism suggests that the method can also be applied to floras outside north-west Europe.
4540060|1. Interspecific diversity in the morphology of animal sperm suggests adaptive evolutionary changes in size and structure. Little attention has been directed at patterns of intraspecific phenotypic variation in sperm morphology, although such variation is a prerequisite for the extreme diversity seen among male gametes. Despite well-developed sperm competition theory providing a basis for exploring how variation in sperm morphology may affect male fitness, the patterns of variation in sperm morphology remain unclear for most species. 2. We report systematic size variation in sperm length among different males and between successive ejaculates within the same male in the cockroach Nauphoeta cinerea. Both flagellum length and mid-piece length decreased between the first and second ejaculate. However, within the same ejaculate the sperm head (acrosome and nucleus), midpiece (centriole adjunct region) and tail length exhibited less variation than that present between males for both first and second ejaculates. 3. Our findings, combined with previous studies, suggest a focus on episodes of selection and lifetime selection on ejaculates may be instructive in understanding the selective forces influencing sperm evolution in a predictive framework.
10.2307/2389566|Energy flow through ant colonies is an important component of total energy flux in many ecosystems. However, actual estimation of energy flow through ant colonies is complicated by the effects of temperature, body mass, feeding state and group size on the metabolic rate (
3599332| 1. Studies of ecosystem engineering may use burrow volume and soil displacement rate to quantify the impact of burrowing vertebrates. Calculations of burrow volume from morphometric measurements have previously treated burrows as rectangular or elliptical prisms. 2. Here we use burrows of the Wedge-Tailed Shearwater (Puffinus pacificus Gmelin, 1789) to demonstrate a new method for collecting morphometric data, and for mathematically modelling burrow shape used to calculate burrow volume. 3. Our method improves on previous estimates by better estimating the cross-sectional burrow shape, and by accounting for some of the variation in burrow width and height. 4. Wedge-Tailed Shearwater burrows were parabolic in cross-section, averaged 199  004SE m in length and had a mean volume of
2656341|1. Specific leaf area (SLA), carbon isotope ratio (<sup>13</sup>C) and leaf nitrogen content (N) were measured in litter in 1993 and in the litter layer and canopy in 1996 in a pedunculate Oak (Quercus robur) wood at Wytham, Oxford. 2. The frequency distribution of SLA of leaves falling through the late summer and autumn of 1993 changed with a greater contribution of leaves of high SLA earlier in the period. For the same SLA leaves falling earlier in the season had less negative <sup>13</sup>C and higher N content than leaves falling later. 3. The frequency distribution of SLA of litter leaves was similar in both years but litter leaves had lower N and less negative <sup>13</sup>C in 1996. 4. In the canopy, there was a highly significant negative relationship between height in the canopy and SLA in green and senescent leaves. The relationship between SLA and both <sup>13</sup>C ratio and leaf N was different between green, senescent and litter leaves. 5. The frequency distribution of foliage in the canopy estimated from the frequency of SLA in the litter and the vertical pattern of SLA in the canopy was similar to the distribution measured by the `drop-line' method.
3599000|1. Each of the multiple environmental cycles -- the light-dark, tidal, semilunar, lunar and seasonal cycles -- may have an independent, specific effect on reproductive timings of marine organisms and can alone or in combination produce a variety of temporal reproductive patterns. Assuming that each ecological interaction with these fluctuating environmental cycles generates a unique functional relationship between a component of fitness and the timing of reproduction, a model is proposed that predicts that all fitness components are multiplicative and therefore the reproductive timing is entrained or driven by a cycle(s) having a sharp functional curve of the relevant fitness component. 2. According to this model, many of the reproductive patterns, ranging from diel to lunar, commonly seen in marine organisms were explained by changing relative kurtosis among functional curves of fitness components. Each curve could also differ in its optimum and skewness, making various intermediates and modifications possible. 3. As a model system for the model to be applied, intraspecific variation in the timing of spawning by a puffer, Takifugu niphobles (Jordan & Snyder) was examined. The patterns of daily variation in a day's spawning time within a population and geographical variation in spawning days among populations indicated that (1) the semilunar cycle (i.e. spring-neap tide cycle) has no direct influence on spawning days, (2) a combination between the functional curves of the fitness components associated with the light-dark and tidal cycles produce an apparent biweekly, semilunar spawning rhythm, (3) the curves may be skewed toward earlier and later times, respectively, and (4) their form may differ among populations. 4. This model approach argues that to understand the ecology and evolution of temporal patterns of reproduction, one must properly decouple and evaluate the form of the functional curve of a fitness component associated with each of the multiple environmental cycles.
2656317|1. This study examined the nitrogen balance of free-living flightless moulting Greylag Geese, Anser anser, in relation to food quality, nitrogen absorption, food retention time and nitrogen excretion rates. 2. Food intake rates during moult were the same as those before and after the flightless period, but total daily time spent foraging fell by 58% from 9.45 h to 3.96 h. Dropping production during moult was 43%, and mean dropping mass 42% of that before and after moult, suggesting a considerable increase in food passage time through the gut during moult. Nitrogen absorption increased from 25% prior to moult to 47% during moult. 3. At the same time, excreted dry mass uric acid in faecal material fell by 68%, such that the proportion of nitrogen absorbed and retained in the body as a proportion of the nitrogen ingested in food rose from 16% prior to moult to 42% during moult. 4. Based on these significant increases in nitrogen absorption and decreases in nitrogen excretion, geese were able to compensate for reduced food intake and derive sufficient nitrogen from their diet to re-grow flight feathers.
40863568|1. Under natural selection for sexual success, the reproductive organs of plants should evolve to become highly effective pollen receptors. Among wind-pollinated plants, larger reproductive structures appear counter-adapted to accumulate pollen by impaction on their windward surfaces, because airborne particles are less able to penetrate the thicker boundary layer of larger targets. Therefore, it has been proposed that wind-pollinated plants with pollen receptors on relatively large structures, like some grasses (family Poaceae), are architecturally adapted to create downstream vortices in which airborne pollen recirculates before accumulating on leeward surfaces. From this basis, the striking diversity among the grasses in the architecture of their flowering stems has been attributed in part to the existence of these contrasting mechanisms for effecting pollen receipt, namely impact collection and recirculatory collection. 2. We investigated the relative importance of impact and recirculatory collection in grasses by analysing a model system in silico using Computational Fluid Dynamics and by conducting in vivo experiments, both in a wind tunnel and outdoors, using two grass species with compact inflorescences, Alopecurus pratensis and Anthoxanthum odor atum. 3. Irrespective of the experimental approach, we found that although pollen recirculated in the leeward eddies of inflorescences, over 95% of the accumulated pollen was collected by windward surfaces. 4. In pratensis, the collection efficiency (proportion of oncoming pollen collected) was between 5% and 20%, depending on wind speed in the range 0-5-1-9 m s and these levels conform to those predicted by a mechanistic model of impact collection. 5. Our results demonstrate that grass species with larger inflorescences are, like those with smaller inflorescences, primarily impact collectors of airborne pollen, which suggests that dissimilar reproductive morphology among species cannot be attributed to differentiation in the mode of pollen capture and, instead, requires reference to other factors, such as the need to produce, protect and disperse seeds of different sizes in different environments.
2390407|1. Many lizards will lose their tail through autotomy as an antipredator device even though there must be significant costs during tail regeneration. 2. Parasites are energetically costly to the host, and may reduce the rate of cell regeneration. The relation between the presence of haemogregarines (phylum Sporozoa) and the rate of tail regeneration in the Common Lizard Lacerta vivipara (Jacquin) was examined. 3. Experimentally induced autotomy in parasitized lizards resulted in a significantly reduced rate of tail regeneration compared with non-parasitized lizards. On the other hand, tail loss was not associated with an abnormal increase of parasite load, suggesting that the physiological stress (induced by tail loss) did not cause a decrease in parasite defence.
3599253| 1. Offspring from older parents often have shorter adult lifespans than offspring of younger mothers. We examine the effects of offspring genotype, maternal age and paternal age on offspring survival, development and adult lifespan in the seed beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus. 2. Females took about a quarter of a day longer to develop from an egg to an adult and lived 7 days longer than males. Mortality patterns were best described by a logistic mortality model, and all three model parameters differed significantly between the sexes; females had a higher baseline mortality rate than males but the mortality rate increased more slowly in females than in males. Females also showed a delay, relative to males, in the age at which mortality became age-dependent. 3. The proportion of eggs that hatched and larval survivorship both declined with increasing maternal age, while egg-to-adult development time increased substantially. Contrary to the pattern observed in many other organisms, offspring of older mothers lived longer than offspring of younger mothers, even after controlling for heterogeneity among families. There was no evidence that paternal age affected any offspring traits. 4. The effect of maternal age on offspring lifespan was greater for male offspring than for female offspring (consistent with the general observation that the genetic and environmental factors affecting lifespan differ between the two sexes) and varied among sire families (indicating that offspring genotype mediated the non-genetic effect of maternal age on lifespan). 
3599223|1. We hypothesized that food availability, and therefore body condition, of a rodent host, Meriones crassus, affects egg production and survival, and development time of preimago and adults of the first generation of the flea Xenopsylla ramesis. 2. Egg production was significantly higher in fleas parasitizing underfed than control animals. 3. Food availability for hosts affected survival of eggs and larvae produced by fleas on these rodents, but did not affect survival of pupae. More than twice the number of eggs from fleas on food-limited hosts survived than those from fleas on control rodents. Highest larval survival was recorded in fleas on rodents with 30% of maintenance energy intake. 4. Survival of new generation imagos was lowest in fleas from parents on hosts with the highest food limitation. By contrast, survival of parent fleas was highest on hosts offered 30% of maintenance energy intake. 5. Time of egg and larval development was longest on hosts consuming 30% of energy requirements for maintenance. By contrast, there was no difference in time to emergence in pupae from flea females on rodents from different treatments. Survival time under starvation of imago of the first generation was shortest in offspring of fleas that parasitized M. crassus offered the minimal amount of food. The opposite was true for parent fleas. 6. The results suggest nutritional and/or energetic cost of host resistance, measured as host-mediated parasite fitness loss, as well as possible adaptive stress-induced immunosuppression.
10.2307/2389618|1 Deschampsia flexuosa (L.) Trin., Festuca ovina L. and Nardus stricta L. were grown alone and in root association in all three possible pairs, at two levels of nitrogen application. 2 Root interference was found with all three combinations of species, attributable to competition for nutrients. Nardus was the least competitive species, and Festuca was the most competitive species, even though Nardus and Festuca showed comparable production in monocultures. 3 A mutualistic interaction occurred between Deschampsia and Festuca, when grown together, in which Festuca took up more nutrients and Deschampsia less; this led to an increased growth of each. 4 In species pairs where straightforward competition occurred, the species showed considerable differences in competitive ability, contrary to the theory of equivalence of competitors. Since they coexist naturally, this implies the presence of a powerful force for coexistence.
10.2307/2389555|Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is widely assumed to be an index of energy expenditure of free-living animals. However, few attempts have been made to check if the assumption is valid. In this study field metabolic rates (FMR) of 58 species of birds and mammals have been compared with their BMRs. FMR tends to increase with increasing body mass slower than BMR, but the difference was significant only in marsupials. A correlation between mass-independent FMR and BMR (residuals from regressions) is very high in eutherians (mainly rodents), but it is weak in birds and approaches zero in marsupials. The assumption of a proportionality between BMR and energy expenditure of animals does not have a sound experimental support.
10.2307/2389441|As adults many male Lepidoptera are known to supplement their nectar diet by feeding at puddle margins or on damp soil, sometimes in the vicinity of carrion or faeces. Although sodium ions prolong this behaviour, and may directly enhance reproductive success, it is unclear whether sodium ions alone are being sought or whether other nutrients such as amino acids are also important. Newly emerged laboratory-reared males of the tiger swallowtail butterfly. Papilio glaucus L. (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae), were allocated to four adult diets: dilute honey-water (20% by weight); honey solution supplemented with electrolytes (lepidopteran Ringer's); honey solution supplemented with amino acids (0.5% casein hydrolysate); or honey solution supplemented with electrolytes and amino acids. We attempted to hand-pair males after 2 days of feeding and then at 2-day intervals to a maximum of four pairings. Males of both electrolyte treatments were more likely to couple than honey-water controls. Males receiving electrolytes plus amino acids produced seven times more hatching larvae than control males. This was chiefly attributable to improved number and success of matings subsequent to the first mating. Spermatophore size was correlated with male pupal mass for the first adult mating; diet affected the size of second and later spermatophores. Male diet had little effect on the longevity of males or their mates.
10.2307/2390186|1. CO<sub>2</sub>-enrichment experiments have been performed on 15 British herbaceous species of widely differing ecology. The conditions of growth were very similar to those used in a previous study and involved full-light glasshouse conditions, non-limiting supplies of water and mineral nutrients and a daytime mean temperature of 18<sup></sup>C. Four CO<sub>2</sub> treatments were maintained (350, 500, 650 or 800 vpm) over periods of 49 or 52 days. 2. Hyperbolic functions were fitted to yield vs CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. The functions were used to generate predictions of Q<sub>540/350</sub> (the quotient of the `present' yield which is predicted for the CO<sub>2</sub> regime expected by the year 2050) and Q<sub>700/350</sub> (the quotient predicted for a doubling of the present ambient CO<sub>2</sub> concentration). Values of Q<sub>540/350</sub> for whole-plant dry weight ranged from below 1.00 to 1.19. The mean value of whole-plant Q<sub>700/350</sub> for eight species of `competitive' functional type was 1.13. Six species of `stress-tolerant' or `ruderal' type had a mean Q<sub>700/350</sub> of only 1.07. 3. The new data support and amplify an earlier conclusion that high CO<sub>2</sub> responsiveness is normal only within the competitive functional type (or `strategy') and its close relations. A simplified and more broadly based general prediction now gives a fitted percentage increase after approximately 7 weeks' growth of 27% for species of broadly competitive strategy. In the centre of the range of functional types the fitted values now range from 13 to 20%, and at the far extremes, the value for species of either the ruderal or the stress-tolerant type is now 6%. The gradient of this response is statistically significant, but less steep than that previously reported.
10.2307/2389998|1. To assess the role of various ecological factors on the evolution of body size and clutch size, a comparative analysis of life-history traits in amphipods was performed across families using phylogenetically independent contrasts. The analysis was based on data from 993 species. 2. There is no difference between the body size of marine amphipod taxa and that of freshwater or terrestrial taxa. 3. Amphipod lineages that are parasitic or obligate associates of other animals display consistently smaller body sizes than their closest free-living relatives. 4. Both latitude and depth correlated positively with amphipod body size. There is no significant tendency for high latitude or deep water amphipod taxa to produce fewer eggs for a given body size than their tropical or shallow-water relatives. 5. The results of the comparative analysis suggest that evolutionary changes in habitat or mode of life had significant effects on amphipod life-history traits.
4540067|1. Contests may involve injurious fighting, other types of direct physical aggression and communication. They occur over ownership access to mates and other resources that may increase an individual's attractiveness and its chance of survival. Traits that enhance resource holding potential may be the result of sexual selection, natural selection or a combina of both. 2. Agonistic behaviours are expected to be demanding to perform and costly in terms of changes in physiological state. The ability to meet the physiological costs may determine contest outcomes and constrain the intensity of agonistic activities. 3. The energetic costs have been investigated in a broad range of taxa using a variety of techniques. They include the mobilization of energy reserves, but a key cost in several taxa appears to be limited anaerobic capacity and subsequent accumulation of lactic acid. Androgens, stress hormones and neurohormones have also been shown to constrain fighting behaviour. However, due to key differences in the endocrine systems of vertebrates and invertebrates, the effects of hormones are far less consistent across taxa than in the case of metabolites. 4. Physiological constraints on fighting may vary according to their importance relative to circumstantial costs, the time-scale over which they exert their effects, their effects on different roles and their causal links with behaviour. Incorporating these factors into theoretical studies of contest behaviour may give further insights of how the costs of fighting influence agonistic behaviour.
40863590|1. The area or size of an ecosystem affects the acquisition, storage and redistribution of energy and matter. Patch size reduction due to natural or anthropogenic habitat loss will not only modify species distribution and patch structure but also affect the ecosystem processes that are, in part, responsible for patch persistence. 2. In a fog-dependent forest ecosystem, trees and their architectures play essential roles in capturing and redistributing water from collection surfaces. In this paper, we address the question of how forest patch size and structure interact to determine fog water inputs and storage in a fog-inundated, coastal ecosystem in semi-arid Chile (30 S). 3. Six forest patches ranging in area from 02 to 36 ha on a coastal mountaintop of Fray Jorge National Park were characterized using 01 ha plots laid down at the centre of each forest patch. In each patch, we assessed tree basal area as a measure of forest structure, recorded daily air temperature and humidity, measured water influx from stemflow and throughfall (water that has passed through the forest canopy). Soil and litter gravimetric water contents were used as a measure of storage. 4. Total tree basal area per hectare was positively related to patch area, despite some variation at the species level. Mean and maximum air temperatures inside the patches were inversely related to patch size, with maximum temperatures differing by 2 C on average. Annual fog water capture by trees within forest patches (net throughfall) was estimated in 296-1 mm after rain flux (about 122 mm) was subtracted. Throughfall volume and patch area were uncorrelated, but stemflow volume, soil and litter water contents scaled positively with patch area, showing a functional link between water interception and ecosystem retention. 5. Our study shows that ecosystem area in this mosaic of fog-dependent temperate forest patches can modify water fluxes and storage capacity of the ecosystem. This finding has important consequences for fragmented landscapes, where large continuous forests are fragmented into smaller patches, affecting not only the persistence of species but also the continuity of critical ecosystem processes.
10.2307/2390287|1. The Fall Webworm, Hyphantria cunea, introduced into Japan from North America in 1945, was bivoltine until the early 1970s throughout its distribution area, but there-after shifted to be trivoltine in south-western areas of Japan. 2. To clarify changes of life-history traits in relation to the shift in voltinism and to delineate the boundary between bi- and trivoltinism, the developmental rate and photoperiodic response controlling the induction of pupal diapause were investigated in 13 geographic populations. 3. Geographic variation in the critical photoperiod for diapause induction was not a simple cline, but shifted step-wise. The critical photoperiod was longer in populations north of 36 <sup></sup>N than in populations south of 36 <sup></sup>N, and the interpopulation variance for the critical photoperiod was small in each area. 4. The duration of the larval stage was significantly shorter in the southern populations than in the northern ones, but there was no conspicuous break point in its cline. 5. Geographic variation in pupal development followed a similar pattern to that observed for larval development, although the variation was comparatively small. 6. Thus, both critical photoperiod and developmental rate decreased when the shift in voltinism from bivoltine to trivoltine occurred as this insect expanded its range. The transitional zone between bi- and trivoltinism was around 36 <sup></sup>N.
40205481|1. Determining factors affecting pollinator visitation is the key to understanding the reproductive success of animal-pollinated plants. The inclination of the ground where plants grow, which has been little studied, could be one such factor. There may be differences in foraging performance when visiting flowers on horizontal planes compared with flowers on inclines planes. And if this is the case, pollinators may have a preference for horizontal or inclined planes. To test these possibilities, a series of laboratory experiments with bumble bees and arrays of artificial flowers were conducted. 2. In the first experiment, bees were presented with a pair of floral arrays, one on a horizontal plane and one sloping. The bees preferred visiting flowers on the horizontal array. 3. In the second experiment, bees were allowed to forage on a flower array tilted at various angles ranging from 0 (horizontal) to 90 (vertical). It was found that their foraging performance decreased with increasing angles, showing a 9.1% reduction from 0 to 90 arrays. This reduction was caused by an increased travel time between flowers, when moving upslope or downslope. 4. These results suggest that plants growing on steep slopes may be less preferred by pollinators. Future studies are needed to clarify how slopes affect pollinator behaviour in field conditions and the ecological influences on plant reproduction.
40407772|1. Adopting alternative reproductive tactics may require divergent solutions to reproductive competition among individuals of a population. Often investment in reproduction differs substantially between individuals pursuing bourgeois and parasitic tactics, which may result in different trade-offs and limitations. 2. Here we identify divergent behavioural, morphological and physiological traits of bourgeois and parasitic male morphs in Lamprologus callipterus, a Lake Tanganyika cichlid with an extreme size dimorphism among males. We focus on limiting factors and compare these between large, nest-building males and dwarf males parasitizing their reproductive effort. 3. Only nest males invest in courtship, and they exhibit much more aggression than dwarf males. In contrast, dwarf males spend 20% of their time feeding, whereas nest males hardly ever feed. 4. Nest males accumulate reserves before breeding and use these up before taking a reproductive break, thereby performing a 'capital breeder' strategy. In contrast, dwarf males use assimilated energy immediately for reproduction, thus acting as 'income breeders'. This is a requirement of their spawning tactic, which only works out with a small and slim body. 5. A field experiment showed that nest males lose weight by their restricted feeding opportunities while holding a nest, which would allow them to hold a territory for 103 days on average. Due to their reproductive investment, however, they held territories only for a mean period of 33 days, which reveals the relative importance of opportunity costs and reproductive expenditure. 6. Nest males are also limited by the requirement to fertilize each egg of a clutch with a separate ejaculate. Their ejaculation rate and the number of sperm released both decline sharply after 5 h, whereas undisturbed spawning lasts 2-4 h longer than that. 7. There is a strong allometric relationship between body mass and gonad weight, with smaller males of both tactics investing disproportionately more in testes than large males. The major limitation of dwarf males is apparently access to spawning females, which is prevented by the monopolization of nest owners and becomes more difficult with increasing size of dwarf males. 8. Our results show that different males in a population may act as capital or income breeders depending on tactic and may face very different limitations, which is a direct result of highly divergent spawning tactics and resulting body sizes. 9. We argue that capital and income breeding are useful concepts to understand divergent life history decisions associated with alternative reproductive tactics, i.e. behavioural polymorphisms within a species and within one sex. It might turn out that in general, bourgeois tactics rather adopt a capital breeding strategy whereas parasitic tactics are inclined to perform as income breeders, due to the diverging constraints faced by these types of reproduction, although we discuss possible exceptions.
10.2307/2389856|1. A new dynamic chamber has been developed with the aim of improving the performance of existing techniques for measuring CO<sub>2</sub> efflux from the soil surface. It has been shown that differences in the flow rates of incoming and outgoing air can be balanced quickly with this new chamber, consequently reducing the pressure difference between the inside and outside of the chamber. In the new chamber, the pressure difference varied within 0.2 Pa at flow rates of up to 4 litres min<sup>-1</sup> when placed on the soil surface, whereas the corresponding value for an earlier design of chamber was about 1.0 Pa. The improved chamber can give a better and a more reliable estimation of CO<sub>2</sub> evolution from the soil surface compared to existing dynamic chambers, as demonstrated by either the magnitude or the trend of daily variation of measured CO<sub>2</sub> effluxes. 2. In a dynamic chamber technique, the pressure difference depends mainly upon the flow rate of sample air and the length and diameter of inlet or outlet tubing through which air passes into or out of the chamber. It is difficult to obtain a steady and negligible pressure difference with a normal dynamic chamber, especially if the method employs simultaneously blowing and drawing air, as the pressure difference is very changeable.
41239366|1. Body size and other morphological traits play key roles in an animal's performance and thus their ability to locate, capture and handle different resources. For species that live and forage in groups, group-level characteristics, such as foraging group size and level of cooperation, may also influence performance and further shape resource use. 2. We explored the simultaneous role of individual (body size) and social traits on performance (i.e. prey capture efficiency) in two sympatric social spiders in Ecuador. 3. Given a fivefold difference in body size, the large species captured on average significantly larger insects than the small species. However, because the large species captured both small and large insects, its prey size range included that of the small species, which is thus said to exhibit an included niche. 4. The small species compensated for its small body size by having greater density of individuals within the nests, faster reaction times, and greater participation of individuals of all age classes in prey capture. As a result, the smaller species had a steeper increase in the size of the insects it captured with increasing colony size than the larger species. As predicted by included niche theory, the small species was also more efficient within the shared range as it was less likely to miss or ignore small prey than the large species. 5. Our study contributes to our understanding of how social traits may jointly interact with individual-level traits to shape foraging performance and resource use in communities of social organisms, a problem little explored in the past.
2656312|1. One thousand three hundred and twenty plants from 22 species of herbaceous angiosperms, typical of open sunny habitats, were grown from seed for 35 days under controlled conditions in four experimental environments: high (1100 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> PAR) and low (200 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> PAR) light, combined with high (full-strength) and low (1/6 dilution) levels of hydroponic nutrient solution. Plants of each species were harvested at 15, 20, 25, 30 and 35 days post-germination. 2. Relative growth rate (RGR), net assimilation rate (NAR), specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf mass ratio (LWR) were estimated for each species in each treatment combination. 3. Both light and nutrient levels affected RGR and each of the growth components. Average NAR increased, while SLA and LWR decreased, with increasing light. Increasing nutrient levels increased all three growth components. Light and nutrient levels interacted in their effects on NAR and SLA, but not in their effects on LWR. 4. Those species having the highest RGR in the most productive environment were most severely depressed in the less productive environments. This same pattern also occurred with NAR and SLA, but not with LWR. 5. The rank order of species with respect to SLA and LWR remained similar across the treatment environments; with respect to NAR the rank order remained similar in only four of the six treatment contrasts; with respect to RGR the rank order remained similar in only two of the six treatment contrasts and the rank order actually reversed in one treatment contrast. 6. RGR did not display strong bivariate correlations with any of the growth components in any of the treatment groups. It had positive, moderately strong correlations with NAR but only in the low-nutrient treatments. It had positive, moderately strong correlations with LWR only in the high-nutrient treatments. After controlling for the other growth components, each showed strong positive relationships with RGR. Furthermore, the effects of the treatments disappeared after controlling for the components, showing that the treatment effects were completely mediated through their effects on these underlying components. 7. There were also strong negative partial correlations between each of the growth components. These compensatory relationships buffered RGR from large changes in response to changing environments.
20142768|1. Stress is a major component of natural selection in soil ecosystems. The most prominent abiotic stress factors in the field are temperature extremes (heat, cold), dehydration (drought), high salinity and specific toxic compounds such as heavy metals. Organisms are able to deal with these stresses to a certain extent, which determines the limits of their ecological amplitudes. Functional genomic tools are now becoming available to study stress in ecologically relevant soil organisms. 2. Here we give an overview of transcriptomic studies aiming to elucidate how plants and soil invertebrates respond and adapt to a stressful environment. The picture emerging from signalling pathways and transcription factors identified in transcription profiling studies suggests that there is a large overlap of genomic responses to drought, salinity and cold; however, heat and heavy metals trigger different stress response pathways. 3. The heat shock response and the oxidative stress response seem to represent universal components of the environmental stress response (ESR). Furthermore, the commonality across plants and animals seems to be higher in effector genes than in transcriptional regulators. 4. Finally, adaptation to stress factors in soil seems to evolve through enhanced constitutive transcription of otherwise stress responsive genes both in plants and animals.
10.2307/2389961|1. Because of the physiological cost of ejaculate production and courtship behaviour, male mating activities may be limited by their energy stores. Energy-depleted males may prefer foraging to rebuild these stores rather than expending meagre reserves on possibly unsuccessful mating attempts. 2. Few studies have manipulated male energy level to determine its effect on ejaculate production, mating behaviour and foraging. Water mites of the genus Neumania are ideal candidates for such a study because males deposit groups of spermatophores on the substrate, thus allowing easy determination of ejaculate size, and because males cannot hunt and search for mates simultaneously. 3. I manipulated the energy level of male Neumania papillator by varying diet. Males given less food spent less time mate searching, more time hunting, and produced fewer spermatophores than males given more food. These results suggest that differences in energy level among males should be taken into account in studies of male mating frequency or mate choice.
10.2307/2390137|1. A root-segment model was combined with a soil water model to predict water uptake by roots of Agave deserti and Ferocactus acanthodes of four different lengths at 10 orientations from horizontal to vertical after various simulated rainfall events. 2. The soil was divided into 15 strata with specific water potentials (<sub>soil</sub>) and temperatures; each root segment had specific values of radial hydraulic conductivity from the root surface to the xylem (L<sub>R</sub>) and of axial hydraulic conductivity along the xylem (K<sub>h</sub>). For roots of the monocotyledonous A. deserti, L<sub>R</sub> decreased with distance from the root tip up to 80 cm and K<sub>h</sub> became constant and maximal after 40 cm, favouring water uptake from the distal (younger) portions. For roots of the dicotyledonous F. acanthodes, L<sub>R</sub> increased slightly and K<sub>h</sub> increased greatly away from the root tip, favouring water uptake from the proximal (older) portions. 3. As simulated rainfalls were increased from 10 to 30 to 50 mm, the duration and the depth at which <sub>soil</sub> was above the shoot water potential of -0.5 MPa increased. Horizontal roots of A. deserti 60 cm in length took up more water than those oriented more vertically, although differences became less as the rainfall amount increased. 4. Compared with A. deserti, roots of F. acanthodes had maximal simulated water uptake at steeper orientations, reflecting the different variations of L<sub>R</sub> and K<sub>h</sub> along the root. Also, water uptake at essentially all orientations was highest for the shortest (20 cm long) and hence youngest root of A. deserti and the longest (80 cm long) and hence oldest root of F. acanthodes. 5. The root-segment model, which took into account temperature effects on L<sub>R</sub> and K<sub>h</sub> as well as variations in <sub>soil</sub> along a root, can be used to predict water uptake for root systems under realistic conditions in the field.
3599123| 1. Plant survival following disturbance was modelled simply as the probability that at least one of n stems sprouts, each stem having an independent probability of sprouting, s. This first-order model with any stem on any plant in any species having probability s = 018 of sprouting after clipping (s = 009 after burning) explained nearly half of the deviance associated with species' mortality in a field experiment on 43 species from a range of growth forms. 2. Allowing species to take either a low or high per-stem sprouting probability (SSP) improved statistical explanation substantially. Fitting growth form SSP was less effective, showing that much of the apparent among-species variation in SSP was within growth forms. 3. Allowing each species to have a different SSP essentially provided a saturated model. The estimated species-specific probabilities were positively related to the depth from which sprouts could emerge after disturbance. Predicting species' bud depth from some simply measured morphological trait would be a considerable advance. Limited evidence suggested that sprout depth was associated with thick or dense leaves (low specific leaf area and leaf water content). 4. Depicting plants as a collection of independent stems with equal probability of sprouting appears a reasonable first-order model for whole-plant sprouting, despite being morphologically simplified. 
20142784| 1. Positive interactions between species are known to play an important role in the dynamics of native plant communities, particularly in stressful habitats. However, their role in plant invasions is less known, although recent studies have started to highlight the importance of positive interactions as a driver of invasion. It has been suggested that facilitative interactions during invasions are not expected to be species-specific. 2. The perennial herb Taraxacum officinale (dandelion) is a conspicuous alien plant species invading the central Chilean Andes. In contrast to other alien species that are restricted to human-disturbed sites at high elevations, T. officinale is frequently observed growing within native plant communities dominated by cushion plants. We selected sites where two cushion species coexist (Laretia acaulis and Azorella monantha), and evaluated whether T. officinale is equally associated with the two cushion species or shows a preference for one of them. We assessed facilitative effects of the two cushion species on T. officinale via seedling survival experiments, measurements of photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (Fv/Fm and PSII), reproductive output and recording the differences in soil temperature, humidity and nutrient contents between these cushion species and open areas. 3. Taraxacum officinale was significantly and positively associated with only one of the two cushion species (A. monantha). Seedling survival was higher in A. monantha than on L. acaulis or the bare ground. Photochemical efficiency and reproductive output were higher within the two cushion species than outside them. However, performance of T. officinale was significantly better within the cushions of A. monantha than those of L. acaulis. Soil temperature, humidity and contents of nitrogen and phosphorous were similar within the two cushion species; however, potassium was two times higher in the soil beneath L. acaulis than beneath A. monantha. 4. Results indicate that the native cushion species facilitates the establishment and performance of a non-native invasive species, and that this interaction is highly species-specific due to differences in soil nutrient content beneath different benefactor species. Our results indicate that native plants can have facilitative effects on invasive plants, particularly in stressful habitats such as alpine environments. 
2656322|1. The thermoregulatory capabilities of 18 species of Alaskan bees spanning nearly two orders of magnitude of body mass were measured. Thoracic temperature, measured across the temperature range at which each species forages, was regressed against operative (environmental) temperature to determine bees' abilities to maintain relatively constant thoracic temperatures across a range of operative temperatures (thermoregulatory performance). 2. Previous studies on insect thermoregulation have compared thoracic temperature with ambient air temperature. Operative temperature, which integrates air temperature, solar radiation and effects of wind, was estimated by measuring the temperature of a fresh, dead bee in the field environment. It is suggested that this is a more accurate measure of the thermal environment experienced by the insect and also allows direct comparisons of insects under different microclimate conditions, such as in sun and shade. 3. Simple regression analysis of species and family means, and analysis of phylogenetically based independent contrasts showed thermoregulatory capability, ability to elevate thoracic temperature, and minimum thoracic temperature necessary for initiating flight all increased with body size. 4. Bumble-bees were better thermoregulators than solitary bees primarily as a consequence of their larger body size. However, their thermoregulatory abilities were slightly, but significantly, better than predicted from body size alone, suggesting an added role of pelage and/or physiology. Large solitary bees were better thermoregulators than small solitary bees apparently as a result of body-size differences, with small bees acting as thermal conformers.
826638|1. We asked two questions in this study: (i) is there is there a negative correlation between relative growth rate (RGR) among 19 species of herbaceous Asteraceae grown under nutrient limitation and potential tissue toxicity; and (ii) is the degree of toxicity of these species different than those measured in a previous study, in which the same species were grown under non-limiting conditions? 2. In the present study we grew 19 of the same species as previously in hydroponic sand culture for which the growth rate was limited by nutrient supply, and compared RGR and potential tissue toxicity due to secondary compounds. Under such conditions, RGR was reduced by 25%; specific leaf area was reduced by 32%; root: shoot ratios were increased by 320%; leaf nitrogen content was reduced by 69%; and potential toxicity was decreased by 46%. 3. Although nutrient limitation clearly decreased both RGR and potential toxicity, we found no interspecific correlation between RGR and toxicity. 4. We conclude that there was no detectable trade-off between RGR and potential toxicity due to secondary compounds.
2390419|1. Ectotherms may be thermal generalists, or high- or low-temperature thermal specialists. The thermal strategy of four species of grasshoppers occurring in Britain is determined, where unpredictable variation in the generally cool climate should preclude the low-temperature thermal specialist strategy. It is predicted that temperature sensitivity will determine geographical distribution, with generalist species widespread, and thermally specialized species restricted to warmer habitats. 2. The developmental and reproductive responses to different rearing temperatures of the grasshoppers are examined in a laboratory experiment. Life-history traits are integrated into a fitness model to determine the sensitivity of each species to temperature change. 3. Growth and development rates increased with temperature for each species. The frequency with which an additional instar was inserted during nymphal development increased with temperature in Chorthippus brunneus. Adult mass and size increased with temperature. 4. Egg pod production rate increased with temperature. In Omocestus viridulus, Myrmeleotettix maculatus and Stenobothrus lineatus, temperature had no effect on egg mass, eggs per pod or number of pods per female. Number of pods per female increased with temperature in C. brunneus. 5. Fitness of S. lineatus decreased by 88% for a 5 <sup></sup>C fall in temperature compared with 58% and 56% for C. brunneus and M. maculatus, respectively. Omocestus viridulus is least sensitive to temperature change with only a 27% reduction in fitness at the lower rearing temperature. 6. It is concluded that all the species are high-temperature thermal specialists, and variation in their sensitivity to temperature is a good predictor of their distribution. The most generalist species, O. viridulus, is the most widespread, while the more specialist species S. lineatus and M. maculatus are restricted to warmer habitats. Chorthippus brunneus is also a high-temperature specialist, but is more widespread as a consequence of developmental and reproductive plasticity and efficient behavioural thermoregulation.
10.2307/2390146|1. The hypothesis that European Starlings, Sturnus vulgaris, regulate their body mass in response to availability of food was tested in two experiments. The first experiment investigated the response to periodic food deprivations of 6 h, beginning at a random time in the day. The second experiment examined the response to fixed and variable food deprivations, and whether this response differed according to `season', which was manipulated photoperiodically. 2. In the first experiment, the food deprived birds responded by increasing body mass, in accordance with the adaptive regulation hypothesis. 3. The second experiment demonstrated that the response to food availability differed according to photoperiodic history; birds that were photosensitive responded to a decrease in time available to feed by increasing body mass, whereas birds that were photorefractory did not. 4. Contrary to theoretical predictions, there was no indication that the response to variable time of onset deprivations was larger than the response to deprivations that began at a fixed time of day. 5. It is suggested that different strategies of mass regulation at different points in the annual cycle may be a response to season-specific costs and benefits of fat storage, or may relate to season-specific changes in environmental stochasticity.
40603119|1. Meteorological conditions are critical determinants of bird migration. However, response to weather should vary among species as well as between males and females, as phenotypic traits relevant to migration are also shaped by natural selection acting differentially on species and either sex in other life cycle phases. 2. We studied the covariation between capture frequencies and meteorological conditions at departure and at a stopover site during northward spring migration in 21 species of migratory birds. The stopover site is a small island located at the northern end of a wide ecological barrier (the Mediterranen Sea), that is crossed with non-stop flights by migrants departing from North Africa. 3. Head and crosswinds at departure, and tail and crosswinds at stopover reduced the number of birds captured, although the strength of these effects varied among species. In the subset of 10 sexually dimorphic species, males and females were not differentially susceptible to weather conditions. 4. Because sexual and natural selection pressures on traits relevant to migration vary among species, we investigated whether body mass and wing morphology predicted species susceptibility to weather in analyses controlling for phylogenetic effects, using wing loading, wing aspect ratio, the 'brachial index', and wingtip roundedness and convexity as indicators of the morphology of the flight apparatus. 5. Captures of species whose wing morphology is more typical of long-distance migrants were less affected by tail and crosswinds, suggesting that long-distance migrants are less susceptible to weather. 6. Meteorological conditions at departure independently concurred with those at stopover in determining capture frequencies. The effect of weather on migration co varied with wing morphological traits that co-evolved with migratory strategies. Changes in meteorological conditions driven by current climate change thus have the potential to differentially affect migration phenology in relation to migratory strategy and morphology of individual species.
3599284|1. Previous evidence demonstrates that closing force decreases proportionally as fiddler crab claw size increases. Larger crabs do have greater absolute closing force, but less than would be expected if claw proportions were isometric. In the Mud Fiddler Crab, Uca pugnax, this is explained by a decrease in mechanical advantage with increasing claw size. 2. We here re-measure mechanical advantage with a more direct method than used previously; the relationship of mechanical advantage to claw size was similar to the older indirect measure. Because the fiddler crab claw is a simple lever, we predicted that the observed decline in closing force should be compensated by a proportional increase in closing speed. 3. We tested this hypothesis using high-speed video to observe crabs closing their major claws spontaneously under controlled conditions. Closing speed scaled positively to claw length as predicted, and the value of the exponent conformed to expectation from a simple biomechanical model. 4. Evolution of the fiddler crab claw therefore involved a trade-off of closing force for closing speed. An adaptive explanation of relative weakening with increasing body size may lie in the increased ability to rapidly grasp an opponent, a crucial advantage in fiddler crab combat.
10.2307/2389601|`Gammarus scope for growth' is a 7-day assay that measures the effect of stress on the energy budgets of individuals. Here we use brooding female Gammarus pulex (L.) to directly compare the effect of zinc on scope for growth (SfG) and on reproduction. The reproductive parameters measured were size and number of offspring released from one brood incubated under zinc stress (current brood) and another provisioned under zinc stress (subsequent brood). In both experiments a significant effect was observed at 0.3 mg Zn l<sup>-1</sup>. At this concentration, SfG was reduced, as a result of a decrease in energy absorbed, and there was a decrease in the size of offspring released from the subsequent brood. There was no effect on the size or number of offspring released from the current brood nor on the number of offspring in the subsequent brood. Moreover, both present and past zinc stress caused an increase in the number of broods aborted. The consequences of these changes are discussed in relation to changes at the population and community level.
2656540|1. Predicting outbreaks of Trichostrongylus tenuis in Red Grouse from larval counts has been hampered because of the poor recovery of the third-stage infective larvae from heather vegetation. Two possible explanations for this poor recovery were examined: (i) larvae are spatially aggregated; (ii) larvae exhibit temporal variability in abundance and may be missed by sampling at the wrong time. 2. Heather vegetation was intensively sampled and infective larvae were found to be spatially aggregated. The temporal distribution of T. tenuis also varied, with greater numbers of larvae present on heather sampled in the afternoon than the morning. 3. In a series of laboratory experiments the diurnal availability of T. tenuis larvae were examined on two plant species with differing physical structures: heather and wheat. These trials were tested against infective larvae of Haemonchus contortus, a related nematode known to exhibit diurnal migration patterns. Larvae were exposed to diurnal variations in light and temperature. 4. Infective larvae of both species were recovered in greater numbers during periods when the lights were on. Temperature did not have a significant influence on H. contortus larval availability but greater numbers of T. tenuis L3 were recovered at low temperature (10 <sup></sup>C) than at higher temperature (20 <sup></sup>C). 5. Both temporal variation in the presence of T. tenuis larvae on vegetation and the spatial variation in larval distribution may account for poor recovery of Trichostrongylus tenuis L3 in the field.
826591| 1. Soil characteristics influence plant communities in part through water relations. Hypothetically, finer textured soils in arid climates should be associated with more negative plant and soil water potentials during drought, greater resistance of xylem to cavitation, and shallower root systems than coarse soils. 2. These hypotheses were tested by comparing the water relations of Great Basin shrubs growing in sand versus loam soils. The eight study species (Chrysothamnus nauseosus, Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus, Chrysothamnus parryi, Tetradymia glabrata, Atriplex canescens, Atriplex confertifolia, Grayia spinosa and Sarcobatus vermiculatus) varied in typical rooting depth and vegetative phenology. 3. Xylem pressures for a species were, on average, 11 MPa more negative in the loam versus the sand site, despite greater precipitation at the loam site. Root xylem at the loam site was, on average, 09 MPa more resistant to cavitation than at the sand site for the same species. There was a strong trend for shallower rooting depths at the loam versus the sand site. Within a species, roots were consistently more vulnerable to cavitation than stems, and experienced more cavitation during the growing season. 4. Over most of the summer there was much more cavitation at the loam site than at the sand site. More than 80% loss of xylem conductivity (PLC) was estimated in shallow roots of three species at the loam site by the end of July, with two of the three showing extensive leaf drop and branch mortality. Transpiration rate was negatively correlated with PLC, with a tendency for lower gas-exchange rates in loam versus sand. 5. At the sand site, cavitation resistance was negatively correlated with estimated rooting depth. Drought-deciduous species had the shallowest root systems and greatest resistance to cavitation. In contrast, two species with phreatophytic tendencies were summer-active and were the most vulnerable to cavitation. 6. The cavitation resistance of roots determines the minimum water potential permitting hydraulic contact with soil. Differences in cavitation resistance of roots between desert species may contribute to differences in sensitivity of gas exchange to soil drought, ability to perform hydraulic lift, and response to late summer rain pulses. 
826676|1. Honeydew composition is an important factor in mediating ant-homopteran mutualisms. The trisaccharide melezitose is especially significant in this interaction. Honeydew of three Chaitophorus aphids (Homoptera: Aphididae), reared on two species of Populus (Salicaceae), was analysed to investigate factors that may influence honeydew composition. 2. Honeydew of Chaitophorus populialbae and C. populeti contained high proportions of the melezitose. These species are typically tended by ants. In contrast, C. tremulae honeydew contained low proportions of melezitose. This species is typically untended. 3. Chaitophorus populeti and C. populialbae produced higher proportions of melezitose when reared on Populus tremula than on P. alba. 4. Chaitophorus populeti and C. populialbae reduced their production of melezitose when reared in the absence of ants. The reverse was true in C. tremulae. 5. These results show that honeydew composition differs not only between aphid species but also within aphid species. They support known differences in ant preference for the different aphid species, and produce further predictions for ant preference for aphids on different host plants. In particular they show for the first time that ant tending may itself influence honeydew composition. They suggest that maintaining a honeydew composition attractive to ants may incur metabolic costs on aphids.
40205506|1. Recent work has identified global-scale relationships between key leaf traits (leaf economics spectrum). However, it is important to determine whether this approach can be applied at local scale with smaller subsets of species facing similar environments. Since fire is a key process in Mediterranean shrubland dynamics we analyze whether fire-related life-history traits influence the pattern of correlation between the leaf economic spectrum and leaf moisture traits. 2. Using structural equation modelling and exploratory path analysis, we developed alternative models to test how interspecific leaf traits are related to the seasonal variation of water content (leaves and shoots) and to the type of post-fire regeneration of Mediterranean woody species. 3. This study demonstrates that for these species seasonal variation in water content and fuel moisture would be better predicted by the presence or absence of a trait describing post-fire seedling establishment than by the leaf economic spectrum traits. However, leaf dry matter content (LDMC) is influenced by both the leaf economic spectrum and the post-fire regenerative type. 4. Seeder species (those that recruit via seeds immediately after fire) present lower LDMC and higher relative seasonal variation of relative water content
10.2307/2390291|1. The effects of the grass species Lolium perenne L. and nine dicotyledonous grassland species, grown in monocultures and two-species mixtures, on (i) the soil microbial biomass, (ii) the respiration: biomass ratio and (iii) plant litter decomposition was investigated in a glasshouse experiment. 2. Microbial biomass was sometimes greater and sometimes less in the two-species mixtures than could be explained in terms of the additive effects of the two component species grown singly; this variation was independent of differences in below-ground plant productivity between monoculture and mixture treatments. 3. The microbial respiration: biomass ratios and plant litter decomposition rates in the two-species mixture treatments were either greater or less than expected based on the monoculture treatments; these differences were dependent on the combinations of species present. Because the respiration: biomass ratio is a measure of ecosystem stability, it is here proposed that stability does not respond predictably to shifts in species diversity. 4. These results provide evidence that increasing plant species richness (from one to two species) has the potential to influence soil processes positively or negatively in a non-additive way. The possible ecological implications of this are discussed.
2656378|1. Although variation in physiological traits forms the substance of evolutionary physiology, the way that this variation is partitioned among different hierarchical levels (e.g. population, species, genus) is not well known. 2. In this study variance partitioning is examined in body size, water content, lipid content, rate of water loss, maximum tolerable water loss and survival time at four levels (individual, population, species, genus) in southern African keratin beetles. 3. It is found that most variance in body size, and the physiological traits that are strongly influenced by body size (water and lipid content, maximum tolerable water loss, rate of water loss), is partitioned at the generic level (50-70%), then at the species level (20-50%) and finally at the population (1-9%) and individual (2-18%) levels. 4. On the other hand, variance in survival time, and variance in rate of maximum water loss once the effects of body size have been taken into account, are partitioned mostly at the species level (40-70%), whereas maximum tolerable water loss and lipid and water content show greatest variance at the individual level (63-75%). This is largely a consequence of differences in the extent of scaling of these traits. 5. The results suggest that where possible the effects of phylogeny should be controlled for when examining desiccation resistance in insects using comparative methods, but that confidence in conclusions from previous studies, which have used mass-specific data, is not unwarranted.
40205530|1. Reproductive biomass (RB) is a key component of plant life history. Because RB is allometric, it remains unclear whether the observed variations of RB in response to land use are driven only by a size dependency effect or if the partitioning of plant biomass may also shift independently of plant size. This question has not been addressed for all the main component species of a given plant community. 2. Here, we report the results of a 3-year experimental study conducted in Tibetan alpine grasslands. The above-ground vegetative biomass (VB) and the RB of 32 species were measured during 2 years in control, grazed and fertilized plots. We estimated the allometric slope and intercept for 301 VB-RB bivariates, using type II regression analyses in order to disentangle size-dependent and size-independent effects of treatment on RB. 3. Our results indicate significant changes in the VB-RB allometric slope for 26 out of 102 cases in grazed plots, and 16 out of 88 cases in fertilized plots. Moreover, in cases where slopes were not affected by treatment, a significant change in the allometric intercept was found in 50% of the models. For these cases, intercepts - which are indicative of the biomass invested in reproductive parts for a given VB - generally increased in grazed plots and decreased in fertilized plots. 4. Grazing and fertilization triggered a significant decreases or increases in the plant size for species, especially graminoids. However, we found no relationship between changes in allometric coefficients and magnitude of the biomass response. 5. At the interspecific level, the intercept, but not the slope, of the allometric VB-RB relationships was significantly affected by land use. Graminoids and forbs responded similarly to treatment. 6. Synthesis. We conclude that (i) size-dependent effects did not explain all the changes observed in RB following grazing and fertilization in alpine grasslands, and that (ii) changes in allometric intercept explained most of the size-independent variations both at the intra- and interspecific level. We discuss why size-independent changes in RB could be important for plant performance in changing environments.
826743| 1. On the west coast of Norway, Turdus spp. (Thrushes) are important dispersal agents of Sorbus aucuparia L. (Rowan) seeds, and avian and mammalian gut treatment often alters seed germination characteristics. In the present study the effects of avian gut treatment on S. aucuparia seeds are described, with emphasis on subsequent seedling growth. 2. Seeds ingested by Turdus spp. and non-ingested control seeds were sown singly or multiply in soil, in pomes, or in bird droppings. 3. Defecated seeds were 9% heavier than control seeds, and seedling growth was faster from defecated seeds than controls. In addition, differences in the rate of seedling emergence were found, with seedlings from ingested seeds appearing first. 4. The increased growth may be due to seedlings emerging earlier from defecated seeds, giving them an extended growth period at a time of increasing day length. 5. We argue that factors such as seedling growth, rate of seedling emergence and seed mass, in addition to percentage seed germination, are important in determining seedling survival. 
40963554|1. Bees use floral cues, such as odour, colour, size and shape, to discriminate and recognize flowers. The interplay between visual and olfactory cues in social as well as in solitary bee species is poorly understood. 2. In this study we tested the host finding and recognition behaviour in a specialized (oligolectic) bee species, Hoplitis adunca (Megachilidae), which collects pollen exclusively on flowers of Echium (Boraginaceae) species. We determined the importance of visual (especially floral colour) and olfactory cues of Echium vulgare flowers in host-plant finding and recognition, as well as in the discrimination of non-host plants (Anchusa officinalis), by foraging-nave and -experienced H. adunca females. 3. Our investigations showed that the interplay between visual and olfactory cues of E. vulgare flowers is essential for host-plant finding and recognition by H. adunca females. The finding suggests that the blue colour of the flowers attracts the bees, while the olfactory cues, which are Echium-specific, are used by the bees to recognize their host plant and discriminate it from non-host plants. 4. Our results show that different modalities of floral cues need to be studied in a combined approach in order to understand the communication in bee-flower interactions and the cues used by bees to find and recognize their host-plants.
20142854|1. Understanding the factors influencing variation in the degree of sperm competition is a key question underlying the mechanisms driving sexual conflict. 2. Previous behavioural and comparative studies have indicated that carnivores appear to have evolved under sperm competition but an analysis of the predictors of the level of sperm competition is missing. 3. In this study, we use phylogenetic comparative methods to investigate life-history parameters predicted to affect the degree of sperm competition in terrestrial carnivores using variation in relative testes size (RTS, after controlling for body size allometry) as a measure of the level of sperm competition. Due to a paucity of consistent data across taxa, we used three measures of RTS: testes mass (n = 40 species), testes and epididymes mass combined (n = 38), and testes volume (n = 48). We also created a derived data set (n = 79) with testes mass estimated from regression analyses on the other measures of testes size. 4. Carnivores with shorter mating seasons had relatively larger testes, consistent with the hypothesis that sperm competition is greater when the degree of female oestrous synchrony is high. This relationship was stronger in spontaneous versus induced ovulators, suggesting higher sperm competition levels in spontaneous ovulators. This is the first comparative study to show this within mammalian taxa. Neither social mating system nor reproductive lifespan were significantly associated with variation in RTS and hence are poor predictors of sperm competition levels. 5. None of the above relationships were found to be significant for the testes and epididymes mass combined data set, but our understanding of the role of the epididymis in sperm competition is too limited to draw any conclusions. 6. Finally, we consistently found a significant phylogenetic signal in all analyses, indicating that phylogeny has played a significant role in the evolution of carnivore testes size and, therefore, in shaping levels of sperm competition. 7. Our results shed new light into the factors affecting levels of sperm competition in terrestrial carnivores by showing that the degree of oestrous synchrony and ovulation type interact to predict variation in RTS.
2390349|1. Parameters of the photosynthesis vs CO<sub>2</sub> response curve, nitrogen and chlorophyll contents were studied in Populus tremula, Tilia cordata and Corylus avellana leaves along a natural light gradient in the canopy. 2. In all species, leaf nitrogen content per unit area (N<sub>s</sub>) declined with decreasing fractional transmission of photon flux density (K<sub>sum</sub>), measured by a hemispheric photographic technique. However, the shape of the relationship between N<sub>s</sub> and K<sub>sum</sub> depended on species. N<sub>s</sub> was almost linearly related to K<sub>sum</sub> in the most light-demanding species P. tremula but this relationship was curved in two other species. Populus tremula possessed the largest values of N<sub>s</sub> at given K<sub>sum</sub>, while C. avellana, the most shade-tolerant species, had the lowest values of N<sub>s</sub>. 3. Both the initial slope, characterizing the maximum carboxylation efficiency, and the plateau value, providing an estimate of the photosynthetic electron transport capacity, of the photosynthesis vs CO<sub>2</sub> response curves, were linearly related to N<sub>s</sub> and only minor differences were observed among the studied species. Leaf chlorophyll content per area was also related to N<sub>s</sub> but the ratio of Chl/N increased substantially at low K<sub>sum</sub> in the lower canopy. It was concluded that the partitioning of nitrogen between light harvesting, electron transport and carboxylation components of the photosynthetic apparatus may change with depth in the canopy as a result of a relative increase in the light-harvesting complexes in relation to the rest of the photosynthetic apparatus. 4. The interspecific differences in species' photosynthetic potentials are mainly associated with different nitrogen distribution patterns along the canopy and in minor part with differences in nitrogen partitioning among photosynthetic machinery.
10.2307/2389770|We experimentally varied worker mortality in laboratory colonies of Bombus lucorum to test for the effect of mortality occurring either early or late during the colony cycle on further development and eventual reproductive performance. Ten per cent of the workers were removed each day during 2 weeks immediately after eclosion of the second brood in `early-stressed' colonies. The same percentage was removed for 2 weeks but 15 days after eclosion of the second brood in `late-stressed' colonies. Such variation with respect to colony cycle could result from parasitization of worker bees by endoparasitic larvae of conopid flies (Diptera: Conopidae) at different times of the season. Neither early- nor late-stressed colonies compensated by producing more and/or smaller workers as compared to the controls in which no workers were removed. But stressed colonies invested on average less into male production in terms of biomass and numbers; no differences existed for gynes. Total biomass put into sexuals differed with group and sex ratios were highly skewed towards males. Body sizes of gynes, on the other hand, were somewhat smaller in stressed colonies than those produced by the control colonies. Start of reproduction, i.e. emergence of first sexuals in days after colony initiation and number of workers present at maturity, did not vary among treatments. We conclude that at least for the present experiment, environmental perturbation increasing worker mortality rate affects male numbers while in gynes body sizes decrease. Early stress had more effect on males, late stress more on production of gynes.
10.2307/2390562|1. The start of reproduction is an important life-history trait in both ecology and ecotoxicology. Effects of food availability and toxic stress on maturation in female Daphnia magna are presented. 2. Five instars to maturation were observed under conditions of moderate to high food levels. Age and size at subsequent stages of the maturation process, i.e. ovary provisioning and egg deposition, depended on the rate of body growth. 3. At low food, a trade-off between reproduction and growth occurred. Within the same environment, some females reproduced at early age and small size, whereas others gave priority to growth over reproduction. In the latter resorption of yolk from the ovaries was observed. 4. Except for the production of malformed young, effects of lead on maturation resembled increased food stress. With abundant food, toxic effects were different to effects at low food. The results of standardized laboratory tests may therefore underestimate toxic effects at reduced food availability. 5. The phenomena observed in our studies can only partly be explained by a food-independent size threshold for maturation, which initiates resource allocation to reproduction; a minimum food uptake is required to enable the production of eggs.
2656442|1. Generalist predators sharing similar food resources and phenologies as well as having no competitive interactions are expected to have a similar life-history pattern, but some closely related web spiders show different life-history traits. The present paper clarifies possible selection pressures affecting life-history traits of the three coexisting Cyclosa spiders and explores the significance of the life-history variation. 2. Cyclosa argenteoalba had lower daily survival rate and higher growth rate, C. sedeculata had higher daily survival rate and lower growth rate, and C. octotuberculata showed intermediate levels. This implies that the selection pressures these spiders experience differ appreciably even in the same habitat. 3. The significance of the life-history characteristics of the three species was evaluated by general life-history theories. Cyclosa argenteoalba showed distinguishing reproductive traits: shorter time to maturation, larger reproductive effort, larger relative clutch size, decreased clutch size with the number of clutches, and smaller egg size. These characteristics may have evolved in response to the larger ratio of juvenile to adult survivorship. Cyclosa octotuberculata had a clutch size much larger than the other two species, but relative clutch sizes accounting for body size were similar between C. octotuberculata and C. sedeculata. Also, the two species showed a similar time to maturation despite having different selection pressures. Probably, higher growth rate compensates for lower survivorship, leading to the similarity in some reproductive traits.
826595|1. Leaf morphology at the site/species level should reflect environmental constraints on plant growth. One of the oldest controversies in ecology is the environmental basis for sclerophylly. The dominant view (Beadle's theory) is that it has a nutritional, rather than a drought, basis, especially low phosphorus. 2. Using leaf mass per area (LMA) as an index of sclerophylly, we assessed its relationship with leaf phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) along extensive rainfall gradients in southwestern Australia and the Cape of South Africa. Leaf
10.2307/2389825|1. Energetic considerations of preflight warm-up in bees predict that bees should warm-up as fast as they can and that larger species should be able to warm-up more rapidly. Larger species should also be able to maintain higher thoracic temperatures during flight. These predictions are examined for 19 species in the solitary bee genus Anthopora (Hymenoptera; Apoidea; Anthophoridae). 2. The genus Anthophora has uniformly high warm-up rates and body temperatures in flight, and the highest warm-up rates measured in any heterotherm. 3. Under standard conditions, both warm-up rates and thoracic temperatures during flight increase with body mass in Anthophora, in keeping with the prediction that heterotherms should minimize the energetic cost of warm-up. 4. Having controlled for body mass effects, Anthophora species able to maintain flight activity at lower ambient temperatures have higher warm-up rates and body temperatures in flight, showing that even in the smallest endotherms there may still be room for selective modification within the limits imposed by body size. 5. Differences in warm-up rates between subgenera within Anthophora suggest that endothermic abilities have diverged in response to differences in the thermal environments which are the centres of diversity for the subgenera. 6. Similar importance of both body mass and the thermal environment in which the species is active is demonstrated over 40 bee species in six families. Because species over a wide taxonomic range do not constitute independent data points, phylogenetic effects in these analyses are controlled for using Grafen's phylogenetic regression. 7. The evolution of high levels of endothermy in Anthophora is discussed with reference to patterns of nectar secretion found in the arid environments which are current centres of diversity for the genus.
10.2307/2390213|1. If host survival is important to a parasite, it should avoid the use of the host's maintenance energy. Selective use of the host's energy is possible by selecting which part of the host to penetrate and when to be active. 2. We study the effects of the castrating trematode parasite Rhipidocotyle fennica on energetics of fresh-water clam Anodonta piscinalis. 3. Before production of offspring, uninfected clams allocate energy to shell growth and glycogen storage. During offspring production shell growth slows down, clams lose weight and consume the stored glycogen. Concurrently the fat content of clams increases indicating the collection of long-term storage for maintenance during the winter. 4. Infected clams lack glycogen reserves and are lighter, but contain more fat than uninfected clams. Parasite reproduction occurs concurrently with the development of offspring in uninfected clams. During their reproduction, parasites use the energy that would otherwise be directed to host reproduction, without interfering with the maintenance energy of the host. Using only the reproductive energy is an efficient way to use the host without causing increased risk of mortality.
10.2307/2390033|Competition for resources often induces shifts in biomass allocation among plant parts resulting in long-term structural differences between neighbouring individuals in perennial communities. To study the morphological responses of red alder (Alnus rubra) to water availability, predawn plant water potential and stem and branch growth were measured every 2 weeks on 4-year-old trees planted at spacings ranging from 0.10 to 41.99 m<sup>2</sup> tree<sup>-1</sup>. Tree and branch samples were destructively analysed to determine biomass and leaf area, and regression equations were developed to predict biomass of tree components. These predictions were used to examine differences in growth and biomass allocation among trees at different levels of intraspecific competition. Decreased red alder spacing produced reductions in mean leaf area, height, basal diameter, above-ground biomass and above-ground biomass relative growth rate. A strong negative exponential relationship existed between mean total above-ground biomass relative growth rate and both the water stress integral (S) and periodic predawn water stress. Relative growth rate declined sharply at a water-stress level of between -0.3 and -0.4 MPa. The combination of sensitivity to water stress and high rates of biomass production in mesic environments suggests that red alder's water-stress avoidance syndrome is a major factor in its high growth rate.
10.2307/2390107|1. Myrmecophytic Cecropia trees feed and house ants, presumably in exchange for protection from herbivory. These plants produce ant rewards in the form of M\ddot{u}llerian bodies (MB), glycogen-rich and protein-containing corpuscles located on trichilia at the bases of leaf petioles. Because of indirect evidence for the costliness of MB, we conducted experiments to determine whether plants respond to their removal (simulating the presence of ants) and accumulation (imitating the absence of ants) by altering rates of their production. 2. In greenhouse experiments with plants cultivated at intermediate nutrient levels, MB production rates were significantly higher on plants from which the MB were removed than on control (MB accumulation) plants. This result held for both short-term observations and for observations over full trichilia life spans, as well as for plants growing under different light regimes. In contrast, rates of MB production were not significantly affected by MB removal in experiments conducted under higher or lower nutrient levels. 3. We hypothesize that these plants may economize resources by controlling MB production in response to the presence or absence of ants, and we suggest reasons why this capacity may fail at particularly low and high nutrient levels.
10.2307/2389433|1 In vitro studies of digestion rates of various prey types provide standards of digestibility that may indicate potential biases in diet studies where those prey are eaten. Cnidaria digest in less than 20 min but crustacean muscle takes a mean of 17 h, with fish and squid muscle intermediate. 2 Differences between in vitro digestion rates for squid and fish are not sufficient to explain differences observed in vivo, suggesting that the digestive processes of predators may have evolved to be more efficient with their main prey. 3 Previously-frozen samples are digested more rapidly than fresh samples in pepsin. Agitation increases digestion rate.
41239359|1. Here we address two main questions which have received little attention: the variability of leaf lifespan (LLS) response to nitrogen (N) availability and the frequent apparent divergence between evolutionary and plastic responses of LLS to N availability. 2. By analysing numerous ecophysiological studies conducted in laboratories and in the field, we show that: (i) there is no constancy among studies and species in the LLS response to N availability; and (ii) in contrast to what is expected in an evolutionary perspective (i.e. species with shorter LLS growing on high N conditions), species that delay leaf senescence and thus increase LLS in response to high N availability are more numerous than species that behave oppositely. 3. We propose that in a given species, N sink-source interactions in the plant and exogenous N availability regulate LLS and induce a curvilinear plastic response of LLS to N availability, the maximum LLS occurring when the strength of sink activity on endogenous N reserves is minimal. We suggest that LLS responses to N supply could depend on where the plants were located on the gradient of the strength of sink activity, which depends on soil N availability. We provide several possible explanations for why long but not short LLS are selected in N-depleted habitats, even though short LLS seems to increase certain aspects of plant fitness. Particularly, we attempt to resolve the apparent conflict between plastic and evolutionary LLS responses in the light of the relationship between LLS and nutrient source-sink interactions and also between LLS and mean residence time of N in the plant. 4. Our new concept helps to explain many of the discrepancies of plastic and evolutionary LLS responses to N availability seen in the literature.
10.2307/2389866|1. To investigate the interaction of competition and herbivory in influencing plant size variability, Hypochaeris radicata plants were grown in containers in a glasshouse at two densities and with three densities of snails (Helix aspersa). 2. There were significant effects of both plant and snail density on total above-ground biomass and mean plant biomass with no evidence of interaction. 3. There was a significant interaction between plant and snail density in influencing variation in plant size. As in most previous studies, variability in plant size was higher at high plant density. At this density, herbivory had very little effect on plant size variability, perhaps because the primary effect of snails was to reduce plant density slightly. At low plant density, a high level of herbivory increased plant size variability by reducing the size of some plants while not affecting the largest individuals.
20142795|1. Patterns of water availability are frequently implicated in local and regional tree species distributions. A major floristic and climatic transition from aseasonal to seasonal evergreen tropical forest is the Kangar-Pattani Line (KPL) in the Indo-Sundaic region of Southeast Asia. We hypothesize that differences in species' drought tolerance will correspond with their distribution with respect to the KPL. Using a common garden study, we assess the role of differences in physiological drought tolerance traits to geographic distributions for 24 tropical tree species in relation to rainfall seasonality. 2. Inherent differences in desiccation tolerance of seedlings were quantified as water potentials and relative water contents (RWCs) below which the plant could no longer support living tissue, and plant water relation parameters were measured using pressure-volume analysis. The relationships among these traits were examined using bivariate trait relationships and a principal components analysis (PCA). The physiological traits contributing most to lethal water potential and RWC were assessed using multiple regression analysis. 3. Distribution-related differences in all desiccation tolerance and pressure-volume traits were detected both with and without phylogenetic correction. Widespread species that occurred in seasonally dry forests were able to maintain living tissue at more negative water potentials and lower RWCs than were species restricted to aseasonal forests. Likewise, widespread species demonstrated more negative water potentials at turgor loss, more negative saturated osmotic potential, lower symplastic water fraction and higher bulk modulus of elasticity values. Turgor loss point (TLP) and bulk modulus of elasticity were the best predictors of lethal water potential while symplastic water fraction and bulk modulus of elasticity were included as predictors of lethal RWC. 4. Inherent differences in physiological traits contributing to drought tolerance are associated with differences in tropical tree species distributions in relation to rainfall seasonality. These results, combined with lack of support for hypothesized historical factors, strongly implicate climate as a determinant of tree species distributions around the KPL.
40205517|1. Although various methods are used to measure immunocompetence, their relationship with the actual parasite clearance or parasite load is seldom demonstrated in natural systems. 2. We combined nine measures of immune function using principal component analysis (PCA), and examined the relationship of the collective measures with (i) the proportion of parasites killed by the host, (ii) the burden of several parasite species and (iii) a viral disease in a wild population of the roach, Rutilus rutilus. We also studied if these variables were associated with the concentration of steroids (testosterone and oestradiol). 3. Most significant correlations between the loads of ecto-and gill parasites and the measures of immunity were positive, suggesting either a parasite-induced immunoactivation or temporal covariation. When the temporal covariation was statistically removed, the functional aspects (respiratory burst, chemotaxis) of phagocytotic cells and the total concentration of immunoglobulin M correlated positively with the proportion of dead Rhipidocotyle campanula (Digenea) parasites. However, no relationships remained between the parasite loads and the measures of immunity or concentrations of the hormones. 4. The present results suggest that the measures of phagocytotic activity and IgM concentrations relate to an observable competence of roach to eliminate parasites. However, new experimental approaches are needed to reveal the causal mechanisms behind the sometimes ambiguous correlations.
2656437|1. It is claimed that the quality of foliage following defoliation depends on carbon/nutrient balance of the tree. To study the importance of sink/source regulation for the quality of foliage, as well as for its quantity, Pinus sylvestris trees were defoliated and fertilized both in southern Finland and at the tree line in northern Finland. 2. The pattern of defoliation in a shoot was more decisive for quantitative changes in new foliage than its extent: removal of similar amounts of foliage from different branch parts led to different outcomes. 3. Defoliation of 50% spread evenly within a shoot, or applied to the basal part of a shoot only, did not alter production of new foliage, whereas defoliation applied to the apical part of a shoot decreased the mass and length of needles in the new shoot. Defoliation of apically located 1-year-old needles of the branch leader shoot, but not of 2-year-old ones, significantly reduced the mass and length of needles in new shoots. 4. These results are consistent with the explanation that damage alters the ability of shoots and branches to form strong meristematic sinks and that sink strength determines the ability of these meristems to draw resources from the common pool of the tree. 5. Defoliation of the main photosynthate source lowered concentrations of the fructose and glucose, indicating shortage of carbon. However, whole-tree defoliation did not affect the concentrations of individual foliar sugars. 6. Traits describing pine shoot growth correlated negatively with foliar phenolic concentrations but not with concentrations of other secondary compounds. Concentrations of foliage phenolics consistently increased after defoliation, while terpenoids, putatively the main class of defensive compounds in Scots Pine, did not respond to defoliation. Defoliation of a branch or a whole tree had only slight effects on the concentrations of fibre, mono- and sesquiterpenes, resin acids or nitrogen. 7. Likewise, fertilization significantly increased the concentration of some sesquiterpenes only in pine foliage. Whole-branch defoliation and fertilization together had no effect on the concentration of fibre or nitrogen in pine foliage. 8. Altogether, the amount of foliar biomass removed, nutrients or carbon did not explain in any consistent way the qualitative changes in the pine foliage. Instead, results were consistent with simple physiological dependence of foliar traits on sink strength. Production of terpenoids reflected increased sink strength, but the production of phenolics was negatively correlated with sink strength. 9. The difference between shoot growth characteristics and foliage concentrations of phenolics and, on the other hand, terpenoids, may have a biosynthetic, instead of an ecological or evolutionary explanation. Protein synthesis, and thereby possibilities for growth, competes with phenolic synthesis (via phenylalanine) but not with terpenoid synthesis. 10. These results indicate that in Scots Pine the predicted trade-off between growth and production of pooled carbon-rich secondary compounds was found in phenolics but presumably for reasons external to the carbon/nutrient balance and growth/differentiation balance hypotheses. Instead, terpenoids did not behave as predicted by these theories.
40407704|1. Herbivore-induced plant volatiles (HIPVs) play an important role in host location of parasitoid wasps and may benefit the plant by top-down control of its herbivorous attackers. Although many studies have shown that accessions of plants differ in attractiveness to parasitoid wasps under controlled laboratory studies, few studies have confirmed that the most attractive accessions also sustain highest parasitism rates in the field. Here, we tested whether in-flight preference of parasitoids for HIPVs from cultivars of Brassica oleracea in the laboratory reliably predicts the parasitism rates of herbivores feeding on these cultivars in the field. 2. In wind tunnel tests in the laboratory, we ranked cultivars of B. oleracea for the preference of two congeneric parasitoids (Cotesia glomerata and C rubecula) for their HIPVs. The cultivars were then compared for their relative parasitism rates of caterpillar in the field. Throughout the growth season in the field, we infested the different cultivars with Pieris caterpillar on a weekly basis. The caterpillar were recollected after 3 days, dissected and scored for the rate of parasitism. 3. Cultivars of B. oleracea that we identified as most attractive to parasitoids in the laboratory also sustained highest proportions of parasitism in the field. The composition of the headspace of the B. oleracea cultivars damaged by P.rapae differs among these cultivars in the amounts of terpenoids and methyl salicylate emitted, which may be responsible for the differential attraction of parasitoids to the cultivars. 4. Our results show that intraspecific variation in HIPVs of plants is paralleled by differential parasitism of caterpillar in the field. The widely used laboratory assays on HIPV-based preferences of parasitoids provided reliable information on relative parasitism differences of herbivores as found in the field. 5. Thereby, our work confirms that through HIPVs plants attract parasitoids that effectively parasitize herbivores even under the complex and variable abiotic and biotic conditions in (agro-) ecosystems.
2390346|1. The solitary sheetweb spider Pityohyphantes phrygianus (Araneae: Linyphiidae) lives in canopies of coniferous trees. Earlier studies in Scandinavia have shown that bird predation affects the spider abundance negatively. 2. In a large-scale, 2-year field experiment, passerine birds were excluded from foraging on spruce branches. The experimental branches were net-enclosed, which prevented bird predation but left spiders free to leave and enter. Samples were taken in the autumn and spring for 2 years. 3. Removal of bird predation increased the mean number of subadult P. phrygianus per branch between 2.1 and 10.6 times the control number for each sex. Bird predation had approximately similar effects on the sexes, except in the second experimental spring when males were affected twice as much as females, and there was a significantly lower proportion of males on control branches exposed to bird predation than on net-enclosed branches. 4. The mean size of females was larger on net-enclosed branches than on controls in both spring samples. In males, this was the case in the first spring sample only. 5. This study shows that there are also mortality costs for both sexes associated with large size in the non-mating season. In certain winters, however, there is an additional mortality risk to males, presumably caused by a higher activity level than in females.
10.2307/2389502|Proboscis probing toward forelegs placed in separate sugar solutions was used to test whether butterflies would change preference, as predicted by the discrete-marginal-value theorem, from a concentrated fluid with a low handling (ingestive) rate of net energy gain (`haute cuisine') to a less concentrated fluid with a high handling rate of net energy gain (`fast food') as they consumed progressively more of a meal. The predicted preference change was not observed. Although some nectar feeders are exceptions to the rule that food choice during foraging maximizes rate of net energy gain, their behaviour proves another rule: that food choice maximizes net meal energy for animals that eat meals.
2390452|1. Seed predation of 12 fleshy-fruited species was recorded in experimental dishes under early successional forest in south-west Germany (four seasons 1992 and 1993) and in south England (summer 1995). On each occasion, 200 dishes were laid out, each containing five seeds of a given species. The mean time for three or more seeds to be removed was taken as a measure of granivore preferences. We tested correlations of these preferences with several physical and nutritional seed traits. 2. Live trapping and selectively accessible dishes indicated that rodents were the major granivores (Apodemus sylvaticus, Apodemus flavicollis, Clethrionomys glareolus); no predation by birds or insects was observed. The rank order of the rodents' seed preferences was consistent among sites, seasons and years, but mean predation differed between species, sites and seasons. Seed predation was highest in summer and lowest in winter. Possible implications of the seasonal pattern in predation risk are discussed. 3. The preferences of rodents were significantly correlated with the species-specific viability of seeds (i.e. percentage of sound seed) in five of eight experiments and with the percentage of water in the embryo-plus-endosperm fraction (EEF) in four of eight experiments. Surprisingly, preferences were not correlated to seed mass, EEF mass or nitrogen concentration. Predation was lowest among toxic species (Berberis vulgaris, Euonymus europaeus, Sambucus nigra) and among species with woody endocarps (Cornus sanguinea, Crataegus spp.).
3598961|1. Many studies have examined the effects of frugivores on the germination of seeds of fleshy fruited plants. However, three key issues are rarely addressed: the need to measure germination of seeds in intact fruits; the effect of germination conditions on results; and the distinction between dead vs dormant seeds. 2. A literature review including 51 plant species from 28 families found that the often-measured scarification effect (germination of bird-defecated vs hand-cleaned seeds) is significantly smaller than the rarely-measured deinhibition effect (germination of hand-cleaned seeds vs those in intact fruits). 3. Both the literature review and new experimental data show that germination conditions affect germination. In particular, seeds in intact fruits have much lower germination percentages in Petri dishes than in the field. Poor germination from intact fruits in Petri dishes may be an artefact. 4. A field experiment with three New Zealand species showed variable effects of non-removal of the fruit pericarp. The retention of the pericarp had no effect on germination in Nestegis cunninghamii; increased the proportion of seeds entering dormancy in Melicytus lanceolatus; and greatly increased seed mortality in Pennantia corymbosa. 5. Germination experiments must be designed carefully to evaluate accurately the risks for plants of frugivory mutualism failures.
2656556|1. The metabolic or respiratory cost of growth (R<sub>G</sub>) is the increase in metabolic rate of a growing animal, and it represents chemical potential energy expended in support of net biosynthesis but not deposited as new tissue. 2. Two statistical methods (multiple non-linear regression and analysis of regression residuals) were used to calculate R<sub>G</sub> from data (n = 68) from a doubly labelled water study of free-ranging Garter Snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis fitchi) in northern California. 3. The sample-wise (`ecological') cost of growth was 2.07 kJ per gram of net growth (equivalent to 8.63 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> dry tissue); reanalysis of a subset of efficient growers yielded a more conservative `physiological' estimate of 1.67 kJ g<sup>-1</sup>. 4. Our empirical estimate of R<sub>G</sub>, among the first reported for squamate reptiles and free-living animals of any kind, compares closely with published, laboratory-derived values for ectotherms. 5. The metabolic costs of growth accounted for an average of 30% of total field metabolic rates for these snakes, which were growing at a mean rate of 3% of body mass per day. However, our method probably underestimated the total ecological cost of growth for large animals, because potential growth costs that covary with body size were not included. 6. Distinction between conceptual and empirical energy budgets clarifies relationships among body size, metabolic rates, and the physiological and ecological costs of growth.
4139384|1. A trade-off between the investments in functional and support structures is a major determinant of leaf physiological activities. A variety of leaf shapes and venation densities occur in coexisting vegetation, but the costs and benefits of various leaf shapes and venation architectures are poorly understood. As the lever arms (location of leaf mass centre) become effectively longer as the maximum of lamina mass distribution shifts farther from the lamina base, we hypothesized that the fraction of lamina biomass in the mid-rib (
41239352|1. Although species richness is the most common metric for biodiversity, it is important to consider that among-species differences matter for many important processes such as ecosystem functioning and assembly patterns. Thus, alternative metrics have been proposed to measure phylogenetic (PD) and functional diversity (FD). 2. Here, we analysed the correlation structure and the geographic patterns of different phylogenetic and functional diversity metrics using 1000 Carnivora (mammals) assemblages distributed world-wide. We also proposed a general approach to estimate these metrics based on phylogenetic eigenvector regressions. 3. We showed that the cumulative variance of phylogenetic eigenvectors within assemblages converges to one metric of phylogenetic clustering, the phylogenetic species variability (PSV), which was recently proposed in the literature. Phylogenetic eigenvectors have also been used to model trait variation (i.e. body mass); therefore, the same reasoning allows us to decouple trait diversity (i.e. body mass) into phylogenetic [FD(P)] and specific [FD(S)] components. The cumulative variance of these components within assemblages, for a single trait or multiple traits, offers a direct estimate of the evolutionary and ecological components of functional variation. Our results indicated that the variance of the phylogenetic component of body mass [FD(P)] estimated within assemblages was highly correlated with a common measure of functional diversity (Rao's Q). 4. Our general approach based on phylogenetic eigenvectors provides similar results when compared to other metrics of FD and PD, but also has some important advantages. First, it allows a direct interpretation of at which hierarchical level in the phylogeny (expressed by different sets of eigenvectors) the patterns in PD and FD appear. Secondly, phylogenetic components of FD can be analysed directly because of the partition of functional diversity into FD(P) and FD(S), so it eliminates the need to generate 'a posteriori' phylogenetic correlations between PD and FD based on independently derived metrics, as well as of these metrics with other components of environmental variation.
3599034| 1. The responses of night-time dark respiration
2390463|1. The association between seed size and habitat shade within the British flora was investigated using a data set of seed masses, life histories and quantitative measures of habitat shade for 504 species; the association between seed size and seed longevity was investigated using a data set of seed masses, life histories and seed longevities for 301 species. 2. The data were analysed using the method of phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs) calculated using the software package CAIC (Comparative Analysis by Independent Contrasts). 3. Seed mass was found to be positively correlated with habitat shade and negatively correlated with seed longevity, after variation owing to life history had been accounted for.
4139398|1. Linking phenotype, performance and fitness has proven difficult to document despite the tremendous influence of this concept on microevolutionary research. One of the major issues involves identifying the target of selection when phenotype and performance are correlated. 2. In a replicated manipulative field experiment, we evaluated this model by testing the hypothesis that predation on hatchling turtles during the critical period of migration from their terrestrial nests to their future aquatic home is random with respect to phenotype after controlling for performance. We decoupled migration performance from body size by exposing hatchling red-eared slider turtles Trachemys scripta elegans of all body sizes to environmental conditions and potential predators for four different time durations. 3. Body size (measured at initiation of the experiment either as carapace length or as mass) of turtles that were not recovered alive was slightly smaller than that of turtles that survived the experiment. More significantly, however, the number of turtles that survived decreased with increasing exposure duration, particularly after 60 h and was unrelated to meteorological conditions. 4. Our experiment thus suggests that selective predation largely acts indirectly on body size of hatchling turtles during this important life stage, consistent with the random predation hypothesis. As enhanced migration performance minimizes exposure of larger hatchlings to predators under natural conditions upon leaving the nests, our experimental results provides strong support for the model linking phenotype, performance and fitness.
826627| 1. We present ecosystem respiration data from two Mediterranean forest sites in central Italy (Castelporziano) and southern France (Puchabon) in order to analyse the role of soil drought and decomposition dynamics using different models. 2. Ecosystem respiration was derived from continuous eddy covariance measurements. The entire data set was separated into 5-day periods. For each period a function depending on three parameters was fitted to the scatter of eddy CO
826589| 1. The ability of six species of high Arctic soil arthropod to survive oceanic transport in or on sea water was tested experimentally. 2. Five species of Collembola, Hypogastrura tullbergi (Schffer), Onychiurus groenlandicus (Tullberg), Onychiurus arcticus (Tullberg), Folsomia quadrioculata (Tullberg) and Tetracanthella arctica Schtt were exposed on the surface film of seawater in chambers agitated within a shaking water bath. 3. All five species survived for over 14 days, at the end of which survival among species varied between 27 and 100%. 4. In a separate experiment the cryptostigmatic mite Camisia anomia Colloff and the 'wettable' collembolan T. arctica survived submersion in sea water for longer than 2 weeks. Survival of C. anomia exceeded 75% but that of T. arctica, when submerged, fell to 12%. 5. Survival times are sufficient to permit ocean current transport from northern Norway to Svalbard in the high Arctic, a distance of around 700 km. The implications of the experiments for long-distance trans-oceanic dispersal of non-specialized soil arthropods are discussed. 
10.2307/2389342|In this paper we address the problem of how young fish meet the metabolic costs connected with fast growth (up to 30% day<sup>-1</sup> in juvenile roach). From the literature it appears that, due to the high costs of maintenance and activity, the energy budgets of larvae and juveniles growing at these rates should be very tight indeed, but no quantitative information is available on this. We conducted experiments at 15 and 20<sup></sup>C using a respirometer equipped with an automatic infusion system allowing the intermittent presentation of Artemia nauplii to larvae and juveniles of roach, Rutilus rutilus (L.). The rates of food consumption, oxygen consumption and growth could then be determined simultaneously on fish ranging in weight from 15 to 700 mg. Feeding was always ad libitum, but by using fish of different size and by varying the length of the fasting period preceding the experiment, growth rates ranging from -2.4 to +16% day<sup>-1</sup> at 15<sup></sup>C, and from -0.8 to +19% day<sup>-1</sup> at 20<sup></sup>C were achieved inside the respirometer in experiments lasting from 4 to 5 days. Upon presentation of food the rate of oxygen consumption of the fish increased within 1 h to a maximum, made up of food-induced thermogenesis (FIT), feeding activity (FA) and standard metabolism (SMR). The metabolic cost of FA in mol O<sub>2</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> amounts to 1.9  0.8 at 15<sup></sup>C and 2.5  1.3 at 20<sup></sup>C, or less than 10% of the total metabolic rate during feeding. It takes 7-8 h for the rate of metabolism to return to the pre-feeding level. The measurement of food consumption allowed calculation of the coefficients of assimilation and of feeding-induced thermogenesis (equivalent to the `SDA-coefficient'). Both coefficients are in the range reported for larger fish. The metabolic cost of growth can be determined by plotting the caloric equivalent of FIT + FA (the metabolic scope for growth) against the caloric value of somatic production during the experiment. Proportionality between the two variables holds only up to a rate of production of about 10 J g<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> (equivalent to a growth rate of about 6% day<sup>-1</sup>) at 15<sup></sup>C and 13 J g<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> (=8% day<sup>-1</sup>) at 20<sup></sup>C. At higher growth rates there is no further increase in the rate of oxygen consumption. Thus an aerobic maximum for growth is defined, the energy equivalents of which are 5.3 and 7.7 J g<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> at 15 and 20<sup></sup>C respectively. In the range of proportionality the cost of growth is almost independent of temperature, varying between 0.36 and 0.43 J J<sup>-1</sup>; i.e. the synthesis of 1 J of body substance requires the expenditure of 0.36-0.43 J of metabolic energy. The metabolic energy for growth rates exceeding 8% day<sup>-1</sup> can only be obtained in two ways: either by suppressing other energy-consuming functions (usually included in the term `maintenance') or by increasing the efficiency of the conversion of food energy into body proteins. The parameters of the energy budget of small roach feeding in total darkness are not different from those feeding in the light.
40863648|1. It has been suggested that much of the elevated CO 2 effect on plant productivity and N cycling in semi-arid grasslands is related to a CO 2 -induced increase in soil moisture, but the relative importance of moisture-mediated and direct effects of CO 2 remain unclear. 2. We grew five grassland species common to the semi-arid grasslands of northern Colorado, USA, as monocultures and as mixtures of all five species in pots. We examined the effects of atmospheric CO 2 concentration (ambient vs. 780 p. p. m.) and soil moisture (15 vs. 20% m/m) on plant biomass and plant N uptake. Our objective was to separate CO 2 effects not related to water from water-mediated CO 2 effects by frequently watering the pots, thereby eliminating most of the elevated CO 2 effects on soil moisture, and including a water treatment similar in magnitude to the water-savings effect of CO 2 . 3. Biomass of the C 3 grasses Hesperostipa cornata and Pascopyrum smithii increased under elevated CO 2 , biomass of the C 4 grass Bouteloua gracilis increased with increased soil moisture, while biomass of the forbs Artemisia frigida and Linaria dalmatica had no or mixed responses. Increased plant N uptake contributed to the increase in plant biomass with increased soil moisture while the increase in plant biomass with CO 2 enrichment was mostly a result of increased N use efficiency (NUE). Species-specific responses to elevated CO 2 and increased soil moisture differed between monocultures and mixtures. Both under elevated CO 2 and with increased soil moisture, certain species gained N in mixtures at the expense of species that lost N, but elevated CO 2 led to a different set of winners and losers than did increased water. 4. Elevated CO 2 can directly increase plant productivity of semi-arid grasslands through increased NUE, while a CO 2 -induced increase in soil moisture stimulating net N mineralization could further enhance plant productivity through increased N uptake. Our results further indicate that the largest positive and negative effects of elevated CO 2 and increased soil moisture on plant productivity occur with interspecific competition. Responses of this grassland community to elevated CO 2 and water may be both contingent upon and accentuated by competition.
2656470|1. The stress caused by air pollutants was studied at biochemical, morphological and ecological levels in the Pied Flycatcher, Ficedula hypoleuca, and Great Tit, Parus major, nestlings in 10 study sites along the pollution gradient of a copper smelter. 2. First, stress was measured using four biomarkers from blood and liver: ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) enzyme, haemoglobin, stress protein Hsp70 and delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALA-d) enzyme. Second, the amount of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) in the length of the 3rd primary and the outermost rectrix (in P. major) and the length and thickness of the tarsus were measured. These stress indicators were further examined in relation to the breeding performance of birds, i.e. the ecological response. 3. EROD activity was increased in F. hypoleuca nestlings near the pollution source. In P. major, it was not related to the pollution gradient but correlated well with the proportion of starved nestlings, i.e. the nutritional stress during the nestling period. The variations in haemoglobin, Hsp70 and ALA-d enzyme activity were not significantly related to pollution gradient. 4. The tarsus length of F. hypoleuca nestlings and primary length of P. major nestlings showed increased asymmetry in the vicinity of the pollution source. Breeding success decreased towards the pollution source in both species. 5. In F. hypoleuca, the pollution-related stress was verified at all three target levels. In P. major, pollution-related effects were found at morphological and ecological levels but not at the biochemical level, which suggests that direct toxic effect of heavy metals was not the main mechanism in this species.
10.2307/2389962|1. This paper explores the relationship between energy expenditure, body size and the capacity for homeothermy in young of a precocial mammal. 2. Metabolism and rectal temperature (T<sub>b</sub>) were measured during postnatal development in 4-81-day-old white-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus townsendii). 3. Whole-animal metabolism increased with age, mass-specific metabolism decreased with age, and mass-independent metabolism showed no age-related change. 4. Jackrabbits 4-5 days old responded to low ambient temperature (T<sub>a</sub>) by increasing metabolism, but nonetheless, their T<sub>b</sub>s declined at low T<sub>a</sub>. 5. The amount of decline in T<sub>b</sub> with a lower T<sub>a</sub> decreased with age. By 80-81 days, T<sub>b</sub> was stable over a wide range of T<sub>a</sub> (0-25<sup></sup>C). 6. Effects of body mass and T<sub>a</sub> together explained most of the observed variation in whole-animal metabolism (92%) and T<sub>b</sub> (61%). 7. In comparison to young European rabbits described in previous literature, the relatively precocial young of the white-tailed jackrabbit had a greater metabolic response to low T<sub>a</sub> and an earlier postnatal development of insulatory traits.
2390552|1. Changes in nutritional value and accessibility of leaves following browsing are important in the dynamics of plant-herbivore interactions because they influence the fitness of the plant attacked and the future utilization of it by the herbivore. 2. Hand pruning of Acacia tortilis, a spinescent tree common in savanna ecosystems of eastern Africa, resulted in higher biomass of spines and new shoots in pruned trees than in unpruned controls. 3. Pruned trees allocated a higher proportion of shoot biomass to spines than unpruned ones, whereas the proportion of leaf biomass in new shoots was slightly reduced. Because increases in spine biomass and density following pruning are coupled with an increase in shoot production, it is concluded that higher production of spines is an inducible response of Acacia tortilis to pruning. 4. No significant changes in the concentration of total phenolics, condensed tannins or leaf nitrogen were induced by pruning. 5. Irrespective of treatment, high foliar concentrations of nitrogen were correlated with an increase in twig production for a given leaf biomass and a reduction in the concentration of secondary substances in leaves. This relation may lead to a conflict between foraging efficiency and nutrition for browsers of A. tortilis.
826634|1. In male Sand Fiddler Crabs, Uca pugilator, a major cheliped (with claw), used in intersexual displays and intrasexual contests, develops opposite a minor cheliped used for feeding. Cheliped size demonstrates antisymmetry because greater development is equally likely on the right or left side. 2. The side with the major cheliped (major side) also has longer walking legs which may facilitate use of the claw. In contrast, eye stalk asymmetry is equally due to antisymmetry and fluctuating asymmetry. Fluctuating asymmetry is a subtle, non-adaptive departure from the population-level trajectory relating growth on major and minor sides. 3. In a South Carolina (USA) marsh, cheliped and leg antisymmetries are greater and eye stalk asymmetry is less among males able to defer feeding in favour of breeding. However, the composition of up-slope breeding and down-slope feeding subpopulations changes across the lunar cycle. 4. The number of mates sequestered in breeding burrows is positively correlated with cheliped and leg antisymmetry and negatively correlated with eye stalk asymmetry. Male fitness is a function of the product of time spent breeding and the number of mates per unit time while breeding. Both fitness components are predicted by relative cheliped antisymmetry and eye stalk fluctuating asymmetry, which are themselves significantly negatively correlated.
3599171|1. Microhabitat use and antipredator behaviour (i.e. behavioural response to a brid model and refuge microhabitat) was measured in an experimental set-up for 11 lacertid lizard species. Additionally, locomotor performance (sprint speed, climbing and clambering speed, manoeuvrability and endurance) of the same species was quantified. 2. The results showed considerable interspecific variation in microhabitat use, behavioural response and choice of refuge microhabitat. Part of that variation could be linked to differences in locomotor capacity. 3. Species that frequently made use of open microhabitats tended to be fast sprinters, but had limited endurance. The behavioural data suggest these species will not start running before the predator is close at hand, and thus having high sprint capacities might be more beneficial than great endurance. 4. Species that spent most of their time on vertical elements appeared to be fast climbers. As such microhabitats tend to be quite exposed, lizards living there are conspicuous to predators and being able to escape fast seems relevant. 5. Contrary to our expectations, species mostly observed in the vegetated microhabitats did not excel in clambering capacity or manoeuvrability. Possibly, dense vegetation constitutes a safe harbour and species may no longer be under selection for locomotor speed. 6. Behavioural response when confronted with an aerial predator was context-dependent in most species: most lizards fled more when in open or vertical microhabitats than when in densely vegetated ones. Moreover, when fleeing most species sought refuge in the vegetation. These findings support our idea that vegetated patches may constitute a safe harbour for lacertids.
41239455|1. Through nest-site selection, mothers exert control over the incubation environment to which eggs are exposed, which in turn can affect offspring fitness. The strong relationship between offspring quality and incubation temperature in many ectotherms suggests that contemporary climate change could modify the fitness benefits gained from such behaviour. 2. We used life-history data from a tropical lizard (the long-tailed skink, Eutropis longicaudatd) to show that a natural dichotomy in nesting habitat directly influences fitness, but that higher ambient temperatures in recent years are having a disproportionate impact on 'optimal' nest sites. 3. Gravid lizards either lay eggs beneath rocks in natural habitat or inside a concrete wall in human-modified habitat, where incubation temperatures are higher. Consequently, females using artificial habitat produced larger hatchlings that matured earlier and had higher rates of survival than conspecifics using natural habitat. 4. Ambient temperatures have impacted artificial habitats disproportionately over the last decade by increasing nest temperatures in artificial habitat threee times that of natural habitat (15 vs. 05 C, respectively). This has reversed nest-site qualilty by lowering offspring viability of artificial nest sites, but ha increased offspring viability of natural nest sites. 5. Climate change has overridden the fitness benefits derived from nesting in artificial habitats, but has caused a resultant increase in the fitness benefits derived from nesting in natural habitats. Laboratory incubation experiments confirm that these patterns are attributed to temperature. 6. Our study highlights the interactive effects of disparate human environmental impacts on fauna; by creating the concrete wall, human habitat modification initially conferred fitness benefits by increasing incubation temperatures, but human-induced climate change has raised nest temperatures above the point at which fitness is reduced. 7. Contemporary climate change is altering the location and availability of 'optimal' nesting habitat, thereby changing the ability of nesting females to adaptively manipulate the phenotypes of their offspring. Consequently, human-induced climate change can lead to some habitats becoming ecological traps.
3599125|1. Starvation resistance is often measured in physiological studies with Drosophila and other insects. One common method involves measuring time until death of groups of insects. This method assumes that survivors are not obtaining nutrition from their vial mates that die early. However, because some Drosophila larvae can scavenge carcasses, this group protocol might inadvertently lead to a 'cannibalism' bias. 2. We evaluated whether starvation resistance of Drosophila melanogaster was increased if fly carcasses were available from the beginning of the experiment. We used a mixed-model ANOVA to assess the direct and interactive effects of isofemale line, sex and immediate access to carcasses. 3. Males survived starvation longer than females, despite the smaller size of males. Isofemale lines differed significantly in resistance. Immediate access to fly carcasses had no impact on resistance. 4. These results suggest that starving adult flies do not gain measurable benefits from access to carcasses. Consequently, this experiment seemingly validates a widely used method of measuring starvation resistance.
10.2307/2390248|1. The effect of seedling age on the risk of predation by molluses was investigated for three common grassland species by exposing uneven-aged seedling assemblages (monoculture and mixed species) to grazing by the slug Derocerus reticulatum in experimental trays in greenhouse conditions. 2. In monoculture, seedling age was found to influence significantly the risk of mollusc attack on both Senecio jacobaea and Taraxacum officinale. By contrast, the risk of attack on Veronica persica seedlings was unrelated to seedling age. 3. In a mixture of Taraxacum and Senecio seedlings, Taraxacum seedlings were not selected by slugs on the basis of age as they were in monoculture. Senecio seedlings in mixture with Taraxacum were generally grazed upon less than conspecifics in monoculture, although the effect of seedling age upon relative susceptibility to herbivory was broadly the same as in monoculture. 4. The results demonstrate that the timing of herbivory by molluscs can be crucial in determining the survivorship of a cohort of seedlings. The effects which seedling morphology, changes in seedling palatability with age, relative growth rates and pattern of association with neighbours have upon mollusc feeding behaviour are discussed, highlighting the role molluscs play as an important selective force in plant communities.
826586|1. Despite its significance from both life-history and physiological perspectives, metabolic cold adaptation (MCA) in insects remains controversial. Although several small-scale studies have provided support for such adaptation, many others have not. 2. Using a global-scale analysis of the standard metabolic rates of 346 species, it is shown that after removing the effects of trial temperature and body mass, environmental temperature significantly influences interspecific variation in metabolic rate, such that insects from colder environments tend to have higher, whole-organism, metabolic rates. Although this effect is weak, it does provide evidence in favour of MCA in this important terrestrial group. 3. Although data from the Southern Hemisphere are limited, we show that this adaptation also takes the form of an increase in the slope of the metabolic rate-temperature relationship in Northern, but not in Southern, Hemisphere species. 4. Metabolic cold adaptation and its variation among the hemispheres should be counted among the causes of interspecific variation in metabolic rate.
41239369|1. Parasitic plants are components of many habitats and have pronounced effects on animal diversity; shaping distributions, influencing movement patterns and boosting species richness. Many of these plants provide fleshy fruit, nectar, foliar arthropods and secure nest sites, but the relative influence of these nutritional and structural resources on faunal species richness and community structure remains unclear. 2. To disentangle these factors and quantify the resources provided by parasitic plants, we focused on the hemiparasitic shrub Exocarpos strictus (Santalaceae). Twenty-eight Eucalyptus camaldulensis forest plots were studied in the Gunbower-Koondrook forest in southeastern Australia, comparing riparian forests with an Exocarpos-dominated understorey with otherwise similar habitats with or without equivalent cover of the non-parasitic Acacia dealbata. Analyses of avian richness and incidence (overall and in six feeding guilds) were complemented by explicit measures of resources in both shrub types; foliage density, standing crop of fleshy fruit and foliar arthropod abundance and biomass. 3. Avian species richness was c. 50% greater and total incidences for five guilds were significantly greater in forests with the parasitic shrub, with no appreciable differences between the other two habitat types. In addition to plentiful fleshy fruits, Exocarpos supported abundant arthropods in their foliage-significantly higher in biomass than for equivalent volumes of Acacia foliage. Exocarpos had a shorter and denser structure, providing a greater range of microhabitats than the more open growing Acacia. 4. Our results demonstrate that structural and nutritional resources (both direct and indirect) provided by Exocarpos affect diversity and community composition, with each set of resources affecting different organismal groups. Rather than an exceptional system or an aberrant result, we suggest the influence of Exocarpos on species richness relates to their parasitic habit, supporting the hypothesis that parasitic plants mobilize resources from their hosts and make them available to a range of trophic levels.
10.2307/2389826|1. We measured the simultaneous energy expenditure of five male and six female pouched mice (Saccostomus campestris), over 3 consecutive days, using the doubly labelled water (DLW) technique. The aim was to assess the interindividual scaling of daily energy demands and also the repeatability of measures of daily energy expenditure when using doubly labelled water. 2. Individual mice were housed in cages, given free access to food and water and were kept in a natural photoperiod (February at 26
2656491|1. The carbon content and <sup>13</sup>C value of soil organic carbon (SOC), microbial biomass (C<sub>mic</sub>) and respired CO<sub>2</sub> were measured in a range of grassland soils from tropical and temperate biomes to determine if isotope effect of microbial degradation can induce a shift in isotope composition of SOC and CO<sub>2</sub>. The soil from a depth of 0-2 cm was analysed. C<sub>mic</sub> was measured using the chloroform fumigation extraction method, while CO<sub>2</sub> was measured in a closed system after 3 and 10 days of incubation. Two soils, temperate and tropical, were used for a long-term experiment, in which measurements were performed after 3, 10 and 40 days of incubation. 2. SOC and C<sub>mic</sub> decrease exponentially with increasing mean annual temperature. C<sub>mic</sub> decreases more slowly than SOC, resulting in a higher proportion of C<sub>mic</sub> in the SOC of tropical soils relative to temperate soils. 3. The <sup>13</sup>C value of C<sub>mic</sub> and respired CO<sub>2</sub> reflects gross changes in the <sup>13</sup>C value of SOC in the corresponding sample. On average, C<sub>mic</sub> is <sup>13</sup>C-enriched by c. 2 per mil compared with SOC, while respired CO<sub>2</sub> is <sup>13</sup>C-depleted by c. 2. per mil compared with C<sub>mic</sub>. Thus, the observed <sup>13</sup>C-enrichment in C<sub>mic</sub> is balanced by a corresponding <sup>13</sup>C- depletion in respired CO<sub>2</sub> resulting in the <sup>13</sup>C value of respired CO<sub>2</sub> being approximately similar to the <sup>13</sup>C of SOC. 4. The isotope effect of microbial degradation is of importance in soil. It can be induced by selective utilization of SOC and isotope discrimination during metabolism. Metabolic isotopic discrimination is dependent on the growth stage of the soil microbial population.
40603052|1. Factors contributing to the maintenance of phenotypic variation in nature are often difficult to determine. Secondary sexual traits might be particularly interesting in this regard due to the interaction they experience between multiple selective agents. One way to examine such effects is to monitor populations following environmental change. Human-caused changes can be particularly useful here because they often involve an abrupt and extreme alteration of specific habitat features. This alteration can then precipitate phenotypic plasticity, changes in adaptive landscapes, and modified evolutionary trajectories. The consequences of habitat manipulations on local populations can therefore improve our understanding of phenotypic variation in complex ecological systems. 2. We took advantage of a human-caused environmental disturbance to examine factors influencing phenotypic variation in Trinidadian guppies (Poeclia reticulata). Differences in canopy cover along the stream have been hypothesized to explain some of this variation, but this has been hard to test directly. We here attempt a direct test of this hypothesis by monitoring changes in guppy size and colour following a dramatic decrease in canopy cover due to tree removal for agricultural activity. 3. Although male and female body size increased following canopy clearing, little change was observed in the overall amount of melanin-based colours, carotenoid-based colours, and structural colours on males. We further compared phenotypes before and after canopy clearing at the disturbed site to those from two nearby reference sites that are at extreme ends of canopy cover. Overall, variation in colour was attributed to differences among sites, irrespective of canopy differences. We also found considerable temporal variation in some colour elements at a given site. 4. Our results suggest that differences in light availability do not cause rapid and dramatic changes in guppy colour. The substantial unexplained variation must therefore be due to factors other than canopy (measured here) and prdation regime (all sites were 'low-predation'). Because of the multiple and complex interactions involved in the expression and maintenance of sexually selected traits, our study emphasizes the need for a better understanding of both the genetic and environmental sources of co-variation between sexual ornaments and preferences.
2656357|1. The contribution of N storage and remobilization to the vegetative and reproductive growth of the forb Rumex acetosa was quantified using <sup>15</sup>N labelling techniques with plants derived from semi-natural grasslands in Scotland. 2. The contribution of remobilized N to the total N in the new above-ground tissues was highest at the beginning of the growing season at 58%. New leaves and reproductive organs contained equal amounts of remobilized N. 3. During early vegetative growth, the taproot was the main source of remobilized N, whereas during reproductive growth, N was additionally remobilized from fine roots and leaves. 4. Free amino acids (mainly arginine and glutamine) and proteins were identified as the main storage compounds in the taproots. The protein pool did not show any seasonal variations that indicated the existence of a vegetative storage protein, indicating that such proteins are not a necessary component of N storage/remobilization in all species. 5. The ability to store and remobilize N provides a mechanism for growth in the spring when the availability of soil N is low, and means that growth depends upon environmental conditions during more than one year.
3599097|1. Despite the increasing occurrence of global environmental changes, including increases in ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B; 280-320 nm), little is known about how factors such as UV-B affect animals physiologically. Amphibians provide a good model for examining physiological effects of UV-B exposure because studies documenting both lethal and sub-lethal effects have been completed on many species. 2. This study examines survival and the hormonal stress response, as measured by whole body levels of the glucocorticoid hormone corticosterone, of Cascades Frog, Rana cascadae, tadpoles exposed to ambient UV-B in the field for either 7 or 42 days. 3. There were no differences in corticosterone levels between UV-B exposed and nonexposed tadpoles at either time point. However, after 42 days, survival was significantly higher in tadpoles shielded from UV-B. 4. A stress response profile performed in the field demonstrated that young R. cascadae tadpoles are able to respond to confinement stress with increasing corticosterone. In addition, results from UV-B avoidance tests suggest that R. cascadae tadpoles do not avoid UV-B. 5. Thus, R. cascadae tadpoles may not perceive UV-B radiation, which would explain why they do not respond hormonally to exposure, despite the potential for exposure to result in mortality.
20142829|1. In the nursery pollination system of figs (Ficus, Moraceae), flower-bearing receptacles called syconia breed pollinating wasps and are units of both pollination and seed dispersal. Pollinators and mammalian seed dispersers are attracted to syconia by volatile organic compounds (VOCs). In monoecious figs, syconia produce both wasps and seeds, while in (gyno)dioecious figs, male (gall) fig trees produce wasps and female (seed) fig trees produce seeds. 2. VOCs were collected using dynamic headspace adsorption methods on freshly collected figs from different trees using Super Q collection traps. VOC profiles were determined using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). 3. The VOC profile of receptive and dispersal phase figs were clearly different only in the dioecious mammal-dispersed Ficus hispida but not in dioecious bird-dispersed F. exasperata and monoecious bird-dispersed F. tsjahela. 4. The VOC profile of dispersal phase female figs was clearly different from that of male figs only in F. hispida but not in F. exasperata, as predicted from the phenology of syconium production which only in F. hispida overlaps between male and female trees. Greater difference in VOC profile in F. hispida might ensure preferential removal of seed figs by dispersal agents when gall figs are simultaneously available. 5. The VOC profile of only mammal-dispersed female figs of F. hispida had high levels of fatty acid derivatives such as amyl-acetates and 2-heptanone, while monoterpenes, sesquiterpenes and shikimic acid derivatives were predominant in the other syconial types. A bird- and mammal-repellent compound methyl anthranilate occurred only in gall figs of both dioecious species, as expected, since gall figs containing wasp pollinators should not be consumed by dispersal agents.
826663|1. Invertebrates from at least three major groups (crustaceans, gastropods and insects) have distributions that are restricted to within a few hundred metres of the coast, but unlike coastal plants there has been little discussion and no tests of the mechanisms that might control such distributions. 2. Coastally restricted landhoppers, Austrotroides maritimus Friend, were transported inland of their natural distribution and established in enclosures at a site in far southern Tasmania. Salt (dry and in solution) was added to these enclosures to test the hypothesis that this species is confined to the coast by a requirement for salt. 3. Over 5 months, A. maritimus persisted and reproduced in the dry salt treatment, but numbers remained low or declined in the other treatments. 4. The addition of salt in solution did not produce the increase in numbers seen in the dry salt treatment. There was no evidence that non-coastal species declined under the salt treatments. 5. The restriction of A. maritimus to the coast is explained in terms of its dependence on a supply of ions from salt spray, rather than a resistance to conditions which other more competitive species cannot tolerate. 6. This conclusion is qualified by the possibility that there may be occasional salt-concentrating events in the coastal zone which raise the salt concentration above the tolerance levels of non-coastal species. 7. Coastal landhoppers, in Tasmania at least, are not plesiomorphic members of their genera, so their distributions appear to be secondary, rather than representing an early stage in land colonization.
20142847|1. Large-scale transcriptomic and proteomic analyses reveal that a plant's primary metabolism is reconfigured when herbivores attack. However, unbiased means of evaluating the function of this reconfiguration for the plant-herbivore interaction are lacking. 2. The production of secondary metabolites can be genetically silenced for in planta tests of defensive function without dramatically altering growth. This is not possible with primary metabolites, which may also function defensively. 3. We test this hypothesis by silencing the expression of genes coding for seven herbivore-induced proteins not known to play obvious defensive roles in the Nicotiana attenuata-Manduca sexta interaction and analysed the performance of plants and insects and traits known to mediate resistance and performance. Silencing genes of up-regulated proteins in N. attenuata tended to benefit larval performance, while silencing genes of down-regulated proteins tended to decrease it: these results are consistent with expectations that herbivory-induced regulation reflects the role of proteins in attacked plants. 4. Surprisingly, plant trypsin proteinase inhibitors (TPIs) and larval midgut protease activity were not associated with larval performance and neither was the variation in established defence metabolites (nicotine), suggesting greater importance of other metabolites, such as diterpene glycosides. 5. We conclude that silencing the genes of proteins differentially regulated during a plant-herbivore interaction and querying each player in the interaction reveals novel functions of genes at an organismic level of analysis and the direct-indirect influence of non-defence proteins in plant-herbivore interactions.
40863628|1. The oxidative stress theory of ageing predicts that animals living longer will have less cumulative oxidative damage together with structural characteristics that make them more resistant to oxidative damage itself. 2. Although a general relationship between body size, metabolism and longevity does not exist in marine invertebrates, they are generally characterized by low rates of metabolism and reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation associated with lower antioxidant enzyme activities compared to vertebrates. 3. Birds and mammals have very similar size-affected metabolic rates and their metabolic intensity explains only some of the variation in maximum lifespan potential (MLSP). Within each class, smaller animals have higher rates of metabolism and ROS production and membranes that are more susceptible to oxidative damage and autocatalytic propagation of free radicals than larger ones. 4. Although the high variation in life-history strategies is accompanied by substantial variation in MLSP, there is a consistent positive correlation between rates of ROS formation and antioxidant levels among most animals examined so far for these traits. The consensus of these studies is that ROS and antioxidant levels are inversely related to MLSP. 5. The lack of a clear stoichiometric relation between variables contributing to oxidative stress limits our capacity to infer longevity consequences from measures of pro-oxidant or antioxidant status among or within species.
2656461|1. Animals modulate digestive function in order to optimize digestion of their current diet. Two seabird species were used to test the idea that, as a result, changing and mixing diets might adversely affect digestive performance. 2. When switched from an energy-dense fish diet (Sprat, Sprattus sprattus (L.)) to an energy-dilute diet (Whiting, Merlangius merlangus (L.)), Lesser Black-Backed Gulls, Larus fuscus L. had worse digestive performance than birds that were acclimated to Whiting, indicating a cost of diet switching. However, when switched from Whiting to Sprat, Lesser Black-Backed Gulls had better digestive performance than birds acclimated to the Sprat diet. 3. When switched from a Whiting to a Sprat diet some Common Guillemots, Uria aalge (Pont.), developed diarrhoea, although after acclimation birds were able to digest Sprat normally. 4. Common Guillemots, but not Lesser Black-Backed Gulls, showed a reduction in digestive efficiency when given both diets in a mixed meal. 5. Common Guillemots appear to have a less flexible digestive system than Lesser Black-Backed Gulls. This difference in response of the two species may be related to differences in their ecology. 6. Subtle diet shifts may affect digestive performance of animals, and therefore digestive effects, as well as factors such as prey availability and ease of capture, might affect food choice.
10.2307/2389980|1. Comparisons among animal pollinators of the spatial distributions of pollen that they produce have typically been made among morphologically disparate pairs of species. In contrast, we investigated the potential extent of pollen dispersal by honey-bees (Apis mellifera) and bumble-bees (Bombus lapidarius, B. pascuorum and B. terrestris) foraging in rows of oil-seed rape (Brassica napus cv Westar). 2. We estimated the pollen carryover attributable to individual bees by using particulate fluorescent dye as a pollen analogue. Most of the dye was deposited at the first few flowers probed and smaller proportions were deposited up to the 20th successively probed flower. We found no significant interspecific differences in dye carryover mediated by individuals of A. mellifera, B. lapidarius and B. terrestris with respect to either the amount deposited or the rate of decline in deposition across successively probed flowers. We present evidence that the dye produced a reasonably good analogue of pollen transfer. 3. Bees typically flew from one plant to another nearby in the same row and were strongly directional in their movements. Bee species differed significantly in their movement patterns, with B. terrestris having the greatest mean move length and directionality. 4. We used three kinds of model (a numerical simulation and two different sets of diffusion-advection equations) to attempt to emulate bee movements. The predictions from all models were reasonably consistent with the observed bee movements, although the numerical simulation invariably made the most accurate predictions, particularly over the first few moves. 5. Predicted bee movements were combined with least-squares models of dye deposition to estimate the spatial dispersal of pollen by each bee species. All models ranked the bees in the same order of decreasing effectiveness in dye dispersal: B. terrestris, A. mellifera, B. lapidarius, B. pascuorum, although, except for long-distance dispersal, there was only minor variation among the bee species in the predicted extents of dye dispersal (e.g. the models predicted that the median dispersal distance would be approximately two intervening plants irrespective of the species of bee). Overall, the consensus of the models' predictions is that most of the pollen from a source plant is deposited on immediate neighbours, but that long-distance pollen dispersal in this system extends over approximately 20-40 intervening plants from the originating plant, depending on the identity of the pollinator.
10.2307/2389928|1. The mangrove Avicennia germinans, maintained under semi-steady-state glasshouse conditions, exhibited stomatal oscillations. 2. Continuous, simultaneous measurements of transpiration, photosynthesis, leaf temperature and water potential indicated that cycling was synchronized throughout the plant and was rapidly propagated by changes in water potential. 3. The frequency of cycling ranged from 30 to 48 min, usually with large amplitudes, and resulted in considerable fluctuations in transpiration and photosynthesis. 4. Cyclic variation in water potential lagged behind those in conductance and transpiration by 2-7 min. 5. Oscillations were induced by increases in vapour pressure deficit (VPD) and osmotic potential of the substrate and eliminated by decreases in VPD, substrate osmotic potential, root temperature and root resistance. 6. Oscillatory behaviour appeared to be induced by any factor that brought about rapid changes in hydraulic flow through the plant. 7. These results are discussed in relation to feedback mechanisms that regulate stomatal movement.
10.2307/2389981|1. Although the importance of adequate fat deposits for migrating birds has long been recognized, little is known about causes of intraspecific variation in the size of energy reserves. 2. We studied individual variation in visible fat reserves, body size, state of health and nutrition among autumn migrating Goldcrests Regulus regulus. 3. Birds showing signs of infectious/inflammatory diseases (high red blood cell sedimentation rate) or anaemia (low packed red blood cell volume) had significantly smaller fat stores than birds lacking these signs. However, no differences in fat reserves or health state were detected in relation to stage of post-juvenile moult. 4. These results suggest that the ability to deposit fat in the face of an energetically demanding migration may be affected by an individual's state of health.
826719| 1. Experimental data for maximum growth and food consumption of Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar L.) parr from five Norwegian rivers situated between 59 and 70N were analysed and modelled. The growth and feeding models were also applied to groups of Atlantic Salmon growing and feeding at rates below the maximum. The data were fitted to the Ratkowsky model, originally developed for bacterial growth. 2. The rates of growth and food consumption varied significantly among populations but the variation appeared unrelated to thermal conditions in the river of population origins. No correlation was found between the thermal conditions and limits for growth, thermal growth optima or maximum growth, and hypotheses of population-specific thermal adaptation were not supported. Estimated optimum temperatures for growth were between 16 and 20 C. 3. Model parameter estimates differed among growth-groups in that maximum growth and the performance breadth decreased from fast to slow growing individuals. The optimum temperature for growth did not change with growth rate. 4. The model for food consumption (expressed in energy terms) peaked at 19-21 C, which is only slightly higher than the optimal temperature for growth. Growth appeared directly related to food consumption. Consumption was initiated 2 C below the lower temperature for growth and terminated 15 C above the upper critical temperature for growth. Model parameter estimates for consumption differed among growth-groups in a manner similar to the growth models. 5. By combining the growth and consumption models, growth efficiencies were estimated. The maximum efficiencies were high, 42-58%, and higher in rivers offering hostile than benign feeding and growth opportunities. 
2390447|1. Mechanisms of grass- and forb-seed input and output in the central Monte desert of Argentina were studied in 1995 to test the hypothesis that seed consumption by autumn-winter granivores, especially birds, has qualitative as well as quantitative effects on soil-seed reserves. 2. The abundance of perennial grass seeds in late summer soils ( 2400 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> or 0.36 g m<sup>-2</sup>) remained unchanged the following early spring ( 2700 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> of 0.39 g m<sup>-2</sup>), despite the incorporation of about 3000 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> or 0.71 g m<sup>-2</sup> newly produced grass seeds during autumn-winter. Grass seeds appeared to be heavily consumed, especially the medium sized ones. 2. The annual forb-seed bank was about the same size in late summer ( 5500 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> or 1.34 g m<sup>-2</sup>) as in early spring ( 6500 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> or 1.53 g m <sup>-2</sup>). Since forb-seed production had been relatively low ( 400 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> of 0.12 g m<sup>-2</sup>), these seeds apparently suffered negligible postdispersal losses. 4. This pattern of grass- and forb-seed loss coincides with the pattern of seed consumption by granivorous birds - on average 93% of seed mass in bird stomachs was from grass seeds, while only 7% was from forb seeds. 5. Further evidence of a major impact of bird foraging on seed reserves is that the mass of particular grass seeds that was lost from soils was positively correlated with the mass of such seeds in bird diets, and that the main target of bird consumption, i.e. medium-sized grass seeds, suffered the highest postdispersal loss. 6. It is concluded that autumn-winter granivores in the central Monte desert, particularly birds, mainly consume newly produced grass seeds and that they may have major qualitative as well as quantitative impacts on soil-seed reserves.
20142875|1. Ecosystem retrogression, the decline-phase of ecosystem development, occurs during the long-term absence of catastrophic disturbance. It usually involves increased nutrient limitation over time, and leads to reductions in primary productivity, decomposition, and nutrient cycling. 2. As a consequence, retrogression can alter the quality and abundance of host plants as food resources, but little is known about how these changes influence herbivore densities and foliage consumption. 3. In this study, we used a 5000-year-old chronosequence of forested islands in northern Sweden on which retrogression occurs in the absence of lightning-induced wildfire. We asked whether retrogression affected the abundance and herbivory of a dominant herbivorous weevil (Deporaus betulae) and the quality and productivity of a dominant host-tree, mountain birch (Betula pubescens). 4. Betula pubescens trees on retrogressed islands were less productive and produced smaller, tougher leaves that were lower in nutrients and higher in secondary metabolites than did those trees on earlier-successional islands. 5. Despite the lower density and what ecologists might perceive as poorer quality of host plants, we observed several-fold higher weevil abundance and damage on retrogressed islands. This suggests that weevils might prefer the poorer quality leaves with higher secondary metabolites that occur on nutrient stressed host trees. 6. Our results show that ecosystem retrogression increases susceptibility of B. pubescens trees to attack by herbivorous weevils. 7. Our study provides evidence that ecosystem retrogression and associated shifts in the quantity and quality of available resources can operate as an important driver of abundance of a dominant insect herbivore.
3599176|1. Neotropical bat communities are characterized by a broad species diversity, which can be achieved and maintained only through partitioning of the available resources. 2. Here patterns of trophic resource utilization within a single neotropical savanna bat community are investigated. Moreover, the physical properties of food items (i.e. hardness), its variation with food size, and whether food hardness differs between items consumed by the bats in this community are investigated experimentally. 3. The results show that food hardness increases with the size of the food item, and that distinct differences exist in the amount of force needed to crush different food items (beetles vs other insects vs fruits). 4. Using previously published data on bite forces from species in the same community it is explored whether food hardness may play a role in shaping the diets of the bats in the community. The combined data on bite forces and food hardness indicate that food hardness can both directly and indirectly limit dietary diversity in bats. 5. The results also indicate that dietary specialization may potentially result in a decrease in trophic breadth for some species through its effect on bite performance.
10.2307/2390080|1. Theory predicts a negative correlation between root (and stem) allocation and growth rate in enriched environments (RGR<sub>max</sub>), but evidence does not consistently support this. There is one possible supporting example from previous research in which root allocation in the field increases during old-field succession at the Cedar Creek Natural History Area, both community wide and for individual species samples, and RGR<sub>max</sub> declines for some important species. 2. In this study, we confirm that late successional species have lower RGR<sub>max</sub> for a larger sample of species (n = 28) as well as higher field root allocation. However, root allocation by seedlings does not increase for the late successional species for those same species in the greenhouse in enriched conditions; indeed it declines. 3. These results suggest that seedlings may have markedly different allocation than adults and that observed allocation patterns may be better viewed as adaptively plastic responses to resource gradients, rather than fixed species attributes that determine growth rates. Other, presumably less plastic characters (e.g. nitrogen- or water-use efficiency) may control growth rate, optimal allocation, and potentially competition and succession in this sample of plant types. 4. Leaf and stem allocation show no strong successional trend in the field or greenhouse, but do show a negative correlation with each other. Seed size is negatively correlated with growth rate, but shows no trend in relation to successional status.
826637|1. Optimality theory suggests that roots should be kept alive until the efficiency of resource acquisition is maximized (i.e. a maximum ratio of benefits to costs). Because root efficiency may vary with environmental conditions, ecological distributions of plant species may be linked to different patterns of root demography. 2. In a greenhouse study, we investigated fine root turnover (growth and death) for three woody species from the fall-line sandhills of the south-eastern USA. Pinus palustris Mill. is a generalist in this habitat, whereas Quercus marilandica Muenchh. occurs in more fertile, mesic habitats relative to Quercus laevis Walt. Seedlings were grown under four resource treatments (water + nutrients) for 7 months: high resources, low resources, and short-term exposure (last 2 months of the study) to resource enrichment or depletion. 3. Increasing fine root longevity may be optimal in resource-poor sites because root efficiency may be maximized by less root turnover and resource loss. As expected, fine root death and growth was less in species from xeric habitats (Q. laevis), but greater in species from mesic habitats (Q. marilandica). The generalist species P. palustris exhibited high growth but little death of fine roots. 4. When soil resources decrease, less root turnover may reduce resource loss. Fine root growth of all three species decreased at low resources. Fine root death decreased at low resources in Q. marilandica, the only species with significant root death. 5. Demographic responses differed between fine roots and leaves. Although leaf and fine root death were greater in Q. marilandica than in Q. laevis, leaf death, unlike root death, did not change with resource availability. Short-term resource enrichment or depletion affected leaf production but not fine root demography in the Quercus species. 6. Given that fine root morphology affects root maintenance and construction costs, we expected greater fine root growth and death in species with thinner roots of high specific root length (SRL) and low density. However, the species with the greatest root turnover, Q. marilandica, had thick and dense roots of low SRL. 7. Results from our study with woody species indicate that fine root demography, but not fine root morphology, was linked to ecological distribution in a narrow geographical range. Differences in fine root turnover under different resource availability were consistent with the optimality theory, and may reflect trade-offs between tolerance and competitive ability below ground: less root turnover of xeric species under low fertility may conserve resources, whereas faster root growth of mesic species potentially maximizes resource uptake in more fertile soils.
40407727|1. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is an important trait in the study of energy management of an individual, especially in small wintering passerines from the north which have one of the highest energy turnover rates in vertebrates. Laboratory studies have shown the trait to be repeatable and heritable, despite its plastic nature. However there is currently a lack of empirical data from wild passerine populations. 2. We studied within- and between-year repeatability of BMR, body mass and mass-independent BMR from two populations of wintering great tits (Parus major) at the northern range of their distribution. 3. We found body mass, BMR and mass-independent BMR to be highly repeatable both within and between years. 4. Our results provide the first evidence from a wild small passerine that, despite a large environmentally induced variation in metabolic rate, individuals show consistent metabolic strategies over periods even longer than a year. 5. Homeotherm species exposed to new or changing environmental conditions may be able to evolve specific energetic strategies in the wild, as previously found in captive species.
20142845|1. Although it is well established that different plant species vary considerably in the quality of pollinator rewards they offer, it is unclear how plant reproductive systems, in particular an obligate dependence on insects for pollination, might influence the evolution of pollinator rewards. Moreover, unlike the interaction between nectar reward and pollinator visitation, we have a limited understanding of the way in which pollen quality influences pollinator foraging behaviour. 2. We quantified the pollen protein and amino acid content for 23 NW European plant species. Pollen quality was compared with breeding system (facultative- vs. obligate insect-pollinated). A subset of 18 plants was sampled from a single habitat. For these we compared the proportion of pollen collection visits made by bumblebees with the quality of pollen offered. 3. We found a significant association between pollen quality and reproductive system; pollen of obligate insect-pollinated species contained higher protein content. We also found a significant relationship with pollinator use; plants most frequently visited by pollen-collecting bumblebees produced the highest-quality pollen. 4. We discuss how the close relationship between pollen quality and bumblebee attraction may have important benefits for plant reproductive success. However, we also show how the disruption of this mutualism can have detrimental consequences for plant and pollinator alike.
2390405|1. Piper arieianum, an evergreen, understorey shrub of lowland moist forests of Central and South America, exhibits marked seasonal variation in reproductive activity even though climatic variation is low at the study site. Despite a lack of climatic seasonality, previous experimental leaf removal suggested that carbohydrate accumulation is seasonal, occurring prior to flowering. 2. We first tested the hypothesis that carbohydrates necessary for reproduction are accumulated prior to flowering, rather than during or after. By measuring non-structural carbohydrate production in the form of glucose and starch we found that the concentration of these reserves is greatest 1-3 months before flowering, decreasing by 50% during peak fruit maturation. 3. The hypothesis that reproduction was the cause of this decrease in carbohydrate reserves was then tested by comparing reserves in plants that were prevented from flowering with those that flowered and produced fruit naturally. As predicted, reserves declined more in flowering than in non-flowering plants. A smaller decline in reserves of non-flowering plants was accompanied by greater stem and leaf production, suggesting that stored carbohydrates are also required for growth. 4. Because concentrations of non-structural carbohydrates were similar in roots, stems and leaves, and because the greatest amount of plant biomass is in stems for plants of a range of sizes, stems appear to be the main storage site of carbohydrate reserves in this plant species. 5. These results, together with previous studies, demonstrate that the impact of leaf herbivory on seed production in P. arieianum depends on the timing of that herbivory relative to the accumulation and use of non-structural carbohydrates.
4139395|1. Habitat structure has been considered as a main factor shaping the evolution of bird song acoustics. 2. Based on expected differential patterns of sound degradation in different habitats, the acoustic adaptation hypothesis (AAH) proposes that songs with lower frequencies, narrower frequency ranges and longer inter-element intervals should occur more frequently in densely vegetated compared with herbaceous habitats. 3. Empirical tests of the AAH have provided mixed results. Here, we review for the first time the literature on this topic using a meta-analytical, quantitative approach. 4. Maximum, minimum, peak frequency and frequency range were found to be significantly lower in closed compared with open habitats, but the mean size of the effect of habitat was small. Inter-element intervals were not affected by habitat structure. 5. The AAH implicitly assumes that birds are selected to maximize song broadcast range and minimize degradation, while it neglects the potential role of energetic costs of singing and selection by eavesdroppers (e.g. predators and parasites). 6. Our meta-analysis supports the AAH, but habitat structure only weakly predicts the acoustical properties of bird songs. Thus, other potentially relevant factors should be included in realistic models of the evolution of bird song acoustics.
10.2307/2389934|1. Review of published ecological studies using path analysis suggests that path analysis is often misused and collinearity is a moderate to severe problem in a majority of the analyses. 2. Multiple regression is shown to be related to path analysis, and thus collinearity, which is a well-known problem in regression analysis, can also be a problem in path analysis. Collinearity occurs when independent variables are highly correlated and causes estimates of standardized partial regression coefficients and of path coefficients to be less precise, less accurate and prone to rounding error. 3. A review of 24 path analyses in 12 papers revealed incorrectly calculated path coefficients in 13 cases and problems with collinearity in 15 cases. Estimates of path coefficients are biased and lack precision if there is collinearity. 4. An additional 40 path analyses could not be evaluated because of incomplete information. Most studies lack sufficient sample size to justify the use of path analysis. Problems associated with the use of categorical variables, which were used in six cases, are unappreciated. 5. These problems suggest that path coefficients may often mislead ecologists about the relative importance of ecological processes.
10.2307/2390277|1. Predictions of energy expenditure of individual birds and populations have been made by using allometric equations relating metabolic rate to body mass. Many birds show seasonal variation in mass and there is no agreement as to which value of mass to use in such equations. 2. The basal metabolic rates (BMR) of 21 individual Redshank, Tringa totanus, were measured repeatedly throughout the non-breeding season and related to changes in their body masses and body composition [followed using Total Body Electrical Conductivity (TOBEC)]. 3. We examined the effect of seasonal variation in the amount of fat carried by an individual on its BMR, in order to determine the best predictor to use in interspecific allometric equations relating the energy expenditure of birds that show large seasonal variation in body mass to some component of that mass. 4. Between individuals, variation in total lean mass (total body mass minus fat mass) was a better predictor than fat mass of variation in BMR. 5. Within an individual, however, variation in fat mass was as important as variation in total lean mass as a predictor of BMR; in those individuals that showed large seasonal changes in fat mass, variation in BMR was best explained by variation in fat mass. Possible reasons for this are discussed. 6. As variation in BMR of individuals is explained to a greater extent by variation in both lean mass and fat mass (rather than lean mass alone), we conclude that the best value of body mass to use in predictive interspecific allometric equations is total body mass and not total lean mass.
3599206|1. Parasites and pathogens manipulate their hosts in a variety of ways that are thought to enhance their fitness. However, it is rare to be able to link such phenotypic changes to specific genes. 2. Here the effect of a single pathogen gene is examined. The ecdysteroid UDP-glucosyltransferase (egt) gene of insect baculoviruses produces an enzyme that interferes with host moulting. 3. The effect of the egt gene was examined by comparing two baculoviruses that differed only in the expression of this gene. All three fitness traits examined -- pathogenicity, infection duration and pathogen productivity -- were affected by deletion of the gene. 4. Trichoplusia ni larvae in all five instars died earlier when infected with the egt-minus virus compared with those infected by the wild-type Autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus. 5. Unexpectedly, the egt-minus virus was more pathogenic to final instar larvae than the wild-type virus. Virus genotype and dose both influenced insect development. 6. Wild-type infected insects had a significantly higher yield of virus at death, cadaver weight and yield of virus per unit weight than those infected with the egt-minus virus. 7. The size of the virus challenge had a major influence on the outcome of the interaction. The consequences of these data for pathogen fitness are discussed.
3599155|1. Life-history theory typically predicts that juvenile growth rate should be maximized and consequently juvenile period minimized. However, in several examples it has been shown that insect larvae do not always grow as fast as they can and this has been explained by costs of high growth rate, typically higher juvenile mortality rate. Hence, some insect larvae have the ability to adaptively adjust growth rate to catch up if development is delayed. 2. The presence of such ability was tested for in the alpine beetle Oreina elongata Suffrian. In this species, the favourable period for development is relatively short and of unpredictable length, and individuals are chemically defended against predation; factors that could affect the balance between the benefits and costs of high growth rate. 3. Here it is shown that when time stressed, O. elongata larvae were able to increase growth rate, accelerate development and reach the normal final weight. 4. Hence, individual growth rate adjustment was present in a situation where its adaptive value appeared to be relatively weak, which supports the notion that flexible growth strategies are a common phenomenon in temperate insects.
3599242| 1. Tower-based eddy covariance measurements were used to quantify the effect of fire on subsequent carbon dioxide fluxes and water and surface energy balance characteristics for campo sujo savanna located near Braslia in Central Brazil (1556 S, 4751 W). Campo sujo is a xeromorphic, open shrub savanna with very scattered but definitely visible shrubs and tree-like shrub elements. We studied two areas, one exposed to a prescribed fire late in the dry season, and a second that had not been burned for the previous 4 years. 2. The fire on 22 September 1998 consumed an estimated 26 mol
20142874|1. Slower growth after repetitive browsing of young trees has been attributed to a carbon (C) limitation, but data from long-term studies are lacking. To determine if repeated summer browsing causes a C (source) limitation in trees in the long-term, we analysed the non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) and nitrogen (N) concentrations and pools of Betula pubescens saplings subjected to different clipping treatments (unclipped, 33% and 66% shoot removal) for 7 years. 2. The short-term effect of browsing on C allocation was assessed by clipping trees with different browsing histories and analyzing their C and N responses within the same growing season. 3. Long-term repetitive summer browsing significantly decreased sapling growth and soluble sugar (SS) concentrations in fine roots. However, trees subjected to different browsing histories did not change their C partitioning into starch. Although trees with a different browsing history showed differences in the NSC concentrations and pools of leaves, these differences were not maintained through time. 4. Simulated browsing had no significant short-term effect on root C and N pools of birch trees, but it decreased all C pools in leaves, 1-year and current-year stems and the starch and total NSC pools in main stems. 5. We conclude that although browsing may cause a temporary decrease in C pools, B. pubescens trees are able to compensate for such losses and hence are not C-limited in the long-term.
10.2307/2389718|Typically, Andropogon virginicus L. (broomsedge, C<sub>4</sub>) replaces Aster pilosus Willdenow (aster, C<sub>3</sub>) in old-field succession in the North Carolina Piedmont, USA. The current work was designed to see how this situation may change under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations in the future. Aster and broomsedge were grown in a modified deWit Replacement Series under 350, 500 and 650  l l<sup>-1</sup> CO<sub>2</sub>. Aster was added to the pots 6 weeks after broomsedge emerged and all plants were harvested 6 weeks after aster emerged. The C<sub>4</sub> species, broomsedge, did not respond to CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment, but leaf area and dry weight of the C<sub>3</sub> aster were greater at 650 than at 350  l l<sup>-1</sup> CO<sub>2</sub>. Aster did not suppress established broomsedge plants at any CO<sub>2</sub> level. After 6 weeks broomsedge reached a size where competition with aster seedlings did not delay its growth in controlled environments. Future increases in atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations may slow the rate of succession in old fields, but will not necessarily eliminate broomsedge from the composition of the perennial herbaceous community.
40863577|1. Survival of a population can be influenced by foraging success that is determined by ecological and physiological factors. Foraging in air-breathing marine vertebrates is constrained by the duration of their dives, which is in part determined by their oxygen stores. Such organisms are excellent models to study how and when physiology limits behaviour and the associated role of ecological factors such as seasonal change. 2. The Galapagos sea lion (GSL) Zalophus wollebaeki is endangered and its population is declining. Previous work found that GSL exhibited three distinct foraging strategies during a warm season when resources are less abundant, possibly caused by intraspecific competition. 3. We examined adult female GSL diving behaviour during a cold, productive season compared to a warm season to test the hypothesis that they would converge onto one foraging strategy as a consequence of increased productivity. We investigated intra and inter-seasonal changes in GSL oxygen stores during a warm (March 2005, n = 11) and cold season (August-September 2006, n = 12) at Caamao Islet, Galapagos. 4. GSL exhibited persistence of three foraging strategies during the cold, productive season similar to those found during the warm season. This suggests that intraspecific competition associated with limited resources in this area of the Galapagos Islands is maintained throughout the year. 5. GSL exhibited contrasting seasonal changes in their oxygen stores. During the warm season haemoglobin (Hb) and blood volume (Bv) were significantly higher while myoglobin (Mb) was significantly lower compared to that in the cold season. Given that diving behaviour was similar between seasons, these changes are attributed to other causes such as pregnancy as most females were pregnant during the cold season. 6. GSL exhibited physiological plasticity within each season that was attributed to dive behaviour. Oxygen stores of the three foraging strategies, increased according to dive durations: haematocrit, Hb and Mb during the warm season and Hb, Mb and Bv during the cold season. 7. Knowledge of an organism's physiological plasticity is important to assess its vulnerability to climate change. We document for the first time inter and intraseasonal physiological response coupled with diving behaviour in the same sex and age class of an air-breathing diving vertebrate.
3599056|1. Sensory modalities that allow tadpoles to assess their environment, and subsequently mediate their development, are not well understood. 2. By putting clay model tadpoles into the tanks with live tadpoles we have enhanced tactile and visual stimuli for tadpoles of three species (Rana sylvatica, Bufo americanus and Xenopus laevis) in a controlled fashion. The goal was to determine whether visual and tactile cues in the absence of chemical signals influenced tadpole growth and development. 3. The response to enhanced visual and tactile stimuli was strong in Rana, intermediate in Xenopus, but absent in Bufo tadpoles. Rana tadpoles that experienced both stimuli enhanced developed the fastest and metamorphosed at the smallest body size. Development was slower in the treatments with only one stimulus enhanced, and slowest in the controls. 4. Our results suggest that tadpoles use both vision and mechanoreception for environment assessment, and that they are able to modify their growth and developmental rates in response to sensory enrichment. 5. Tadpoles exposed to the combination of visual and tactile stimulation showed the highest whole-body content of the stress hormone corticosterone, suggesting that the enhanced stimuli were experienced as stressful. Corticosterone is known to synergize with thyroid hormone to promote metamorphosis.
2390493|1. It has long been known that wood in trees is under internally generated tensile or compressive forces, known as `prestrains'. These prestrains are thought to limit compressive loading at points of high strain within the tree to counteract the mechanical anisotropy of wood. Prestrains can be relieved by making cuts in wood, allowing it to recover to an unstrained state. 2. Recently, electrical resistance strain gauges have been used to measure surface strains on the trunk, roots and branches of trees. We have found that, by making a shallow cut above and below gauges, the prestrain can be measured as an apparent residual negative strain. This negative strain, after prestrain relief, is indicative of a tensile prestrain having been present in the wood before cutting. 3. It is a simple procedure to determine prestrain magnitude at the site of gauge attachment. By knowing the prestrain state of wood at the measurement site of strain determination, a more reliable estimate of surface stress and safety factors in tree design can be made.
20142778|1. Phenotypic plasticity may allow an organism to respond to temporally variable opportunities for growth and risks of mortality. However, life-history theory assumes that there are often trade-offs between the benefits afforded by plasticity in one trait and the consequences of that plasticity on other traits that affect fitness. In organisms with a complex life cycle, trade-offs may occur between larval and post-metamorphic traits. 2. Many amphibians metamorphose in temporary ponds, and may accelerate larval development to avoid mortality when a pond desiccates. A younger age at metamorphosis often results in reduced body size, but may also facilitate a trade-off with physiological traits that are linked to fitness in the adult stage. 3. We investigated a potential trade-off between desiccation-driven acceleration of development rate and immune system responsiveness in a species that breeds exclusively in temporary ponds. We exposed Rana sylvatica (wood frog) tadpoles to four possible desiccation regimes and then assayed the cell-mediated immune response to a standardized foreign antigen, phytohaemagglutinin (PHA), injected 3 weeks after metamorphosis. We also quantified total leucocyte numbers from haematological smears to obtain a secondary measure of individual immunological condition. 4. Animals exposed to desiccation had shorter development times, weaker cellular immune system responses to PHA and lower total leucocyte numbers than animals from control groups. Both measures of immune response showed a decrease with increasing severity of the desiccation treatment. 5. It is currently unclear whether the observed depression in immune response is transient or permanent. However, even temporary periods of immune system suppression shortly after metamorphosis may lead to greater susceptibility to opportunistic pathogens or parasites.
10.2307/2390511|1. External environmental influences (such as temperature and photoperiod) affect rates of food intake in fish. In species with variable life-history patterns, individual appetite might vary with the developmental strategy adopted in response to differing nutritional requirements. There may also have been selection for appetite to vary with the anticipated natural availability of food. 2. This study examines how appetite in Atlantic salmon parr varies seasonally, and how this seasonal variation is influenced by (a) diet quality, (b) nutritional status of fish and (c) sexual maturation in male parr. 3. All fish showed a marked peak in food intake in May of their second summer followed by a sudden loss of appetite (measured both as appetitive behaviour and as actual food intake); this anorexia was unrelated to temperature and may be an adaptation to anticipated seasonal variation in natural food availability. 4. Fish compensated for a reduction in the fat content of the diet by increasing their intake rate (after a period of reduced appetite). Early in the winter, fish with a low lipid content had an enhanced appetite, but this response disappeared as the winter progressed, probably because the need to maintain energy reserves diminishes as the winter progresses. 5. Sexual maturation in males had no consistent effect on appetite, although there was some evidence for a reduced intake a few months prior to spawning.
2656441|1. Within-clutch variation in parental investment of yolk lipid (including essential fatty acid composition and fat-soluble vitamin content) was investigated in whole clutches of three eggs of Lesser Black-backed Gulls, Larus fuscus. 2. Although there were no significant differences between years in egg size or yolk mass among eggs of the same laying order, eggs collected in 1996 had significantly lower lipid content than those collected in 1997. 3. In both years third-laid c-eggs were smaller, had a smaller mass of yolk and had significantly lower yolk lipid mass compared with earlier laid (a- and b-) eggs. 4. Despite this lower lipid mass of c-eggs, of the different lipid fractions only cholesterol content of c-eggs was significantly lower than that of a- or b-eggs. 5. Earlier laid eggs had greater amounts of arachidonic acid in the phospholipid and cholesterol ester fractions of yolk lipid, and considerably greater quantities of vitamin E and carotenoids. 6. Conversely, levels of linoleic acid and vitamin A were equalized among eggs of different laying sequence as both these essential nutrients have primarily systemic roles. 7. The probable effect of increased antioxidant (vitamin E and carotenoid) content of earlier-laid eggs is to enhance embryonic and neonatal growth and development, reduce susceptibility to pathogens and increase the ability of the embryo to withstand the oxidative stress associated with hatching. 8. The results suggest that there is maternal bias of essential nutrients to offspring with the highest reproductive value in order to maximize reproductive success.
826612|1. Lichens that live epiphytically on leaves (foliicolous lichens) are one of the most abundant groups of epiphytes in tropical rainforests, with lichen cover on individual leaves often exceeding 50%. In this study we quantified the shading of host leaves by foliicolous lichens, and investigated the capacity of palm leaves growing under contrasting light regimes to photo-acclimate to lichen colonization. 2. Spectral analyses of 11 lichen species with differing thallus colouring and morphology demonstrated that the lichens exhibited absorptance spectra similar to their host leaves. The lichens showed mean light interceptions of 50%, with some species reducing the photosynthetically usable light by up to 70%. 3. Despite such shading, our observations indicated that leaves photo-acclimate to the cover of lichens. The rate of photosynthesis of leaf patches covered by lichens was saturated at lower irradiances, and these patches had higher chlorophyll concentrations than uncolonized leaf areas. Monte Carlo estimates of total daily carbon gain, based on assimilation-irradiance curves and continuous light records, indicated that leaf areas covered by lichens compensated fully for the shading by lichens. 4. These findings do not support the widely held opinion that shading by foliicolous lichens and other epiphylls generally reduces the rate of photosynthesis by their host leaves.
10.2307/2390203|1. Many studies have shown environmental effects on the growth and body size of wild birds. Most investigations have centred on the role of nestling nutrition in these effects. However, few of these studies have investigated the role of diet quality in the growth of wild birds. In this study I investigate the effect of altering nestling diet quality on the growth of a hirundine, the house martin. 2. The quality of the diet fed to nestling house martins was reduced through direct fat feeding. This resulted in a diet of insects and fat which satisfied energy demand while providing fewer nutrients than the usual wholly insect diet. Effects of fat feeding were monitored by recording parental visits, by collecting the faecal output of broods and by measuring nestling growth. 3. In both years, fat feeding reduced parental feeding visits and fat-free faecal output of broods while producing little alteration in estimated total energy intake. Fat-free faecal mass was positively correlated with an index of parental visits. Mass of fat fed explained most variation in the faecal output of broods. 4. Field metabolic rate of 14-day-old nestlings (mean 54.8 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>), measured using the doubly labelled water technique, did not differ between treatments after correction for nestling diet artefacts. 5. Fat-fed broods grew more slowly and were smaller at day 20 and at fledging than control broods even though fledging later. Wing growth was correlated with fat-free faecal output. 6. It was concluded that diet quality differences resulting from fat feeding had caused the difference in nestling growth and that this diet-quality effect may be present in wild bird populations. However, in house martins natural variation in food abundance is probably more important in determining growth than variation in diet quality.
40205483|1. Despite the proliferation of studies on the role of nestling mouth colour in parent-offspring communication, there has been very little work regarding the proximate mechanism for mouth pigmentation. 2. Carotenoids, a class of phytochemicals important for immune function and gained by birds only through their diet, also serve as pigments for yellow-orange colours. Carotenoids have been shown to be responsible for the colouration of adult plumage and integuments (e. g. bills, legs, combs of adults of several species), but their role in colouring nestling gapes, and the surrounding fleshy rictal flanges, remains hypothetical. 3. Here, we present direct evidence for the importance of carotenoid availability in determining nestling mouth colouration. In field experiments on Hihi (Notiomystis cincta), a passerine endemic to New Zealand, we experimentally supplemented carotenoids directly to nestlings, and indirectly by provisioning parents, and measured the effect on nestling mouth colouration with spectrometer. 4. We found that increased carotenoid availability in the diet enhanced circulating blood plasma carotenoid concentrations, and that this in turn influenced mouth palate and rictal flange colouration. High carotenoid availability increased saturation of the yellow wavelengths of the spectrum reflected by both the palate and flanges, but reduced the reflectance of ultraviolet (UV) wavelengths of the rictal flanges. 5. We suggest that carotenoids influence the appearance of nestling gapes both by increasing pigmentation and as a filter of UVreflecting structures.
40603111|1. The life stage suffering the highest prdation rate is expected to have the highest escape performance unless developmental or functional constraints interfere. Peak aquatic escape performance in ephemeral pond-breeding amphibians is expected to develop early in the larval period, and metamorphosis is expected to reduce or completely disrupt aquatic escape performance. In anurans, exceptionally low escape performance during metamorphosis creates selection favouring rapid metamorphosis -which minimizes the time individuals spend in the vulnerable transition between tadpole and frog. 2. We investigated the development of aquatic escape performance in the spotted salamander, Ambystoma maculatum (Shaw, 1802), from embryonic development through metamorphosis. We expected performance to peak early in the larval period as hatchlings face high rates of prdation but embryos must first develop escape behaviours. We also tested whether escape performance during metamorphosis was intermediate, as predicted by tail fin rsorption, or lower than larvae and adults indicating a major physiological disruption. 3. Escape performance shows a complex ontogeny that is first positively influenced by embryonic and early larval development and then negatively correlated with tail rsorption and body size. Escape distance was the only performance metric not affected by life stage. In contrast, both escape velocity and duration showed ontogenetic peaks early in the larval period with the lowest performance found in early embryos and adults and intermediate performance during metamorphosis. 4. This pattern suggests that metamorphosis does not impose a major physiological disruption on escape performance. Because spotted salamanders do not pass through a frog-like ' ontogenetic performance valley' during metamorphosis, they may be less subject than anurans to selection favouring rapid metamorphosis. 5. Functional implications of phenotypic variation should be considered in an ontogenetic framework because the relationship between body size and escape performance can be reversed on either side of an ontogenetic performance peak. The assumption that metamorphosis radically disrupts basic functions such as predator evasion does not seem universally warranted and suggests examination of ontogenetic performance trajectories in a diversity of animals with complex life cycles.
10.2307/2390232|1. The costs of conditioning adult Drosophila melanogaster with a mild thermal stress that activates the genes for heat-shock proteins were examined by comparing the number of offspring produced by females maintained continuously at 25
10.2307/2390566|1. The architecture and allometry of eight populations of mangrove tree saplings of seven species (1.5-3 m in height) were studied at Sungei Merbok, Kedah, Peninsular Malaysia. Three populations (Bruguiera cylindrica, Bruguiera parviflora and Rhizophora apiculata) were growing in shaded conditions, the other five (Avicennia alba, Rhizophora apiculata, Rhizophora mucronata, Sonneratia alba and Xylocarpus granatum) were in the open. 2. Comparisons were made between the population specific allometric regressions for dimension pairs of the form ln y = b<sub>1</sub> ln x + b<sub>0</sub>. The bifurcation ratio (R<sub>b</sub>) for the-branching system of each sapling was calculated. 3. In the majority of the allometric regressions the populations differed significantly in b<sub>0</sub> but not b<sub>1</sub>, though some significant slope differences were found, particularly for regressions involving root dry weight. 4. The allometric analysis showed that for saplings of the same height, those growing in the shade had lower shoot dry weight and lower dry weight and area of leaves than the open-grown ones. The shaded saplings also exhibited a greater accumulation of foliage at the top of the plant. 5. Xylocarpus granatum was notable for a low investment in leaves, which was probably explained by recent flushing, and in roots, which may reflect the limited development of pneumatophores in this species. The shaded Bruguiera populations showed a relatively high root investment probably because of their abundant pneumatophore development. 6. When compared to published results of allometric analyses for shaded saplings from lowland tropical rain forest and warm temperate rain forest it was found that the shaded mangroves were consistently more similar to the unshaded mangroves than to the rain-forest saplings. This may be because the shaded mangroves were growing under higher average irradiances than those from the rain forests. It is argued, however, that mangrove species are inherently more likely to show an architecture better suited to high irradiance conditions than the majority of broad-leaved evergreen rain-forest trees.
3599203|1. Nitrogen (N) is an essential limiting resource for plant growth, and its efficient use may increase fitness. We investigated photosynthetic N-use efficiency (photosynthetic capacity per unit N) in relation to N allocation to Rubisco and to cell walls in Polygonum cuspidatum Sieb. et Zucc. which germinated in May (early germinators) and August (late germinators). 2. There was a significant difference between early and late germinators in photosynthetic capacity as a function of leaf N content per unit area. Higher photosynthetic N-use efficiency in late germinators was caused primarily by a larger allocation of N to Rubisco. 3. Nitrogen allocation to cell walls was smaller in late germinators. The shorter growth period in late germinators was associated with higher photosynthetic capacity, which was achieved by allocating more N to photosynthetic proteins at the expense of cell walls. 4. The trade-off between N allocation to photosynthesis and to structural tissues suggests that plants change N allocation to increase either the rate or duration of carbon assimilation. Such plastic change would help plants maintain themselves and cope with environmental changes.
10.2307/2389788|A graphical method is described to find the maximum yield that a density-independent, age-structured population can support. The method, which is simpler than the numerical, linear-programming methods used previously, depicts the set of yields and reproductive values at first census corresponding to all feasible patterns of harvesting. The boundary of the set, on which the solution must lie, depends in a straightforward manner on the vital rates and the values of individuals of each age to the harvester. Despite previous suggestions to the contrary, the pattern of harvesting that maximizes the yield does not, in general, involve removing the ages with lowest reproductive values. When the yield is maximized, the seemingly different problem of maximizing the self renewal of the population in the presence of harvesting is also usually solved.
40205550|1. Northern hemisphere peatlands are globally important stores of organic soil carbon. We examined effects of plant functional group identity on short-term carbon (C) flux in an ombrotrophic peatland in northern England, UK, by selectively removing one of each of the three dominant plant functional groups (ericoid dwarf-shrubs, graminoids and bryophytes). Carbon dynamics were quantified by a combination of CO flux measurements and CO stable isotope pulse labelling approaches. 2. Significant effects of plant functional group removals on CO fluxes and tracer C uptake and turnover were detected. Removal of ericoid dwarf-shrubs had the greatest influence on gross CO flux, increasing rates of respiration and photosynthesis by < 200% relative to the undisturbed control. After pulse labelling with CO, we found that turnover of recent photosynthate, measured as respired CO, was also greatest in the absence of dwarf-shrubs. 3. Analysis of C tracer enrichment in leaf tissues from all plant removal treatments showed that the rate of fixation of CO and turnover of C labelled photosynthate in leaf tissue was greatest in graminoids and lowest in bryophytes. Furthermore, graminoid leaf C enrichment was greatest when growing in the absence of dwarf-shrubs, suggesting that the presence of dwarf-shrubs reduced the photosynthetic activity of graminoids. 4. We conclude that plant functional groups differentially influence the uptake and short-term flux of carbon in peatlands, suggesting that changes in the functional composition of vegetation resulting from global change have the potential to alter short-term patterns of carbon exchange in peatland.
10.2307/2389464|1 Protandry, the earlier emergence of males relative to females, can be an optimal mating strategy in both sexes and should occur most strongly under male polygyny and female monogamy. Depending on life history and phenology, the importance of maintaining protandry may differ between the sexes and different generations. 2 To assess which sex accomplished protandry in the overwintering generation of the polyandrous butterfly Pieris napi L, we estimated for male and female pupae: (1) proportion that remained in diapause after 2-8 months at 4<sup></sup>C; (2) postdiapause development time at 17, 20 and 23<sup></sup>C after 4-8 months at 4<sup></sup>C; and (3) daily weight loss (which is indicative of development rate). 3 Diapause was terminated after 4-6 months at 4<sup></sup>C and was broken somewhat earlier in male than in female pupae. Male postdiapause pupae developed on average 1.44 days faster than females and development time decreased with increasing chilling period in both sexes. Daily weight loss of postdiapause pupae started at a higher level and increased more rapidly in male than in female pupae. Hence, postdiapause development in P. napi exhibited phenotypic plasticity and protandry appeared to be maintained by both sexes.
10.2307/2390230|1. In snakes body size and vertebral number vary considerably among species. To investigate whether the two traits are correlated, and similar to a pattern found in fish and termed pleomerism, data from the literature were examined for 771 species and subspecies of advanced snakes (superfamily Colubroidea; families Colubridae, Elapidae and Viperidae). A strong tendency was found for species with many vertebrae to reach a large maximum body size; in 12 groups of species examined all showed a positive correlation coefficient and in nine cases it was significant. 2. To eliminate the possibility that this result is an effect of similarity owing to common ancestry, both a directional method and an independent comparison method were applied on groups for which a cladogram was available. The results were found to be robust, and it is concluded that the evolution of vertebral number has paralleled the evolution of body size in these groups of snakes. It appears that vertebral number, at least in part, has evolved as a correlated response to selection on body size. 3. Deviations from the general pattern of pleomerism were examined to investigate whether they could be explained by family affiliation, body shape or by various ecological factors. The three families did not differ in either slope or elevation of the relationship between vertebral number and body size, but species with a more elongated body had more vertebrae per size unit than stouter ones whereas burrowing species had fewer vertebrae per size unit than species occupying other habitats. Furthermore, the habit of constriction also appeared to affect vertebral number; constricting species had more vertebrae per size unit than non-constricting ones. Thus, vertebral number per se is also a target of selection and has been adjusted according to specific ecological circumstances apart from being affected by body size. Finally I examined whether body size and vertebral number might be affected by altitude, and thus presumably temperature as has been suggested. However, no effect of altitude on vertebral number or body size was found.
20142842| 1. Recent work shows that large leaves tend to require higher biomass investments per unit leaf area than small leaves. As a consequence, specific leaf area (SLA), which is a focus trait for a bulk of physiological and ecological research programs, is dependent on leaf size variation. Here, we address whether size dependency alters the outcome of research dealing with SLA responses to environmental or developmental change. 2. We compiled lamina mass (M) and surface area (A) data for 2158 leaves of 26 species, coming from studies investigating the reaction of SLA to variation in rainfall, growth-season length, light intensity, atmospheric CO, fire frequency, type of branch and leaf and plant age. We fitted the function M = 
10.2307/2389334|Foraging nectarivores can improve net energetic returns above random expectations by avoiding recently depleted locations or preferentially returning to locations least recently visited. Area-restricted search is one possible mechanism to achieve such non-random foraging in a patchy environment. Movement patterns of two species of hummingbirds [Selasphorus platycercus (Swainson) and S. rufus (Gmelin)] between inflorescences of scarlet gilia [Ipomopsis aggregata (Pursh) V. Grant] were studied in montane Colorado in 1979-1980. The birds preferentially visited tall inflorescences with many flowers. They flew short distances and visited near neighbours unless the inflorescence just visited was of low quality. The latter more often produced flights to distant neighbours, but quality of the current inflorescence did not influence subsequent directionality. Flight direction tended to be forward, but significantly so only in 1980. These patterns kept birds in areas of high quality inflorescences and moved them away from potential areas of low quality. However, movement from low quality inflorescences did not differentially influence the morphological traits of the next inflorescence visited and did not lead predictably to high quality inflorescences. This area-restricted search, based on current inflorescence quality, is only one spatial scale of non-random foraging by the hummingbirds.
41239226|1. Plants commonly attract predatory and parasitoid organisms, and may thereby increase resistance against antagonistic herbivores. Mechanisms for indirect resistance include the provision of resources (e.g. food and shelter) for predators as well as the provision of information (e.g. herbivore-induce volatiles) on the location of hosts and prey that can facilitate the foraging behaviour of natural enemies of herbivores. 2. These ecologically divergent mechanisms for attracting bodyguards should also differ fundamentally in their evolution, particularly in how herbivores and their predators select on plant resistance traits. However, these different strategies are typically lumped together in theoretical discussions of indirect defences. 3. Here we highlight the fundamental differences between resource-mediated and information-mediated indirect resistance and discuss the relative evolutionary impacts of the interacting organisms as agents of natural selection in shaping indirect defence traits of plants. 4. We review clear evidence for a defensive function of resource-mediated indirect resistance, and recognize a significant lack of evidence for an adaptive function of information-mediated traits. A comparison of the underlying factors driving coevolution in each category of indirect defences, suggests that information-mediated indirect resistance is less likely to be subject to coevolution between plants and the third trophic level.
3599060|1. Discoloration of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tape has been used in peatland ecological and hydrological studies as an inexpensive way to monitor changes in water-table depth and reducing conditions. 2. We investigated the relationship between depth of PVC tape discoloration and measured water-table depth at monthly time steps during the growing season within nine kettle peatlands of northern Wisconsin. Our specific objectives were to: (1) determine if PVC discoloration is an accurate method of inferring water-table depth in Sphagnum-dominated kettle peatlands of the region; (2) assess seasonal variability in the accuracy of the method; and (3) determine if systematic differences in accuracy occurred among microhabitats, PVC tape colour and peatlands. 3. Our results indicated that PVC tape discoloration can be used to describe gradients of water-table depth in kettle peatlands. However, accuracy differed among the peatlands studied, and was systematically biased in early spring and late summer/autumn. Regardless of the month when the tape was installed, the highest elevations of PVC tape discoloration showed the strongest correlation with midsummer (around July) water-table depth and average water-table depth during the growing season. 4. The PVC tape discoloration method should be used cautiously when precise estimates are needed of seasonal changes in the water-table.
3598987|1. Non-reproducing Sundevall Jird (Meriones crassus) females (body mass = 84 g; n = 51), with a mean average daily metabolic rate (ADMR) of 88 kJ day
41239454|1. Arthropod communities are structured by complex interactions between bottom-up (resource-based) and top-down (natural enemy-based) forces. Their relative importance in shaping arthropod communities, however, continues to be under debate. Bottom-up and top-down forces can be affected by intraspecific plant variation, for example by differences in concentrations of secondary metabolites that affect herbivore abundance through plant quality (bottom-up) or attract natural enemies of these herbivores (top-down). 2. Our objective was to investigate whether herbivore abundance is more strongly affected by plant-mediated bottom-up or top-down forces. 3. We used a model system of four cultivars of Brassica oleracea that show a high degree of variation in several plant traits, resistance to herbivores and attraction of natural enemies. During two field seasons, we recorded the abundance of several herbivorous and carnivorous insect species. To assess the relative importance of bottom-up and top-down forces, we quantified chemical and morphological traits of the cultivars (bottom-up) and assessed parasitization of herbivores and predator oviposition on plants inoculated with a controlled number of herbivores (top-down). 4. We show that intraspecific variation in plant chemistry and morphology consistently affects the abundance of insect herbivores and their natural enemies, resulting in cascading effects on tritrophic interactions in the associated insect community. Foliar profiles of glucosinolates and leaf toughness appeared most important for these effects. Brassica oleracea cultivars that harboured the largest numbers of herbivores also harboured the largest numbers of natural enemies. Differences in the fraction of herbivores parasitized and in predator oviposition on plants inoculated with a controlled number of herbivores could not explain the differences in natural abundance of herbivores. 5. Although abundance of herbivores is most likely influenced by a combination of bottom-up and top-down forces, it appears that in the tritrophic system investigated, bottom-up forces (plant chemistry and morphology) were more important for herbivore abundance than plant-mediated top-down forces (attraction and arrestment of natural enemies).
10.2307/2389989|1. There is an increasing interest in describing species assemblages in terms of function or texture, as an alternative to floristics. However, the use of objective criteria for evaluating plant function remains uncommon. 2. A procedure for determining plant fractal dimensions was applied to the measurement of canopy roughness of alpine plants, as a major functional character in high-alpine cushionfield vegetation in southern New Zealand. 3. The study was carried out within a 50 x 30 m area located around an experimental snow fence. The snow fence was erected on an originally uniform site 32 years prior to this study. Since its construction it has caused visible changes in snow lie and in the composition of vegetation on its leeward side, apparently because of its ameliorating effect on microenvironmental parameters. 4. Floristic patterns across the study area, revealed by a DCA ordination of species frequency data, showed a strong association with snow depth, corresponding to the sheltering effect of the snow fence. 5. Vegetation canopy roughness increased along a gradient of increasing snow depth, consistent with the expectation that plants growing in the most exposed alpine environments would possess smooth canopies that promote laminar air flow over their surface and thus enhance plant/air temperature differentials. 6. Functional diversity in terms of canopy roughness similarly increased with increasing snow depth, consistent with expectations of community structure theory. Species richness and Shannon-Wiener species diversity showed similar relations. 7. It is concluded that plant canopy roughness, measured by means of fractal dimensions of canopy profiles, has value for predicting the physiognomy of alpine vegetation from the microenvironment. It is also practical to measure. It should be considered for future studies examining vegetation texture in the alpine zone.
10.2307/2389525|1. This study aimed to determine the effect of overtopping and shading by the alien invasive plant species Acacia cyclops on the gas exchange characteristics and photosynthetic capacity of Rhus glauca and R. lucida, both indigenous heliophilous shrub species in the western Cape Province of South Africa. 2. Overtopped individuals of both indigenous species showed morphological and physiological changes generally consistent with widely reported shade effects. However, R. lucida showed an apparently rare combination of unchanged maximum photosynthetic rate (A<sub>max</sub>) and increased apparent quantum yield () under shaded conditions. 3. The major constraint to photosynthesis in the otherwise well-adapted alienshaded individuals of R. lucida appeared to be stomatal lags in response to rapid changes in light, and an inappropriate diurnal stomatal rhythm. This limitation in R. lucida, together with the lower respiratory costs incurred by shaded R. glauca, suggest that R. glauca was the better adapted of the two species to deep shade conditions beneath the alien canopy. This advantage may be accentuated by an apparent lack of competition for soil water resources between R. glauca and the alien. 4. The suite of morphological and physiological adaptations shown by R. lucida may equip this species better for survival in a more exposed position at the edge of an overtopping canopy.
826656| 1. Species-specific responses to the range of microsites resulting from canopy gap formation may contribute to coexistence in tropical forests. We investigated the effects of four factors affected by canopy gap formation (red: far-red light, soil nitrate concentrations, soil temperature fluctuations and soil water potential) on the germination response of four pioneer Piper species (P. dilatatum, P. hispidum, P. marginatum and P. peltatum) that are typically found in canopy gaps and clearings. 2. All four Piper species required light for maximum germination. However, the ratio of red: far-red light (R: FR) resulting in maximum germination varied between species. Piper peltatum will germinate in simulated understorey light conditions; P. dilatatum and P. hispidum require conditions typically found in small to medium gaps; while P. marginatum requires the conditions appropriate to large gaps. 3. Only P. marginatum was affected by nitrate concentration: elevated concentrations increased the germination rate. This suggests that this species could detect canopy gaps using a combination of high R: FR and elevated soil nitrate concentrations. 4. The germination rate of P. marginatum was least sensitive to low water potentials and high daytime temperatures characteristic of large gaps. Piper peltatum was most sensitive to these treatments, while P. dilatatum and P. hispidum were intermediate in response. 5. A principal components analysis of the ratios of germination in understorey to large gap conditions, for four variables, generated a significant axis that explained 885% of the variance in germination response between species. Differential species distribution along this axis, based on species-specific responses, may allow germination to occur in the most suitable microsite for onward growth of the seedling and contribute to species coexistence by reducing interspecific competition. 
4139333|1. The functional significance of candidate defence mechanisms, including fruit abortion, fruit morphology and seed provisioning of Silene latifolia (Miller) Kraus (Caryophyllaceae), was tested using experimental exposure to its seed predator Hadena bicruris Hufnagel (Noctuidae). This moth lays eggs in S. latifolia female flowers, and each larva consumes three to four fruits to achieve development. Specifically, we sought to explain why fruit walls are thicker in European plants compared with plants in the introduced range where the seed predator is absent, which suggests a defensive role for fruit wall. We also analysed the carbon and nitrogen content of the seeds of exposed and unexposed plants to investigate whether plants respond to moth attack by modifying seed provisioning. 2. Experimental exposure to moth eggs significantly increased fruit abortion. Fruits built after attack on exposed plants did not have significantly thicker fruit walls compared with fruits on control plants. The proportion of N and C within seeds was significantly, but only slightly, modified in exposed plants. 3. Fruits with thicker fruit walls were not significantly less profitable, nor did they require longer handling time when exposed to larvae. 4. Populations varied significantly in fruit wall thickness. When flowers were infested experimentally, we found significant among-family variation in larval growth, suggesting genetic (or maternal environmental) variation. 5. We conclude that fruit abortion is an important defence mechanism. Constitutive investment in fruit wall thickness does not provide a strong protection against secondary attack. Plants do not appear to respond to attack by modifying fruit wall thickness or seed provisioning in later fruits. Future studies may compare fruit abortion and palatability of European and American plants with their greater variation, to address whether relaxed selection away from the seed predator modifies defences to this natural enemy.
10.2307/2389542|Bacteria are known to be good concentrators of environmental heavy metals and are ingested by many browsing molluscs. Experiments have therefore been performed to study how metal-polluted environments influence the ecology of soil organisms and thus the physiology of snails (Helix aspersa (Muller)) inhabiting such environments. The polluted sites contained fewer bacteria that were more metal and antibiotic resistant than those from clean sites. These differences were reflected in the number and types of bacteria found in the alimentary tract of the snails. Decreasing the numbers of bacteria in the soil was associated with a reduction in the rate of <sup>65</sup>Zn uptake by the intestine of the snail. Starving the animals and moving them to a clean site rapidly reversed these effects.
40407750|1. Variation in longevity within and between natural populations is widespread, and understanding the relative importance of environmental and genetic factors as well as their interactions in mediating such variation is crucial in longevity research. 2. In this study lifespan of adult copper butterflies was examined in relation to altitude, temperature (20 and 27C), sex and adult feeding. 3. As expected, longevity increased with decreasing temperature, and sucrose-fed butterflies had longer lifespans compared to water-fed and finally non-fed individuals. The impact of feeding, especially of having access to water or not, was larger at the higher compared to the lower temperature. 4. Regarding altitudinal patterns, increased lifespan in high-altitude populations was largely restricted to beneficial feeding conditions, while under carbohydrate deprivation low-altitude animals lived longer, suggesting that low-altitude butterflies do better under food stress. 5. Differences in longevity between sexes were small at 20C, while females lived substantially longer than males at the higher temperature. Consequently, females may be less susceptible to high temperature stress than males. Further, males suffered more from food stress than females, suggesting that females are generally more stress resistant than males. 6. Using a full factorial design, this study demonstrates that variation in longevity is caused by several factors, and additionally by substantial interactive effects. Consequently, patterns of variation in longevity are complex, and one needs to be cautious when neglecting this source of variation, by focussing on individual factors only.
826633|1. If pollination is unpredictable, selection may favour the production of selfed seeds in the absence of pollen vectors, even in plant species with obvious adaptations for outcrossing. Pollination may be less predictable for plants growing in certain environments if environmental factors affect the floral phenotype. Through effects on flower morphology and the floral display, the environment may affect the outcrossing rate. 2. We manipulated two environmental factors, water availability and exposure to insect herbivores, in a common-garden experiment using a perennial herb, Datura wrightii. We measured herkogamy (the separation of anthers and stigmas within flowers), total flower length, and flower number, and used a single-gene trichome dimorphism as a marker to determine per-plant outcrossing rates. 3. The large amount of variation in herkogamy was affected by trichome type, irrigation and herbivory. In addition, watered plants had longer corollas, and plants attacked by herbivores had fewer open flowers. Thus environmental factors affect floral phenotype. 4. However, irrigation and herbivory did not directly affect outcrossing rate. There were indirect effects of these treatments on outcrossing because plants with increased herkogamy and fewer open flowers had higher outcrossing rates. 5. A greenhouse experiment showed that autonomous selfing is more likely when herkogamy is reduced, and can occur both as the flower opens and when the corolla is shed. 6. These experiments are among the first to show that within-population variation in the mating system can be due to environmentally induced variation in floral traits.
10.2307/2389282|1. Environmental pollution is often accompanied by changes in the energy budgets of organisms living in the polluted area. This study investigated whether metal soil pollution affected energy reserves (protein, glycogen and lipid content) and resistance to starvation in isopods (Porcellio scaber), sampled from a reference, mine and smelter area. 2. Mine isopods were in good physiological condition compared to the reference isopods because energy reserves (lipid, glycogen and protein) in the hepatopancreas were not decreased compared to the reference isopods. In the smelter isopods energy reserves were lower, especially in the largest isopods, which contained the highest zinc, copper and cadmium concentrations. 3. Under starvation, isopod survival time was remarkably long for all populations; the last animal, a mine isopod, died after 180 days. Survival time under starvation was not related to metal concentration in the isopods, except for the smelter isopods; in these animals survival time was negatively related to the zinc concentration. 4. The low energy reserves in the smelter isopods did not result in reduced mean survival time under starvation; survival time was actually longer by about 20 days (20%). Smelter isopods appear to have a decreased metabolic rate, probably related to the toxic effects of zinc and cadmium. 5. It is concluded that soil contamination by metals affected the energy budgets of isopods at the smelter site but not at the mine site.
10.2307/2390560|1. Temporal variation in food delivery to nestling British Storm Petrels Hydrobates pelagicus was examined by repeated overnight weighing, to determine whether provisioning rates were likely to be determined primarily by the availability of food to adults foraging at sea or by the chick's immediate food requirements. 2. The interval between successive feeds was short, indicating a relatively small foraging range. 3. There was a negative correlation between mean daily wind speed (considered to reflect foraging conditions) and the proportion of adults returning to feed their chicks (but not meal size) the following night, but this was heavily dependent on a few extreme values. There was no correlation between wind speed and feeding frequency during more typical weather conditions. 4. Chicks' requirements for body maintenance increased with chick age, up to about 39 days post-hatching. This was paralleled by an increase in the amount of food consumed on nights when adults fed their chicks, but not feeding frequency. 5. There was evidence of regulation of feeding frequency in relation to recent feeding history. 6. The finding that the frequency of feeding visits to the colony appears to be regulated in response to the chick's short-term nutritional requirements implies that the achieved feeding rates are below the limits set by food availability and that the low rates of delivery may not be the result of low availability of food at sea.
10.2307/2389503|Plants from two populations of the weedy C<sub>4</sub> grass Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) Beauv. from Quebec (QUE) and Mississippi (MISS), were acclimated under controlled conditions at 28/22<sup></sup>C, 21/15<sup></sup>C and 14/8<sup></sup>C (day/night). The apparent energy of activation (E<sub>a</sub>), Michaelis-Menten constant (K<sub>m</sub>), V<sub>max</sub>/K<sub>m</sub> ratios and specific activity of NADP<sup>+</sup>-malate dehydrogenase (NADP<sup>+</sup>-MDH; E.C. 1.1.1.82) were investigated. Apparent energies of activation were significantly lower for QUE plants acclimated to 14/8<sup></sup>C and 21/15<sup></sup>C compared to MISS plants, but this trend was reversed for plants acclimated at 28/22<sup></sup>C. For both populations, cold acclimation decreased E<sub>a</sub> values of NADP<sup>+</sup>-MDH at higher assay temperatures, but the opposite trend was found for E<sub>a</sub> values calculated from Q<sub>10</sub>(20/10<sup></sup>C). K<sub>m</sub> values increased as a direct function of assay temperatures and, at assay temperatures higher than 30<sup></sup>C, were significantly higher for QUE plants as well as for cold-acclimated plants of both populations. V<sub>max</sub>/K<sub>m</sub> ratios of NADP<sup>+</sup>-MDH were higher in MISS plants as compared to QUE plants acclimated to the same thermoperiod and increased at higher acclimatory temperatures. NADP<sup>+</sup>-MDH activities were similar for plants of both populations when acclimated to 28/22<sup></sup>C or 21/15<sup></sup>C but, at 14/8<sup></sup>C, MISS plants showed a drastic reduction of NADP<sup>+</sup>-MDH activity which was associated with a significant reduction of chlorophyll. When grown at 14/8<sup></sup>C, QUE plants had significantly higher NADP<sup>+</sup>-MDH activities than MISS plants. Although our data show modifications in kinetic properties of NADP<sup>+</sup>-MDH between the two Echinochloa populations, these do not fully explain the chilling sensitivity of NADP<sup>+</sup>-MDH of MISS plants and suggest that the cold-acclimatory potential of the enzyme from QUE is linked to chloroplast function rather than to improved catalytic properties of its enzyme.
2390465|1. Changes of  <sup>13</sup>C and its relation to leaf development, biochemical content and water stress were monitored over a 2 year period in two co-occurring Mediterranean oak species: the deciduous Quercus pubescens and the evergreen Quercus ilex. 2. The time course of leaf  <sup>13</sup>C showed different patterns in the two species. Young Q. pubescens leaves had a high  <sup>13</sup>C and a marked decrease occurred during leaf growth. In contrast, leaves at budburst and maturity did not differ significantly in the case of Q. ilex. We suggest that the difference between  <sup>13</sup>C of young leaves was linked to differential use of reserves of carbon compounds in the two species. 3.  <sup>13</sup>C values of mature leaves were negatively correlated with minimum seasonal values of predawn water potential, suggesting that a functional adjustment to water resources occurred. 4. There was a significant correlation between individual  <sup>13</sup>C values for two successive years. This interannual dependence showed that  <sup>13</sup>C rankings between trees were constant through time.
3599072|1. Many studies recognize that growth carries with it a mortality risk that can influence an animal's growth rate. 2. Data suggest that these costs of growth act over a range of time-scales, from instantaneous to an animal's lifetime. 3. Models of adaptive growth rate have not addressed the issue of differing time-scales over which the costs of growth act. Here, we develop an adaptive growth model in which the costs of growth are delayed for a period of time, to assess optimal growth strategies in relation to delays in growth costs. 4. The optimal growth rates are calculated assuming one of two possible fitness measures: the reproductive rate, R
20142870|1. Ecological and physiological characteristics of vascular plants may facilitate or constrain hydraulic lift. Studies of hydraulic lift typically include only one or few species, but in species-rich ecosystems a larger number of representative species needs to be studied. 2. Measurements of sap flow in tap roots, lateral roots and stems, as well as stable isotope labelling techniques were used to determine the occurrence and relative magnitude of hydraulic lift in several individuals of nine co-occurring Brazilian savanna (Cerrado) tree species differing in life-history traits, and to assess physical and biological determinants of this process at the tree and ecosystem level. 3. The occurrence of reverse sap flow observed in deciduous and brevideciduous species during the dry season was consistent with hydraulic lift. The evergreen species did not exhibit reverse flow. Consistent with their ability to carry out hydraulic lift, the brevideciduous and deciduous species had both shallow and tap roots (dimorphic root systems), whereas the evergreen species had mostly deep roots (monomorphic root systems). 4. In the deciduous and brevideciduous species, the contribution of tap roots to transpiration increased substantially as the dry season progressed. Seasonal changes in the contribution of tap roots to transpiration were not observed in the evergreen species. 5. There was an inverse relationship between rates of reverse sap flow and seasonal loss of hydraulic conductivity in lateral roots, suggesting that hydraulic lift in Cerrado woody plants may help maintain the functionality of the lateral roots in exploring dry and nutrient rich superficial soil layers without directly enhancing the amount of water uptake. 6. Reverse sap flow in lateral roots of the deciduous and brevideciduous species increased asymptotically as the driving force for war movement from roots to the soil increased. This nonlinear relationship implies that additional sinks for water such as nocturnal transpiration and refilling of internal water storage tissues may compete for internal water resources during the dry season. 7. There appears to be a trade-off between greater year-round access to nutrients in the upper soil layers (deciduous and brevideciduous species) and a greater access to deep and more reliable water sources during the dry season (evergreen species), which has implications for whole-ecosystem water, carbon and nutrient balance in Neotropical savannas.
41239224|1. Tannins are one of the most studied groups of plant secondary metabolites in research related to chemical ecology. They are traditionally thought to form an important factor of plant defence against herbivorous insects. 2. For a long time, tannins' anti-herbivore activity was thought to derive from their protein precipitation capacity that rendered plant tissues non-nutritious and unpalatable for herbivores. Recent evidence suggests that tannin activity cannot be explained quite this simply, as tannin oxidation should also be taken into account as a defence mechanism for plants. 3. Tannins show very high variability in their structures with several hundred unique molecules detected in plants. These molecules are unevenly distributed in the plant kingdom and only very seldomif everdo two plant species share the same tannin pool. In many cases tannin composition varies even within organs of the same plant species and individual. Still, the overall tannin composition of many plant species is as of yet unknown. 4. Chemical ecology of tannins is challenging due to its multi-disciplinary nature. To facilitate research on tannins, we must provide ecologists and chemists with methodological and collaborative alternatives that enable the true and holistic investigation of all important questions that may arise from the field. So far this has not been possible with the tannin oxidation hypothesis, since simple and widely usable methods have not been available. 5. The aim of this review is to give a clear but detailed view of the chemical ecology of tannins and the methodology used to study them. In addition, we introduce a new method to estimate the oxidative activity of all types of tannins and other phenolics that might cause oxidative stress to herbivores. Hopefully our arguments and method will lead to clear changes in the approaches we take to tannins and their exciting biological activities, and we will witness a new era of flourishing and productive research in the chemical ecology of tannins.
10.2307/2389411|Growth, morphology and leaf dynamics of seedlings of a shade tolerant rain forest tree species were analysed in relation to environmental heterogeneity associated with gap dynamics of the forest. Seedlings of Cordia megalantha Blake were grown in three different environments: in the forest understorey below a closed canopy, inside a small canopy gap and inside a large gap. Growth and morphology were measured by five destructive harvests covering one year of growth. Production and loss of leaves was measured in seven repeated censuses covering the same time span. RGR<sub>W</sub> was small but significant in the forest understorey (2.6 x 10<sup>-3</sup>g g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>), it increased in the small gap (6.9 x 10<sup>-3</sup>g g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>) and was maximal in the large gap (11.0 x 10<sup>-3</sup>g g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>). RGR<sub>a</sub> was maximal in the small gap (6.4 x 10<sup>-3</sup>m<sup>2</sup> m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>), as a result of the high net leaf gain in that environment. Plants in the large gap had a higher root weight ratio, a lower leaf weight ratio and a higher specific leaf weight than plants growing in either forest or small gap. Cordia was found to acclimate rapidly to changes in the environment, although not all plant characteristics changed at the same rate. Effects of the previous environment on plant characteristics could still be detected 6 months after a change in environment. It is concluded that gaps in the forest canopy are probably necessary for successful regeneration of Cordia megalantha.
2390427|1. Sexually selected traits are expected to vary seasonally, with the maximal expression of the character being evident during mate choice: however, the mechanisms controlling or regulating such traits are generally poorly known. 2. Carotenoid pigments responsible for bright red or yellow coloration in the feathers. skin or other integumentary structures of birds are generally believed to vary seasonally because of diet. 3. Variation in carotenoid-dependent skin colour between winter and spring (mating season) was investigated, as was variation in plasma carotenoids across the breeding season in captive American Kestrels, Falco sparverius, fed a uniform diet. 4. Kestrels were more brightly coloured in the mating period than in winter, and plasma carotenoid concentrations declined from the time of mating to the rearing of young. 5. Although carotenoid levels were highly sexually dimorphic during mating and laying, males and both breeding and non-breeding females all had similar levels by the incubation period, and the pattern of variation over time suggests rheostatic regulation. 6. These results suggest kestrels may have the ability to regulate (rather than merely control) their colour physiologically, the variation in colour and carotenoids is consistent with that expected of a sexually selected trait, and the loss of colour after breeding may suggest a trade-off between the show and health functions of carotenoids.
41239301|1. How much should an individual invest in reproduction as it grows older? Answering this question involves determining whether individuals measure their age as the time left for future reproduction or as the rate of deterioration in their state. Theory suggests that in the former case individuals should increase their allocation of resources to reproduction as opportunities for future breeding dwindle, and terminally invest when they breed for the last time. In the latter case they should reduce their investment in reproduction with age, either through adaptive reproductive restraint or as a passive by-product of senescence. 2. Here we present the results of experiments on female burying beetles, Nicrophorus vespilloides, in which we independently manipulated the perceived risk of death (by activating the immune system) and the extent of deterioration in state (by changing age of first reproduction and/or prior investment in reproduction). 3. We found that the risk of death and state each independently influenced the extent of reproductive investment. Specifically, we found a state-dependent decline in reproductive investment as females grew older that could be attributed to both adaptive reproductive restraint and senescence. A perceived increase in the risk of death, induced by activation of the immune system, caused females to switch from a strategy of reproductive restraint to terminal investment. Nevertheless, absolute reproductive investment was lower in older females, indicating constraints of senescence. 4. Our results show that a decline in reproductive investment with age does not necessarily constitute evidence of reproductive senescence but can also result from adaptive reproductive restraint. 5. Our results further suggest that the extent of reproductive investment is dependent on several different intrinsic cues and that the particular blend of cues available at any given age can yield very different patterns of investment. Perhaps this explains why age-related reproductive investment patterns seen in nature are so diverse.
40205490|1. Integrative ecophysiological studies of closely related taxa are required to explore the causative factors that determine species distributions, and can offer insight into the selective forces that may have driven evolutionary divergence. 2. We examined the distribution, abundance, size and microhabitat associations of two sympatric sister- species of intertidal fishes Bellapiscis medius and B. lesleyae (Family Tripterygiidae) that occupy intertidal rockpools along the coastline of New Zealand, to examine the ecological factors that determine habitat choice in these species. 3. We also measured rockpool water temperatures and examined rates of oxygen consumption, ventilation frequency and hypoxia tolerance in each species at ecologically relevant temperatures to assess whether differences in respiratory physiology are associated with differences in vertical distribution. 4. The results showed clear interspecific differences in vertical habitat partitioning, with B. medius occupying rockpools higher on the shore than its congener. The two species also differed significantly in adult body size and aggregation size, with B. medius being significantly larger and occurring in lower numbers per rockpool than B. lesleyae. 5. Bellapiscis medius in upper-shore rockpools are exposed to higher extremes of temperature and presumably dissolved oxygen than B. lesleyae. Despite having similar rates of weight-specific oxygen consumption, B. medius showed a greater tolerance of hypoxia (lower critical oxygen tension) than B. lesleyae at both high (25 C) and low (15 C) temperatures, as well as a lower sensitivity to acute temperature change as indicated by differences in ventilation frequency. We thus suggest that the greater physiological tolerance exhibited by B. medius is likely to be an important factor enabling this species to exploit the higher shore environment 6. Our integrative approach enabled us to demonstrate a clear link between ecological divergence and physiological performance in these intertidal fishes. Differing physiological tolerance is probably an important factor facilitating co-existence of these sister-species in sympatry, and is likely to have been a factor in their speciation.
3599304|1. This paper considers the possibility that the key determinant of leaf age feeding preferences in foliovores is not the concentration of either nutrients or secondary metabolites, but is the ratio of the two. 2. In some fast-growing plants, nitrogen is most heavily defended by defensive toxins in the young leaves. This empowers the use of a simple model of leaf-age preference, based on the conflict between maximizing nutrient intake and minimizing toxicosis. 3. Young leaves are particularly valuable, not only because they lock up nitrogen, but also because their assimilative value is high. We calculate the loss of value due to herbivory and find that, if the herbivore is moderately intolerant of toxicity and feeds selectively on its predicted optimal leaf age, the costs of damage are greatly reduced. However, efficient toxin distribution protects the plant only if it grows rapidly, so that the well protected young foliage retains a high value. 4. The trends are reconcilable with observed leaf-age preferences of both polyphagous and oligophagous species. There is, as yet, little empirical evidence to substantiate the model, but it may be useful for future studies to focus on the toxin: nutrient ratio as a potentially important determinant of feeding preferences.
10.2307/2389699|Energetics of nitrogen accretion was studied in five different ages of Alnus nepalensis D. Don (alder) plantations in the Kalimpong forest division of the Eastern Himalayas. The percentage contributions of biological N<sub>2</sub> fixation to annual total nitrogen uptake were 33%, 19%, 15%, 13% and 11% in 7-, 17-, 30-, 46- and 56-year-old plantations, respectively. Nitrogen accretion through fixation reduced with the decrease in nitrogen demand as trees aged (117 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> in 7-year stand to 29 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> in 56-year stand). Low N<sub>2</sub> fixation efficiency and low net energy allocation in root nodules with increase in tree age caused sharp reduction in nitrogen accretion through fixation in older stands, while nitrogen uptake from soil remained nearly the same in young to old plantations. Nitrogen build up strategy is based on sound energy conservation dynamics and the alder replenishes nitrogen in erosion prone hill slopes of the Himalayas.
40205572|1. The chemical composition of plant litter is commonly considered to indicate its quality as a resource for decomposer organisms. Litter quality, defined in this way, has been shown to be a major determinant of litter decomposition rates both within and across terrestrial ecosystems. Notably, the structure of the microbial community that is directly responsible for primary decomposition is rarely considered as an empirical predictor of litter decay rates. 2. Microbial communities are generally assumed to perceive litters of the same chemical composition to be of equivalent resource quality but evidence from field studies suggests that these same communities may adapt to the prevalent litter types at a given site. Here, we tested this assumption by assessing how microbial communities sourced from different forest- and herbaceous-dominated ecosystems perceive the quality of novel, foliar litters derived from a tree (Rhododendron maximum) and from a grass (Panicum virgatum) species. Based on chemical composition, we would expect R. maximum litter to be of lower quality than P. virgatum litter. 3. We used an experimental litter-soil system which employs a 'common garden' approach and measured rates of CO production across 50 days; higher rates of production were assumed to indicate higher quality (i.e. more easily degradable) litter. 4. We found that communities sourced from habitats under differing plant cover perceived litter quality differently. Those communities sourced from herbaceous habitats perceived the grass litter to be of higher quality than the tree litter, whereas communities from forest habitats decomposed both litter types similarly. Within a litter type, differences in both community composition and nutrient availability of the source habitat were related to decomposition rates. 5. Our results suggest that litter quality cannot necessarily be predicted solely from chemical characteristics; instead the perceived quality is dependent on the quality of past resource inputs a community has experienced and the structure of those microbial communities responsible for the initial stages of litter decomposition.
10.2307/2389294|Carbon isotope ratios were measured on leaves of the dominant species within a tropical dry forest in Mexico, which was characterized as being strongly drought deciduous. A variety of succulent epiphytes from diverse microsites had carbon isotope ratios indicating obligate crassulacean acid metabolism. All woody species examined had isotope ratios indicative of the C<sub>3</sub> photosynthetic pathway, although there was a wide range of isotopic values. Two of the woody species that retained leaves during the dry season showed a large variation in carbon isotope ratios (up to 6%) that was dependent on microsite location.
3599325|1. The study of the impact of herbivory on plant fitness and its relationship with environmental conditions is essential to an understanding of the ecological and evolutionary routes in different populations of the same plant species. This paper addresses the effects of herbivory and environment on growth (leaf production) and floral display (inflorescence production) in the tropical aroid Anthurium schlechtendalii ssp. schlechtendalii Kunth (Araceae). 2. Defoliation experiments were conducted in three natural A. schlechtendalii productions in Mexico: coastal sand dunes (Telchac); thorny dry forest (Dzemul); and medium-height subhumid forest (Hobonil). Experiments were also conducted under common-garden conditions using plants transplanted from the three populations. 3. Logistic regression models showed that herbivory did not affect growth negatively, but did affect floral display in A. schlechtendalii. The effect on floral display differed as a function of environment, damage intensity and season. When the plants experienced no resource limitation (common garden), herbivory inhibited inflorescence production in the first season (2001) and at the highest damage level (75%). When plants experienced heterogeneous resource conditions (field experiment), inflorescence production was inhibited in the second season (2002) at intermediate damage intensities. 4. Overall, A. schlechtendalii plants maintained growth regardless of damage intensity, but inflorescence production was reduced, indicating a trade-off between growth and floral display due to herbivory. Results also suggested that plants were constrained in their response by the environmental history of their native site.
10.2307/2389516|1. Body size influences the physiology, behaviour and community level interactions of organisms, but little is actually known about the factors that determine it. Close examination of evolution on islands may allow identification of pressures selecting on size. 2. In this study, I collected and analysed body length data for 13 insular populations of a small mammalian herbivore (genus Neotoma). I found a significant tendency for insular woodrats to be larger than mainland forms, and this outcome is significantly related to the absence of mammalian predation pressure. 3. Since gigantism may be a common phenomenon among small insular herbivores, I suggest that large size may be of physiological advantage under stressful conditions. The allometric relationship between metabolism and body mass predicts that larger animals will have lower specific metabolic rates, yet their gut size increases isometrically. Consequently, they may be able to obtain more energy from the microbial fermentation of plant fibres than smaller herbivores.
10.2307/2389739|Cuticular pigmentation has been reported in a number of cladoceran crustaceans, but its adaptive significance remains unclear. This study involved an analysis of the distribution and adaptive significance of pigmentation in the Daphnia pulex Leydig group. A survey of more than 1000 ponds in temperate and arctic North America established that pigmented forms predominate in the high arctic, co-occur with unpigmented clones in the low arctic and are absent from the temperate zone except in coastal sand-dune habitats. In the low arctic, pigmented clones dominate clear-water ponds, while unpigmented clones dominate ponds with high concentrations of dissolved humics. Where they co-occur, pigmented clones tend to remain higher in the water column during daytime. Biochemical studies showed that the pigment is melanin, and although it comprised only 0.03% of body weight, it prevented transmission of more than 90% of incident ultraviolet radiation. Melanic clones of both D. pulex and D. middendorffiana Fischer survived exposure to 20 W m<sup>-2</sup> of near ultraviolet for twice as long as unpigmented clones. Reciprocal transplant experiments confirmed that unpigmented clones were only able to survive in ponds with high concentrations of dissolved organics, while melanic clones survived in both clear and humic water ponds. It is clear that unpigmented clones in the D. pulex group are restricted to habitats where they are sheltered from ultraviolet exposure by shading or dissolved humics, while melanic clones are restricted to clear-water ponds where u.v. exposure is high. The failure of melanics to colonize other habitats is apparently largely a consequence of the cost of melanin production.
10.2307/2390111|1. In previous studies it was shown that, in contrast to green algal lichens and aerophilic green algae, dry cyanobacterial lichens and some free-living cyanobacteria which were also investigated were not able to reactivate photosynthetic metabolism solely by hydration in equilibrium with high air humidity. They needed liquid water to attain positive net photosynthesis. The same proved to be true for the cyanobacterium Microcoleus sociatus in a soil crust of the Negev Desert when it was studied in its natural summer state of development. 2. In contrast, desiccated populations of the same organism in laboratory cultures attained turgor and were able to photosynthesize in equilibrium with a relative air humidity as low as 96% (15
10.2307/2389298|In this work we determine the maximum metabolic effort of rodents under extreme thermal conditions. We expected that species living under cold conditions would show higher maximum metabolic capabilities than species inhabiting tropical and intermediate habitats. Maximum weight-specific metabolic rate for temperature regulation (MMR) of rodents decreases allometrically with body size (W) but with a different slope than that for basal rate (-0.338 vs -0.25). Deviations from the MMR/W curve are apparently associated with the thermal climate of the species. Analogous species from climatically extreme environments present maximum (body-ambient) thermal differentials (T<sub>M</sub>) and weight-specific values that depart from the T<sub>M</sub>/W curve. Convergence of both MMR and T<sub>M</sub> values was found among species with similar climatic/geographic ranges. Maximum energetic capabilities and geographic distribution appear to be correlated.
2390412|1. Our goal was to determine whether mycorrhizal infection of one generation of plants could influence the competitiveness of the subsequent generation. 2. We grew the offspring of mycorrhizal (M) and non-mycorrhizal (NM) Abutilon theophrasti plants together in dense populations in large boxes in a greenhouse. 3. Offspring of M plants were larger than offspring of NM plants. As the experiment progressed, the difference in size was magnified and self-thinning occurred. 4. Compared with offspring of NM plants, offspring of M plants had a twofold greater survival and collectively produced a total of nearly four times as many seeds. 5. We conclude that mycorrhizal infection of the parent generation can increase the competitive ability of the offspring.
20142885|1. Countergradient variation in growth rate requires that rapid growth rate trades off with other performances, such that submaximal growth evolves in certain environments. Negative effects of rapid growth on other traits within a single ontogenetic stage are conspicuous candidates for such trade-offs, but trade-offs spanning ontogenetic stages have received much less attention. 2. We tested whether rapid growth and development of embryonic lizards was associated with poor juvenile performance, as estimated by growth rate and sprint speed after hatching. To do so, we raised lizards from three populations that differ in their environmental temperature and measured their performances during embryonic and hatchling stages. 3. Under the same environmental conditions, embryos from two cold environments grew and developed more rapidly than did the embryos from a warm environment. Among populations, rapid growth and development was associated with slow growth after hatching. But surprisingly, the opposite pattern was observed within populations. 4. Our results highlight the need to consider trade-offs mediated by ecological factors (e.g. competition and predation), which calls for similar experiments in natural environments.
10.2307/2389634|Previous studies suggest insectivorous bats occasionally emerge from their roosts during the day to make good shortfalls of energy intake. Other studies indicate that an inadequate nocturnal food supply may negatively affect bat reproduction. The question arises therefore why do temperate insectivorous bats not fly in daylight more frequently? Four hypotheses have been advanced to explain the infrequency of daylight flying. These are overheating, competition, predation and mobbing by non-competitor species. Analysis of behavioural observations in 420 reports of daylight flying, submitted in a national (UK) daylight-flying bat survey revealed that mobbing by non-competitors was very rare (4/420 reports) and its consequences trivial. Flying with aerial insectivorous birds was more frequent (19/420 reports) but antagonism was again uncommon. Predatory attacks, mostly by avian diurnal predators occurred in 13 cases, and in at least five of these instances the attacks were fatal. Large bats survived attacks significantly more than small bats. This may explain why large species of bats flew more frequently in daylight relative to their populations than small bats. In the laboratory pipistrelle (Pipistrellus pipistrellus Schreber) and brown long-eared bats (Plecotus auritus L.) avoided flying in the light. This effect occurred independently of body temperature and was not mediated by overheating. Furthermore, in the wild, bats did not avoid flying on days which were particularly hot or sunny, suggesting that in Britain overheating does not inhibit daylight flights. Heavier pipistrelle bats avoided the light more than lighter pipistrelle bats. This may reflect lower manoeuvrability and hence greater susceptibility of heavy bats (within a species) to predation, and may explain the reduced frequency of daylight-flying bats in Britain during late June and early July when they are heavily pregnant.
10.2307/2389281|1. To test the hypothesis that rapid embryogenesis is an adaptation to cold climate, embryonic development time was measured in three oviparous species of Sceloporus that occur at different altitudes: S. woodi (lowland), S. virgatus (intermediate) and S. scalaris (high altitude). 2. Total embryonic development time (TEDT), defined as the time between ovulation to hatching, was measured at the same constant temperature (30<sup></sup>C) in the laboratory. Mean TEDT was 61.6 days in S. woodi, 55.3 days in S. virgatus, and 45.6 days in S. scalaris. 3. Embryo stages at oviposition, which provide a qualitative assessment of egg retention time, were noted for females ovipositing in laboratory aquaria. S. woodi exhibited brief egg retention, S. virgatus, intermediate egg retention, and S. scalaris, prolonged egg retention. 4. There was an apparent negative correlation between TEDT and elevation, as well as between TEDT and egg retention time. 5. The TEDT of S. jarrovi (56.6 days), a viviparous montane congener, was less than that of S. woodi, indicating that the developmental rate of S. jarrovi embryos was greater than that in a lowland species. 6. Despite differences in thermal characteristics of environments at different elevations, minimum estimates of TEDT in the field for S. woodi, S. virgatus, and S. scalaris were similar. 7. Measures of TEDT in these species of Sceloporus were consistent with the hypothesis that more rapid embryogenesis, like egg retention, acts to reduce the time it takes embryos to develop in cold climates. It is also hypothesized that more rapid development evolves in response to cold climate and is capable of lowering the threshold temperature at which viviparity evolves.
826739|1. Our goal was to determine the relationships among ecophysiological, whole-plant and ecosystem traits of a wide variety of grassland species grown under field conditions in the long term. We measured 87 traits for 33 species (32 perennial, one annual) grown in monoculture for 5 years on sandy soils, and determined the relationship among traits and their correspondence with current functional classifications. 2. Among non-legumes, species that produced and maintained large amounts of biomass had tough, low-activity leaves and roots, high root: shoot ratios, and low extractable inorganic nitrogen and N mineralization in their soils. The set of correlations among the functional traits of fine roots for non-legumes parallels the set of correlations for leaf functional traits. Low-N species maintained greater biomass than high-N species, more by producing tissues with low N concentrations and greater longevity than by acquiring more N. Greater relative production below ground, and the production of long-lived below-ground structures, were both important in determining the high root: shoot ratio of species. 3. For legumes, N
2656309|1. The daily energy expenditure of free-living adult male Wood Mice, Apodemus sylvaticus, from deciduous woodland and maritime sand-dune was estimated using the doubly labelled water (DLW) technique and time-energy budget models. 2. Method of calculation had a small effect on the calculated energy demands. There were no significant differences in energy expenditure across sites or seasons despite large differences in home range among mice from different sites. Mice in winter, and on the sand-dunes, had lower body masses, which offset the effects of larger home ranges and colder temperatures. 3. The daily energy expenditure for a Wood Mouse of mean body mass (20.5 g) was 67.9 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> (n = 19) This was comparable to other similar size rodents (slightly higher), and did not deviate significantly from allometric predictions. 4. Variation in daily energy expenditure among individuals was not explained by ambient temperature, home range size, body mass, change in body mass, time spent active and the distance or speed of travel. 5. Sustainable metabolic rates approximated to five times basal metabolism and were within the range previously reported but higher than most other estimates of free-living energy demands. 6. Rates of water influx and efflux were significantly greater for Wood Mice on the sand-dunes (influx, 9.3  1.14 ml day<sup>-1</sup>, efflux, 10.2  1.10 ml day<sup>-1</sup>) than for animals in the woodland (influx, 6.3  0.48 ml day<sup>-1</sup>, efflux, 6.2  0.47 ml day<sup>-1</sup>). This was probably due to differences in the water content of their diets (seed in woodland and invertebrate on the sand-dunes). 7. The time-energy budget models yielded estimates of energy expenditure considerably lower than the doubly labelled water estimate. Potential reasons for this discrepancy are discussed.
40205527|1. Climate change is affecting species distributions and will increasingly do so. However, current understanding of which individuals and species are most likely to survive and why is poor. Knowledge of assemblage or community level effects is limited and the balance of mechanisms that are important over different time-scales is poorly described. Laboratory experiments on marine animals predominantly employ rates of change 10-100 000 times faster than climate induced oceanic warming. To address this failure we investigated differences in individual and species abilities to tolerate warming, and also how rate of warming affected survival. 2. This study identifies community level effects of thermal biology by applying a multi-species, multi-trophic level approach to the analysis of temperature limits. 3. Within species analyses of 14 species from 6 phyla showed smaller individuals survived to higher temperatures than large animals when temperatures were raised acutely. If this trend continues at slower warming rates, the early loss of larger individuals has marked consequences at the population level as larger individuals form the major reproductive component. 4. Between species comparisons showed active species survived to higher temperatures than sessile or low activity groups. Thus active groups (e.g. predators) and juvenile or immature individuals should fare better in rapid warming scenarios. This would be expected to produce short-term ecological imbalances in warming events. 5. The rate of warming markedly affected temperature limits in a wide range of Antarctic marine species. Different species survived to temperatures of 83-176 C when temperatures were raised by around 1 C day1. However they only survived to temperatures between 40 C and 123 C when temperatures were raised by around 1-2 C week1, and temperatures of only 10 60 C were tolerated for acclimations over periods of months. 6. Current models predicting range changes of species in response to climate change are either correlative or mechanistic. Mechanistic models offer the potential to incorporate the ecophysiological adaptation and evolutionary processes which determine future responses and go beyond simple correlative approaches. These models depend on the incorporation of data on species capacities to resist and adapt to change. This study is an important step in the provision of such data from experimental manipulations.
2390363|1. American Kestrel (Falco sparverius) nestlings are sexually dimorphic, with daughters larger than sons. The larger daughters have an advantage during sibling competition for food in excess of their higher per capita food requirements, and we predicted that parents would reduce this competitive disparity by differentially enhancing the growth of sons, specifically by laying them in larger eggs. 2. In a captive breeding population, eggs producing sons were significantly larger than eggs producing daughters; laying order effects were controlled. 3. The influence of sibling egg size ratios on post-natal size relationships persisted through the nesting period, providing parents with a tool to manipulate size-related phenomena in their offspring.
10.2307/2390072|1. Patterns of animal movement provide a spatial record of how organisms interact with landscape structure. 2. Although species may differ in absolute measures of movement (e.g. net displacement), they may nevertheless interact with landscape structure in similar ways. Fractal analysis affords a scale-independent measure that assesses pattern structure across a range of spatial scales. Similarities in the fractal geometry of movement pathways therefore indicate that species are interacting with landscape structure in similar ways. 3. Within a species, different life stages may possess different perceptions of landscape structure. To test this idea, I examined how developmental stages of a gomphocerine grasshopper (Orthoptera, Acrididae), Opeia obscura, interacted with microlandscape structure in a grassland mosaic. 4. Adults moved two to six times farther and were more strongly influenced by microlandscape structure than were nymphs. The fractal dimensions of movement pathways (an index of pattern complexity) differed significantly between life stages, indicating that adults and nymphs interacted with landscape structure in different ways. 5. Nymphs traverse the landscape in a different manner to adults: nymphs leap between discrete vegetative structures (e.g. grass blades), whereas adults move across the plane of the landscape. Nymphs thus possess a finer perceptual grain of landscape structure; nymphs move at slower rates and can resolve small-scale details. Adults move at faster rates across the mosaic, and may operate at a greater spatial extent than nymphs.
10.2307/2390070|1. Consumption by the Tasmanian bettong Bettongia gaimardi of fruit-bodies of ectomycorrhizal fungi associated with Eucalyptus tenuiramus was compared with the abundance of these fungi in soil protected from bettongs by exclosures. 2. Bettongs consumed all taxa (>36 spp.) of hypogeous basidiomycetes and ascomycetes on the site, generally in direct proportion to their abundance. The genus Mesophellia and Castoreum tasmanicum were the most important taxa, in terms of both abundance on the site and contribution to the diet. Fruit-bodies of Elaphomyces spp. were abundant but rarely eaten. 3. The impact of harvesting of fruit-bodies by bettongs was substantial and resulted in greater than 50% reductions of fruit-body density of some taxa. This effect was evident only when fruit-body production was high. 4. Assuming that consumption of fruit-bodies by mammals results in dispersal of spores, these observations suggest that B. gaimardi may play a major role in maintaining species richness and abundance of hypogeous ectomycorrhizal fungi.
3599079| 1. A simple method for quantifying ammonium excretion in soil microarthropods (Collembola and mites) is described. 2. Microarthropods were kept in closed vials on a pH-buffered floor of moist quartz sand where excreted ammonium
4139396|1. Predatory mammals and birds from several phylogenetic lineages use prey rustling sounds to detect and locate prey. However, it is not known whether these rustling sounds convey information about the prey, such as its size or profitability, and whether predators use them to classify prey accordingly. 2. We recorded rustling sounds of insects in Madagascar walking on natural substrate and show a clear correlation between insect mass and several acoustic parameters. 3. In subsequent behavioural experiments in the field, we determined whether nocturnal animals, when foraging for insects, evaluate these parameters to classify their prey. We used field-experienced Grey Mouse Lemurs Microcebus murinus in short-term captivity. Mouse Lemurs are generally regarded as a good model for the most ancestral primate condition. They use multimodal sensorial information to find food (mainly fruit, gum, insect secretions and arthropods) in nightly forest. Acoustic cues play a role in detection of insect prey. 4. When presented with two simultaneous playbacks of rustling sounds, lemurs spontaneously chose the one higher above their hearing threshold, i.e. they used the rustling sound's amplitude for classification. We were not able, despite attempts in a reinforced paradigm, to persuade lemurs to use cues other than amplitude, e.g. frequency cues, for prey discrimination. 5. Our data suggests that Mouse Lemurs, when foraging for insects, use the massamplitude correlation of prey-generated rustling sounds to evaluate the average mass of insects and to guide their foraging decisions.
10.2307/2389323|This paper contrasts proximate physiological explanations for the relation between nectar production per flower, the number of flowers in an inflorescence and flower size with an evolutionary explanation based on competition for pollinators. Nine species in the Fabaceae with papilionaceous flowers and eight species in the Ericaceae with urceolate flowers were analysed separately. Intraspecific patterns of nectar production (production uncorrelated or positively correlated with inflorescence size and flower length) indicate that source-sink dynamics and variation in plant size and/or vigour primarily affect nectar secretion rates within species. Interspecific patterns (production per flower declines with increasing inflorescence size) are also most consistent with a physiological explanation, namely the packaging of a limited allocation of photosynthate. Selection on the competing species to offer shared pollinators equivalent rewards seems to have had little effect on interspecific patterns of nectar production. The frequency-dependent nature of pollinator attraction is probably the major constraint on evolutionary responses to competition for pollinators.
2390398|1. Ecotoxicology seeks to blend the disciplines of toxicology and ecology to provide a means of assessing the risk that natural populations of organisms are exposed to when confronted by an environmental stress, such as a pollutant. The LC<sub>50</sub> of a compound is usually used to assess this risk with little or no consideration of the importance of the variation about the mean. 2. Several populations of the Rice Weevil, Sitophilus oryzae, were examined that had been bred on toxic (Yellow Split-pea) or non-toxic (Wheat) foodstuffs, or transferred between the two. The goal was to establish the effect of stress on the levels of activity of two detoxification enzyme systems, esterases and glutathione-S-transferases, and the variation about the mean enzyme activity. 3. Populations kept on their original foodstuffs showed similar levels of enzyme activity irrespective of whether they bred on toxic or non-toxic foods. When transferred to a novel food stuff there was a small increase in enzyme activity, perhaps reflecting induction, but transfer to a more toxic food did not produce a greater increase in activity than transfer to a non-toxic food. 4. Populations on their original foodstuff showed similar levels of variation about the mean, but the variation about the mean increased considerably following transfer to a novel food. There was some evidence that this increase was greater when the transfer was to the more toxic food. 5. The increase in variation following transfer was largely due to a small number of individuals showing particularly high levels of enzyme activity. The consequence of the generation of this type of distribution in response to an environmental stress is discussed.
3599182|1. Stable mutualistic interactions require the long-term alignment of fitness interests of participating species. This condition is fulfilled when the benefits of the relationship exceed the costs for all partners. 2. One apparent stabilizing factor in mutualisms is the vertical (parent to offspring) transmission of symbionts, as this tends to reduce the expression of virulent traits and reproductive conflicts. This study examines the cost and mode of transmission of a mutualistic Streptomyces bacterium that grows on the cuticle of leaf-cutting ants and produces antibiotics against a specialized fungal parasite of the ant fungus gardens. 3. It is shown that ant respiration rates are elevated by 10-20% when the bacterium is present on their cuticle. This increase is due to direct respiration of the bacterium and possible excess respiration by the ants. Although these two factors cannot be separated, it is clear that the total increase gives a reasonable quantification of the metabolic costs incurred by the Streptomyces symbiont. 4. Ants that actively maintain Streptomyces cultures on their cuticle tend to consume more of their mutualistic fungus garden than controls and this excess consumption increases with the amount of Streptomyces bacteria present. 5. Scanning electron microscopy showed that the mutualistic bacterium is not present on major workers immediately following eclosion, indicating that the bacterium is not transferred to callow workers until later. 6. The results of an experiment simulating within-colony transmission to callow workers suggest that the bacterium is predominantly transmitted from older to newly eclosed major workers, but that transmission may also occur via the fungus garden. The presence of Streptomyces bacteria in the fungus garden implies that rare events of horizontal transmission of the fungal cultivar of attine ants may also imply horizontal transmission of strains of the mutualistic bacterium.
41239294|1. The sublethal impact of parasites on host behaviour and the mechanism linking them to population level effects remain largely unquantified. On the Great Barrier Reef, juvenile gnathiid isopods (mobile ectoparasites) are one of the most common ectoparasites of fishes. Previous laboratory studies on damselfishes suggest that a single gnathiid can kill settlement-stage larvae and very young juveniles, while repeated attacks affect the growth of a juvenile damselfish. Nothing, however, is known of how gnathiids affect the performance, and the survival of settlement stage fishes in the wild. 2. We sampled juveniles of the damselfish Pomacentrus amboinensis for gnathiids and tested the effect of a single gnathiid (Gnathia auresmaculosa) on juvenile survival in the laboratory. We also tested the effect of this gnathiid on the swimming performance, oxygen consumption, and successful establishment in the wild of settlement-stage larvae. 3. Of the juvenile fish sampled at dawn, 3.5% had a gnathiid attached; at other times of the day, fish had no gnathiids. In the laboratory, most gnathiids (79%) remained attached to juvenile fish for up to 6 h and all fish survived exposure to one gnathiid. 4. When tested in pairs in a double-lane swim chamber, fish that had previously been fed on by one gnathiid ceased swimming first in 77% of the trials and had a lower critical swimming speed compared to fish not exposed to a gnathiid. Previously parasitized fish had a 35% higher oxygen consumption rate than did unexposed fish. When tagged fish were placed in pairs on dead coral patches in the wild and monitored, the previously parasitized fish disappeared from the reef first in 67% of the trials. 5. Our analysis indicates that a single ectoparasitic gnathiid isopod significantly decreases the performance of young P. amboinensis and their persistence on the reef. Gnathiids, by affecting fish performance, may therefore indirectly affect the successful establishment of fishes on the reef at settlement, a critical transitional stage for most coral reef fishes. Unsuccessful establishment on the reef most likely increases the interactions of settling fish with predators and thus gnathiids may contribute to the high mortality observed at this time.
2390307|1. A major focus of life-history research has been the analysis of reproductive effort (RE). However, while clearly defined in theory, RE has proved very difficult to measure. Consequently, researchers have looked for indices that estimate the components of RE. Uncritical use of indices of reproductive investment, such as measures of costs of reproduction, without verification of the underlying assumptions of the link between these traits, may lead to spurious conclusions. In this paper, the common assumption that the physical burden of the clutch impairs locomotor ability in gravid reptiles is examined. 2. Two neighbouring populations of Australian scincid lizards (Lampropholis guichenoti) are similar in adult body sizes, body shapes and reproductive output (egg sizes, clutch sizes, relative clutch masses). 3. Despite morphological and reproductive similarities, the effects of pregnancy on maternal locomotor ability (running speeds, as measured in a laboratory raceway) differed dramatically between the two populations. 4. Lizards from the two populations ran at similar speeds when nongravid (i.e. after egg-laying), but pregnancy significantly reduced running speeds in one population and increased them in the other. Thus, superficial similarities in body size and reproductive output masked a strong divergence in the locomotor `costs' of reproduction. 5. Caution is advised if using simple measures of reproductive output (e.g. relative clutch mass) as indices of reproductive effort, or to generalize results even among conspecific populations.
20142827|1. Requirements for dormancy break and seed germination are specific for all species and depend chiefly on phylogeny, geographical distribution, habitat preference and life cycle. Studying germination requirements of closely related species with a similar geographic distribution allows one to attribute variation in germination requirements to differences in habitat preference between the species. 2. We investigated requirements for dormancy break and the effect of environmental signals on induction of germination in seeds of four closely related Caryophyllaceae species growing in a variety of habitats (Moehringia trinervia, Stellaria holostea, S. nemorum and S. graminea). The species studied depend on disturbances in the vegetation for seed germination and subsequent seedling establishment. 3. Seedlings of all four species emerged both in summer and spring. Stellaria nemorum and M. trinervia, both growing in temperate forests, emerged mainly in summer under a closed forest canopy. Seeds of S. graminea, occurring in grasslands, did germinate in summer at an open site, but could not germinate under a closed forest canopy. Seedlings of S. holostea were observed in late summer when buried at an open site or in early spring when sown in a forest patch. 4. Seeds of S. holostea and M. trinervia were completely dormant at dispersal in early summer, while germination was low in fresh seeds of S. graminea and S. nemorum. Dormancy was broken, to a certain extent, during all three after-ripening treatments applied (dry storage, cold and warm stratification). 5. The effect of three gap-detection signals (light, fluctuating temperatures, nitrates) on germination of fresh and dry stored seeds was tested. Seeds of S. holostea only germinated in response to daily fluctuating temperatures. Although light was the most important signal affecting germination of S. graminea and M. trinervia, we also observed a positive effect of fluctuating temperatures and nitrates on germination. The effect of fluctuating temperatures on germination of S. nemorum was small in both light and dark incubated seeds. Seed germination in this species generally occurred in response to addition of light and nitrates. 6. This study on dormancy breaking and germination requirements of the four species enabled us to expose, sometimes subtle, differences in germination requirements. These contrasting germination patterns were related to differences in the species' habitat preferences.
40407783|1. Hierarchical branching is a fundamental feature of trees. Understanding how tree architecture is linked to tissue nutrient concentrations, metabolic rates, and life cycles is important for predicting ecosystem processes such as respiration, module turnover, and organic matter decomposition. 2. Here, we examined branch order-nutrient relationships in above-and belowground tree branching systems by analysing nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and N : P ratio in leaves, the first three orders of twigs, and the first five orders of roots in 49 tree species, including 21 temperate angiosperm species, six temperate gymnosperm species, and 22 subtropical-tropical angiosperm species. 3. Tissue [N] and [P] declined linearly with increasing twig and root orders across all species. The slope of the linear regression between root order and root [N] was the same between temperate and subtropical-tropical angiosperms, but steeper in angiosperms than gymnosperms. In contrast, root order-[P] relationship differed between biomes but not between phylogenetic groups, probably due to the significantly lower P availability in subtropical-tropical soils. Additionally, the magnitude of change in tissue [N] and [P] between successive shoot and root branch orders was not constant across branching levels. Among all fine root orders, first order root tips had [N],[P], and N : P ratio most similar to those of leaves. 4. These results demonstrate that there is a general inverse order-nutrient relationship in aboveand belowground modules, though specific patterns of this relationship differed between N and P, and between species groups. Moreover, among all root orders within the fine root guild, root tips are the best parallels of leaves in nutrient concentrations. The order-nutrient relationships presented here advances our understanding of functional module construction in trees, and provide a basis for modelling tissue chemistry-regulated processes such as respiration and decomposition in forest ecosystems.
3806569|1. Bdelloid rotifers occur in unstable habitats, such as moss, lichens and temporary pools, where conditions change unpredictably and dramatically. Their ability to survive in such habitats could be related to their physiological ability to enter metabolic stasis in response to severe environmental stress. We tested the response of a bdelloid species (Macrotrachela quadricornifera Milne, 1886) to prolonged starvation by evaluating survival and fecundity once food was resupplied on a regular basis. 2. Animals were starved for different durations (20, 40, 60 days) and all survivors resumed reproduction. Life-history parameters of the 20-day starvation group subsequent to the resumption of normal feeding were studied. 3. From resumption of normal feeding, mean longevity and age-specific traits of starved rotifers were the same as those of the fed rotifers. No reduction of lifetime fecundity was found in the bdelloids that experienced starvation, suggesting a time shift of the effective 'age' of the starved rotifers. 4. The response of the rotifer to starvation is similar to that induced by drought. The presence of a previously undocumented form of dormancy is hypothesized.
4540096|1. Many organisms are able to change their behaviour and/or morphology in response to the threat of predation. In some species, the ability to respond to predation cues may be limited to certain developmental time windows. 2. Here we examined the ability of rough-skinned newt (Taricha granulosa) embryos to respond to chemical cues from predatory caddisfly larvae when the timing of exposure varied. 3. We found that newt embryos hatch significantly earlier and at a significantly smaller size when exposed to chemical cues from caddisfly larvae. Further, newt embryos only responded when embryos were exposed to chemical cues from the first day of development. This developmental window of responsiveness corresponds with the phenology of caddisfly larvae and eggs in their natural habitat, where the presence or absence of caddisfly larvae when eggs are laid it indicates whether or not eggs are at risk of caddisfly predation. 4. Differences in response among newt embryos from different families and populations were also detected, although the factors responsible for these differences are unclear. 5. Newt response to predator exposure was not correlated with the amount of the potent neurotoxin tetrodotoxin in eggs, indicating that tetrodotoxin is not the only defence mechanism available to embryos. Further, the observed population and family differences in responses to cues are not likely to be related to differences in toxicity.
41319618|1. Animals can mitigate the consequences of conflicting food-web constraints (e. g. resource availability vs. prdation risk) through plasticity in the expression of functional traits. Because functional trait expression in turn determines a species' impact on ecosystem functions, e. g. its trophic function, there is a growing need to develop a predictive theory that links trait plasticity to ecosystem functioning. But there is currently an incomplete empirical foundation on which to develop such theory. 2. To address this issue, we explored the link between plasticity in a suite of traits (e. g. head morphology, gut size, bite size) that determine the trophic function of a generalist grasshopper herbivore facing prdation risk. We reared grasshoppers in the field under two single-forage environments where the plant resources had different physical and nutritional properties and in intermediate mixed-forage environments with or without risk of spider prdation. 3. We found that in the single-forage environments, grasshoppers became more efficient at ingesting the resource they were reared on. 4. In mixed-resource environments, grasshoppers developed a phenotype that was not intermediate to the phenotypes in the two single-forage environments, regardless of prdation risk. 5. We propose that the suite of phenotypic changes observed in our study represent two alternative feeding strategies that vary with the possibility of using behavioural resource selection in different environmental contexts. 6. Our results suggest that plasticity in trophic function may not emerge from a direct link between the primary traits that determine consumer consumption efficiency given the physical properties of its resources (as is customarily presumed) but rather indirectly from secondary traits that may remain latent until such time that they are drawn into play when the species faces a particular challenge. This means that fully understanding how functional traits influence a species' role in an ecosystem requires consideration of a broader suite of traits than simply those assumed to constrain resource ingestion.
10.2307/2389635|It is generally assumed that the traits leading to higher fitness are different in crowded and uncrowded environments. This study concerns the genetic variation and covariation in life-history traits of the dry bean weevil (Acanthoscelides obtectus Say) reared under low and high densities. We have demonstrated that larval crowding has genotype-specific effects on life-history traits of the weevils. Our data suggest that the genetic covariance structure among life-history traits is very sensitive to density and that genotype-density interactions affect the genetic correlations. It seems that the maintenance of genetic polymorphism in bean weevil populations may depend in part on the reversal of fitness order at different densities. We did not detect any significant correlation between plasticity and genetic variation of the life-history traits, which suggests that selection producing changes in the two types of variation can act independently.
10.2307/2390115|1. The prey capture threads of a spider's orb-web retain insects that strike the web until the spider can subdue them. To determine how changes in web architecture influence thread effectiveness, the stickiness of cribellar prey capture threads produced by nine species of similarly sized spiders from the family Uloboridae was measured. 2. The weight-specific stickiness of these threads differed by as much as 5-7-fold among the species and was correlated with differences in web architecture. 3. Threads spun by representatives of five orb-weaving genera were less sticky than those spun by species that make reduced webs. 4. Two species of the simple-web genus Miagrammopes produced stickier threads than two species of the triangle-web genus Hyptiotes. 5. This suggests that the stickiness of capture threads is closely allied to web design and function.
40963555|1. Animals commonly experience variation in both food quality and metabolic requirements, and must regulate their food intake to maintain energy balance. 2. We exposed captive whitebellied (Cinnyris talatald) and amethyst (Chalcomitra amethystina) sunbirds (Nectariniidae) to different nectar sugar concentrations (025, 05 and 1 m sucrose), i.e. food qualities, and ambient temperatures (5, 15 and 25 C), i.e. energy requirements, to examine the effects on food intake, feeding patterns and body mass of the birds. 3. Both species compensated for decreased dietary sugar concentration by increasing food intake. While whitebellied sunbirds showed a constant sugar intake over the range of diet concentrations, amethyst sunbirds ingested less sugar on 025 m than on 05 sucrose. During acute short-term exposure to 5 C, birds increased food and thus sugar intake on all diet concentrations by almost 27%, compared to the similar intake at 15 and 25 C. Despite increased food consumption, all birds lost more body mass at 5 and 15 C than at 25 C. 4. Adjustment of food intake in both species took place via changes in feeding frequency, with the duration of feeding events unchanged. 5. Apparent sugar assimilation in whitebellied sunbirds was > 99%, irrespective of diet concentration and temperature. A chemical reactor model of digestive capacity based on measurements of intestinal hydrolytic capacity mostly underestimated the maximal food intake of whitebellied sunbirds in the cold, but predicted higher maximal intake for amethyst sunbirds than observed on most diet concentrations. 6. We conclude that physiological constraints impose upper limits on compensatory feeding in sunbirds. These constraints are mainly digestive at low temperature and osmoregulatory on dilute diets, while the combination of both stresses leads to additional metabolic costs. 7. The moderate mass loss of both species when exposed to these energy challenges suggests that behavioural changes and/or hypothermia may be used to reduce energy expenditure.
826658|1. The concept of repeatability, the measurement of consistent individual differences, has become an increasingly important tool in evolutionary and ecological physiology. Significant repeatability facilitates the study of selection acting on natural populations and the concept has several practical implications for identifying traits. 2. When properly defined and measured, repeatability can set the upper limit to heritability. This is potentially a very useful interpretation of the repeatability of traits measured on natural populations because often, estimates of heritability cannot be obtained. Many recent reports of repeatability of individual differences for traits have made this interpretation. 3. However, repeatability estimates may not set an upper limit to heritability if: (a) measured traits are not genetically identical, (b) common environmental effects work in opposition to direct genetic effects, (c) the temporary environments for each trait are negatively correlated, (d) significant genotype-environment interaction is present, or (e) the traits are influenced by maternal effects. 4. The quantitative genetic theory that defines the concept of repeatability is reviewed and implications of violations of the five assumptions are discussed in the context of interpreting repeatability as an upper estimate to heritability.
40407707|1. Organisms must contend with seasonal fluctuations in energy availability. To maintain a positive energy balance year-round, a number of adaptations hve evolved including seasonal changes in reproduction, energetics and immunity. Photoperiod is the primary environmental signal most animais use to predict seasonal events. Despite th established link between energetics and immune function, little is known regarding how changes in energy availability affect immunity. 2. The goal of the prsent study was to determine the effects of food restriction on photoperiodic changes in reproduction and immune function in the Siberian hamster (Phodopus sungorus). Adult hamsters were housed in long or short days and were food restricted or fed ad libitum. Immune responses were quantified by measuring spcifie antibody production and bacterial killing capacity. 3. Food restriction decreased body and relative reproductive masses in long-day animais. Antibody responses, but not bacterial killing ability, were enhanced in food restricted short-day animais as compared with ad libitum fed controls. We also found differential effects of body fat on immune responses depending on th immune measure. 4. The effects of food restriction on immune function appear to vary based on the restriction regimen, th response measured, and the physiological state of the organism including energy balance, metabolic rate and reproductive status. 5. In conclusion, these results suggest that a wide range of factors can differentially affect immune function. In addition, these effects may vary based on the specifie response examined. Future studies should include a variety of measurements to provide a more integrative and accurate picture of reproductive, energetic, and photoperiodic effects on immune function.
10.2307/2389942|1. In order to evaluate quantitatively the photosynthetic performance and related nitrogen allocation of understorey plants in relation to the light environment in which they grow, two approaches may be used: the optimization theory and the co-ordination theory. 2. The optimization theory assumes that there is an optimal leaf nitrogen concentration (N<sub>op</sub>) at which photosynthesis per unit nitrogen is maximized. The co-ordination theory, on the other hand, hypothesizes that plants maintain the nitrogen concentration in the leaves such as to keep a balance between the processes which potentially limit photosynthesis, namely the Rubisco- and the electron-transport-limited rates of carboxylation. 3. These approaches were applied to analyse the photosynthesis-N relationship of trees (1.4-1.8 m in height) of the species Tetrorchidium rubrivenium (Euphorbiaceae) growing in the understorey of a tropical montane rain forest in northern Venezuela. Light-distribution patterns in the understorey and photosynthetic variables in relation to leaf N concentrations (N<sub>L</sub>) and light were measured. The optimal N<sub>L</sub> values (N<sub>op</sub>) and the N<sub>L</sub> at which the processes which limit photosynthesis are in balance (N<sub>crday</sub>) were calculated. 4. Measured N<sub>L</sub> values were considerably higher than the calculated values of N<sub>op</sub> and N<sub>crday</sub>. However, the N<sub>L</sub> values were close to the values at which carbon gain per unit leaf area is maximal. 5. It was suggested that growth and therefore probably leaf-area production of Tetrorchidium in the understorey are limited by light and not by nitrogen availability. Under these conditions, maximization of photosynthesis per unit of leaf area might be more important than maximization of photosynthesis per unit of N<sub>L</sub>.
4540056|1. An increase in average breeding performance with age and experience among younger age classes has been recorded in numerous studies of iteroparous breeders. An important component of this pattern is thought to be improvements in foraging performance, resulting in delivery of more or better quality food to offspring by older, more experienced individuals. 2. Young, inexperienced breeders may exhibit lower foraging efficiency or foraging effort, and it has been predicted that differences in foraging performance with age and experience will be more marked when environmental conditions are poor. However, as the timing of breeding generally differs with age and experience, intrinsic differences in foraging abilities are typically confounded by variation in extrinsic conditions, and hence food availability. 3. To disentangle these effects, we experimentally manipulated the timing of breeding in European shags, Phalacrocorax aristotelis Linnaeus. We used a cross-fostering protocol, such that naive, young birds reared their chicks at the same time as older, experienced individuals. Our design produced simultaneous chick rearing during two periods in the same breeding season that differed markedly in environmental conditions: early, when conditions were good; and late, when conditions were poorer. We examined foraging efficiency, foraging effort and amount of food delivered to offspring by the two classes of breeder. We predicted that any differences in foraging performance would be more marked under the poorer conditions later in the season. 4. We found that experienced parents delivered more food than naive parents, irrespective of the time of season. This was due partly to the consistently higher foraging efficiency of the experienced parents. In addition, experienced parents adjusted their foraging effort to the environmental conditions. Early in the breeding season, they made less foraging effort than naive parents. Under the poorer foraging conditions, experienced parents increased their foraging effort but naive parents did not, being either unable or unwilling to do so. 5. Our results suggest that an increase in foraging efficiency, and the capacity to adjust foraging effort in response to food availability, are important components of the observed improvements in breeding performance with age and experience.
40863593|1. The projected increase in loss of biodiversity worldwide has prompted the need to understand the role that diversity plays in key ecosystem functions such as litter decomposition and nutrient cycling. Here we asked how two contrasting species of saprophagous macrofauna and four Mediterranean forest leaf litter species interactively affect decomposition in a 6-week microcosm study. 2. Litter mass loss and macrofauna relative consumption rates (RCR) were measured on treatments with freshly fallen or partially decomposed leaf litter of Alnus glutinosa, Fraxinus angustfolia, Pistacia terebinthus and Quercus ilex as single-species or mixtures in absence and presence of the gastropod, Pomatias elegans, the diplopod, Glomeris marginata, or both macrofauna species. 3. Macrofauna consumed all litter substrates except freshly fallen P. terebinthus as a singlespecies litter that was fatal to both animals, although its presence in litter mixtures increased overall RCR. Consumption was higher in partially decomposed than freshly fallen litter, and higher in litter mixtures than in single-species litter. Both litter state and mixing interacted significantly with macrofauna treatment where generally, RCR by P. elegans alone was inferior to that of G. marginata alone or in combination with P. elegans. 4. An overall positive complementarity effect on litter RCR between G. marginata and P. elegans was observed in freshly fallen litter. Particularly strong complementarity was observed in two mixtures of freshly fallen litter and also in one mixture of partially decomposed litter. 5. There were no non-additive effects of litter mixing on litter mass loss in the absence of animals, indicating no interactions among litter substrates during decomposition. However, in the presence of either G. marginata and/or P. elegans, positive and negative interactions among litter substrates occurred and were enhanced or reversed by the addition of the second macrofauna species. 6. We conclude that saprophagous macrofauna play a critical role in the decomposition dynamics of Mediterranean forest litter by interacting with each other and by driving interactions among litter substrates.
3599078| 1. Nitrification plays a key role in the functioning of many natural ecosystems. It is directly involved in plant nitrogen nutrition and soil N losses through leaching and denitrification. The control of this process by plants is poorly understood, although modifications of nitrification would allow plants to manipulate competition for N and induce changes in ecosystem N balance. In a wet tropical savanna ecosystem (Lamto, Cte d'Ivoire), the soil N cycle is characterized by distinct high- and low-nitrification sites. Previous publications showed that nitrification was positively or negatively correlated with root densities of the dominant grass covering these sites. These contrasting sites were chosen to investigate the extent to which vegetation controls long-term nitrification. 2. In situ experimental plots were created where grass individuals originating from high- or low-nitrifying soils were transplanted into both soils. Nitrifying enzyme activity (NEA) was measured up to 24 months after transplanting. Grasses from both sites significantly modified NEA up to rates similar to those at their respective control sites. 3. The level of individual plant control (inhibition and stimulation) was correlated with grass biomass. The potential mechanisms of this control is discussed, along with its consequences for ecosystem N cycling (such as N losses), as the denitrifying enzyme activity (DEA) is much higher in the high-nitrification site. Such results suggest that plant species can have important consequences for N cycling at the population level. 
10.2307/2389377|Small open top chambers (0.8 m x 1.0 m) were developed to maintain elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations in three plant communities in a brackish marsh ecosystem. Mean annual CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations were 350  22  l l<sup>-1</sup> in chambers which received no added CO<sub>2</sub> and 686  30  l l<sup>-1</sup> in chambers with elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations. Light quality was not affected in the photosynthetically active wavelengths but the chamber reduced light quantity by 10%. Night-time air temperatures inside the chamber (T<sub>i</sub>) averaged 2<sup></sup>C above air temperature outside the chamber (T<sub>o</sub>) due to heating from the air blowers. Air temperature profiles through the plant canopy and boundary layer showed that daytime temperature differences (T<sub>i</sub> - T<sub>o</sub>) were greater than night-time differences and this day/night difference also depended on the plant community. Effects of the chamber on the micro-environment of the plant communities resulted in a significant growth enhancement in the plant community dominated by the C<sub>3</sub> sedge Scirpus olneyi Grey but not in the other two communities.
40603123|1. Thermal tolerance is a key factor limiting insect distributions, but there is limited information on the ability of species to evolve different thermal limits. Recent studies indicate that the experimental protocol influences upper limits, with slower but ecologically relevant rates of warming lowering estimates of tolerance. These effects could also influence genetic and environmental variances that define evolutionary potential. 2. To determine the influence of experimental protocol on estimates of narrow sense heritability (h n ) and other measures of evolutionary potential in Drosophila melanogaster, we conducted family studies on knockdown time when flies were immediately exposed to a high temperature (static) or when temperature was increased to an upper limit (ramping). 3. Estimates of variance components in two populations were obtained using the animal model approach that incorporates information from all relationships among relatives. Coefficients of variation were higher when flies were exposed to a static stress, as were estimates of additive genetic variance and measures of evolvability where genetic variances were standardized by trait means. In contrast, levels of environmental variance were higher under ramping conditions.These effects mean that the narrow sense heritability of thermal resistance was low under slow ramping and did not differ significantly from zero. 4. Differences in thermal limits under both methods were detected among Drosophila species. There was a significant positive relationship between the fast and slow ramping estimates of thermal resistance across species after correction for phylogeny, suggesting similar underlying mechanisms or a history of correlated evolution. However, this result was caused by the strong influence of two taxa. 5. These results suggest that natural populations exhibit lower adaptive potential for upper thermal limits under ramping than estimated from traditional (static) estimates of heat resistance.Even the highly adaptable Drosophila melanogaster appears to have little evolutionary potential to extend its upper thermal range under ramping conditions although species have diverged for this measure.
10.2307/2389843|1. Shelter-site selection is a critical component of the behaviour of most mobile organisms, allowing them to avoid adverse physical and biotic environmental conditions. This paper examines the patterns of diurnal retreat-site use of tropical cane toads (Bufo marinus), with respect to the ability of various shelter-site types to protect against desiccation. 2. To measure desiccation rates in different shelter-site types, agar models the size and shape of an adult toad were placed in sites used by toads and allowed to desiccate. Models were put in burrows, in tall grass either close to (<1 m, `wet grass' sites) or far from (>10 m, `dry grass' sites) permanent water, and in the open on sandy ground (`control' sites). These measurements were carried out during dry, wet, and moderately wet seasonal conditions. 3. Desiccation rates of models varied dramatically among seasons. During the wet season, only models located in burrows lost any mass; models in other locations gained mass. During the dry season, all models lost mass, but rates of loss were lowest in burrows and `wet grass' sites. During the late wet season, all models lost mass at lower rates than in the dry season; models in control sites lost water at the highest rates, whereas models in `wet grass' sites, `dry grass' sites and burrows all lost water more slowly. 4. During each season, we radio-tracked individual toads and recorded the characteristics of shelter sites they used. In each season, the sites most often used were those which provided the most protection from desiccation. Toads used burrows most frequently in the dry season, `dry grass' sites in the wet season, and showed no preference for any shelter-site type during the late wet season. This suggests that toads select shelter sites based on their ability to reduce rates of water loss. 5. In the dry season, toads were more likely to return to burrows than to other shelter-site types. This may occur if burrows are scarce resources that are relatively difficult to find, and/or if burrows are enhanced by individuals, making it worthwhile to return to them. In addition, burrows may provide protection from predation as well as desiccation.
3598969|1. Poorer performance in young compared with older age classes is common among iteroparous animals, and may result from age effects acting on different phases of reproduction. However, such effects have generally not been teased apart, and as a result their separate consequences for offspring fitness have remained unclear. 2. We tested whether young and mature Herring Gulls produce offspring of different quality due to differences in their egg-production capacity. An experimental protocol was used to standardize incubation and rearing conditions. 3. Eggs laid by young females were smaller than eggs of mature birds. They had a reduced absolute amount of albumen, which reflected mainly lower water content. 4. Within the young age class, female eggs were smaller than male eggs and had significantly paler yolk. This was due to young birds having reduced water content of the albumen, as well as carotenoid content in eggs containing a female embryo. In the mature class there were no such differences in resource allocation in relation to embryo sex. The sex ratio of clutches did not vary with parental age. 5. Hatchlings from eggs produced by young pairs were smaller skeletally but had similar mass to hatchlings from eggs laid by mature birds. When reared by mature foster parents, they did not differ in structural growth or survival. However, they showed a different pattern of growth in body mass. 6. Our results suggest that poorer reproductive performance of young breeders is not simply a consequence of poorer egg quality, as this was largely compensated for when the eggs of young pairs were incubated and reared by mature foster parents. However, it is also possible that adverse effects of lower egg quality are not manifest in the offspring until later in life.
10.2307/2390004|1. The response of net photosynthesis to irradiance was measured for shade-adapted shoots of different conifer species. Shoots were illuminated unidirectionally or in a light integrating sphere to study the effects of shoot structure. 2. Shoot structure was quantified as R<sub>max</sub>, the ratio of the shoot-silhouette area to the leaf-silhouette area. 3. The initial slopes and the convexities (rate of bending) of the light response curves were strongly affected by R<sub>max</sub> during unilateral illumination. There was also a strong positive effect of R<sub>max</sub> on the maximum efficiency of net photosynthesis and a strong negative effect of R<sub>max</sub> on the light compensation point. 4. Increasing atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure (C<sub>a</sub>) from 35 to 70 Pa did not affect the convexity of the light response curves nor rates of dark respiration. 5. Increasing C<sub>a</sub> affected the initial slope, the light compensation point, the maximum rate of photosynthesis and the efficiency of net photosynthesis. 6. Except for the maximum rate of net photosynthesis, the responses to C<sub>a</sub> were controlled by shoot structure. 7. Studies of the effect of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> on photosynthesis and growth in conifers need to consider variations in shoot structure.
10.2307/2390132|1. Sperm competition (i.e. competition between sperm from different males to fertilize the ova of a female) is widespread among mammals. 2. Recent ESS models of sperm competition suggest that it may sometimes pay for males within a population to invest differentially in ejaculates. These models lead to the prediction that, in mammals, small males within a population should invest proportionately more in sperm production than large males, where breeding is continuous. 3. We test this prediction by comparing intraspecific relationships between body size and testis size in seasonal and continuous breeders. The results of our comparative analyses support the predictions derived from the ESS models.
3599083| 1. The impacts of elevated atmospheric CO
40407703|1. Floral scents have been suggested to play a key role in the obligate pollination mutualism between figs and fig wasps. However, few studies have determined whether pollinator-attractive compounds could alone assure species-speeificity ('private Channel'), or whether specificity is mediated by more complex 'floral filters', of which scent is only one component. 2. We examined changes in the floral volatile compounds of Ficus semicordata, a dioecious fig species, during and after pollination using headspace collection and compound identification by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS). One benzenoid compound, 4-methylanisole, was strongly predominant (94-98%) among the volatile compounds emitted by both maie and female receptive figs of F. semicordata, whereas it was totally absent in the volatiles emitted by figs 4 days after pollination, as well as in receptive-stage volatiles emitted by two other sympatric fig species, Ficus racemosa and Ficus hispida. 3. Bioassays using the specifie pollinator of F. semicordata, Ceratosolen gravelyi, in a Y-tube olfactometer showed that 4-methylanisole was attractive to C. gravelyi in a wide range of concentrations (from 1.22 x 10 ng/100L to 1.22 x 10 ng/100L). Moreover, chemical blends lacking 4-methylanisole were unattractive to C. gravelyi. These non-active odour sources included volatile compounds emitted by receptive figs of the two other sympatric fig species and volatiles of F. semicordata post-pollination figs. 4. All these results suggest that 4-methylanisole is the main signal compound in the floral scent of F. semicordata that attracts its obligate pollinator to the host figs at the precise stage required for pollination and oviposition. Furthermore, the high proportion of 4-methylanisole in the odours of receptive figs of both sexes was consistent with the hypothesis of chemical mimicry in dioecious figs. 5. A simple signal comprised of one compound that is unusual among Ficus and that is an infrequent, usually minor, component of other floral odours, may thus function as a private Channel in this specialized obligate mutualism.
2390454|1. A cornerstone concept of ecological immunology is that immune function, interacting with various aspects of individual health state, plays a central role in the life-history trade-offs between conflicting demands of survival and reproduction. In order to develop this research, more knowledge about the applicability and usefulness of different health state assays is needed. 2. Eleven, mostly hemato-serological, health state indices are described and their suitability for sensing the condition of breeding Great Tits (Parus major L.) in terms of measurement precision, constancy in time, diurnal variation, and sex- and site-related differences, is examined. 3. Measurement errors for the plasma albumin content, residual body mass, heterophile/lymphocyte ratio and total plasma protein content were relatively small compared with the total variation, suggesting these indices to be most adequate for ecological research. Measurement precision was lowest for the heterophile count and `buffy coat' layer height (relative amount of leucocytes in total blood volume). Buffy coat layer height correlated weakly (r=0.21) with total lencocyte count estimated from blood smears and therefore appeared inappropriate for estimation of the leucocyte number. 4. Body mass (residual in respect to size) and intensity of Haemoproteus blood parasite infection were the least variable state indices during the nestling period (for both, the correlation between the values measured on the 8th and 15th days of the nestling period=0.71). Haematocrit, heterophile count and albumin/globulin ratio showed no individual constancy across the nestling period, while other traits revealed moderate but statistically significant correlations between 8th- and 15th-day values. 5. Leucocyte (both lymphocyte and heterophile) counts were higher among females captured at night compared with those captured during the day. 6. Females had higher intensities of Haemoproteus infection, higher heterophile counts and higher heterophilc/lymphocyte ratios than males. Contrary to published information, females had higher haematocrits than males. 7. Haematocrit values in both sexes, as well as total plasma protein and albumin concentrations in males, differed significantly between Great Tits breeding in urban habitat and rural woodlands, respectively.
10.2307/2389904|1. Neonate growth rate variation between low- and high-altitude populations of Sceloporus jarrovi was investigated using a common garden experiment to investigate the relative importance of proximate and ultimate causation to explain interpopulation variation in growth rates. 2. There were no differences between source populations in snout-vent length (SVL) growth rate, but there was a significant interaction of source population with sex. Low-altitude males grew more slowly than low-altitude females (0.136 mm day
4540081|1. A strong relationship between the oxygen isotope composition (expressed as 
3806568|1. We explored the effects of climatic variables (mean altitude, mean daily winter temperature, mean daily summer temperature, mean annual precipitation and days of precipitation per year) on energetic parameters (food intake and resting oxygen consumption) in six Robertsonian chromosomal races and hybrid populations of House Mice (Mus musculus domesticus) collected throughout the island of Madeira in the North Atlantic. 2. Food energy intake and resting metabolism (oxygen consumption) were measured, in 59 non-reproducing adult males trapped in April-September 1998 and June 1999 and maintained in captivity for at least 3 weeks prior to measurements. 3. Mean daily energy intake of Robertsonian mice varied between
2656376|1. Most theories of plant strategies assume the presence of certain `trade-offs'. One such evolutionary trade-off assumes a decrease in growth rate with increasing investment in chemical defences in species adapted to different levels of habitat fertility. 2. To test this hypothesis, we grew 31 herbaceous species of Asteraceae under controlled conditions of temperature (25<sup></sup>C), humidity (80%), light (500 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) and photoperiod (16 h day<sup>-1</sup>) in a modified Hoagland hydroponic solution. The plants grew from seed for 35 days post-germination and were harvested at 14, 21, 28 and 35 days. Relative growth rate (RGR) was calculated as well as a general measure of potential phytochemical toxicity (LC<sub>50</sub>) using an alcohol extraction of secondary compounds followed by Brine Shrimp bioassay and an assay of total phenolics. 3. The interspecific correlation between RGR and the potential phytochemical toxicity was weak and non-significant (r<sub>S</sub> = 0.12, P = 0.53). The correlation between RGR and total phenolics was weak, positive but significant (r<sub>S</sub> = 0.40, P = 0.03). 4. These results suggest that such an evolutionary trade-off does not exist in this group of Asteraceae.
40863632|1. Carbon stable isotopes are commonly used as a research tool in physiological ecology. When elements are consumed, they are naturally enriched or depleted as the consumer processes them. The difference in isotopie composition between the consumer and the diet is known as the discrimination factor (C). 2.Mixing models are used to estimate the contribution of multiple dietary components to a consumer's tissues and discrimination must be estimated in the model. Often, discrimination factors vary depending on multiple factors, yet in many models the discrimination factor is assumed to be constant for each dietary component. 3. Few studies have evaluated the mechanistic basis of stable isotope metabolism and discrimination during macromolecule biosynthesis, despite the potential to improve estimations of discrimination factors. We tested whether 1 3 C discrimination depends on the dietary concentration of C by culturing the bacterium Bacillus subtilis in a gradient of broths ranging from a C of  118  to -253. We found an increase in discrimination in whole bacterial tissue, bulk lipid, and lipid-extracted fractions as dietary the concentration of C increased, with lipids showing the greatest discrimination ranging from 2 72 in the low 13 C broths to 155 in the high C broths to 15.5 in the highC broths 4. These findings contrast with the majority of isotopie ecology data that typically show a moderate enrichment of 13 C as trophic level increases. This discrepancy is attributed to the de novo biosynthesis of the majority of cellular components in this study as opposed to the effects of isotopie routing seen in more metabolically complex taxa.
10.2307/2389278|1. Photosynthetic shade adaptation was investigated in three woodland species, Silene dioica, Rhododendron ponticum and Hedera helix, using a novel modulated fluorescence protocol using blue (<580 nm) and far-red light (730 nm). 2. The spectral composition and intensity of light at each site was measured and the CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation light-response curve and fluorescence transients compared. 3. Classic gas-exchange characteristics for sun and shade adaptation were found in all three species which correlated with a parameter derived from fluorescence transients. 4. In S. dioica the time taken for photosynthetic shade adaptation to occur was measured using the modulated fluorescence parameter and found to be c. 18 h. 5. The fluorescence technique offers a novel and rapid method for monitoring shade adaptation in leaves.
41319594|1. Dichogamy and herkogamy respectively represent the temporal and spatial separation of male and female reproductive functions. They are regarded as mechanisms to avoid selfing, to promote outcrossing and, particularly in self-incompatible plants, to reduce sexual interference. However, little is known about the extent to which these mechanisms reduce sexual interference, and whether this reduction impacts fitness. 2. We studied patterns of dichogamy and herkogamy, their influence on sexual interference, and the fitness outcome in self-incompatible Passiflora incarnata. We manipulated flowers to be adichogamous or unisexual to evaluate fruit production under increased and decreased sexual interference. 3. Incomplete protandry guaranteed that almost half of the pollen could be successfully exported without interfering with the stigmas, indicating dichogamy may facilitate male pollination success. We found no difference in pollen deposition between natural and emasculated flowers, suggesting that herkogamy does not decrease self pollination. Increased herkogamy resulted in reduced pollen deposition and lower probability of setting fruits, however, a higher seed number. No difference in female fitness was detected under experimentally increased or decreased sexual interference. 4. Taken together, our results suggest that dichogamy is mostly driven by the advantage to male fitness and herkogamy is chiefly determined by female fitness. The lack of difference in female fitness under varied levels of sexual interference indicates that male function is more likely to play a role in shaping floral traits that reduce sexual interference.
40407770|1. Synchrony in the timing of births is thought to have evolved as a general predator avoidance strategy. In turtles, synchronous hatching may facilitate group emergence from the nest, which in turn, may limit predation by diluting an individual's risk of predation or by simply swamping predators upon emergence. However, synchronizing hatching should not be easily achieved in natural nests because of thermal gradients affecting developmental rates. 2. We evaluated pipping synchrony in the painted turtle (Chrysemys pieta), where the drive to hatch synchronously may be reduced, because in many populations, hatching and emergence are dissociated through hatchlings overwintering within a nest. 3. We also assessed developmental mechanisms through which synchrony occurs and explored potential trade-offs between pipping synchrony and individual fitness by determining potential short and long-term neuromuscular developmental costs to hatching prematurely. These data were also used to develop a theoretical model to determine how differential embryonic maturation rates affect hatching synchrony. 4. Underdeveloped embryos pipped much earlier than expected and at similar times to their more advanced sibs. In addition, a trade-off between hatching synchronously and neuromuscular development (motility) was evident several days after hatching and up to 9 months later, after the overwintering period. 5. Synchronous hatching is an ancestral trait in turtles, but its relevance today is not solely for predator avoidance in all species. 6. Abiotic factors during incubation (e.g. temperature regime and moisture) have long-term effects on reptiles during ontogeny but it is also clear that incubation behaviour is major factor for the persistence of these developmental costs.
40205541|1. Predators hunting by sight often search for prey from elevated perches or hovering positions above the prey habitat. Theory suggests that prey visibility depends strongly on predator perch height and distance, but their quantitative effects have not been experimentally tested in natural habitats. 2. We estimate for the first time how prey visibility depends on predator perch height, distance and vegetation height in an open natural habitat, based on visibility measurements of two targets: a mounted bird and a graduated plate, from five perch heights (02-8 m) and six distances (5-120 m). 3. For both targets, their proportion visible increases strongly with observer perch height and proximity. From the lowest perch, visibility of the target bird declines to < 5% beyond 20 m distance, but 40% of it remains visible from the highest perch even at 120 m. 4. Models of predator search suggest that hunting success and predation rate depend strongly on the prey detection rate, which is expected to decline with distance r approximately as
10.2307/2389661|The aerodynamics of plumed seeds are examined using four species of Compositae and Asclepias syriaca (L.) (family Asclepiadaceae). The hairs comprising the plume of the seeds are modelled as a single long cylinder experiencing an ambient wind velocity equivalent to the measured terminal velocity in still air. The relevant measure of area is the total project area of the plume rather than the plan area of the imaginary `disk' in which the hairs reside. Experiments with an air stream show that the hairs of Asclepias begin to bend significantly at a wind speed of around 0.5 to 0.9 m s<sup>-1</sup>, and have an angle of attack of almost 90<sup></sup> at wind speeds of 4.0 to 5.1 m s<sup>-1</sup>. Consequently, there is a strongly curvilinear increase in terminal velocity as mass is artificially added to specimens. Asymmetric samaras and plumed seeds are about equally `efficient' at reducing descent velocity when the ratio of mass to projected area is high. At lower ratios of mass to projected area, however, the plumed design is more `efficient' at reducing descent velocity. Terms used: A<sub>d</sub> plan area of imaginary disk of plumed seed A<sub>p</sub> total projected area of hairs in disk of plumed seed C<sub>D</sub> drag coefficient C<sub>L</sub> lift coefficient D drag force G solidity A<sub>p</sub>/A/d Re Reynolds number d<sub>h</sub> mean hair diameter g acceleration of gravity (9.81 m s<sup><sub>2</sub></sup>) l<sub>h</sub> mean hair length m total propagule mass n number of hairs in a plume v<sub>f</sub> terminal velocity v<sub>t</sub> velocity of the air passing through a screen  density of air (1.2 kg m<sup>-3</sup>) <sub>h</sub> mean angle of attack of a hair  kinematic viscosity of air (1.5 x 10<sup>-5</sup>m<sup>2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>.
4139335|1. Comparisons of adult and juvenile plant stages are often confounded by other factors such as differences in height between plants. However, these factors can be teased apart using common garden experiments and appropriate sampling designs. 2. Using paired sampling of upper and lower canopies of Eucalyptus nitens trees, which were growing in a common environment trial and only one of which had undergone the transition to adult foliage, this study assessed the effects of ontogeny and canopy position on the feeding preferences of Common Brushtail Possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) in captive feeding trials under choice conditions. 3. Possums preferred juvenile foliage over adult foliage. In contrast, canopy position did not influence preferences. 4. Adult foliage contained significantly less sideroxylonals (a compound known to deter herbivory by Brushtail Possums), but was significantly tougher (with thicker cuticle, more fibre, more lignin and a higher percentage dry mass) than juvenile foliage, suggesting that leaf toughness was more significant than defensive chemistry in influencing intake by possums. Adult foliage did not differ significantly from juvenile foliage in nitrogen, total phenolics or essential oil concentration. 5. Greater resistance to herbivory of adult foliage compared with juvenile foliage by a significant browser of eucalypt tree foliage could contribute to selection for an earlier change from juvenile to adult foliage in areas that are heavily browsed by possums.
40407774|1. Female preferences for particular male ornaments may shift between populations as a consequence of ecological differences that change the reliability and detectability of the ornament, but few studies have examined how ornaments function in different populations. 2. We examined the signalling function of male plumage ornaments in a warbler, the common yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas), breeding in New York (NY) and Wisconsin (WI), USA. Males have two prominent ornaments: a black facial mask pigmented with melanin and a yellow bib pigmented by carotenoids. Previous studies in WI indicate that the size of the mask, and not the bib, is primarily related to female choice and male reproductive success. In NY, however, the pattern is reversed and attributes of the bib (size and colour), and not the mask, are the target of sexual selection. 3. We found that brightness of the yellow bib was the best signal of humoral immunity (immunoglobulin G) in NY and mask size was the best signal in WI, after controlling for breeding experience and capture date. Thus, similar aspects of male quality appeared to be signalled by different ornaments in different populations. 4. There was no difference between populations in the level of plasma carotenoids or the prevalence of malarial parasites, which may affect the costs and benefits of choosing males with particular ornaments in each location. 5. Even though females in different populations prefer different ornaments produced by different types of pigments, these ornaments appear to be signalling similar aspects of male quality. Our results caution against inferring the function of particular ornaments based simply on their type of pigment.
41239290|1. An organism's environment, particularly early in development, can profoundly shape its future phenotypes. While the long-term consequences of embryonic temperature are well studied in vertebrates, insects have complex life cycles that may uncouple temperature's effects in one stage from physiology in the next. 2. This study examines how egg temperature affects insect performance across all subsequent life stages. We focused on the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, and examined how egg temperatures affected hatching time, hatchling mass, larval growth, development time, head capsule size, pupal mass and adult fecundity. Eggs were exposed to either diurnal temperature cycles or a single heat shock; in both experiments, temperatures were within the range to which eggs are typically exposed in the field. 3. Although the consequences of egg temperature varied depending on the type of treatment, both cycling temperatures and heat shock affected egg development time and initial larval growth rate, which likely have fitness consequences for M. sexta in nature. In contrast, egg temperature had no persistent effect on any trait measured in later larval stages, pupae or adults. 4. Organisms with complex life cycles - Manduca has four distinct life stages and multiple larval sub-stages - may benefit from rapid compensation for poor early conditions. Additionally, the modularity of insect life cycles may help insects cope with environmental variability by insulating later stages from disturbances during embryogenesis.
4139387|1. Plants encounter a variety of light and nutrient availabilities during succession. However, there is an ongoing debate to which extent light-dependent structural and physiological plasticity is associated with species shade tolerance. 2. Seedlings of five species, Betulapubescens Ehrh., B. pendula Roth, Populus tremula L., Quercus robur L. and Acerplatanoides L. (from most intolerant to most shade-tolerant), were grown at four different light and nutrient availabilities to test the hypotheses that intolerant species have higher physiological and tolerant species higher structural plasticity to light and also that there is an overall increase in plasticity with increasing nutrient availability. Two replicate experiments in different years were conducted. Plasticity was characterized by four estimates: (1) the range of variation of the components of relative growth rate (RGR), leaf area ratio (LAR) and net assimilation rate (NAR) (
2390553|1. In previous work we established that increasing temperature led to a destabilization of the population dynamics of the invertebrate carnivore Mesostoma ehrenbergii and its prey Daphnia pulex, which ultimately resulted in the local extinction of Daphnia at higher temperatures. Two mechanisms are proposed to explain the population-level phenomena: (1) quantitative changes in carnivore vital rates with increasing temperature led to stronger functional and numerical response and (2) qualitative changes in the dynamic allocation of energy to reproduction by the predator with increasing temperature introduces inverse density dependence in the predator's response. 2. The growth of individual M. ehrenbergii was monitored under various food conditions to determine the effect of two temperatures (18 and 24 <sup></sup>C) and five food levels on rates of growth, prey consumption and reproduction and on reproductive allocation patterns. 3. The first mechanism was supported by both higher consumption rates (stronger functional response) and faster growth rates with earlier age at maturity and shorter generation time (stronger numerical response). 4. Evidence for mechanism two was also provided by an alteration of the reproductive allocation pattern with temperature. Viviparous (subitaneous) eggs were more likely to be produced by this carnivore at low food levels at 24 <sup></sup>C, while at 18 <sup></sup>C, high food levels were required before individuals made this switch. This shift actually introduces inverse density dependence in the predator's numerical response which is highly destabilizing. 5. Based on the results of this study, the differential effect of M. ehrenbergii on the dynamics and structure of its D. pulex prey populations can be attributed to changes in both physiological rates and reproductive allocation patterns with temperature.
10.2307/2389956|1. The fractal dimensions of seedling root systems of two grasses and two dicots growing in situ against glass sheets have been measured using the dividers method. Values were mostly below 1.5. 2. D was little affected by nutrient supply in Trifolium pratense, but differed significantly between four other species. 3. Values of D increased with age, slowly at first, then more rapidly and finally levelled off or declined slightly. This behaviour appears to correspond to the initial phase of radical branching pattern, which is then maintained. 4. D was negatively correlated with exterior link length and positively with topological index. 5. The fractal dimension appears to be a valuable additional index of the topology and geometry of root systems.
10.2307/2389551|This paper addresses the question of how plasticity of reproductive behaviour varies between and within waterstrider species. I focus especially on how females differ in trade-offs between longevity and reproductive investment as the food availability changes. I reared long-winged waterstriders in high and low food levels. The trade-off between reproductive investment and longevity was measured as changes in life-span and fecundity at a low food level compared to that at an abundant food level. The direction of trade-off was compared (1) between morphs that differ in flight ability, (2) between Finnish and Hungarian populations of Gerris thoracicus Schummel, and (3) among Finnish G. thoracicus, G. odontogaster (Zett.) and G. lacustris (L.) populations. Results show differences in phenotypic plasticity at all levels. When the environment was relatively permanent or as the number of generations increased, females maintained relatively high reproductive investment when food was scarce even at the cost of reduced life-span. In unpredictable environments, females reduced reproduction during food stress so that they maintained long reproductive life-spans. The cost of being able to fly differed between populations of G. thoracicus. In the Finnish population females that could fly had shorter life-spans during food stress than flightless females. In the Hungarian population flightless females had higher fecundity than flyers. Hence phenotypic plasticity in reproductive behaviour is an important life-history trait. The direction of trade-off between reproduction and longevity may vary between two females that have the same reproductive potential in optimal food conditions. Hence the two females have totally different reproductive tactics in response to variation in resources.
3599198| 1. Organisms that physically modify or create habitat (ecosystem engineers) can have a profound influence on community and ecosystem dynamics. 2. Here evidence is presented that one of the most abundant and widely distributed lotic insects could act as an ecosystem engineer in streams by increasing the stability of benthic substrates during flooding. 3. Natural densities of larval net spinning caddisflies (Hydropsychidae) were established in stream channels that had standardized physical properties. The mobility of three particle sizes were measured during simulated flooding and the fraction of particles eroded compared with that of control streams. 4. Larvae increased the initial velocity required to erode sediments by 10-30%. At velocities sufficient to scour 87% of particles from control channels, 57-100% remained stable in channels colonized by larvae. 5. Assuming larvae have similar effects in natural streams, caddisflies could be expected to increase the recurrence interval of a substrate scouring flood from 167 year to 241 year, corresponding to a 17% decrease in the probability of bed scour per year. 6. Our study suggests these insects could play an important role in generating the spatial 'refuges' that moderate the resistance of lotic communities to flooding. It is argued that, as has occurred in marine systems, a better understanding of how freshwater organisms engineer their physical environment has much potential to complement our historical focus on the abiotic forces that constrain populations and communities. 
10.2307/2389657|Life-cycle theory suggests that smaller reproductive propagules should be produced in environments in which juvenile growth rate is higher. It has recently been shown that this holds both if adult size is fixed and if the timing of breeding is fixed. Here we test the prediction qualitatively in natural populations of Theoxodus fluviatilis (L.). Capsule size and juvenile growth rate were measured at five sites in southern England. Significant differences between sites were found in both characters. Larger capsules occurred at the sites with lower growth rate, as predicted by life-cycle theory.
4139347|1. In spite of the fact that chemoreception plays an important part in sexual selection of many vertebrates, there is a lack of general knowledge on the role of specific chemical compounds as sexual signals, and on how the characteristics of chemical signals mediate behaviours such as mate choice. 2. We examined how female Iberian Rock Lizards use the chemical characteristics of femoral gland secretions of males to select potential mates. 3. Tongue-flick assays and choice of scent trials showed that females discriminated by chemosensory cues alone differences in chemical secretions of different males. Females showed stronger chemosensory responses and preferred the scent of males of presumably high quality (i.e. those more symmetric and with a greater immune response). 4. Chemical analyses by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry showed that these preferred males allocated relatively more cholesta-5,7-dien-3-ol and ergosterol to femoral secretions, which suggested that females used these chemicals to choose between males' scents. 5. Further experiments confirmed that females were able to discriminate cholesta-5,7-dien-3-ol, ergosterol, and changes in their concentrations, from similar steroids (i.e. cholesterol) also found in secretions of males. Moreover, females were more attracted to areas that were experimentally manipulated to increase the proportion of ergosterol in natural scent marks of males. 6. We suggest that femoral secretions with higher proportions of cholesta-5,7-dien-3-ol and ergoster might be reliable advertisements of quality of a male, which females could use to select mates.
3599346|1. Sierra Nevada populations of the beetle Chrysomela aeneicollis experience extreme high and low temperatures during summer, which pose special challenges to larvae of limited mobility. In these populations, allele frequency variation at the glycolytic enzyme locus phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI) correlates with differences in temperature between river drainages. PGI allozymes differ in functional properties, and thermal tolerance of adults and larvae depends on PGI genotype. 2. We measured effects of temperature on larval development rate and survival after reciprocal transplantation of populations between drainages. Effects of temperature on growth rate and activity were determined after laboratory acclimation of larvae from Bishop Creek (BC), where PGI alleles 1 and 4 occur in similar frequency. Hsp70 expression levels were measured for free-living larvae of known body temperature, and for laboratory-acclimated BC larvae. 3. Larval mortality was greatest in the coldest drainage and was correlated with minimum night-time air temperature. The frequency of PGI allele 1 declined for BC larvae transplanted to the warmest drainage. Development rate of BC larvae in nature was lowest for experimental groups where PGI-1 allele frequency was highest. Larval growth and activity varied with acclimation temperature and PGI genotype in the laboratory. Hsp70 expression levels in nature were higher for larvae collected later in the day, and varied consistently among PGI genotypes in nature and in the laboratory. 4. These results suggest that daytime temperatures routinely experienced by larvae cause elevated Hsp70 expression levels indicative of physiological stress. Exposure to subzero night-time temperatures appears to cause larval mortality. Up-regulation of Hsp70 may protect larvae from heat and cold stress. Variation in Hsp70 expression among PGI genotypes may result in differential mortality and developmental rates in nature.
2390309|1. Conventional methods of vegetation description rarely convey the behavioural or response-based information needed to describe effectively the world's vegetation for conservation and management purposes. The information required for these purposes may be derived from a generic set of plant functional attributes (PFAs). 2. A grammar provides a syntactic rule base for generating and comparing individuals as functional models or modi based on specific PFA combinations. 3. The method facilitates rapid and uniform assessment of plant response to variation in the physical environment at differing spatial scales independently of species. This is illustrated by local, regional and global case studies.
10.2307/2390134|1. Nematodes are an important component of the terrestrial Antarctic biota and must survive exposure to sub-zero temperatures. This paper shows that a number of Antarctic nematodes are freezing tolerant. 2. The cold tolerance strategies of nine taxa of terrestrial Antarctic nematodes from a variety of mosses and an alga during freezing in contact with water were examined. They could all survive exposure to -15<sup></sup>C, although survival was lower than in non-frozen controls. 3. Teratocephalus tilbrooki and Coomansus gerlachei were the best survivors after freezing, while Panagrolaimus sp. was the worst. There were no significant differences in survival between nematodes isolated from different mosses/algae or between adult and juvenile nematodes. 4. Observations of freezing using a cryomicroscope showed that most species froze shortly after the water in the sample froze. Ditylenchus sp. was the only species which showed any ability to restrict exogenous ice nucleation. 5. The nine taxa of nematodes examined thus exhibit a freezing-tolerant strategy in contact with water, freezing by exogenous ice nucleation from the surrounding medium.
20142835|1. We examined whether identity of the rodent host and previous infestation of the host affect feeding and reproduction of fleas. We predicted that feeding and reproductive success of fleas would be higher when feeding on (i) a typical host than on an atypical host; and (ii) a pristine host than on a host previously exposed to parasitism. We also predicted that the negative effect of previous infestation would not be manifested in a host-specific flea feeding on its typical host. 2. To test these predictions, we measured blood meal size, egg production and latency of oviposition in host-specific Parapulex chephrenis and host-opportunistic Xenopsylla ramesis during seven daily feedings on the Egyptian spiny mouse Acomys cahirinus (typical host of the former) and Wagner's gerbil Dipodillus dasyurus (typical host of the latter). 3. Blood meal size in P. chephrenis did not depend on either host species or previous host infestation with fleas. However, when this flea fed on D. dasyurus as opposed to A. cahirinus, blood meal size increased to the end of 7-day period. Xenopsylla ramesis took larger blood meals (i) during the first feeding; (ii) from D. dasyurus than from A. cahirinus; and (iii) from pristine than from previously infested D. dasyurus, but the blood meals taken from pristine and previously infested A. cahirinus were similar. 4. Egg production of P. chephrenis was significantly higher and oviposition started earlier when it fed on A. cahirinus; this was true for X. ramesis when it fed on D. dasyurus. Surprisingly, P. chephrenis laid more eggs and started oviposition earlier when it fed on previously infested rodents. However, egg production in X. ramesis and start of oviposition were similar in pristine and previously infested hosts. 5. These results suggest that the response of a parasite to acquired immunity of a host may depend on the host species, level of parasite host specificity as well as the degree of 'tightness' of a particular parasite-host association.
10.2307/2390283|1. The initial evolution of bright colouration in animals is unclear. Many theoretical models assume that rare, conspicuous mutants suffer increased predation risk; however, decreased risk of predation is also a theoretical possibility. 2. In an earlier study where stuffed (dead) European Blackbirds, Turdus merula, were exposed in the field, Goshawks, Accipiter gentilis, attacked mounts with a novel red wing patch less often than normal mounts. With an alternative, more decisive experimental design it is here shown that Sparrowhawks, A. nisus, the most important predators of Blackbirds, also avoid mounts with red wings. 3. In contrast with what is often assumed (e.g. in models of sexual selection), a conspicuous mutant may be favoured by decreased predation, at least initially. 4. In tests with human observers, I found that red-winged mounts were more conspicuous than normal mounts. Spectrometric measurements showed low reflectance in the ultraviolet from mounts, justifying the use of human observers (birds, but not people, perceive UV light). The spectral reflectance of red-painted mounts was similar to that of three black and red species from North America and Africa.
40407719|1. Patterns of growth, activity and renewal of stems and branches are primary determinants of ecosystem function and strongly influence net primary productivity, water and energy balance. Here we compare patterns of leaf phenology, stem radial growth and branch growth of co-occurring savanna and forest trees in the Cerrado region of central Brazil to gain insight into the influence of these parameters in forest-savanna boundary dynamics. We hypothesized that forest species would have higher radial growth rates but later leaf flush than savanna species. 2. We studied 12 congeneric species pairs, each containing one savanna species and one forest species. All individuals were growing in savanna conditions under full sun. We measured specific leaf area (SLA), light-saturated photosynthesis and monthly increments in stem circumference, branch length, leaf flush and leaf fall. 3. Relative to savanna species, forest species had 68% higher diameter growth rates, 38% higher SLA, and displayed a greater crown area for a given basal area. Across species, radial growth was positively correlated with SLA (r = 0.31), but not with CO assimilation. 4. Peak leaf production of savanna species was in the late dry season, 1 month earlier than for forest species, which suggests a strategy to avoid nutrient losses during leaf expansion due to herbivory or leaching. However, savanna and forest species did not differ in annual branch growth, number of leaves produced per branch, or in timing of leaf fall. 5. Radial growth was tightly coupled to monthly rainfall in forest species whereas the growth of savanna species ceased before the end of the wet season. The cessation of above-ground growth at a time of active photosynthesis may reflect a shift in allocation to roots and reserves. 6. These results contribute to recent studies showing that savanna and forest species represent different functional types and that despite the limiting resources in savanna environments, forest trees that invade the savanna tend to present higher growth rates and larger and denser crowns, which enhance shading and could promote changes in equilibrium of forest-savanna boundaries.
2390339|1. Cormorants are typically considered as wettable diving birds with high thermoregulatory costs and are presumed to exert substantial predatory pressure on fish stocks. 2. The stomach temperatures of seven Great Cormorants and three European Shags were recorded during a total of 108 foraging trips undertaken near the Chausey Islands breeding colony (France). 3. Both species kept a constant body temperature during the dive series which lasted up to 158 min and were conducted in 12<sup></sup>C water. Consequently, assuming that heat loss to the water is equal to heat production in diving Great Cormorants, the minimal insulating plumage air volume was calculated to be 0.371 x 10<sup>-3</sup> m<sup>3</sup> (corresponding to a 1.62-mm air layer) in males and 0.347 x 10<sup>-3</sup> m<sup>3</sup> (corresponding to a 1.90-mm air layer) in females. 4. Furthermore, it is shown that plumage air volume and dive depth are the major factors influencing heat flux to the water and that the energetics of diving Great Cormorants may also vary substantially according to fat layer thickness, water temperature and body temperature. Swim speed plays only a minor role. 5. Considering these results, it is postulated that Great Cormorants may have optimized plumage air volume so as to minimize both mechanical costs (upthrust) and thermoregulatory costs of swimming in cold, shallow water. 6. Finally, body temperature patterns recorded in different cormorant species while diving are compared.
41239232|1. There is relatively little information on how evolutionary processes that alter genetic variation in a focal species may affect interactions with other species, impact the structure or function of the community and ecosystem, and affect evolutionary feedbacks among interacting species through time. 2. Because evolution can occur at ecological time-scales, it is important to understand how major selective events, such as climatic changes, can impact the community of interacting species and ecosystem processes by changing intraspecific genetic variation. 3. The evidence linking genetic variation and evolution to community change and feedbacks has arisen from several different approaches whose results have not been synthesized into one conceptual framework, and whose commonalities may not be fully understood. 4. This review synthesizes several different experimental approaches on how evolution may impact communities and ecosystems and focuses on five main issues: (i) the genetic basis to communities and ecosystems; (ii) the community and ecosystem consequences of among-population genetic differentiation; (iii) the role of local adaptation and co-evolution; (iv) the effects of transgenerational feedbacks and the eco-evo dynamic and; (v) the integration of community and ecosystem genetics and multi-level selection. 5. Evolution can alter intraspecific genetic variation to affect indirect genetic effects and feedbacks. Future studies should investigate how communities and ecosystems are affected when evolution causes the strength of feedbacks to change.
2656342|1. Seasonal regulation of transpiration was studied in four evergreen woody species growing in a Brazilian cerrado (savanna) site with a 5 month dry season. 2. Both seasonal and interspecifc variation in leaf water potential (<sub>L</sub>) were relatively small. Predawn <sub>L</sub> was about 0.1-0.25 MPa more negative in the dry season than in the wet season. 3. The dependence of maximum whole-plant sap flow rates on sapwood area was similar among all four species during both the wet and dry seasons. When total daily sap flow on a leaf area basis was normalized by the daily average air saturation deficit (ASD), only one of the four species showed significantly greater water use during the wet season. 4. Although seasonal differences in regulation of transpiration were not pronounced, strong stomatal limitation of both maximum daily transpiration rates and total daily transpiration was evident during both the wet and dry seasons. Sap flow typically increased sharply in the morning, briefly attained a maximum value by about 09.30-10.30 h, then decreased sharply, despite steadily increasing solar radiation and atmospheric evaporative demand. 5. The total leaf area-specific apparent hydraulic conductance of the soil/leaf pathway (G<sub>t</sub>) varied among plants and diurnally. The identical linear dependence of transpiration and stomatal conductance (g<sub>s</sub>) on G<sub>t</sub> among the four study species suggested that stomatal adjustment to variation in G<sub>t</sub> limited transpiration over the entire range of G<sub>t</sub> observed. 6. When g<sub>s</sub> was normalized for daily variation in G<sub>t</sub>, about 80% of the remaining variation in g<sub>s</sub> was associated with variation in ASD. The results suggested that transpiration in these species was not limited by soil water availability per se, but by high atmospheric evaporative demand and hydraulic constraints possibly arising from their deep rooting habit.
40407769|1. Body mass is a key determinant of diving performance in endotherms. In air-breathing ectotherms however, this paradigm occurs with considerably less force. Here, through remote recordings of dive behaviour over a wide size range (5-42 kg body mass, n = 17) of freshwater crocodiles (Crocodylus Johnstoni), we demonstrate why body mass is such a poor determinant of dive duration for ectothermic divers. 2. Crocodiles were released into the wild with a time-depth-recorder attached to their dorsal scutes, and a movement activated radio-tag attached to their tail. Over 15 days, 6526  584(mean  SE, n = 17) dives were recorded, with all individuals exhibiting two specific divetypes. These were, a resting-dive (627  54% of total dive no.), where no activity occurred during the dive, and an active-dive (371  63% of total no.) associated with swimming. 3. The durations of resting-dives (~12 min) were similar for all crocodiles. Smaller crocodiles (63  07 kg, mean  SE, n = 9) exhibited a significant correlation between dive duration and post-dive surface-interval, whilst larger crocodiles (179  375 kg, mean  SE, n = 8) did not. This demonstrated that aerobic dive duration was mass-specific during resting-dives, but other mass specific factors, presumably ecological, determined dive duration. 4. The durations of active-dives were never > 1 min, showed no relationship with body mass and no correlation with the post-dive-surface interval. In crocodiles, aerobic metabolic scope is independent of body mass but anaerobic capacity is mass dependent, suggesting that active-dive duration was determined by sustained activity and dives were terminated before anaerobic metabolism became significant. 5. All individuals showed similar diel phase shifts in dive duration, type and depth, illustrating the overwhelming influence of the external environment on dive behaviour. Dive durations which resulted in significant anaerobic debt occurred rarely, but were undertaken in response to a potential threat. 6. Body mass was a poor predictor of diving in C. johnstoni because the external environmental and ecological factors exerted a greater influence on dive duration than oxygen reserves.
10.2307/2389717|Plants of four Great Basin grass species were grown from seed in two greenhouses at low (340  l l<sup>-1</sup>) and high (680  l l<sup>-1</sup>) CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. In all four species, high CO<sub>2</sub> promoted mean increases in the number of basal stems, leaf area, specific leaf weight and above-ground dry weight. High CO<sub>2</sub> resulted in an increase in CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation in two C<sub>3</sub> grasses but not in a C<sub>4</sub> grass, while all three species showed decreases in stomatal conductance. Mean increases of 60% in aboveground dry weight and 80% in water-use-efficiency are consistent with previously reported high CO<sub>2</sub> effects on grasses. No consistent differential effects of high CO<sub>2</sub> were observed when comparing annual vs perennial species. Global CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment may alter the competitive balance of Great Basin plant communities, possibly enhancing the dominance of Bromus tectorum L. on degraded rangelands.
2390543|1. One-year-old seedlings of shade tolerant Acer rubrum and intolerant Betula papyrifera were grown in ambient and twice ambient (elevated) CO<sub>2</sub>, and in full sun and 80% shade for 90 days. The shaded seedlings received 30-min sun patches twice during the course of the day. Gas exchange and tissue-water relations were measured at midday in the sun plants and following 20 min of exposure to full sun in the shade plants to determine the effect of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> on constraints to sun-patch utilization in these species. 2. Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> had the largest stimulation of photosynthesis in B. papyrifera sun plants and A. rubrum shade plants. 3. Higher photosynthesis per unit leaf area in sun plants than in shade plants of B. papyrifera was largely owing to differences in leaf morphology. Acer rubrum exhibited sun/shade differences in photosynthesis per unit leaf mass consistent with biochemical acclimation to shade. 4. Betula papyrifera exhibited CO<sub>2</sub> responses that would facilitate tolerance to leaf water deficits in large sun patches, including osmotic adjustment and higher transpiration and stomatal conductance at a given leaf-water potential, whereas A. rubrum exhibited large increases in photosynthetic nitrogen-use efficiency. 5. Results suggest that species of contrasting successional ranks respond differently to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, in ways that are consistent with the habitats in which they typically occur.
2390364|1. Fitness is related to reproduction and survival. There apparently exists a negative correlation between the numbers of male and female offspring. There also exists a trade-off between survival and reproduction. This paper investigates optimal decisions with the reproduction and survival trade-off in host selection by wasps. 2. Whereas inseminated female wasps could manipulate the sex of their offspring, virgin females produced only male offspring. I surveyed behavioural differences and the consequences of oviposition by inseminated and virgin females of a solitary parasitic wasp in host choice situations. 3. Two host types were available at the same time to both inseminated and virgin female wasps: one (a 17-day-old host in one bean) presenting difficulties for the laying of eggs, but more benefits for the offspring and the other (five 12- or 13-day-old hosts in one bean) easier for the female wasp for laying of eggs but less beneficial for the offspring. 4. Inseminated female wasps chose more 17-day-old hosts than 12-day-old hosts, but more 13-day-old hosts than 17-day-old hosts in each pair-wise choice. Virgin females chose the smaller hosts in both situations. 5. Virgin females, having greater longevity than inseminated females, laid larger numbers of eggs than the inseminated females during their lifetime by adopting an energy-saving host choice that had little effect on male offspring fitness.
2656440|1. Two often cited hypotheses explaining sexual head size dimorphism in lizards are: sexual selection acting on structures important in intrasexual competition, and reduction of intersexual competition through food niche separation. 2. In this study some implicit assumptions of the latter hypothesis were tested, namely that an increase in gape distance and bite force should accompany the observed increase in head size. These assumptions are tested by recording bite forces, in vivo, for lizards of the species Gallotia galloti. In this species, male lizards have significantly larger heads than female conspecifics of similar snout-vent length. 3. Additionally, the average force needed to crush several potential prey species was determined experimentally and compared with the bite force data. This comparison clearly illustrates that animals of both sexes can bite much harder than required for most insect food items, which does not support the niche divergence hypothesis. The apparent `excess' bite force in both sexes might be related to the partially herbivorous diet of the animals. 4. To unravel the origin of differences between sexes in bite capacity, the crushing phase of biting was modelled. The results of this model show different strategies in allocation of muscle tissue between both sexes. The origin of this difference is discussed and a possible evolutionary pathway of the development of the sexual dimorphism in the species is provided.
20142750|1. Mixotrophic organisms can combine two functionally different modes of nutrition to acquire carbon: (i) by using photosynthesis for inorganic carbon fixation; and (ii) by taking up organic sources. Because of these different metabolic pathways, their biochemical composition, for example, the amount and composition of consumer-relevant compounds such as polyunsaturated fatty acids, varies, and thus, we tested the hypothesis that the mode of nutrition of an osmo-mixotrophic flagellate determines the food quality for their consumers: three rotifer species. 2. Using life table experiments with auto-, mixo- and heterotrophically grown Chlamydomonas acidophila as food sources, we found species-specific differences in life span, fecundity, population growth rate, egg size and maternal effects on the starvation resistance of neonates between the three rotifer species. 3. Population growth of two out of the three rotifers (Brachionus sericus and Elosa worallii) was negatively affected when fed with heterotrophic food, compared to animals fed with autotrophic food. In contrast, Cephalodella sp. was able to use all C. acidophila with similar efficiency. 4. These results explain the vertical distribution of two of the rotifers in their natural habitat, where Cephalodella sp. dominates over E. worallii in deep water layers characterized by light intensities below the compensation point for autotrophic growth of C. acidophila. It is hypothesized that temporal changes in the mode of nutrition of mixotrophs have consequences for the outcome of the competition between consumers and for the carbon transfer in many planktonic food webs.
20142877|1. Condition-dependent expression of ornamental traits is a fundamental assumption of theories on the honesty of sexual signals, and it is widely assumed that condition-dependence is a signature feature of ornaments. 2. Some of the best understood condition-dependent traits are the striking carotenoid-based plumage signals of male birds, yet little is known about the many less conspicuous, less elaborate carotenoid-based plumage colours that often comprise large parts of the plumage. 3. We examined colour (reflectance) of carotenoid-based plumage in male greenfinches that were provided with naturalistic diets with relatively low and with enhanced lutein availability during their annual moult. Using a variety of objective colorimetrics, including physiological models of avian colour vision, we compared experimental effects and general condition-dependence on the contrasting bright yellow tail patch, the yellow-green breast as well as three duller, yellow- to olive-green patches (back, crown, rump). 4. Irrespective of the analysis method used, we found consistent and large diet effects on the reflectance of the tail, much weaker effects on the reflectance of the breast, and no significant effects on the other three plumage parts. Likewise, we found that only the colour of the tail was strongly associated with circulating (plasma) lutein concentration, as well as with general condition (body mass, haematocrit). 5. Our results suggest that, in accord with current theories on the signal honesty, the striking yellow tail patch of the male greenfinch appears to be particularly well-adapted to signal information on carotenoid availability and general condition of the male during moult.
10.2307/2390244|1. Small mammals require more energy per unit gut capacity than large mammals and, as a result, are forced to be more selective in their dietary habits. We predicted that when offered seeds, Meriones crassus (adult body mass [m<sub>b</sub>]=50-100 g) would husk less and consume proportionately more husks than the smaller Gerbillus henleyi (m<sub>b</sub>=8-12 g). Furthermore, in the sexually dimorphic M. crassus, larger males would consume proportionately more husks than females but in G. henleyi, which does not show size difference between sexes, there would be no difference in husk intake. 2. Only male M. crassus (m<sub>b</sub>=86.2 g) consumed husks; female M. crassus (m<sub>b</sub>=57.0 g) and both sexes of G. henleyi (m<sub>b</sub>=9.20 g for males and 8.85 g for females) did not. Therefore, our hypotheses were partly supported. 3. Digestibilities of dry matter and energy for male M. crassus were lower than for females and those of G. henleyi males and females. This was a result of the greater proportional consumption of low digestible, low energy husks. 4. We also predicted that the average daily metabolic rates (ADMR) of these species would be (1) similar to each other when compared allometrically and (2) lower than those predicted for rodents of their body masses. These hypotheses were based on the coexistence in deserts and similar granivorous diets of the two gerbil species. ADMR for each species was calculated from the regression equation of body mass change on metabolizable energy intake at the point of zero change in body mass. 5. Their ADMRs, 8.23 kJ g<sup>-0.54</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> for M. crassus (m<sub>b</sub>=72.6 g) and 8.65 kJ g<sup>-0.54</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> for G. henleyi (m<sub>b</sub>=9.05 g), were similar and therefore this hypothesis was confirmed. However, in contrast to our hypothesis, both these species had ADMRs that were similar to predicted values, that is, 96.1% and 101.1%, respectively, of rates predicted for their body masses.
20142864| 1. Large-scale syntheses of leaf and litter N and P concentrations have demonstrated that leaf and litter N: P ratios both decline with latitude, that litter N: P ratios are generally greater than those of fresh leaves, and that the difference between these two ratios increases towards the tropics. These patterns have been ascribed to either a direct effect of temperature on plant growth rates and leaf-level physiology, or a decline in soil P towards the tropics. We test the hypothesis that global patterns of leaf and litter N: P ratios reflect a soil-P gradient by examining leaf and litter N: P in all species from a temperate rainforest along a soil-P gradient. 2. The soil P gradient followed a toposequence of 20 plots. There was &gt 50-fold variation in soil total P from ridges (23-136 mg kg), through faces and terraces (32-744 mg kg), to gullies (440-1214 mg kg). 3. The N: P ratios of leaves and litter both declined as soil total P increased, and the N: P ratio of litter was greater than that of fresh leaves. The difference between litter N: P and fresh leaf N: P declined with increasing soil total P supporting the hypothesis that global patterns of N: P ratios reflect gradients of soil P. 4. Compositional turnover with soil P partly contributed to the total plant community leaf and litter nutrient concentration responses. However, consistent within-species responses pointed to a soil-based mechanism for determining responses by the total plant community. 5. Comparisons of our litter data to global data sets suggest that the vegetation was well adapted to low soil nutrient concentrations with 37% of litter N and 24% of litter P samples being below published thresholds for highly proficient nutrient resorption. 6. The range of leaf N and leaf P concentrations at our site captured a large portion of the range reported in global leaf trait data sets. 7. Highly proficient P resorption was responsible for the divergence in leaf and litter N: P ratios on P-poor soils. These results emphasize the significance of proficient nutrient resorption as an advantageous plant trait for nutrient conservation on P-poor soils. 
2656424|1. We developed a mechanistic model to explain acclimation of photosynthesis to the radiation distribution within plant canopies. The model predicts the amount of photosynthetic apparatus in any leaf from the balance between supply of carbohydrates by photosynthesis and the demand for resources by enzyme synthesis and turnover and export to sinks elsewhere in the plant. 2. The turnover of the photosynthetic apparatus is assumed to depend on the amount of available resources: nitrogen and carbohydrates. Leaves export carbohydrates into a common pool of carbohydrates and take nitrogen from the common nitrogen pool. All leaves of one plant are assumed to share these common pools. 3. The model allows description of the dynamics of the acclimation process known to occur within weeks after changes in the environment. The model also adequately explains measured leaf nitrogen distributions and total leaf area in a multispecies canopy. 4. According to our model, differences between species in leaf nitrogen distribution with respect to PPFD can be explained with differences in plant common pools of carbohydrates and nitrogen. 5. Although canopies cannot be treated as a big leaf in a simple way because mechanisms predicting amount of photosynthetic apparatus in a single leaf and in entire canopy are different, total canopy nitrogen can be used as an estimate for canopy total photosynthesis.
2390361|1. In dense populations of the saxicolous lichen Lasallia pustulata the margins of adjacent thalli overlap each other in intraspecific competition for space and light. 2. In situ non-destructive monitoring of hydration-dependent potential photosynthetic activity by modulated fluorescence systems in different parts of the thallus shows that the activity is structured by a centre-to-margin gradient, with the centre of the thallus remaining active for substantially longer periods than the margins when the thalli dry up after being activated by wetting. The pattern reflects the water status of different parts of the thallus; the margins which are thin and exposed dry up first. 3. The activity pattern within individual lichen thalli suggests that marginal overlapping between neighbours may have a less detrimental effect on the shadowed individuals than expected from a pure consideration of the amount of area shadowed. Because the centre of the lichen thallus is active for longer periods, shadowing of this region may possibly be more harmful per area unit than an overlap at the less active margins. 4. Larger thalli are active for substantially longer periods than small ones. Even the margins of larger thalli tend to be active for a longer period than the centre of small thalli.
3599057|1. The ability to follow substrate-deposited scent trails using sophisticated vomeronasal abilities is a key feature of snake biology. However, previous research on this topic has derived mostly from a highly artificial test situation: captive snakes following continuous trails over structurally simple homogeneous substrates, in the absence of any other cues (e.g. visual or olfactory) either from the target of that search or from other snakes. 2. Our field experimental trials with Red-Sided Garter Snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis) at a communal den in Manitoba explored wider issues in mate location. 3. Males followed a female's trail less successfully if she had recently been followed by rival males, suggesting that trailing males obscured the cues left by the female. 4. Males that lost contact with a female's trail exhibited stereotyped, spatially extensive and prolonged circling behaviour centred on the last point at which the trail was detectable; in nature, this behaviour would maximize the male's ability to relocate a discontinuous trail. 5. Trail-following males switched from chemical to visual cues as soon as they were close to a female, enhancing speed but decreasing the accuracy of mate location (because males could distinguish between females and other males based on either visual or airborne olfactory cues). 6. Incorporating additional cues and broader spatial scales can clarify aspects of trail-following behaviour not evident from studies in small, highly simplified laboratory situations.
10.2307/2389603|Changes in protein turnover and their metabolic costs are thought to play an important part in the general response of animals to toxicants. Making use of genetic differences in the tolerance of different clones of Daphnia magna Straus, a parthenogenetic cladoceran extensively used in ecotoxicological tests, we here investigate responses to cadmium and 3,4-dichloroaniline. Irrespective of tolerances, there was evidence that all clones showed an increase in protein turnover and associated increase in respiratory maintenance costs under toxic stress - indicating the deployment of a general stress response. One clone that was least sensitive to DCA, showed a more extreme form of these responses. We speculate on the general implications of these results.
2656308|1. The seasonal dynamics of body condition (BC), circulating corticosterone levels (baseline, BL) and the adrenocortical response to acute stress (SR) were examined in long-lived Black-legged Kittiwakes, Rissa tridactyla, breeding at Duck (food-poor colony) and Gull (food-rich colony) Islands in lower Cook Inlet, Alaska. It was tested whether the dynamics of corticosterone levels reflect a seasonal change in bird physiological condition due to reproduction and/or variation in foraging conditions. 2. BC declined seasonally, and the decline was more pronounced in birds at the food-poor colony. BL and SR levels of corticosterone rose steadily through the reproductive season, and BL levels were significantly higher in birds on Duck Island compared with those on Gull Island. During the egg-laying and chick-rearing stages, birds had lower SR on Duck Island than on Gull Island. 3. The results suggest that, in addition to a seasonal change in bird physiology during reproduction, local ecological factors such as food availability affect circulating levels of corticosterone and adrenal response to acute stress.
10.2307/2389389|Models of the competitive success of different filter-feeding zooplankton species under limiting food conditions make assumptions about the metabolic costs of collecting and processing the food particles. Such assumptions were tested by measuring carbon assimilation and respiration of Daphnia magna Straus under varying concentrations of the green alga Scenedesmus acutus Meyen using a method that allowed determination of the incorporation of radio-carbon, release of <sup>14</sup>C-carbon dioxide, oxygen consumption and weight increment at the same time on the same individuals. Assimilation rate increased linearly with increasing food concentration until a plateau was reached at the incipient limiting level (ILL). Respiratory rate also increased and plateaued at the ILL. A linear relationship with a slope of 0.17 was found between assimilation rate and respiratory rate. The intercept of this regression was not significantly different from the respiratory rate of fasting Daphnia. This fact, the linearity of the relationship between assimilation and respiration, and the slope and the shape of the response curve of the respiratory rate to food concentration suggest that increased respiratory rates in feeding daphnids are mainly due to specific dynamic action. No evidence was found that either the filtration process or the rejection of superfluous food in Daphnia is very costly. This should be considered when models of optimal foraging are constructed for these filter-feeders.
10.2307/2389833|1. The effect of NH
20142801|1. It is poorly understood which traits translate larval stressors into adult fitness in animals where larval and adult stages are separated by metamorphosis. Although fluctuating asymmetry (FA) is often assumed to do so, especially in insects the relationship between larval stress, adult FA and individual quality is often absent. One suggested hypothesis for this is the higher mortality of low quality (hence more asymmetric) animals during metamorphosis (i.e. developmental selection hypothesis). 2. Here we test this hypothesis and also propose and test an alternative hypothesis where metamorphosis is stressful but not lethal and increases FA of all animals up to a certain level (i.e. stressful metamorphosis hypothesis). 3. We manipulated larval stress (food stress and pesticide stress) and measured FA before and after metamorphosis in the damselfly Coenagrion puella. Additionally, we assessed the relationship between FA and individual quality variables measured at metamorphosis (age, mass and two immune variables: phenoloxidase (PO) and haemocyte number). 4. Before metamorphosis, FA reflected the combination of food and pesticide stress and was negatively related with mass and both immune variables after metamorphosis. These patterns were, however, offset after metamorphosis. Low mortality, not linked to FA during metamorphosis, indicates that developmental selection cannot explain this. Instead, the strong increase in FA up to equal levels across treatments during metamorphosis supports the stressful metamorphosis hypothesis. 5. Taken together, the developmental stage in which FA is measured may critically determine the reliability of FA as an indicator of stress and of individual quality in insects.
10.2307/2390007|1. The fungicide benomyl was applied to a lichen-rich plant community growing on a sandy soil in Suffolk, UK, once a month from November to May for 3 years. Benomyl application eliminated the lichen Cladonia rangiformis from the community and resulted in a large increase in the cover of the moss Ceratodon purpureus. There were also changes in the frequencies of several higher plant species in response to benomyl application. 2. There were significant reductions in mycorrhizal colonization following fungicide application in Crepis capillaris and Erodium cicutarium, which were reduced in abundance by benomyl application, whereas the non-mycorrhizal Arenaria serpyllifolia and Rumex acetosella increased in abundance in fungicide-treated plots. Changes in the frequencies of mycorrhizal higher plant species were negatively correlated with reductions in mycorrhizal colonization of their root systems. There was also a 22% increase in plant species density m<sup>-2</sup> in plots treated with benomyl. 3. Ordination analyses showed that 60% of the variation in the vegetation data set could be accounted for by Carex arenaria, Cladonia rangiformis and R. acetosella on the first component axis, and by Ceratodon purpureus, Hypnum cupressiforme var. lacunosum and Cerastium fontanum on the second axis, and demonstrated that the two sets of plots were vegetationally distinct. 4. The results show that two groups of symbiotic fungi are important regulators of plant community structure: the lichen C. rangiformis was a keystone organism in the community studied and appeared to be able to suppress the moss C. purpureus, and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi appeared to play a significant role in determining the interspecific competitive abilities of higher plant species.
3599260| 1. Locomotor impairment and shift in thermal preferences during gestation have been documented in some lizards, but few studies have investigated their timing. Here, endurance capacity, sprint speed and selected body temperature of gravid females of the viviparous lizard Lacerta vivipara (Jacquin) were measured weekly before and after parturition. 2. Significant temporal variation of endurance and sprint speed was detected. A marked decrease in locomotor abilities occurred 2 weeks before parturition (c. 35% for endurance and 25% for sprint speed). A rapid recovery was observed a few days after parturition for endurance, while sprint speed recovered more slowly. 3. A physical impairment due to body mass was detected for endurance capacity, but not for sprint speed. The recovery of locomotor abilities after parturition was independent of the intensity of reproductive investment. Mass-independent variation in locomotor performances might be explained by physiological consequences of reproduction independent of the physical burden. 4. Females basking under laboratory conditions selected low body temperatures during the final month of gestation (298 C  012 SE) and a drastic increase occurred in the few days following parturition (334 C  013 SE). 5. These results call for a more detailed investigation of the mechanisms underlying trade-offs between reproduction, locomotion and thermoregulation in lizards. 
2390438|1. Shade-tolerant species that inhabit the understorey have a range of leaf lifetimes (from 1 to 8 years), which may indicate a variety of strategies for dealing with increases in light associated with tree-fall gaps. We hypothesized that species with long-lived leaves should be more tolerant of an increase in light levels than species with short-lived leaves. 2. In understorey plants of 12 shade-tolerant rain-forest species, photoinhibition, measured as a reduction in the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub> when leaf discs were exposed to 1 h at 1000  mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>, was greater in species with short-lived leaves than species with long-lived leaves. 3. Less photoinhibition in species with long-lived leaves was not associated with higher levels of non-photochemical dissipation (NPQ) of absorbed light, but may be the result of a higher yield of photosystem II compared with short-lived leaves. 4. Thus, species with long-lived leaves are more tolerant of abrupt increases in light that occur when tree-fall gaps are formed than species with short-lived leaves. 5. Discs from leaves of all species growing in tree-fall gaps had higher levels of NPQ, yield of photosystem II and more rapid recovery from photoinhibition than leaves developed in the understorey; however, there were no differences among species with short- and long-lived leaves.
10.2307/2389623|In a manipulative experiment the following predictions about the relationship between fruit mass, pappus area, and terminal velocity in the fruits of Tragopogon dubious (L.) were tested: (1) terminal velocity should be proportional to the square root of disk loading (disk loading = mass/area), (2) when pappus area is held constant, terminal velocity should be proportional to the square root of the mass and (3) when fruit mass is held constant, terminal velocity should be inversely proportional to the square root of pappus area. Although qualitative support was found for each prediction, terminal velocity declined more slowly than predicted with increasing pappus area and increased more quickly than expected when mass was increased. When disk loading was held constant, fruits with larger pappuses fell more quickly than fruits with smaller pappuses. These results suggest that the area of the pappus is not a good estimator of its ability to produce drag (its effective area) for two reasons: (1) because the radial morphology of the pappus causes the density of drag producing cross hairs to decrease along the length of the pappus ray and (2) because the projected area of the pappus may change if the pappus is bent upwards by the drag force acting on it. Thus, increasing parental investment in pappuses does not decrease terminal velocity as quickly as expected.
3599105|1. This paper explores the idea that functional heterogeneity (variability of a system property affecting ecological processes) is only a fraction of the available structural heterogeneity (variability of a property measured without reference to ecological effects) caused by non-random propagule dispersal. We report the effect of acorn dispersal by jays on the light environment experienced by Holm Oaks (Quercus ilex L.) during early recruitment in a Mediterranean montane forest. 2. Four light variables were estimated by studying hemispherical photographs: direct site factor (DSF); indirect site factor (ISF); and potential direct radiation during April
40407766|1. Shrubs in fire prone chaparral communities have evolved different life history types in response to fire. A key to understanding the evolution of life history type differences is to understand how physiological traits are linked to differences in life history type. Vascular adaptations are important for delivering an efficient and stable water supply to evergreen chaparral shrub leaves. This study tested for a link between vascular physiology and life history type in chaparral shrubs. 2. Chaparral shrub species along the south-western coast of North America survive wildfire by three different life histories. Non-sprouters are killed by fire and re-establish exclusively through germination of fire-stimulated seeds, facultative sprouters re-establish by a combination of vegetative sprouting and fire-stimulated seeds, and obligate sprouters re-establish exclusively by vegetative sprouting because their seeds do not survive fire. Non-sprouters and facultative sprouters establish seedlings in the open canopy post fire environment, whereas obligate sprouters establish seedlings in the shady understory of the mature chaparral canopy. 3. Seedlings of nine species (Rhamnaceae) representing three each of the different life history types were grown in deep containers in a common garden under treatments of sun and shade. Hydraulic conductance was measured using a high-pressure flow meter for all organs, and a vacuum technique was used to measure conductance of fine and woody roots. We predicted that non-sprouters would exhibit greater hydraulic efficiency than the sprouting species, and that facultative sprouters would be more efficient than the shade tolerant obligate sprouters. 4. Non-sprouters had the greatest hydraulic conductance per unit leaf and sapwood area at the whole seedling level, whereas facultative and obligate sprouters were not different. Comparing hydraulic conductance across major organs (from fine roots to leaves) showed that the hydraulic system was well coordinated. At the whole seedling level, the root system was more of a bottleneck than the shoot system. This pattern was consistent with high resistance extraxylary pathways in roots and differences in root architecture. 5. The greater hydraulic efficiency of the non-sprouter life history type is attributed to its post-fire pioneering habit and may partially explain the relatively high speciation in the non-sprouters. Lower hydraulic efficiency is associated with a sprouting life history and greater shade tolerance. The seedling root systems represent a hydraulic bottleneck that may place roots under especially intense selection.
3599106| 1. Knowledge of the functional response of predators to prey densities conditions our understanding of food webs. Such links are still poorly understood within the higher trophic levels of marine ecosystems. 2. We present the first field study recording the foraging effort and foraging yield of a seabird (the Great Cormorant, Phalacrocorax carbo) as well as the abundance and quality of prey within its foraging area. 3. We confirm that Great Cormorants foraging off West-Greenland show the highest foraging performance recorded for a marine predator (between 17 and 41 g fish caught per minute underwater). Former work suggests that such high foraging yield should be based upon the exploitation of extremely profitable prey patches. 4. Contrary to this hypothesis, average prey abundances estimated within the foraging areas of the cormorants were low (003-009 prey m
2390378|1. The allelopathic effect of the exudate secreted by Cistus ladanifer leaves was tested on different plant species. Cynodon dactylon and Rumex crispus, species absent from C. ladanifer scrub (jarales), were clearly inhibited by the exudate. 2. Species present in the jarales, Medicago polymorpha and Lolium rigidum, showed no direct inhibition of germination, but the process this was delayed, and cotyledon and root size was diminished. This implies inhibition of seedling growth, and may explain the low abundance of these species inside the jarales. 3. The active constituents in the inhibition of germination are low molecular weight phenolic compounds. The flavonoids appear to exert no direct effect on germination of the species tested, but do provoke a reduction in cotyledon and root size, and could thereby inhibit subsequent seedling development.
40963558|1. Increases in longevity from dietary restriction (DR) have been linked to the evolution of physiological strategies for maintaining lifetime reproductive output despite periods of nutritional deficiency. If this is the case, then reproductive life history and mating status should determine whether or not dietary restriction increases longevity. 2. We investigate the effects of DR and mating status (mated or unmated) on longevity and lifetime reproductive output and explore mechanisms underlying these patterns by measuring resting energetic rates and changes in mass over time. We study iteroparous female Australian redback spiders (Latrodectus hasselti), which are known to tolerate periods of starvation (ecologically relevant DR) in nature. 3. Mated DR females had the highest longevity of any experimental group, in strong contrast to results for semelparous males of this species [M.M. Kasumovic, M.C.B. Andrade & R.C. Brooks (2009), Biology Letters, 5, 636]. Most strikingly, mated females (whether DR or not) had higher longevity than unmated females. 4. Mated females rapidly decreased their resting energetic rates and stopped egg production under DR. Once feeding returned to normal, resting energetic rates of mated females increased immediately, egg sac production continued and there was no net decrease in lifetime reproductive output relative to mated females without DR. 5. This shows DR increases longevity for mated females, but there is a longevity cost of remaining unmated, which may arise because unmated females (regardless of diet) maintained high energetic rates. This may be an evolved pattern of physiological support for reproductive readiness which exerts a fitness cost when mating is delayed. Taken together, these results suggest positive effects of DR on longevity critically depend on reproductive life history (iteroparity or semelparity) and individual mating status.
40205477|1. Soluble root exudates are notoriously difficult to collect in non-hydroponic systems because they are released in a narrow zone around roots and are rapidly assimilated by rhizosphere microbes. This has substantially limited our understanding of their rates of release and chemical composition in situ, and by extension, their ecological significance. 2. Here we describe the advantages and limitations of several commonly employed methods for measuring exudation with respect to their potential adaptability for field use in forest ecosystems. Then, we introduce a novel in situ method for measuring exudation in forest soils, and present preliminary results of the spatial and temporal dynamics of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) exudation at the Duke Forest FACTS-1 site, North Carolina, USA from April 2007 to July 2008. 3. Exudation rates varied by an order of magnitude, with the highest rates occurring in late-June 2007 and mid-July 2008, and the lowest rates occurring during late-August 2007. On an annual basis, we estimate pine roots in the upper 15 cm of soil release c. 9 g C M year via this flux, which represents 1-2% of net primary productivity at the site. 4. The magnitude of exudation rates did not differ across an N availability gradient but did track general patterns of below-ground C allocation at the site. Exudation was well-predicted by root morphological characteristics such as surface area and the number of root and mycorrhizal tips, further supporting a possible link between root C allocation and exudation. 5. Because all methods for estimating exudates introduce experimental artefacts, we suggest that only a limited amount of ecologically relevant information is probably gleaned from a single method. Thus, a complementary suite of experimental approaches will best enable researchers to understand consequences of changing patterns of exudation in the wake of global environmental change.
2656399|1. Plant responses after addition of nitrogen-rich complex organic material (Lolium perenne L. shoots), differing in physical (coarsely cut or finely ground) and spatial (uniform dispersion or discrete patches) heterogeneity, were examined. 2. The organic material was added to microcosm units containing L. perenne and Poa pratensis L. as monocultures or mixed swards in order to examine how species composition affected exploitation of the added <sup>15</sup>N-labelled N source. 3. Capture of N (as <sup>15</sup>N) from the organic material was followed by harvesting individual shoots. Poa pratensis captured more N from the added material when in mixtures with L. perenne than when in monoculture, particularly from the milled material. Capture of N by L. perenne shoots was not affected by either sward composition or method of organic material placement. 4. At final harvest (70 days after addition of the organic material), roots from P. pratensis monocultures had greater dry weights, lengths and N contents than those from L. perenne monocultures; P. pratensis shoot dry weights were also greater. 5. Capture by swards of N from the added organic material was the same (26% of that originally available) regardless of sward composition or organic material placement. However, within the mixed swards P. pratensis captured more N than L. perenne (18 and 9%, respectively).
10.2307/2389839|1. We analysed the effect of CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment on plant-plant interactions in an artificial community dominated by Trifolium repens and Poa pratensis. Plants were enriched either in open-tops or growth chambers. 2. Our main hypotheses were supported, i.e. elevated CO<sub>2</sub> increased the strength and number of plant-plant interactions and Trifolium benefited more than Poa from a high CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. However, responses differed depending on whether plants were enriched in open-top or in growth chambers. These differences are discussed regarding possible density dependence. 3. This study emphasizes the importance of invasions in the dynamics of our artificial community. Invasiveness was best predicted by traits pertaining to space acquisition. 4. To provide insights into evolutionary processes, phenotypic plasticity and genetic correlation of individual traits were analysed across environments. Our results suggest that little opportunity had occurred for adaptive plasticity to evolve for most characters.
826686| 1. Interspecific and temporal variations in presumed water-use efficiency, as measured by carbon isotope discrimination (), were examined in a Greek semiarid herbaceous grassland, and the hypothesis tested that competition for water is a factor in determining vegetation structure. 2. Experiments were conducted for 3 years in an upland grassland consisting of exclusively C
10.2307/2389978|1. An important parameter in life-history theory is reproductive effort, i.e. the proportional amount of resources allocated to reproduction, and its effects on individual animals within a population, including the risk of predation, survival and fecundity in subsequent breeding attempts. Generally, it is believed that reproduction drains energy that otherwise could have been used for survival or subsequent reproduction. There has been a controversy about whether the mass loss in birds represents such an energetic drain in energy store or whether it is an adaptation to lower the flight costs of adults during nestling rearing. 2. Here I present an experiment that aimed to test these two hypotheses, i.e. `the cost of reproduction hypothesis' and the `mass adjustment hypothesis', by adding extra food in some territories during incubation and nestling rearing, while others were held as controls. 3. There was no effect of food addition on either final body mass (late nestling) or body mass change (from incubation to late nestling) for females of different treatments. However, in males there was a tendency for a lower final body mass in control broods, compared with males with supplementary food, and also for a larger body mass change of males in control broods compared with males with supplementary food in 1 of the 2 years. 4. There was a positive correlation between number of fledged young and body mass change for females, and a negative correlation existed between fledging success and final body mass for females. Thus, a large number of fledged young led to a greater body mass change and to a lower final body mass for females. However, there were no such correlations in males. 5. Hence this study provides some support for the `cost of reproduction hypothesis'. but also gives support for the `mass adjustment hypothesis'. A certain amount of decline in body mass during breeding may be of adaptive value, but below some threshold limit, which can vary depending on environmental conditions, a somatic cost probably arises that may reduce future survival and/or fecundity. Thus, the two hypotheses for explaining body mass reduction in birds may not be mutually exclusive. Also, a third alternative `benefit-cost hypothesis' is proposed, which predicts that parents should decrease their body mass to a level that optimizes parental investment and maximizes life-time reproductive success.
2656414|1. The size of body organs shows adaptive temporal variation in many animal species. The variation in the size of body organs was examined to see if it is also a component of local adaptation to geographical variation in ecological conditions. 2. Major body organs were measured in five species of Icelandic seabirds, sampled from two areas where birds experience slightly different ecological conditions. Between-area differences in ecological conditions were consistent among the study species, allowing tests of the generality of ecological effects on organ size. 3. All major body organs showed geographical size variation. Livers and kidneys were larger in locations where daily energy expenditure was expected to be higher, small intestines were heavier where food was of lower energy density; stomachs were heavier where food was less digestible; heart and flight muscle were larger where flight costs were greater. 4. It is concluded that adaptive variation in organ size may be an important means by which animals optimize exploitation of their local environment, and may be a proximate factor in intraspecific life-history and metabolic variations between geographically separate populations.
40407696|1. Floral scent is a key factor in the attraction of pollinators. Despite this, the role of floral scent in angiosperm speciation and evolution remains poorly understood. Modem population genetic approaches when combined with pollination ecology can open new opportunities for studying the evolutionary role of floral scent. 2. A framework of six hypotheses for the application of population genetic tools to questions about the evolutionary role of floral scent is presented. When floral volatile chemistry is linked to pollinator attraction we can analyse questions such as: Does floral volatile composition reflect plant species boundaries? Can floral scent facilitate or suppress hybridization between taxa? Can the attraction of different pollinators influence plant mating Systems and pollen-mediated gene flow? How is population genetic structure indirectly influenced by floral scent variation? 3. The application of molecular tools in sexually deceptive orchids has confirmed that volatile composition reflects species boundaries, revealed the role of shared floral odour in enabling hybridization, confirmed that the sexual attraction mediated by floral odour has implications for pollen flow and population genetic structure and provided examples of pollinator-mediated selection on floral scent variation. Interdisciplinary studies to explore links between floral volatile variation, ecology and population genetics are rare in other plant groups. 4. Ideal study Systems for future floral scent research that incorporate population genetics will include closely related taxa that are morphologically similar, sympatric and co-flowering as well as groups that display wide variation in pollination mechanisms and floral volatiles.
826754| 1. Root water uptake is a key process in the circulation of water in forest ecosystems. Until recently, water absorption by tree fine roots could not be measured in situ in undisturbed soil. 2. We present a new technique that allows continuous recording of the water absorption of fine root endings in mature stands without altering soil structure, hydrology or mycorrhizal infection. 3. The approach combines miniature sap-flow gauges mounted on small-diameter tree roots (3-4 mm) with a complete extraction and visual surface analysis of the adjacent absorbing fine root endings. This technique yields continuous data on water absorption per fine root surface area, and allows analysis of the spatial heterogeneity of root water uptake in the rhizosphere of forests. 4. We present the results of laboratory and field calibration experiments with Fagus sylvatica L. roots (3-4 mm), which show a good agreement between gauge flow data and synchronous gravimetric flow measurements for flows between 2 and >50 g h
3598960|1. Mangrove trees colonized by weaver ants (Oecophylla smaragdina) experience less insect and crab herbivory compared with trees without ants. However, it is unlikely that ants prey on and deter crabs as they do insects. Protection could be indirect if leaves damaged by insects are more susceptible to crab herbivory. 2. In the field and in laboratory tests, leaves with artificial holes simulating leaf beetle-feeding marks were more susceptible than intact leaves to damage by the crab Episesarma versicolor. 3. The study further revealed that damaged leaves showed increased susceptibility only to male crab feeding whereas females were indiscriminate, probably because of differences in claw morphology between the sexes. 4. Combined with previous findings at the same field site, these results suggest that ants can directly protect trees against crab herbivory by directly removing insect herbivores and thus decreasing the leaf damage they inflict. The system illustrates a complex trophic cascade involving density and trait-mediated indirect interactions.
40205479|Tropical dry forests are among the Earth's most threatened ecosystems. On the Island of Hawaii the African bunchgrass Pennisetum setaceum (fountain grass) dominates the understorey of the few remaining fragments of native dry forests and is contributing to the degradation of this once diverse ecosystem. In this study, we examined the impacts of Pennisetum on water use and productivity of the dominant native canopy tree, Diospyros sandwicensis. 2. Over a 3-year period, measurements were made on tree growth rates, and physiological and morphological responses of the most common dry forest native tree, D. sandwicensis, growing with an understorey dominated by Pennisetum, and on trees growing in plots maintained free of grasses. 3. Analysis of stable oxygen isotope ratios indicated that trees growing in the absence of Pennisetum used a higher proportion of water from shallow soil sources. They also sustained higher mid-day water potentials, especially during drier periods. At the leaf level, no significant differences were found in gas exchange measurements between Diospyros trees growing with or without Pennisetum. However, trees growing without Pennisetum had 30% lower leaf mass per unit area and 40% higher diameter growth than trees growing with Pennisetum. 4. These results demonstrate that invasion by Pennisetum has a pronounced negative impact on resource acquisition and use by the dominant native tree of this dry forest ecosystem. Although tree death due to these impacts would be much slower than through more immediate processes such as fire and grazing, our findings suggest that long-term conservation of ecosystems threatened by invasions, such those in Hawaiian dry forests, will ultimately require active management of the invading species.
10.2307/2390569|1. Increased nutrient loading to wetlands often results in an increase in emergent plant biomass and a decrease in species diversity. While these patterns are broadly predictable, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We tested two related hypotheses by growing plants under standardized conditions: (1) emergent plants typical of infertile wetlands have higher tissue nutrient contents than plants from fertile wetlands and (2) plants belonging to different functional groups (ruderal, interstitial and matrix) have different tissue nutrient contents. 2. Concentrations of N and P in above-ground phytomass were measured for 41 plant species, from contrasting kinds of wetlands, after one season of growth in excess fertilizer (NPK in ratios 7:11:27 and 15:0:0). Tissue nutrient concentrations ranged from 0.25 to 2.14% dry weight for N and from 0.13 to 1.07% dry weight for P. 3. There was no significant difference in nutrient content between plants from infertile sites and plants from fertile sites. However, plants with `ruderal' life history traits (e.g. annual or functional annual/fast-growing) had significantly lower N and P tissue concentrations than plants having `interstitial' or `matrix' life-history traits. Interstitial perennials had significantly higher N concentrations than matrix perennials. Therefore, plant functional groups are likely to respond differently to eutrophication. 4. Plant size, estimated by maximum species biomass, explained 67% (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.67, P < 0.001, n = 31) of the variation in N tissue concentrations but only 5% of the variation in P tissue concentrations.
3599201|1. The pioneering work of Peter Eagleson has been proposed as a theoretical basis for ecohydrology. Central to the theory are three 'ecological optimality hypotheses' which represent ecologically important aspects of atmosphere-soil-vegetation interactions. 2. The model and its underlying assumptions have never been evaluated in an explicitly ecological context. We examine each of the three optimality hypotheses in turn and test the ability of the model to make ecologically relevant predictions using climate, soil and vegetation data from a semi-arid woodland site in central New Mexico, USA. 3. We find that all three of the optimality hypotheses are ecologically flawed. While we could qualitatively reproduce previously published results, model behaviour under novel conditions was highly variable and frequently unrealistic. 4. The poor performance of the model was probably due to the inadequate treatment of water-limited transpiration in its original derivation. The theory thus requires redevelopment for ecological application, and we suggest several strands of research that could contribute to its improvement.
10.2307/2389419|The photosynthetic responses of three tropical tree species were investigated in the contrasting micro-environments of the canopy, a gap and the understory of a tropical forest in north-eastern Australia. Measurements were made with a small transportable field gas exchange apparatus on the evergreen species Argyrodendron peralatum (F.M. Bailey) Edlin ex I.H. Boas and Castanospermum australe (Cunn.) Frazer and Cook, which regenerate in the understory and the deciduous gap species Toona australis (F. Muell.) Harms. Acclimation to the prevailing light environment was evident in all species, with the canopy leaves having higher light saturated photosynthetic rates, dark respiration rates and stomatal conductances than the understory leaves. For A. peralatum, leaves in the gap were generally intermediate between those in the canopy and understory. There was no evidence for acclimation to the differences in temperature or leaf-air vapour pressure deficits between the canopy and understory leaves. Determinations of the daily courses of CO<sub>2</sub> uptake showed that although the daily photon flux density (PFD) in the understory was only 3% of that at the canopy top, leaf carbon gain was nearly 10% of that measured for the canopy leaf. In the understory, photosynthesis during sunflecks accounted for about one third of the daily carbon gain. There was no evidence that temperatures or leaf-air vapour pressure deficits significantly limited CO<sub>2</sub> uptake in the canopy.
10.2307/2390578|1. Interactions between trees and tree-feeding insects are likely to shift under conditions of enriched atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> owing to changes in foliar chemical composition. This study addressed the effects of CO<sub>2</sub>-mediated changes in leaf chemistry on performance of three silkmoth (Saturniidae) species: cecropia (Hyalophora cecropia), luna (Actias luna) and polyphemus (Antheraea polyphemus polyphemus). 2. Growth under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> atmospheres decreased nitrogen concentrations (23%) but tripled starch and doubled condensed tannin concentrations, resulting in a marked increase in foliar carbon:nitrogen ratio. 3. Survival of first stadium larvae was marginally reduced when reared on high CO<sub>2</sub> leaves. 4. Development rates were prolonged, growth rates tended to decline, consumption increased and food processing efficiencies decreased for fourth stadium larvae reared on high CO<sub>2</sub> leaves. The magnitude of responses varied among species. 5. Overall performance of these saturniid species, at least when feeding on birch, is predicted to decline under atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> conditions anticipated for the next century.
2656563|1. We quantify the degree of host specificity for the five extant New Zealand loranthaceous mistletoes (Alepis flavida, Ileostylus micranthus, Peraxilla colensoi, Peraxilla tetrapetala and Tupeia antarctica). 2. Host specificity is highest for A. flavida, P. colensoi and P. tetrapetala which primarily parasitize species of Nothofagus, and lowest for T. antarctica and especially I. micranthus which parasitize a wide range of host species. 3. These patterns of host specificity support the suggestion that relative host abundance is a key factor determining the degree of host specialization in mistletoes (resource fragmentation hypothesis). While evolutionary history may be important in the specificity of the mistletoe-host relationship in some situations, our data suggest that for New Zealand mistletoes evolutionary history simply reflects the temporal component of relative host abundance. 4. We conclude that it is the stability of host availability through time and space which is the dominant factor determining host specificity patterns.
4139363| 1. Ornamental carotenoid coloration is commonly based on several different pigments with different nutritional and metabolic constraints. The identification and quantification of carotenoid pigments is therefore crucial to the understanding of signal content and signal evolution. 2. In male widowbirds (Euplectes spp.), the striking yellow and red carotenoid colours have been measured by reflectance spectrometry and studied with respect to sexual selection through male contest competition, but their biochemical mechanisms have not been analysed. 3. Here we use reflectance analysis and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to describe the species-specific colours and plumage carotenoids in three widowbird species: yellow-mantled widowbird (YMW) Euplectes macrourus, red-shouldered widowbird (RSW) E. axillaris and red-collared widowbird (RCW) E. ardens. 4. YMW yellow ('hue' colorimetric R50 = 522 nm) derives from the two 'dietary yellow' xanthophylls lutein and zeaxanthin, together with small amounts of 'derived yellow' pigments (3'-dehydrolutein and canary xanthophylls). 5. RCW red (R50 = 574 nm) is achieved by the addition of low concentrations of 'derived red' 4-keto-carotenoids, notably o- and P-doradexanthin and canthaxanthin. 6. RSW red (&$03BB;R50 = 589 nm) is, in contrast, created by high concentrations of 'dietary yellow' pigments (lutein, zeaxanthin) and 'derived yellow' anhydrolutein, the latter only recently described in birds. 7. The two different mechanisms of producing red plumage are compared with other bird species and discussed with regard to costs and signal 'honesty'. 
2390319|1. Defoliation-induced changes in the budbreak phenology of Mountain Birches (Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman), and their effects on herbivore performance, were investigated during an outbreak of the spring-feeding geometrid, Epirrita autumnata (Bkh.). 2. Total defoliation (followed by refoliation) by E. autumnata larvae was required to achieve significant delaying of budbreak of Mountain Birch one year after damage. 3. Delayed budbreak has potentially deleterious effects on herbivore performance. However, E. autumnata larvae show phenotypic responses that increase the synchrony between larvae and leaves: high larval density, a prerequisite for severe defoliation, delays egg hatch in the following year. 4. Late hatching larvae performed as well on birches with delayed budbreak due to the previous year's total defoliation as did early hatching larvae on birches with earlier budbreak.
10.2307/2390290|1. In phylogenetically related species, internodes of erect and stoloniferous plants are homologous structures, whereas petioles of prostrate plants and internodes of erect plants are structurally analogous, i.e. they have the same ecological function. 2. The hypothesis was tested that analogous spacing organs would show similar degrees of plasticity in response to shading, whereas homologous spacing organs would not. Four closely related Potentilla species representing a range of growth forms from strictly erect to obligatory stoloniferous were studied. 3. Vertical spacers showed significantly higher degrees of plasticity than horizontal spacers in response to shading, confirming the hypothesis that analogous organs show a similar response, whereas homologous spacers differed significantly in their plasticity. 4. Under shaded conditions high degrees of elongation in vertical spacers were accompanied by a significant increase in biomass allocation to these organs, whereas allocation to horizontal spacers tended to be less than under unshaded conditions. This result suggests that significant biomass investments are associated with plastic elongation responses. 5. The results of the study are discussed in the context of specific selection pressures acting on different growth forms which may alter the degree of morphological plasticity of plant organs during evolution.
10.2307/2389733|Leaf height and spacing of ramets of Iris pseudacorus L. vary down the shore of a salt-marsh. Rhizomes were studied at two sites at different levels on the shore and compared with two terrestrial sites. The age, growth, flowering and mortality of buds could be determined from the rhizome morphology. Seasonal variation in the amount of storage material resulted in a series of annual `bulges' from which the growth history may be inferred. On the higher site on the salt-marsh, genets were very long lived and seedlings were rare whilst on the lower site there were considerable numbers of seedlings and genets were short lived. On the upper sites the growth rate of the bulges was higher and the annual bulges in the rhizomes were larger. Bulge area had a small effect on the leaf height and number of leaves on the lower site. Mortality of terminal bulges was markedly higher on the lower site than on the higher with the result that much of the rhizome growth was through lateral bulges. Larger bulges had a lower mortality rate. Laboratory experiments in which rhizomes were immersed in salt-water reproduced many results shown in the field.
10.2307/2389850|1. We test an expectation regarding the phenology of leafing in sapling trees: that the inclination of the terminal shoot from the vertical in species with a flushing type leaf emergence will be greater than that of species with successive leafing. 2. A large inclination of the terminal shoot will minimize self-shading among leaves that emerge simultaneously; this may be an advantage in maximizing carbon gain. A small inclination leads to more self-shading but allows a sapling to attain a greater height within a shorter period; this may be an advantage in situations where shading by adjacent plants is a greater potential problem than self-shading. 3. We observed that the shoot mclination in Tilia japonica and Quercus crispula, which have a flushing type leaf emergence, was more than 30<sup></sup> in open, sunlit habitat. In contrast, the shoot inclinations of Betula platyphilla var japonica and Alnus hirsuta, which have successive type leaf emergence, were less than 10<sup></sup>. These observations suggest a functional linkage between leaf-emergence pattern and shoot inclination that can be considered adaptive if selection is maximizing carbon gain by the whole shoot over the growing season.
10.2307/2390127|1. Phenylalanine is an essential aromatic amino acid needed for cuticle production in immature insects but is of reduced importance in adults. As a consequence, it was hypothesized that nymphal grasshoppers should select diets containing high levels of phenylalanine while adult grasshoppers would demonstrate no selective feeding preference based on the level of phenylalanine in their diets. 2. Using a series of choice test experiments with adults and fifth instar nymphs of the generalist grasshopper, Phoetaliotes nebrascensis, the phagostimulatory property of phenylalanine was evaluated. Three phenylalanine levels were tested against a constant background of sucrose and 17 additional amino acids using levels typical of those found in grasses. 3. Nymphs selected diets high in phenylalanine while adults showed no preference as phenylalanine levels changed. These results suggest that the nutritional requirements of an insect influence dietary selection. 4. The ability of immature insects to select diets high in phenylalanine has direct consequences on both growth and developmental rates. 5. Additionally, these results provide another example of nutritional constraints in insects being relevant to developing foraging theory for herbivores.
10.2307/2389540|This study tests the hypothesis that plant species of low mycorrhizal dependency (MD) tend to limit vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) colonization more than species of high MD. Mycorrhizal dependency (MD = VAM plant dry weight/non-mycorrhizal plant dry weight) was determined for six citrus rootstocks in three green-house trials in a sterilized, P-deficient soil. In order to isolate the process of VAM colonization from shoot growth responses, colonization of the rootstocks with the same scion was examined in high-P soil in a rootstock field trial. Colonization of roots of known age was evaluated in soil cores extracted from beneath the canopy of mature trees. Initially, the soil was replaced in the resultant holes after dry sieving to remove roots and mix VAM fungal propagules (disturbed soil). Extraradical (ER) colonization of young roots in disturbed soil increased rapidly up to 5 weeks and approached that of mixed-age roots in undisturbed soil by 19 weeks. Intraradical (IR) colonization of young roots increased up to 19 weeks and was less than that of mixed-age roots. Differences in IR colonization of rootstock species that developed with time were correlated with their ER colonization at 10 and 19 weeks. Variation among citrus rootstocks in colonization of new roots was not related to root diameter or root extension rate. Colonization of rootstocks at 19 weeks was positively correlated (r =0.88-0.99, P < 0.05) with rootstock MD in P-deficient soil. Therefore, our data support the hypothesis that species that have evolved root systems that are less dependent on mycorrhizas have also evolved presently unknown mechanisms to regulate mycorrhizal colonization and presumably, carbon expenditure on the fungus.
10.2307/2390158|1. The phytochrome-mediated stem elongation response of many plant species to crowding has been hypothesized to be an example of adaptive plasticity. The photomorphogenic response is cued by the lowered red:far red ratio (R:FR) of light reflected off or transmitted through neighbouring plants. Because stem elongation could potentially be cued in low density stands by the overhead forest canopy, it has been suggested that plants of the forest understorey should be selected to be less responsive to R:FR or to be responsive only in early spring before canopy closure. 2. We tested the hypothesis that populations of a herbaceous annual from open and forest habitats differ genetically in their responses to simulated vegetation shade, which like foliage shade absorbs more red light than far red light, lowering the red:far red ratio (R:FR). For three populations of Impatiens capensis from clearing, evergreen woods and deciduous woods sites, we measured the morphogenic responses to simulated vegetation shade in a common garden experiment. 3. Impatients capensis plants grown in simulated vegetation shade were taller and had more elongated internodes than plants grown in full sun or in neutral shade. Plants from the clearing population were more responsive to simulated vegetation shade than plants from the two wood populations, as predicted. However, the populations did not differ in the timing of their sensitivity to changes in light quality. 4. The patterns of population differentiation in length and in sensitivity to light quality differed among the hypocotyl, first internode and second internode: in particular, the first internode was significantly more sensitive to light quality in the clearing population compared to the other populations. The differences amongst internodes in patterns of population differentiation suggest relatively independent evolution of internode traits.
40407718|1. Climate change in cold biomes not only involves higher summer temperatures, but also warmer springs and more winter precipitation. So far, little is known about species responses to these seasonal components of climate change. 2. We experimentally manipulated spring and summer temperatures and winter snow accumulation and temperatures independently in a peatland in sub-arctic Sweden. This yielded six climate scenarios and we studied the responses of the peat moss Sphagnum fuscum, the evergreen dwarf shrubs Empetrum hermaphroditum and Andromeda polifolia, the deciduous dwarf shrubs Betula nana and Vaccinium uliginosum, the grass Calamagrostis lapponica and the forb Rubus chamaemorus. 3. We found substantial interspecific differences in leaf nutrient and carbon exchange variables that reflect the response of tundra plants to climate change. S. fuscum had the lowest N and P concentrations, with increasing N and P concentrations (and decreasing C/N and C/P ratios) going from evergreen dwarf shrubs, to the grass, deciduous dwarf shrubs and the forb. Leaf N/P ratios varied between 10 and 14 which points to N-limited plant growth. 4. The natural abundance of N varied very strongly among species and growth forms. These differences corresponded with the presence and type of mycorrhizal association in the plant roots. Leaf carbon isotope discrimination also differed strongly among species and growth forms, but the absolute differences were relatively small (< 5%o). The rank order was: forb and graminoid < moss and evergreen shrubs < deciduous shrubs. 5. After 4 years, the effects of realistic climate change manipulations on leaf nutrient and carbon exchange variables were idiosyncratic with respect to species and generally small compared to the differences among species and growth forms. At the phenotypic level, spring warming or winter snow addition effects occurred as frequently as summer warming effects. 6. This implies that the changes in the species composition and structure of plant communities that have been observed in medium-term warming studies in cold biomes will have much more impact on plant-mediated nutrient and carbon cycling pathways and rates than climate-change induced phenotypic responses, irrespective of the seasonal timing of these climate changes.
10.2307/2390565|1. In a bird-dispersed neotropical mistletoe two aspects of seed deposition are hypothesized to influence seedling establishment on host trees: the size of the host stem on which seeds are deposited and whether seeds are deposited singly or in small groups. 2. In Monteverde, Costa Rica, seeds of Phoradendron robustissimum (Viscaceae) were planted on 10 host trees (Sapium oligoneuron; Euphorbiaceae) and seedling establishment was followed for 3 years. 3. Seed clumping (groups of five vs single seeds) had no effect but stem size had a strong effect on seed persistence and seedling establishment. 4. Seedling establishment was most frequent on twigs in the 10-14 mm diameter class; however, at least one seedling established on all but the largest (<mt>80 mm diameter) of seven size classes of stems used in the experiment. 5. Causes of seed loss and seedling mortality showed directional patterns across the range of stem sizes; small twigs died frequently, leading to death of seedlings on them, whereas germinated seeds often died in situ on large branches, apparently unable to penetrate the thick bark of the host tree. 6. In the smallest two size classes of host stems (<lt> 10 mm diameter), twigs with mistletoe seeds died more frequently than those without mistletoe seeds, suggesting that mistletoe seeds can induce death of small host twigs. 7. Many seeds disappeared shortly after being planted and an exclusion experiment suggested that missing seeds may have been eaten by arboreal seed predators. 8. Thus, the size of twigs on which mistletoe seeds were deposited strongly influenced seed fate.
41239283|1. Arthropods, including insects, are unique among animals in that they cannot synthesize sterols, including cholesterol, de novo. Some phytophagous insects (e.g. caterpillars, grasshoppers) generate tissue cholesterol by metabolizing plant phytosterols. Currently, little is known about sterols in plant phloem sap, and their significance to the nutritional physiology and ecology of phloem-feeding insects. 2. The sterol profiles of leaves from two plant species, Chinese cabbage and tobacco, were dominated by the phytosterols sitosterol and stigmasterol, respectively. In contrast, the principle sterol in the phloem sap of both plants was cholesterol, which is traditionally considered an animal sterol. Cholesterol was also the most abundant sterol in the carcass and honeydew of Myzus persicae aphids feeding on these plants. 3. The effect of sterol structure on M. persicae was investigated using modified tobacco plants that contained high levels of atypical steroids, specifically ketone-steroids. Aphids reared on the modified tobacco plants had a high atypical steroid content, severely reduced reproduction and high mortality. 4. Our data indicate that the total sterol composition of plants is not necessarily representative of the sterol profile available to phloem-feeding insects, and that the sterol utilization patterns of phloem-feeding insects may differ from chewing insect herbivores utilizing the same plant. Atypical steroids are naturally at insufficient concentrations for significant deleterious effects on insect herbivores, and possible reasons why plants apparently do not use them as defensive compounds are considered.
3599229|1. The sexually deceptive orchids Chiloglottis trapeziformis Fitzg. and Chiloglottis valida D.L. Jones are pollinated by the thynnine wasps Neozeleboria cryptoides (Smith) and Neozeleboria monticola Turner, respectively, during attempted mating with the flower labellum. The orchids and their pollinators occur mostly in allopatry; however on the overlapping edges of their ranges they can attract each other's pollinator, leading to rare hybrids. 2. Using gas chromatographic analyses with electroantennographic detection (GC-EAD) we demonstrate that 2-ethyl-5-propyl-1,3-cyclohexandione ('Chiloglottone'), the previously known sex pheromone of N. cryptoides and pollinator-attractant of C. trapeziformis, is also used by C. Valida to attract its pollinator N. monticola. 3. In behavioural field experiments, equal numbers of males of both species responded to, and attempted copulation with, a dummy scented with synthetic Chiloglottone. In dual-choice experiments where dummies were presented at different heights, N. cryptoides males preferentially attempted copulation with dummies a few centimetres above the ground, while N. monticola males significantly more often landed on the soil and attempted copulation with dummies on the soil. 4. These behavioural differences corresponded with differences in floral height in the orchids, C. trapeziformis being about twice as tall as C. valida. We suggest that this contrasting pollinator behaviour imposes selection for floral height in the orchids.
10.2307/2390249|1. We compared the growth responses of three early successional species, Cochlospermum vitifolium, Cordia alliodora and Heliocarpus pallidus, and the late successional Caesalpinia eriostachys, Caesalpinia platyloba, Jacquinia pungens and Recchia mexicana tree-seedling species to four concentrations (0, 2, 10 and 41 ppm) of phosphorus. The experiment was conducted over 50 days in pure silica sand inside growth chambers. 2. Mature-forest species had low relative growth rates and net assimilation rates, and showed little or no response, in growth and biomass allocation, to different P concentrations. 3. Early successional species had small seeds and higher responses in biomass allocation, growth and net assimilation rates to P availability, as well as a higher phosphorususe efficiency when P supply was low. 4. Species and treatment differences in growth rate generally corresponded more closely with patterns of net assimilation rate than with biomass allocation. The responsiveness of growth to P availability was negatively correlated with seed mass and P dependency.
3599108|1. Adult parasitoids depend on sugar-rich foods such as nectar and honeydew to meet their energy requirements. Many laboratory studies have established fitness benefits of sugar feeding for parasitoids. 2. Nevertheless, we know little about the nutritional ecology of parasitoids in the field, chiefly because of the limited specificity of methods applicable for field studies. 3. Here we use high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis to study the sugar profile of Cotesia glomerata L. and Microplitis mediator Haliday relative to feeding-treatment. We identify the overall sugar level and the ratio of glucose to fructose as two parameters that in combination unambiguously characterize an individual's nutritional state and feeding history. 4. Unfed parasitoids contained low total sugar levels and glucose levels that typically exceeded fructose levels more than five-fold. Parasitoids with constant access to sucrose had high overall sugar levels with a balanced glucose-fructose ratio. 5. The marked shift of the glucose-fructose ratio after feeding was still evident in C. glomerata individuals whose total sugar content had decreased to unfed levels after 3 days of starvation. This makes it possible to distinguish between unfed individuals and those that did feed several days ago. 6. In addition to revealing past feeding events, HPLC analysis also enables the identification and quantification of a wide spectrum of sugars present in each specimen. When food sources contain specific sugars this can provide additional information about the type of sugar source consumed. 7. HPLC analyses revealed that trehalose, considered to be the 'insect haemolymph sugar', is not present in the two species investigated here. 8. Overall, HPLC sugar analysis provides a powerful tool to investigate energy status, feeding history and nutritional physiology of field-collected parasitoids.
3598978| 1. The time required for an ectotherm to recover from cold exposure is a useful, non-lethal index of cold tolerance. We explore how recovery times are affected by exposure to low temperatures, develop statistical methodologies, and study geographic variation in recovery time in four populations of Drosophila subobscura, a cold-tolerant species. 2. We exposed flies to a low temperature (-7 C to 1 C) for 16 h, returned them to ambient temperature, and recorded the elapsed time ('recovery time') until they stood. Other flies were exposed to even colder temperatures (-11 C to -7 C), but for shorter times. 3. Recovery times were inversely related to exposure temperature, but had a plateau between -6 C and -4 C. 4. Populations had similar recovery times at 'warm' temperatures, but two subtropical populations had relatively long recovery times at colder temperatures. 5. Inter-population differences were also evident in a regression analysis, and recovery times were inversely related to latitude (ordered-factor analysis). Populations differed slightly in the slopes of regressions but differed strongly in their intercepts. 6. The physiological mechanisms underlying the non-linear responses are unknown, but the plateau region suggests that recovery time is governed by the interplay of two temperature-dependent processes. Two models are proposed for the interaction of these processes. 
2656561|1. The mating system of Mediterranean Fruit Flies (Ceratitis capitata, Diptera: Tephritidae) is based on male leks which form within the canopies of certain trees. In this study the following hypotheses are tested: (a) fly location depends on microclimate and illumination and (b) larger and heavier males occupy preferred locations in leks. Accordingly, systematic quantitative observations of diel three-dimensional (3-D) locations of lekking C. capitata males were performed in field and field cage studies. 2. Fly locations were found to vary significantly during the activity hours. 3. Medflies were generally found calling from highest and most exterior locations during early morning and late afternoon hours. During the hottest hours (1200-1500) flies occupied lower locations within the tree canopy, and interior locations from 1000 to 1500. 4. Fly location (from 1000 to 1700) was correlated with the azimuth of the sun. However, the mean azimuth range of fly location was limited to 85<sup></sup> (59.45<sup></sup>-143.94<sup></sup>). 5. Both in the field and in the field cage the temperature, relative humidity and light intensity beneath the leaves on which the males perched were closer to the microclimate beneath fully shaded leaves than to microclimates beneath leaves exposed to direct sunlight. 6. It is concluded that male medflies occupy locations which confer suitable microclimates for calling and copulating, and suitable 3-D locations within the canopy which provide protection from predators, wind, direct sunlight and water loss.
41239308|1. An emerging framework in animal disease ecology seeks to 'decompose' a host's response to disease into resistance, or its ability to resist infection following exposure, and tolerance, or its ability to limit the damage associated with infection. How these processes vary over the life history of a host, however, and whether developmental changes in resistance and tolerance account for 'critical windows' of disease vulnerability remain open questions. 2. Critical developmental windows are particularly important for infections that alter host development. Recently, increased observations of amphibians with severe limb malformations have stimulated debate over the causes responsible and whether malformation types can be used to infer the agent responsible. The trematode parasite Ribeiroia ondatrae, for example, is often implicated in accounts of extra-legged frogs, but is believed to be unimportant in explaining missing legged animals. Here, we test the influence of host developmental stage, from eggs to post-metamorphosis, on the risk of mortality and the types of malformations produced in Pacific chorus frogs (Pseudacris regilla) following exposure to trematode infection. 3. Consistent with a critical window of vulnerability, host mortality and malformations were greatest among animals exposed during pre-limb and early limb development (15-90%) and decreased to < 5% with progressive development. Early stage animals also exhibited a higher frequency of missing limbs, whereas extra limbs and limb elements developed predominantly among tadpoles exposed after limb development was initiated. Hosts infected later in limb development were normal or exhibited only minor outgrowths and abnormal skin webbings. 4. Increases in host tolerance rather than host resistance largely explained the observed changes in pathology. Prior to host metamorphosis, parasites exhibited comparable success invading host tissue, but the amount of resulting damage differed significantly as a function of host size and developmental stage. Following metamorphosis hosts were significantly more resistant to infections, however. 5. These findings highlight the importance of critical developmental windows for infectious diseases and underscore the role of developmental changes in host tolerance in controlling this process. Forecasted changes in climate, for example, have enormous potential to influence both the timing and intensity of host-parasite interactions in nature.
10.2307/2389653|1 Earlier work with albatrosses led to the hypothesis that a critical element influencing ovarian development each year is whether the ovary responds to rising gonadotrophin secretion by secreting progesterone or oestradiol. In the former case no vitellogenesis occurs, the ovary does not mature and no egg-laying occurs. In the latter case ovarian growth and ovulation occurs. This `switch' between progesterone and oestradiol secretion may be important not only for the breeding frequency of adult birds but also prepubertally, influencing the onset of sexual maturity. This paper tests some of the underlying endocrine responses experimentally using known-age (4-11 years old) wandering albatrosses, Diomedea exulans L., at South Georgia. 2 Experiments using birds before and after bouts of sexual display discounted the possibility that high progesterone levels were an artefact of behavioural interaction. 3 Examination of the pituitary-ovarian axis, by injection of ovine luteinizing hormone (LII) and LH-releasing hormone, confirmed that the ovary does secrete progesterone, and that only progesterone is produced in immatures, unlike breeding birds in which oestradiol is also secreted. 4 In terms of endocrine status, female D. exulans were divisible into three main groups: younger (<7 years old), older (>7 years) and last-time non-breeders. These categories were consistent with behavioural data from the same population. Thus the earliest age of breeding is 7 years, display rates increase after `physiological maturity' is attained but decrease once stable pairs are formed and attendance ashore prior to maturity does not influence the time taken to start breeding.
10.2307/2390150|1. Field experiments were conducted to examine how total nitrogen (N) concentration and accumulation of free amino acids in boreal forest plants were affected by nitrogen supply. Nine species, including grasses, herbs and one ericaceous dwarf shrub, were fertilized with ammonium and nitrate (30 g N m
10.2307/2389592|Environmental hazards presented by pesticides and other toxicants are determined by exposure as well as toxicity. Predicting and estimating exposure is much more difficult than measuring toxicity since exposure depends on toxicant distribution, individual behaviour and population dynamics. We present a generalized compartment model for ecotoxicology and illustrate its use in relation to rodenticide hazard evaluation. The model highlights the need for particular sorts of field experiment. We present the results of a series of field experiments designed to assess potential effects of rodenticide use on some non-target animal populations.
3599067|1. Optimal egg size theory predicts that females should produce propagules of a size and number that maximize maternal fitness. However, studies of the allocation of resources to eggs have rarely provided evidence of such optimization. This is presumably because of constraints that limit reproductive allocation. One such example is that of pelvic aperture morphology constraining egg size in turtles. 2. Growing evidence suggests that even this classic example is incomplete. Hormones that regulate both the reproductive cycle and vitellogenic activity in turtles may provide a novel physiological mechanism for control of egg size. 3. This physiological constraint hypothesis was explored by examining the relationship between maternally derived yolk hormones and egg mass in the Painted Turtle (Chrysemys picta, Schneider). 4. Eggs from younger females contained significantly more testosterone in the yolk than did eggs from older females. Younger females laid eggs nearly 20% smaller than those of older females even where body sizes overlapped. 5. Elevated testosterone levels in younger females may thus constrain egg size physiologically, beyond the well-known physical constraints imposed by pelvic aperture morphology. The endocrine system may play an important but previously unrecognized role in the evolution of egg size in this model system.
40963559|1. Functional response models that predict the relationship between feeding rate and food density often include only two behavioural parameters, handling time and searching rate. However, vigilance can occupy a large proportion of foraging time and, consequently, may affect the functional response. Previous functional response models of granivorous birds showed no effect of vigilance on predicted feeding rates; these models assumed that all of handling time is compatible with vigilance and, therefore, overestimated the potential time for cost free vigilance to occur. 2. Here we have derived a new functional response model that incorporates the proportion of time spent vigilant (v) and the proportion of handling time that is compatible with vigilance (p). This model allows for the relationship between vigilance and handling to vary from completely compatible to mutually exclusive, and degrees in between. 3. To determine whether vigilance can affect the functional response of a granivorous bird, grey partridge Perdix perdix L, we measured the functional response and associated behavioural parameters, and used the behavioural estimates to parameterize the model. Any deviation from the feeding rates predicted using a model without vigilance indicates that vigilance is affecting the predicted functional response. 4. We found that vigilance only affected the predicted functional response at very low food densities (< 3 seeds m). Simulations show how the potential for vigilance to affect feeding rate (i.e. the values of p given v) increases as v increases. We parameterized the model using data from chaffinches Fringilla coelebs, which were shown to spend > 50% of their foraging time vigilant, and found that even with a high value of p vigilance reduced feeding rates at higher seed densities. 5. This study shows that vigilance can affect the feeding rate of a granivorous bird when either the proportion of time spent vigilant is high or the proportion of compatible handling time is low. This may affect larger scale ecological processes, i.e. spatial distribution of foragers and patterns of resource depletion, as individuals try to mitigate the effects of vigilance by maximizing their feeding rate whilst minimizing their predation risk.
10.2307/2389372|Several lines of evidence indicate that animals have a limited energy budget; i.e. there is an energetic ceiling constraining the time an animal can spend active per day. Based on this assumption I have developed an energetic model that gives quantitative predictions of optimal body size for males and females during both the breeding and non-breeding period. The model predicts different optimal body sizes for the two sexes during the breeding season, thereby providing an energetic explanation for sexual size dimorphism. The model has been applied to field data from a study of stoats (Mustela erminea L.). The results indicate that male stoats are close to the survival optimum whereas females, owing to different selection pressures during the breeding and the non-breeding period, are forced away from the survival optimum. Thus, in this case sexual size dimorphism should mainly be an effect of breeding selection on females for smaller size.
3599118|1. To better understand the role and importance of body size in hermaphroditic mating system theory, the mating behaviour of the shelled sacoglossan Oxynoe olivacea was studied. This simultaneous hermaphrodite exhibits bilateral and unilateral sperm transfer and thus it is particularly suitable for studies on hermaphrodite sexual conflict. 2. In this study three hypotheses on body size were tested: that O. olivacea partner size has an effect on (i) mating mode choice, (ii) duration of mating modes, and (iii) choice of sexual role. Furthermore, we tested Charnov's hypothesis that in O. olivacea, like many simultaneous hermaphrodites, a sexual conflict exists and the male role is preferred. 3. A laboratory experiment was done to test the aforementioned hypothesis and to observe the general mating behaviour of O. olivacea. Pairs of similar (S) and different (D) sizes were considered for a total of five different treatments (S1, S2, S3, D1, D2). 4. During the five copulatory treatments O. olivacea mated up to 93 times. Specifically, pairs of the same size mated with bilateral sperm transfer while unilateral copulation was common in pairs of slightly differing size. Contrary to predictions, animals of small body size started mating in the female role. O. olivacea showed an active alternation of sexual roles and thus did not specialize in one particular sexual role. 5. This study produced evidence of a relationship between mating mode and body size in O. olivacea and highlighted the need for new studies on this simultaneously hermaphroditic species.
3599225| 1. Rates of plant respiration are sensitive to temperature, and modulated by acclimation to prevailing temperature and adaptation to the climate of origin. 2. Our objective was to evaluate the rapidity and magnitude of acclimation of leaf respiration
40863587|1. Different grass species dominate grasslands fertilized with nitrogen (N) or phosphorus (P), possibly due to the impact of N : P stoichiometry on competitive interactions. How species compete for nutrients, and whether the mechanisms are similar for N and P, is still not fully understood. 2. We investigated whether the outcome of competition between Alopecurus pratensis and Agrostis capillaris depends on N : P stoichiometry, and on the ability to acquire supplied N or P. Monocultures and mixtures of the two species were grown in pots at nine combinations of N and P supply (N : P ratios 17, 15 and 135, all at three supply levels). After 3 months, we determined plant biomass, morphological traits and nutrient concentrations of plant tissues. 3. N : P supply ratios had similar effects on the growth of the two species but contrasting effects on their competitive strength, as assessed by comparing growth in competition to growth in monoculture: Alopecurus was the stronger competitor under N limitation (N : P ratio 17), whereas Agrostis was an equal or stronger competitor under P limitation (N : P ratio 135). This result resembled patterns of species distribution observed in the field. 4. The strong competitive response of Alopecurus at the low N : P supply ratio was associated with a high investment in root biomass and root length, and a high nitrogen productivity. The competitive response of Agrostis at the high N : P supply ratio was associated with low root mortality and high root phosphatase activity. 5. Our results obtained under N limitation support the pre-emption theory in which plants with the highest root length are able to acquire more N from the soil than their competitors, and therefore can suppress their growth. Under P limitation, however, plant investment in root length could not explain competitor suppression. Here, other factors important in competition for P, such as mycorrhizal hyphal length, root longevity, or exudation rates of P releasing compounds, merit investigation.
10.2307/2390572|1. We develop a stochastic dynamic programming model of grazing behaviour for a generalist mammalian herbivore. The model considers that behaviour depends upon three state variables: stored energy, digestible gut fill and indigestile gut fill. When the plant community comprises two alternative species, the animal must choose between five alternative behaviours: grazing species i, grazing species j, grazing whichever species it encounters, resting on ruminating. 2. We use the model to distinguish diet preference and diet selection. Diet preference is the diet selected by the animal when it is operating under a minimum of environmental constrains and diet selection refers to the way in which environmental constraints modify the animal's diet preference. 3. Although the model can be used for any mammal grazing in any plant community, we demonstrate solutions derived from parameter values relevant to sheep grazing a grass-clover plant community. 4. The model demonstrates that diet preference may depend on the relative intake rates of the two alternative plants species. Furthermore, preference may depend on the absolute intake rates at which the relative comparison is made. The model demonstrates that the optimal diet should have a temporal pattern across the day and that it may be sensitive to predation hazard. The model also predicts total daily intake. 5. We use the model to demonstrate that the complex patterns of diet preference are further modified when considering total abundance of species in the community (e.g. cover). 6. We explain how the model is heuristic in pointing out reasons why the literature on diet selection in this system, and herbivores more generally, is equivocal on what is the basis of selection and preference.
10.2307/2389984|1. Resource partitioning of two sympatric species of collembolans, Orchesella cincta and Tomocerus flavescens, was explored from differences in their food odour perception. 2. Preferences of the collembolans of odours from four fungal species and a green alga were tested in a Y-tube olfactometer. The collembolans were separated by only one difference in odour preference; Cladosporium herbarum was significantly more attractive to O. cincta than the other food sources, whereas T. flavescens was most attracted to Mortierella isabellina. 3. Fungal odours were trapped in an activated carbon filter, extracted with diethylether and subjected to GC-MS analysis. The analysis revealed a number of differences in the odour composition of the two fungal species but the odour of C. herbarum could not be distinguished from that of C. cladosporioides, which was lower ranked by O. cincta. 4. Nine fungal odour compounds were used in an electroantennogram (EAG) assay. There were differences in antennal responses between the collembolan species to 2-methyl-1-propanol, dipentene, 1-octanol and camphor. The identity of the compounds responsible for attracting O. cincta to C. herbarum and T. flavescens to M. isabellina could not be resolved. A cluster analysis of the EAG responses emphasized the physiological origin of the differences in food preferences between the two collembolan species and suggested that P. cincta was more variable in its odour perception than T. flavescens.
2656313|1. This study examines the anti-herbivore effect of ants visiting the extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) of Opuntia stricta (Cactaceae) and its possible influence on the plant's reproductive output in Mexican coastal sand dunes. Opuntia's EFNs are located in the areoles of the developing tissue of emerging cladodes and flower buds. 2. Ants visited the EFNs of O. stricta on a round-the-clock basis. The associated ant assemblage was formed by nine species distributed in four subfamilies, and the species composition of the principal ant visitors changed markedly from day to night period. 3. Cladodes of control (ants present) and treatment (ants excluded) plants of Opuntia were equally infested by sucking bugs and mining dipterans. Damage to buds by a pyralid moth, however, was significantly higher on treatment than on control plants. Ant visitation to Opuntia's EFNs translated into a 50% increase in the plant's reproductive output, as expressed by the number of fruits produced by experimental control and treatment branches. Moreover, fruit production by ant-visited branches was positively and significantly associated with the mean monthly rate of ant visitation to EFNs. 4. This is the first demonstration of ant protection leading to increased fruit set in the Cactaceae under natural conditions. Although the consequences of damage by sucking and mining insects remain unclear for Opuntia, the results show how the association of EFNs with vulnerable reproductive plant organs can result in a direct ant-derived benefit to plant fitness.
20142861|1. Rhizosphere bacteria live in close contact to plant roots feeding on root exudates and rhizodeposits. By producing toxic exoproducts rhizobacteria may inhibit plant pathogens thereby functioning as biocontrol agents and increasing plant fitness. However, the evolutionary basis why rhizobacteria protect plants is little understood. To persist toxin production needs to improve the competitiveness of the bacteria themselves. 2. We investigated the importance of secondary metabolite production for the establishment of the model soil biocontrol bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0 in the rhizosphere of rice. We compared the performance of this toxin-producing strain and its isogenic gacS deficient mutant defective in secondary metabolite production. The bacteria were added to the rhizosphere of rice, where they had to compete with the indigenous flora for resources and to resist predation by the protist Acanthamoeba castellanii. 3. Secondary metabolite production strongly enhanced the establishment of the inoculated bacteria by improving competitive strength and predator resistance. The fitness gain due to attenuation of predation exceeded that due to competition by a factor of 2-3, confirming the importance of grazing resistance for rhizosphere bacteria. 4. Biocontrol properties of Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria such as P. fluorescens therefore gain a new dimension. Toxicity primary plays a role in the interaction with competitors and especially predators, and not in the protection of the host plant. Thus, establishment and efficiency of biocontrol bacteria may be improved by fostering predator defence via toxin production.
10.2307/2389343|Physiological capacities may constrain behavioural options and hence have important ecological consequences. We tested the hypothesis that social dominance is related to capacities for locomotor performance in territorial male lizards (Sceloporus occidentalis Baird & Girard). We first measured the maximal sprint speed and stamina of individual lizards in the laboratory. Pairs of size-matched males were then placed into a novel laboratory arena and allowed to compete for access to a basking site under a heat lamp. The lizard that physically controlled the basking site was judged the `winner' of a dominance interaction (winner vs loser status was confirmed by quantitative scoring of behaviour). Winners of these dyadic encounters had significantly higher sprint speeds in 14 of 20 cases, with winners averaging 16.5% faster than losers. Stamina, however, did not differ between winners and losers.
10.2307/2389834|1. Dry matter accumulation and allocation were examined in populations of Plantago asiatica from contrasting climatic regions, grown from seeds for 16 months under identical experimental conditions. 2. The net production decreased with increasing length of growing season at the original habitat. 3. The higher latitude-altitude populations allocated a greater part of dry matter to storage (tap-root plus fine roots) and foliage and a smaller part to their reproductive system. 4. The higher latitude-altitude populations produced a smaller number of larger seeds during the experimental period, while those from the lower latitude produced a larger number of smaller seeds. 5. The higher latitude-altitude populations shed all their leaves at the end of autumn and overwintered in a completely dormant state, while the lower latitude ones held small overwintering leaves, having different structures and lower rates of net photosynthesis per plant compared to normal leaves developed during the main growing season. 6. Under the photoperiod regimes of 8, 16 or 24 h of light, the seeds produced by the higher latitude-altitude populations during the experimental period germinated in a higher and narrower temperature range than did the lower latitude populations.
20142802|1. Formation locomotion theoretically provides energy savings and it is evident across diverse taxa. Echelon position, described in cetacean (dolphin and whale) mother-infant dyads as calf in very close proximity of its mother's mid-lateral flank, may be a type of formation locomotion that provides hydrodynamic benefits for the calf. Until now, the difficulties associated with assessing the swimming energetics of marine mammals have precluded empirical quantifications of these benefits. 2. Through kinematic analyses, this study demonstrates empirically that 0-1 month-old dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) calves in echelon position are afforded locomotor advantages as evident by increased swim performance with concurrent reductions in effort. 3. Compared to periods of independent swimming, calves in echelon position showed a 28% increase in average swim speed with reduced effort during stroke phases, as evident by a 22% reduction in fluke stroke amplitude and 19% increase in distance per stroke. 4. In addition, calves in echelon position spent over a third of their time gliding while no glide phases were observed for independently swimming calves. 5. The hydrodynamic benefits of echelon position enable cetacean calves, which have extremely limited locomotor performance, to maintain proximity of their mothers during travel, which is vital to infant survival. 6. This study adds to the limited empirical data regarding the energy economy of formation locomotion in animals.
40407771|1. The castes of social insects can vary dramatically in physiology, morphology and behaviour, and are a model of phenotypic plasticity. Dietary variation has been implicated in the evolution of castes and is involved in developmental differentiation. This study uses the elemental and isotopic composition of castes to infer the diets they consumed during larval development, when caste was determined. 2. We analysed the elemental (C : N) and isotopie (C and N) composition of individuals of all castes in colonies of Pogonomyrmex badius, the Florida seed harvester ant, at each of two sites. Sampled herbivores and insectivores were used to calibrate measures of colony trophic position. The proportions of insects and seeds foraged by colonies correlated with inferred trophic position, strengthening the inference of diet from isotopic composition. 3. Pupae of each of the four castes (male, reproductive female or gyne, major worker and minor worker) are distinguishable based on their composition and inferred diet during the larval phase. 4. Within colonies, larval diet inferred from N suggests that the largest individuals assimilated more insect/protein relative to seeds. This result was consistent across colonies despite high variation in a colony's relative trophic position. 5. Carbon to nitrogen ratio (C : N) of each caste was also different, and differences were consistent across colonies and sites. While females increase in N content with increasing size, the pattern is reversed in males. This result may reflect basic life history differences (e.g. life span) between males and females. Since female reproductive potential correlates with female size in this species, the decrease in N content with increasing female caste size supports that reproductive development is N-limited, and that workers are trophically castrated due to N deprivation during larval development.
4139374|1. Parasites might preferentially feed on hosts in good nutritional condition as such hosts provide better resources for the parasites' own growth, survival and reproduction. However, hosts in prime condition are also better able to develop costly immunological or physiological defence mechanisms, which in turn reduce the parasites' reproductive success. The interplay between host condition, host defence and parasite fitness will thus play an important part in the dynamics of host-parasite systems. 2. In a 2 x 2 design, we manipulated both the access to food in great tit Parus major broods and the exposure of the nestlings to hen fleas Ceratophyllus gallinae, a common ectoparasite of hole-breeding birds. We subsequently investigated the role of manipulated host condition, host immunocompetence, and experimentally induced host defence in nestlings on the reproductive success of individual hen flea females. 3. The food supplementation of the nestlings significantly influenced the parasites' reproductive success. Female fleas laid significantly more eggs when feeding on food-supplemented hosts. 4. Previous parasite exposure of the birds affected the reproductive success of fleas. However, the impact of this induced host response on flea reproduction depended on the birds' natural level of immunocompetence, assessed by the phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) skin test. Flea fecundity significantly decreased with increasing PHA response of the nestlings in previously parasite-exposed broods. No relationship between flea fitness and host immunocompetence was, however, found in previously unexposed broods. The PHA response thus correlates with the nestlings' ability to mount immunological or physiological defence mechanisms against hen fleas. No significant interaction effect between early flea exposure and food supplementation on the parasites' reproductive success was found. 5. Our study shows that the reproductive success of hen fleas is linked to the hosts' food supply early in life and their ability to mount induced immunological or physiological defence mechanisms. These interactions between host quality and parasite fitness are likely to influence host preference, host choice and parasite virulence and thus the evolutionary dynamics in host-parasite systems.
826677|1. The mutualism between figs and pollinators is strict and pollination of female flowers occurs by deceit. Hence the chemical signal responsible for the encounter of the partners is expected to have limited variability. However, since male and female trees bloom at different times, sexual mimicry may not be necessary. The variability of floral odour blends of Ficus carica was studied between sexes, among trees and over time, as were the quantity and identity of the released compounds. 2. Male and female figs emitted the same compounds, but the quantities and proportions among the compounds differed. 3. The composition of the fig blend and the temporal pattern of emission were similar among trees of the same sex, and emission was synchronized with pollinator presence. 4. Composition of the blend and quantity released changed considerably over time, but at the time of maximal emission, all three compounds known to be essential to attract pollinators were released by male and female figs. 5. In a seasonal environment in which male and female flowers have different phenologies, selection for a strict sexual mimicry of the volatile attractants is weak. The identity of the compounds is the same for male and female figs, but their relative abundance in the blend differ.
3599174|1. To investigate whether the role of symbiotic fungi in lignin degradation and food provision differs among fungus-growing termites (four species of Macrotermes, three species of Odontotermes, Hypotermes makhamensis, Ancistrotermes pakistanicus and Pseudacanthotermes militaris), the chemical composition of fungus combs of different ages and the chitinolytic activity in the gut of termites were analysed. In addition, the carbon stable isotope ratios (
10.2307/2389578|Identification of ontogenetic shifts and thus potential critical developmental periods allows the formulation of testable hypotheses relating to the constraints faced by an organism during growth. A moving regression analysis was developed to discover and quantify the departures from single power-curve scaling that are frequently observed in ontogenetic data. To illustrate this approach, data on the scaling of brain weight in the albino mouse are reanalysed as a demonstration of the validity and usefulness of moving regression analysis. Data on egestion rate in the deposit-feeding marine annelid Capitella species I are then explored and modelled using a suite of statistical methods combining moving regression, scatterplot smoothing and piecewise regression. The model is then used to construct hypotheses relating to the ontogeny of energetic constraints in Capitella sp. I. We conclude that these methods provide a powerful and general approach for the functional analysis of ontogenetic trajectories.
10.2307/2390008|1. Previous studies suggest that morphological divergence among populations is a widespread result of reproductive isolation and local adaptation. In this paper I test the hypothesis that morphological differentiation should be reduced when individuals shift from a geographically heterogeneous habitat (benthic, fresh water) to a relatively uniform habitat (pelagic, open ocean). 2. Juvenile Atlantic Salmon Salmo salar from two disjunct populations but reared under the same environmental conditions differed in a number of morphometric traits and general body shape in both the freshwater and the premigratory stage associated with the oceanic phase. 3. Relative to the premigratory phase, the riverine forms of these populations differed in a larger number of variables, the discriminant functions correctly assigned a larger proportion of individuals to their source population and morphological distances between population centroids were also greater. 4. Morphometric distances between the centroids of stages within populations were greater than distances between populations within stages. 5. Though preliminary, these results suggest that, for some traits, isolated populations may diverge in a determined stage but converge in another, especially in species that undergo a habitat shift.
10.2307/2389609|That pollutants render many Crustacea more susceptible to disease implies a stress-induced decrease in immunocompetence. This study examines the effect of heavy metals (20, 50, 500 and 1000 g l<sup>-1</sup> Cu, 10 and 500 g l<sup>-1</sup> Cd, and 5 and 50 g l<sup>-1</sup> Hg) and temperature on the cellular (haemocyte) component of the immune system of the shore crab, Carcinus maenas (L.). Marked fluctuations in circulating haemocyte numbers were observed in control crabs; these appear to correlate with daily changes in tidal height and the spring-neap tidal cycle. No change in haemocyte number was observed in crabs exposed to the metals for up to 30 days. However, Hg (Cu and Cd were not examined) at the highest concentration used, suppressed the tidal influence. A gradual rise in temperature from 10 to 20<sup></sup>C significantly increased blood cell numbers although a rapid change initiated no response. In vitro cytotoxicity studies suggest that C. maenas haemocytes are relatively tolerant of metals. Copper had no effect on recognition or phagocytosis of bacteria in vitro although Cd slightly suppressed the latter. It is concluded that the immune system of C. maenas is relatively tolerant of metal stress.
2390387|1. Distribution of leaf chlorophyll (Chl), nitrogen and non-structural carbohydrates (NSC, ethanol-soluble sugars and starch) in leaves along a natural light gradient was studied in saplings of four deciduous woody species: Acer platanoides, Padus avium, Populus tremula and Quercus robur (from most shade tolerant to intolerant). 2. Leaf dry mass per area (LMA) increased linearly with increasing relative irradiance (RI) in all species and therefore it may be considered as a species-specific estimate of long-term light conditions. 3. Decreasing irradiance enhanced chlorophyll synthesis, and consistently resulted in highest Chl per leaf dry mass in low-light environments. Chl content per leaf area was correlated negatively with RI in A. platanoides and was independent of RI in three other species. 4. Leaf nitrogen content per leaf area (N<sub>a</sub>) increased linearly with LMA in all species, and with RI in all except A. platanoides. 5. The slopes and intercepts of N<sub>a</sub> vs LMA relationships were negatively correlated. Moreover, it appeared that the slope decreased and the intercept increased with increasing species shade tolerance. Thus, average nitrogen content per mass (N<sub>m</sub>) increases and maximum concentrations of leaf nitrogen shift towards more open habitats with decreasing shade tolerance. Distribution of foliar nitrogen in this way is likely to contribute to greater photosynthetic potentials at higher irradiances in shade-intolerant species. Inversely, more tolerant species have greater concentrations of foliar nitrogen at low irradiance - an investment pattern, which provides resources to enhance the capacity of light harvesting in light-limited conditions. 6. NSC per leaf dry mass was positively related to relative irradiance and the slope of this relationship was highest for shade-intolerant species, which have intrinsically higher photosynthetic capacities. Nevertheless, the conclusions were robust and were not significantly biased by using the parameters expressed either on a total or on a NSC-free dry mass. 7. The analysis was further extended by including a number of other species from several independent studies. Examination of both sets of data resulted in identical conclusions. Based on this evidence it may be concluded that the variability in leaf nitrogen concentration in relation to irradiance plays a central role in species shade tolerance.
3599180|1. Temperature strongly affects virtually all biological rate processes, including many central to organismal fitness such as growth rate. A second factor related to growth rate is organismal chemical composition, especially C: N: P stoichiometry. This association arises because high rates of growth require disproportionate investment in N- and P-rich biosynthetic cellular structures. Here the extent to which these factors interact is examined -- does acclimation temperature systematically affect organismal chemical composition? 2. A literature survey indicates that cold-acclimated poikilotherms contain on average 30-50% more nitrogen [N], phosphorus [P], protein and RNA than warm-exposed conspecifics. The primary exception was bacteria, which showed increases in RNA content but no change in protein content at cold temperatures. 3. Two processes -- changes in nutrient content (or concentration) and in organism size -- contribute to the overall result. Although qualitatively distinct, both kinds of change lead to increased total catalytic capacity in cold-exposed organisms. 4. Temperature-driven shifts in nutrient content of organisms are likely to resonate in diverse ecological patterns and processes, including latitudinal and altitudinal patterns of nutrient content, foraging decisions by organisms living in strong temperature gradients, and patterns of biodiversity.
826607|1. For gape-limited predators such as snakes, it should be possible to predict the relationship between maximum prey size and body size from the relationship between maximum prey size and gape size and between gape size and body size. Such predictions were generated for Water Snakes, Nerodia sipedon L., using a data subset and then tested with a larger data set. 2. Gape size was computed based on jaw length and width and cyclical regression was used to identify prey of maximum size for snakes of a given gape or mass. 3. Predicted and observed maximum prey cross-section-snake mass allometry were in good agreement. Predicted maximum prey mass-snake mass allometry somewhat exceeded observed allometry which did not differ from 1. 4. Observed minimum prey size-snake size allometry was significantly greater than 0, indicating that larger snakes drop small prey from their diets. 5. Gape size-body size allometry in two other natricine snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis, Storeria dekayi) suggest that patterns of ontogenetic change in prey size should differ among species in predictable ways. 6. Sex differences in gape size-snake size allometry suggest that sex differences in maximum prey size should increase with increasing snake size, even when linear measures of head dimensions do not.
3599199|1. There is limited understanding of patterns of variation that exist among root traits of different species, especially under field conditions. We contrasted 11 fast- and slow-growing species paired within five evolutionary lineages to investigate whether root traits associated with soil resource acquisition were related to species' potential growth rate. 2. Measurements of root morphology, architecture, nitrogen and phenolic concentration, respiration and phosphorus uptake were taken on fine, non-woody roots sampled from forest stands in central Pennsylvania, USA. 3. Across all five contrasts, roots of fast-growing species generally had higher specific root length, smaller diameters, greater degree of branching, and lower phenolic concentrations than those of slow-growing species. This suggests differences in potential soil exploration and root defences among species differing in potential growth rate. 4. There were no significant differences between fast- and slow-growing species in root tissue density, respiration or P uptake. Lack of root physiological differences between species differing in growth rate contrasted with previous research on chamber-grown seedlings. 5. These results imply that, while roots of fast-growing species may be constructed for more rapid soil exploration and shorter life span than those of slow-growing species, root physiology is either more closely tied to overall plant physiology, which is more similar among mature trees, or masked by variation in soil microsites, root age or interactions with mycorrhizal fungi.
3806615|1. Fast-start swimming provides an integrated physiological index of performance and a measure of ability to escape predators, so may be expected to covary with other important composite life-history traits such as growth rate. 2. Variation in resource availability during growth and development is common, and organisms may show compensatory responses (such as catch-up growth) to periods of low food availability. However, such responses usually carry costs. 3. We examined fast-start performance in adult Green Swordtails in relation to growth regime experienced as a juvenile. In contrast to previous studies we found that conditions experienced early in life did not significantly affect fast-start swimming performance, indicating that escape ability is at a premium in green swordtails. 4. Fish raised on ad libitum food had similar performance to fish raised on a restricted diet and fish experiencing compensatory growth, controlling for body size. 5. Body depth was positively related to fast-start performance in both males and females, with males having faster escape responses than females for a given body depth. 6. Remarkably, males with the relatively longest sexual ornaments ('swords') had the greatest escape ability, suggesting that sword length may be a good indicator of quality among males of similar age.
10.2307/2389894|1. Previously there have been studies of rates of movement of <sup>32</sup>P between tillers within grass plants, and other studies of rates of <sup>32</sup>P movement between plants. This paper describes an experiment to compare these rates of transfer, using mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants. 2. Two plants of Lolium perenne were grown per pot of soil, and carrier-free <sup>32</sup>P was fed to one leaf of one of the plants. <sup>32</sup>P was measured in new leaf tips every few days and in the whole shoots after 7 weeks. 3. The rate of <sup>32</sup>P transfer between mycorrhizal plants was about 2-5% of that between tillers within a plant; between non-mycorrhizal plants it was slower. The half-time for <sup>32</sup>P equilibration between tillers was about 1-2 months, which is the same order of magnitude as the half-lives of leaves of some perennial grasses, but shorter than the half-lives of tillers. For <sup>32</sup>P equilibration between plants the half-times were about 2 years if they were mycorrhizal and 6 years if non-mycorrhizal, which is longer than the half-lives of leaves or tillers. 4. These results suggest that phosphorus movement between plants, even when they are mycorrhizal, is too slow to influence substantially the nutrient status of the shoots.
10.2307/2389791|Seasonal variation in catabolic capacity of the pectoralis major muscle in the Sand Martin and the Marsh Tit were examined. The Marsh Tit is a non-migratory bird with approximately the same energy demand on the pectoralis muscle, during all seasons. The Sand Martin is an insectivorous species that flies for extended periods, during all seasons, while feeding. Thus, the differences in energy output for the two species between seasons should be minimal compared to other migratory passerines. Activities of key enzymes in intermediary metabolism were used as catabolic indicators. No seasonal differences were seen in the Sand Martin. The Marsh Tit showed high values in 6-phosphofructokinase (PFK) activities (glycolytic capacity) in the summer and of citrate synthase (CS) and 3-hydroxy-acylCoA dehydrogenase (HAD) activities (oxidative capacity) in November birds. The differences observed are believed not to reflect differences in locomotory behaviour during different seasons but instead to reflect adaptations of the pectoralis muscle to food composition and to climatic differences, such as temperature.
10.2307/2390231|1. Although basking behaviour has been widely cited as a thermoregulatory mechanism in reptiles, few previous researchers have studied how lizards select basking sites in nature. 2. We conducted field and laboratory studies to determine whether two species of Anolis lizards in Puerto Rico use light intensity as a proximal cue for recognizing the thermal properties of microhabitat patches. 3. Under natural conditions Anolis cristatellus, a behavioural thermoregulator that we sampled in an open woodland, frequently occupied microsites that were more brightly illuminated than randomly sampled microsites. In contrast, A. gundlachi, a behavioural thermoconformer that we sampled in a shaded forest, occupied perch sites randomly with respect to light intensity. Operative temperatures were significantly correlated with light intensity at all times of day in the A. cristatellus habitat; in the A. gundlachi habitat, however, operative temperatures and light mtensity were significantly correlated only at the higher and more variable light intensities prevalent at midday. 4. We therefore hypothesized that A. cristatellus, using light intensity as a proximal cue, would perch in brightly lighted microsites to raise its body temperature and more shaded microsites to lower its body temperature; we also hypothesized that A. gundlachi would not use light intensity as a cue for selecting thermally appropriate microsites. 5. We tested these hypotheses in a laboratory experiment in which light intensity and operative temperature were uncoupled. Lizards were offered a gradient of light intensities under three constant temperature conditions: 10
41239299|1. Because males and females of internally inseminating species interact directly during mating, adaptations in one sex in primary reproductive traits may trigger an evolutionary response in the other sex. Divergent postcopulatory sexual selection is considered the main driving force behind the evolution of many male and female reproductive traits, generating unique morphologies and physiologies that can contribute to reproductive isolation and, ultimately, speciation. 2. The focus of most previous studies of the evolution of primary reproductive characters has been male reproductive traits and ejaculate or sperm characteristics. However, in order to more fully understand the evolution of primary reproductive characters it is crucial that we also include female traits. 3. In insects, both the size and the composition of the ejaculate have been shown to influence female reproduction in numerous ways by affecting female remating behaviour, female fecundity and female life span. Here, we employ a phylogenetic comparative approach to assess correlated evolution between primary reproductive characters in males and those in females in a group of seed beetles (Chrysomelidae: Bruchinae). We further explore correlated evolution between ejaculate size and female fitness in these insects. 4. Our analyses revealed positive correlated evolution between three internal female reproductive traits and ejaculate weight as well as correlated evolution between ejaculate weight and female fitness. We discuss the causal factors behind this correlated evolution and suggest that the evolution of larger ejaculates, primarily by postcopulatory sexual selection, causes selection for larger primary sexual traits in females to allow females to more rapidly process ejaculates. This may then feedback on postcopulatory selection in males, reinforcing selection for larger ejaculates. 5. Our results show that the primary reproductive traits of males and females show correlated evolution and suggest that intersexual co-evolution may affect the evolution of female fitness.
40205549|1. Following major disturbances ecosystem development occurs but in the prolonged absence of disturbance a decline (retrogressive) phase follows in which productivity and nutrient availability diminishes. Although it is recognized that litter quality and decomposition rates decrease as retrogression proceeds, little is known about the extent to which this is driven among- vs. within-species variation across these sequences. 2. We selected six long-term chronosequences that each included retrogressive stages, in New Zealand, Hawaii, Sweden, Alaska and Australia. Two involve significant species turnover across the sequence so that different species dominate at different stages, two involve low species turnover so that the same dominant species occur at all stages, and two involve some turnover of species but with certain species persisting throughout most of the sequence. 3. For each chronosequence, we collected litter from each dominant plant species at each stage of that sequence. For each litter collection we measured concentrations of N and P, and performed laboratory decomposition bioassays to measure mass loss, N and P loss, and the response of mass loss to mixture with litters of coexisting species. 4. We found that litter N and P concentrations often declined with increasing ecosystem age, both among- and within-species. However, the relative importance of among- and within-species effects varied across the six chronosequences. Rates of litter mass, N, and P loss during decomposition sometimes decreased with increasing ecosystem age, but most often at the among-species rather than the within-species level. 5. Litter mixing effects often varied across chronosequence stages, but the magnitude and direction of these effects was inconsistent among sequences. Variation in litter mixing effects across chronosequence stages was driven mainly by among- rather than within-species variation. 6. Although several recent studies have emphasized the role of within-species variation on ecosystem properties, our results point to among-species variation as a consistently important ecological driver, with within-species variation being important only for some variables and in some instances. As such they highlight that decomposition processes are most likely to be highly responsive to gradients of soil fertility (such as across chronosequences) when significant species turnover occurs across the gradient.
10.2307/2389543|If a Jack-of-all-trades is a master of none, is a Jack-of-one-trade a master of only one? Surprisingly, there have been few studies testing whether trophic specialists actually possess a limited breadth of function, and no studies relating degree of functional versatility to feeding performance on prey types that are not usually included in the specialist's diet. I tested the hypotheses that Gomphosus varius Lacepede, a coral reef fish species which feeds almost exclusively on non-elusive prey, does not adjust its prey capture mechanism and is less proficient when capturing a prey type other than its preferred resource. I used nested ANOVAs to compare high-speed videotaped jaw movements of G. varius and two coexisting confamilial trophic generalists as they captured elusive and non-elusive prey. Both of the generalists, which occasionally consume elusive prey, exhibited functional versatility when capturing elusive prey, but G. varius did not. The significantly lower capture success rate of G. varius when feeding on elusive prey, compared to the generalists, supports a causative link between G. varius' stereotypical kinematics and the virtual absence of elusive prey in its diet. Quantitative assessments of functional versatility and feeding performance are useful in analysing patterns of resource use and predicting their stability over time.
10.2307/2389472|Analysis of experiments conducted in growth chambers depends upon the sources of variation affecting plant growth. In this paper, three sources of variation are examined, namely a chamber and a time effect as well as the interaction between these two main effects. Experimental designs are suggested for all possible combinations of presence or absence of these three effects. The comparison of the designs unveils vast differences due to the cause of variation. Thus, knowledge of the sources of variation in plant growth appears obligatory to decide upon the most appropriate analysis. To illustrate how the causes of variations can be determined, experiments were conducted with Phaseolus vulgaris L. The design used allowed to test the main effects of time and chamber as well as the interaction of both parameters. Computation of variance components indicates that more than 90% of the variance is due to the random deviation and that there is no time effect on growth of this species.
10.2307/2389846|1. The relationships between foraging behaviour, incisor arcade breadth and body mass were described for sheep and goats grazing from swards of sown grass at two sward surface heights. 2. Variation in bite mass was related to incisor arcade breadth more closely than to body mass. 3. Bite area scaled as the square of the incisor arcade breadth and was smaller on the Tall sward height treatment. 4. Sheep had greater bite masses than did goats but goats had a higher bite rate than sheep and as a consequence there was little difference in short-term intake rate between the species. 5. Young animals of both species had smaller bite masses and intake rates than did mature animals. However, when expressed relative to body mass there were no significant differences in bite mass between maturity classes. 6. The results of the current study confirm that the size of the incisor arcade is a direct determinant of bite dimensions and a driving variable for intake rate in grazing ruminants.
3598968|1. Reproduction of female wolf spiders (Pardosa lugubris; Lycosidae) fed with prey of different quality was investigated. Spiders were fed either a single diet of Drosophila melanogaster (Diptera, high quality), Heteromurus nitidus (Collembola, high quality) or Folsomia candida (Collembola, toxic), or a mixed diet of D. melanogaster and H. nitidus, and of D. melanogaster and F. candida. 2. Nutrient flow from prey into females and from females into offspring during egg production was investigated tracing carbon and nitrogen stable isotopes with prey being enriched in
10.2307/2389606|Research during the last few years has demonstrated the toxic nature of tributyltin (TBT), particularly to molluscs. In the UK this has led to restrictions on the uses of TBT in antifouling preparations, initially in an attempt to achieve an environmental quality target (EQT) of 20 ng l<sup>-1</sup>, and subsequently one of 2 ng l<sup>-1</sup>. No equivalent target has been set for sediments and to date the bioavailability and effects of tin compounds (inorganic and organic) associated with particulates are largely unknown. The results presented here demonstrate the exceptionally high bioavailability of sediment-bound TBT, relative to inorganic tin, notably among estuarine sediment-dwelling species such as the clam, Scrobicularia plana (da Costa). Despite strong evidence of impact at contaminated sites, proof that sediment-bound TBT is the sole cause of detrimental effects in clams is, however, still required. In contrast, measurement of TBT-induced reproductive abnormalities in dogwhelks, Nucella lapillus (L.), provides an extremely specific and sensitive means of monitoring the biological impact of this contaminant in coastal waters. Application of such indices in a TBT-polluted area of the south coast of England is discussed.
826636|1. For birds, mammals and turtles, costs of swimming by foot propulsion are usually much higher than for propulsion by wings or foreflippers. The propulsive efficiency with which limbs impart thrust to the water is greater for lift-based wings than for drag-based feet, but different acceleration patterns during oscillatory strokes may also alter total drag on the body fuselage (head and trunk). 2. Because wing propulsion allows thrust on both upstroke and downstroke, whereas foot propulsion in many species (perhaps excepting grebes) has little or no thrust on the upstroke, foot propulsion requires higher speeds during a smaller fraction of the stroke to maintain the same mean speed. Because drag increases non-linearly with increasing speed, higher instantaneous speeds in drag-based foot propulsion may cause greater total drag on the body fuselage. 3. Tow-tank measurements have shown that foot-propelled birds that swim with long necks extended have lower fuselage drag at high speeds than do wing-propelled birds that swim with necks retracted. This difference might reduce the higher costs of drag-based foot propulsion, but such effects must be evaluated in the context of drag at a range of speeds throughout oscillatory strokes. 4. In quasi-steady models of horizontal swimming underwater, stroke-acceleration curves for both foot and wing propulsion were applied to a range of bird shapes and sizes. Higher fuselage drag during foot propulsion increased mechanical costs of transport (MCOT, J kg
10.2307/2389957|1. The fractal dimension of natural habitats may influence both numbers and body size distribution of arthropods. Plants with highly complicated and interrupted leaf shapes, i.e. whose fractal dimension is high, may have more space available for small animals than for large ones. 2. Morse et al. (1985) argued that scaling of body size with number of individuals may be predicted by combining assumptions of population densities as proportional to metabolic rate<sup>-1</sup> and vegetation fractals. 3. The hypothesis by Morse et al. (1985) was tested in a field experiment in which spiders were allowed to invade artificial plants placed in oak and spruce habitats. Comparisons between the natural spider populations in oak and spruce habitats were also made. 4. The fractal dimensions were estimated in the artificial plants and in the natural vegetation, and the following sequence, from low to high fractal dimension, was obtained: plastic broad-leaf plant, oak, plastic `spruce', spruce. 5. The prediction about scaling of body size with number of individuals based on vegetation fractals was supported qualitatively by the experimental results. However, some discrepancy between data and the quantitative predictions may be due to (a) the need of an improved theory, and/or (b) methodological artefacts. 6. Field data suggested that qualitative predictions about spider mean size based on vegetation fractals may hold within a habitat. 7. It is concluded that the general hypothesis that habitat structure influences body size distributions in arthropods was supported.
2656542|1. We examined the effects of pollinator visitation and time of season on male- and female-phase duration, using experimental manipulation and survey data from naturally occurring populations of Chamerion (= Epilobium) angustifolium (L.) J. Holub (Onagraceae). 2. Based on the observation that male mating opportunity (numbers of female flowers/numbers of male flowers) increases seasonally, we predicted that individual flowers should spend more time in the male phase early in the season when mating opportunity is low. We predicted that if seasonal changes in mating opportunity select for phase duration, male-phase duration should decline when pollinator effects are experimentally controlled. 3. A comparison of phase duration in naturally pollinated and pollinator-excluded plants supported this prediction: male-phase duration in the pollinator-exclusion treatment was longer and declined faster than in the naturally pollinated group. 4. A population survey revealed that once the effects of temperature were controlled for, male-phase duration was negatively correlated with date, while female-phase duration was positively correlated with date. 5. These findings suggest that seasonal variation in mating opportunity, and not just pollination rate or temperature, may play a significant role in phase duration in dichogamous plants.
40603041|1. Wood density is considered a key functional trait influencing the growth and survival of woody plants and has been shown to be related to a slow-fast rate-of-living continuum. Wood density is, however, an emergent trait arising from several vascular properties of wood, including the diameter and frequency of xylem conduits. 2. We aimed to test the hypotheses that there is a set of inter-related trade-offs linked to the different functions of wood, that these trade-offs have direct consequences for tree growth and survival and that these trade-offs underlie the observed correlations between wood density and demographic rates. We evaluated the covariation between xylem anatomical traits among woody species of New Zealand and whether that covariation had the potential to constrain variation in wood density and demographic rates. 3. Several xylem traits were strongly correlated with each other, but wood density was not correlated with any of them. We also found no significant relationships between wood density and growth or mortality rate. Instead, growth was strongly related to xylem traits associated with hydraulic capacity (conduit diameter and a conductivity index) and to maximum height, whereas mortality rate was strongly correlated only with maximum height. The diameter and frequency of conduits exhibited a significant negative relationship, suggesting a trade-off, which restricted variation in wood density and growth rate, but not mortality rate. 4. Our results suggest, for woody species in New Zealand, that growth rate is more closely linked to xylem traits determining hydraulic conductance, rather than wood density. We also found no evidence that denser woods conferred higher survival, or that risk of cavitation caused by wide conduits increased mortality. 5. In summary, we found little support for the idea that wood density is a good proxy for position along a fast-slow rate-of-living continuum. Instead, the strong, negative relationship between vessel diameter and frequency may constrain the realized diversity of demographic niches of tree species in New Zealand. Trade-offs in function therefore have the potential to shape functional diversity and ecology of forest communities by linking selection on structure and function to population-level dynamics.
2656333|1. We investigated the interactive effects of elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, supply of phosphorus (P) and legume presence in model communities of calcareous grassland. Half of the communities contained six graminoids and eight non-legume forb species. In the other half, four non-legume forbs were replaced by legumes. 2. Ecosystem responses. Above-ground phytomass (>5 cm) hardly responded to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> alone. However, when P and legumes were combined, the CO<sub>2</sub> effect on above-ground community phytomass in year two was a stimulation of 45% (P < 0.001). Below-ground community dry matter was stimulated by elevated CO<sub>2</sub> alone by + 36% (P < 0.01), but was only + 20% (P < 0.05) when legumes were present and P was added. At the final (late season) harvest the mean effect of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> on total above- and below-ground phytomass was + 23% (P < 0.001) and revealed no significant interactions among treatment combinations, because above- and below-ground effects of CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment had opposite directions. 3. Functional group responses. When legumes were absent, graminoids increased their total above- and below-ground phytomass in elevated CO<sub>2</sub> by 60% (P < 0.001) but there was no increase when legumes were present. The response of forbs to CO<sub>2</sub> was not significant, irrespective of co-treatment. Legumes, however, were significantly stimulated by P supply and their CO<sub>2</sub> response was much larger when P was added (+ 55%, P < 0.01 vs + 25%, NS). 4. Species responses. CO<sub>2</sub> effects on species ranged from highly positive (+ 143%) to moderately negative (-43%). 5. Our results demonstrate that the effect of CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment in such natural grassland communities will be low on above-ground phytomass and largely below-ground if no additional nutrients are provided. N<sub>2</sub>-fixing legumes appear to be crucial for the community response to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> but legume responsiveness is largely controlled by P availability.
10.2307/2390053|1. This study examines whether quantitiative amounts of nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) in asexual North American Taraxacum officinale (dandelions) vary among plants grown in environments that differ in nutrient and light availability. Asexually produced offspring in five genotypically distinct families of dandelions were analysed, considering plants within a family to be clonal replicates of a single genotype. 2. Total plant DNA, which consisted primarily of nuclear and chloroplast DNA, was isolated, slot blotted, and hybridized with a Taraxacum rDNA and a Petunia cpDNA probe to estimate relative amounts of rDNA and cpDNA in each family. For each plant, three lots of DNA were blotted twice and linear regression analysis was used to estimate the relationship between the amounts of rDNA and cpDNA and the amounts of total DNA blotted. Effects of the treatments on the five genotypes were tested by an analysis of variance on the regression coefficients of plants within each family. 3. There were no significant (P > 0.05) treatment effects on relative amounts of rDNA in any of the five families although it appeared that individuals may undergo random change. The rDNA copy number of the five genotypes estimated from the mean value of plants within a family ranged from 200 to 5300 copies per haploid genome. 4. The treatments had a significant effect (P < 0.05) on the proportion of cpDNA in the total DNA extractions in three of the families although high and low amounts of cpDNA were not always found in the same treatment. Among the five genotypes, the proportion of cpDNA ranged between 8.0 and 38.2% of the total DNA.
40863589|1. Shifts in bacterial community composition along temporal and spatial temperature gradients occur in a wide range of habitats and have potentially important implications for ecosystem functioning. However, it is often challenging to empirically link an adaptation or acclimation that defines environmental niche or biogeography with a quantifiable phenotype, especially in micro-organisms. 2. Here we evaluate a possible mechanistic explanation for shifts in bacterioplankton community composition in response to temperature by testing a previously hypothesized membrane mediated trade-off between resource acquisition and respiratory costs. 3. We isolated two strains of Flavobacterium sp. at two temperatures (cold isolate and warm isolate) from the epilimnion of a small temperate lake in North Central Minnesota. 4. Compared with the cold isolate the warm isolate had higher growth rate, higher carrying capacity, lower lag time and lower respiration at the high temperature and lower phosphorus uptake at the low temperature. We also observed significant differences in membrane lipid composition between isolates and between environments that were consistent with adjustments necessary to maintain membrane fluidity at different temperatures. 5. Our results suggest that temperature acclimation in planktonic bacteria is, in part, a resource-dependent membrane-facilitated phenomenon. This study provides an explicit example of how a quantifiable phenotype can be linked through physiology to competitive ability and environmental niche.
41239284|1. The ability to display functional responses to shading, i.e. phenotypic changes that enhance plant performance in low light, is fundamental for plant success in forest communities. Herbivory may constrain plant functional responses to shading and this could explain the often observed lower plant tolerance of herbivore damage in the shade. 2. We carried out a field trial and a greenhouse experiment to evaluate whether simulated herbivory (i) causes greater fitness losses in the shade, and (ii) modifies plant functional responses to shading. Changes in functional traits were measured at the biochemical, leaf, shoot and whole-plant levels, in seedlings of the light-demanding evergreen tree Aristotelia chilensis (Elaeocarpaceae), which is endemic to South American austral forests. 3. We hypothesized that plant responses to shade would be constrained by herbivory due to within-plant limitations in resource availability and/or antagonistic interactions between responses to shade and herbivory. We further expected that this limitation would result in a greater field mortality of damaged plants in forest understory as compared to open sites. 4. Simulated herbivory (50% defoliation) on field seedlings decreased 8-month plant survival in the shade (forest understory) but not in the sun (canopy gaps) in a temperate rainforest. Likewise, simulated herbivory in the greenhouse decreased plant growth rate and final biomass in the shade treatment but not in the sun treatment. 5. The phenotypic responses to shading of seven traits were constrained by simulated herbivory: chlorophyll, leaf shape, leaf blade angle, petiole angle, SLA (specific leaf area), internodes length and total leaf area. A path-analysis showed that most of these constrained responses were uncorrelated to each other. Some of these results might be explained by antagonistic interactions between molecules or pathways involved in plant responses to shading and herbivory. Four functional traits exhibited greater responses to shading in damaged plants: A max (Photosynthetic rate), foliar carbon, shoot : root ratio and LMR (leaf mass ratio); but most of them resulted from correlated changes in SLA. 6. The present study undertook a mechanistic approach to the often observed pattern of greater impact of herbivore damage on plant performance in low light environments. The central finding of this study is that the unraveling of herbivory-constrained plant functional responses to shading may explain the often observed greater fitness losses due to herbivory in the shade. It is also suggested that herbivory pressure is an underestimated factor in pioneer species distribution along the light gradient.
3599132|1. Reproductive behaviour is routinely studied with a view towards characterizing how an animal responds to variation in resource abundance and quality. This characterization is less commonly made with respect to reproductive physiology. 2. In the Walnut-infesting Fly, Rhagoletis juglandis, ovarian development is cued by the presence of the host fruit resource. In this study, I examined how ovarian development was affected by two host characteristics that relate to competition in the juvenile stages: fruit size and presence of conspecific larvae. 3. Large fruit promoted egg maturation more than small fruit, and uninfested fruit promoted maturation more than larval-infested fruit. Both effects were reproduced with artificial models of fruit. 4. The functional significance of these effects and ramifications for individual-level dynamics in oviposition behaviour are discussed.
40205569|1. How and when resources are allocated to reproduction is expected to differ between the sexes, potentially generating differences in how males and females age. For this reason, acquisition of resources should be an important determinant of both age-dependent reproductive effort and of deteriorative ageing (i.e. senescence). 2. We used black field crickets, Teleogryllus commodus, to test whether differences in diet quality of juveniles and adults determine sex-specific resource allocation to reproduction and whether there are any subsequent effects on ageing. 3. We show that ageing does not depend on nymph diet. There was, however, a significant difference in the rates of actuarial ageing for males and females. Females showed reproductive ageing, whereas male reproductive effort plateaus or continues to increase with age. 4. These results highlight the link between diet, reproduction and ageing and show that differences in resource utilization between the sexes can lead to different patterns of ageing. This is likely to have profound effects on how life-histories evolve in the sexes.
4540075|1. Recent work on the hydraulic conductance of leaves suggests that maximum photosynthetic performance of a leaf is defined largely by its plumbing. Pursuing this idea, we tested how the diurnal course of gas exchange of trees in a dry tropical forest was affected by artificially depressing the hydraulic conductance of leaves (
3599250|1. We studied the effect of CO
2656480|1. This paper approaches the phenomenon of hormesis (i.e. stimulatory effects occurring in response to low levels of exposure to agents that are harmful at high levels of exposure) from an evolutionary perspective and addresses three questions related to its occurrence and consequences: (1) Is the occurrence of hormesis to be expected on the basis of evolutionary arguments? (2) Considering selection as a driving force in the evolution of hormesis, is it likely that certain aspects of organism performance have a greater tendency than others to exhibit hormesis? (3) What are the practical implications of hormesis for ecological risk assessment? 2. Several hypotheses are presented to explain the observations of hormesis, and a literature review is used to assess the evidence for hormesis of various fitness-related traits. 3. To avoid statistical artefacts, it is essential that the underlying distribution of traits that appear to show hormesis be examined, particularly as many of them may be expected to deviate from normality. 4. The occurrence of hormesis of individual life-history traits can be explained as an evolutionary adaptation that acts to maintain fitness in a changing environment. 5. As a result of energetic trade-offs among life-history traits, not all traits are likely to exhibit hormesis simultaneously, and therefore overall fitness is not likely to be enhanced at low levels of exposure to toxic agents. Because toxic agents affect different traits in different directions and to different degrees, interpreting the ecological consequences of hormesis of any single trait is not possible without examining it in relation to overall effects on fitness.
3599172|1. The root anchorage ability of saplings and vegetative propagules may be decisive for persistence of woody pioneers in the highly disturbed habitat of floodplains. 2. Vertical uprooting resistance was investigated in saplings of three floodplain pioneers of central Europe, Alnus incana, Populus nigra and Salix elaeagnos, at the near-natural River Tagliamento, north-east Italy. Uprooting resistance of planted cuttings of P. nigra and S. elaeagnos was studied at this site and in an experimental garden. 3. Uprooting resistance was lowest in saplings of A. incana, intermediate in P. nigra, and highest in S. elaeagnos. For cuttings, differences in uprooting resistance between species were evident only under floodplain conditions, where resistance was higher in P. nigra than in S. elaeagnos. This difference was related to better growth in P. nigra. 4. The anchorage ability of saplings may be one factor influencing the longitudinal and transverse zonation of species in floodplains, as S. elaeagnos is restricted to highly disturbed sites close to the main channel, whereas A. incana and P. nigra occupy more stabilized habitats. For vegetative propagules, in contrast, regeneration ability may be more important than uprooting resistance.
3599163|1. In order to quantify the level of variability in seedling consumption displayed by individual molluscs, we placed one snail (Helix aspersa) in each of 51 trays containing (7-day-old) Taraxacum officinale seedlings for 7 days. 2. Initially, individual snails displayed considerable variability in their consumption of seedlings; however, this variability declined with time. The consumption of seedlings was not related to individual snail mass. 3. A second grazing experiment, using five different snail densities in similar experimental conditions to the first, showed that increasing snail number reduced variability within treatment groups. 4. A computer simulation, based on data from the first experiment correctly predicted the basic form of the decline in feeding variability with increasing snail density found in the second. Post hoc changes to the model, based on empirical analysis of the second experiment to account for mutual interference, reduced discrepancies between empirical and model results. 5. This study highlights the consequences that individual feeding behaviour has on feeding trials with molluscs, and provides a simple method by which this variability can be quantified and accommodated within experimental design.
20142822|1. Senescence is intimately connected with physiological state, which is affected by the environment. Two aspects of the environment -- stress and caloric intake -- are investigated in the context of senescence, particularly in the context of repair of damage caused by endogenous and exogenous stressors. 2. In a simple life-history model, the organism is characterized by size (affecting reproductive success) and accumulated damage (affecting survival) at age. The modelled organism experiences an imprinting period, at the end of which it estimates the level of food and damaging sources in the environment. From those, an optimal life history is determined, assuming that reproduction is an allometric function of size. 3. The optimal life history involves a behavioural trait (intensity of foraging) and an allocation process (amount of energy allocated to repair of damage). Subsequent to the imprinting period, the organism lives experiencing levels of stress or caloric intake that differ from those during the imprinting period. The mismatch is such that either the caloric intake is greater post-imprinting than during imprinting or environmental stress is smaller post-imprinting that during imprinting. 4. Since reproduction is given allometrically and the organism cannot shrink, there is no reproductive senescence. In all cases, mortality increases with age. Senescence is caused by accumulated damage and we focus on the allocation of potential growth to repair and environmental mismatch. 5. In the case of stress mismatch, the general qualitative result is that both the optimal level of activity and the allocation to repair are greater than their values in the case of no mismatch and they are positively correlated. For caloric mismatch, during the post-imprinting period the intensity of foraging is greater than that predicted if there were no mismatches. However, we predict either a negative correlation between genes characterizing activity and repair (for small mismatch), no correlation (for moderate mismatch) or positive correlation (for large mismatch). Furthermore, caloric mismatch is predicted to lead to a considerable reduction in lifetime reproduction, but stress mismatch is predicted to induce an increase in stress resistance throughout life with little cost to lifetime reproduction.
10.2307/2389270|The total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) index of a live bird is related to its fat-free mass, but varies linearly with body temperature. Interspecific variations in TOBEC index with lean mass are best described by a second order polynomial curve, as previously found by Walsberg (1988). Intraspecific relationships, however, are linear. Contamination of plumage with salt and other parts of the body with metals alters the TOBEC index obtained.
10.2307/2390006|1. Monocultures of Vulpia ciliata spp. ambigua were subjected to a range of temperatures, CO<sub>2</sub>, nutrient and density regimes in a factorial design housed within solar-domes. Temperature treatments were imposed at ambient and +3 <sup></sup>C levels, CO<sub>2</sub> at ambient and +340 ppm, and there were three levels of nutrients and eight levels of densities ranging from 156 to 31 250 seeds m<sup>-2</sup>. The abiotic treatments were imposed after emergence. 2. There was little mortality and this was unrelated to the treatments. Plants grew more quickly at the high temperature, high nutrient and low density regimes, and flowering was earlier at the high temperature regime. 3. At seed set, biomass per plant and seed production per plant were analysed by analysis of variance and by fitting mean yield-density models expanded to account for different environmental conditions. Biomass and fecundity were greatest at high temperature, high nutrient and low density regimes. Allocation of biomass to shoots was greater at the high temperatures, as were seed number/shoot biomass ratios. Any effects of CO<sub>2</sub> were negligible. The parameter b describing the nature of the relationship between seed production per plant and density was always less than unity but was greater at the higher temperature regime. The response to density was therefore under-compensating in all conditions, implying that populations would display monotonic damping to equilibrium densities. 4. Under proposed future environmental regimes, V. ciliata has the capacity for more rapid population growth from low levels and for a northwards range shift. However, if open ground is not maintained, its habitat may become dominated by species that are more competitive or that have a higher rate of increase.
3599193| 1. Previous studies on tropical rainforest seedlings have demonstrated low physiological plasticity in shade-tolerant species in response to light, but little is known about the morphological plasticity of such species. We examined morphological traits in seedlings of 10 shade-tolerant tropical rainforest tree species grown in four combinations of high and low light (10 and 08% full daylight, respectively). Plasticity of each trait was quantified using coefficients of variation. 2. Plant traits varied in their plasticity, and could broadly be ranked as follows: stem form > crown traits > root form > leaf form > biomass allocation. Acclimation to an increase in light was generally greater than acclimation to a decrease in light, but crown traits showed significant changes in the high-low treatment. 3. The ranking of species according to plasticity varied depending on the trait examined. Mean plasticity across all light treatments showed no relationship with either dry mass or relative growth rate of dry mass
10.2307/2389676|Ramalina menziessi Tayl. is a lichen whose entire thallus is made up of an endlessly expanding net-like form. In this study, experiments were conducted to determine some of the implications of this to the ecology of the lichen. It was found that the perforate morphology provided greater than expected tensile strength, a greater ability to lodge and remain on tree branches and it extended the amount of time broken pieces of thalli stayed airborne as compared with non-perforate thalli. The net-like form is very efficient at rapidly exchanging water with the atmosphere, has a large photosynthetic area to mass quotient, dissipates heat by convection very rapidly and has high visibility to mammals. However, the magnitude of these effects is similar to that found for different morphological structures found in other lichens. It is possible that the perforate growth form of Ramalina menziesii may increase effectiveness of many aspects of vegetative reproduction while simultaneously providing for an advantageous area to weight (or volume) quotient.
2390528|1. Most dimorphic angiosperm species produce chasmogamous flowers adapted for allogamy and cleistogamous flowers adapted for autogamy. Plant size is an important internal environmental factor and several studies have suggested an adaptive strategy whereby cleistogamous flowering ensures a basic seed output while larger plants can spare resources to make additional investment in the more expensive but presumably more fit outcrossed seed produced by chasmogamous flowering. This study tests the effect of plant size on the percentage of chasmogamy in a species, Mimulus nasutus, where both the cleistogamous and chasmogamous flowers are autogamous and so seed from chasmogamous flowers has no genetic advantage. 2. We measured change in expression of cleistogamy/chasmogamy in glasshouse-grown plants of different sizes and architecture. Size was manipulated by varying the length of time for which the plants were grown under short days. Architecture was manipulated by removing stems. 3. We found that increased size led to an increase in the percentage of chasmogamy in M. nasutus. This is unexpected given the lack of genetic advantage of outcrossing and suggests that this effect can occur as a direct result of increased resource availability without the necessity of selection for progeny fitness. 4. An increase in plant size was also found to lead to an increase in resource sinks (developing flowers and seed capsules on other parts of the plant). As increased plant size can therefore produce both increased total resources and increased number of resource sinks, the net resources available to a developing flower will be a balance of these two effects. Resource re-allocation is shown to occur between flowers on a stem, between stems and between flowers and seed set. In each case, this results in a net decrease in resources to new flowers and so results in there being only sufficient resources for cleistogamous flowering. 5. We discuss the difficulties of using species with varying growth forms to test the hypothesis that expression of allogamous chasmogamy increases with plant size because of the genetic advantage of outcrossing.
10.2307/2390089|1. Relationships between foraging strategy, flight performance and wing shape in animals can be demonstrated with the use of aerodynamic theory. The optimal morphology is dictated not only by foraging behaviour and habitat selection but also by size of prey and migratory habits, as well as flight display. Here I demonstrate how changes in body size and structure of wings and tail affect the optimal flight speeds and power required to fly. 2. Long-tailed birds flying with their tails hanging downwards-backwards (e.g. widowbirds) are predicted to fly more slowly than short-tailed birds to save energy or to have larger wings (broader and/or longer wings giving lower wing loading) to compensate for increased tail drag during flight. Assuming that the tail length is five times as long in a long-tailed bird than in a short-tailed (normal) one, the minimum power and maximum range power would be about 30% higher in the long-tailed bird and the corresponding speeds about 40% slower. Ignoring wing inertial loads as a cost (inertial power) the corresponding percentages would become 16-18% higher powers and slower speeds. 3. I predict that members of a bird family that display in hovering or vertical take-off flights should not have elongated wings if wing inertia is important. In contrast to most other widowbird species, males of Jackson's widowbird (Euplectes jacksoni) do not have elongated wings (Anderson 1992), although they have particularly costly tails (Thomas 1993). This species has abandoned forward flight display and instead uses a vertical take-off and hovering flight display. Inertial costs appear to explain this result. 4. An increase in weight causes an increase in wing loading, which in turn requires higher flight speed for production of enough lift. A 50% increase in body mass (as fat, an egg or a fetus inside the body), would increase P<sub>mr</sub> and P<sub>mp</sub> by about 45-50% and V<sub>mr</sub> and V<sub>mp</sub> by about 20-25% (symbols defined in Fig. 1), when inertial power is taken to be zero. 5. A bird or bat carrying prey in the beak/mouth or claws should use about the same speed for minimization of flight costs as when flying without prey. 6. For low flight costs, and assuming a perfect elastic storage (zero inertial power), fast-flying species should benefit from short, narrow, high-aspect-ratio wings, hovering species should have long wings and slow-flying species should have larger wings (lower wing loadings) but with no particular demands on the aspect ratio. Ignoring inertial power the best flight economy is attained by the combination of a low wing loading (enabling slow flight) and high aspect ratio (Norberg & Rayner 1987; Norberg 1990). If we assume that inertial power is an important cost in hovering, a hovering animal should have short wings to minimize mechanical power.
2656554|1. A published model of constant diurnal energy accumulation by territorial hummingbirds does not accurately reflect the temporal distribution of feeding behaviour of traplining hummingbirds, Phaethornis longirostris (Long-Tailed Hermit Hummingbirds). 2. In an enclosure study, gross nectar intake by P. longirostris decreased through the day, mirroring nectar production rates in its natural food-flowers and mimicking its natural foraging patterns. 3. Using a simulation model, the energetic consequences of constant and decreasing net energy intake rates for traplining hummingbirds are compared. 4. Given natural patterns of nectar production, model birds with decreasing diurnal net intake rates met their energetic needs with fewer flowers than those with constant net intake, and spent less time foraging. 5. It is concluded that P. longirostris do not satisfy the physiological assumptions of the published model, and that in this way they are different from the territorial species on which the model has previously been tested.
10.2307/2390003|1. Seedlings representing 25 populations of Pseudotsuga menziesii and 26 populations of Pinus ponderosa were grown in a common garden in Moscow, ID, USA. The seeds were collected across the natural distribution of each species, at altitudes ranging from 170 to 2774 m above sea level, latitudes from 33 <sup></sup>N to 53 <sup></sup>N, and longitudes from 105 <sup></sup>W to 124 <sup></sup>W. Lipid-free seeds from mother trees and leaf tissue from the 2-year-old progeny were analysed. The design enabled us not only to measure genetically determined variation in carbon isotope discrimination () and gas exchange characteristics but also to compare performance in the common garden and in situ. 2. In the common garden, significant population variation in , gas exchange and specific leaf area was detected among seedlings of Pseudotsuga menziesii. Coastal, low-altitude genotypes had significantly lower  than interior, high-altitude genotypes. In Pinus ponderosa, populations varied only in specific leaf area. These broadly distributed sympatric species differ in genetic structure with respect to gas-exchange characteristics. 3. In the common garden, high  of both species was associated with high stomatal conductance relative to photosynthetic rate. Specific leaf area, although strongly correlated with , varied in the wrong direction to explain variation in . 4. In situ  was correlated with both altitude and vapour pressure deficit (VPD) in Pseudotsuga menziesii (r<sup>2</sup>=0.42, P=0.002 and r<sup>2</sup>=0.25, P<0.02 for altitude and VPD, respectively), but not in Pinus ponderosa (r<sup>2</sup>=0.004, P>0.77 and r<sup>2</sup>=0.06, P>0.21 for altitude and VPD, respectively). 5. Foliage  from the progeny grown in the common garden was significantly correlated, in both species, with  of the in situ maternal photosynthate in the seeds; however, the correlation was negative in Pseudotsuga menziesii and positive in Pinus ponderosa. The negative correlation indicates a strong acclimatory response, perhaps to VPD, in Pseudotsuga menziesii. 6. Altitudinal decreases in intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressures inferred from isotopic data were insufficient to compensate for increased VPD. Photosynthetic water-use efficiency (net photosynthesis/transpiration) was estimated to decrease by two- to fourfold from sea level to 2800 m altitude within the distribution limits of these species.
3598956|1. Understanding the general principles governing the impressive diversity of plant morphology has long been a goal of botanists. However, the broad variability of plant growth forms has challenged the development of general models of plant growth. 2. A recent theoretical model, the fractal branching model of West, Brown and Enquist (WBE), purports to explain the scaling of plant form in a variety of taxa; however, its applicability to clades that do not meet its underlying assumptions, particularly plants that lack volume-filling branching, has been unclear. 3. Here we show how an extension of the WBE model, the minimal branching model, can quantitatively predict the scaling of form in plants lacking volume-filling branching. We then test the model's predictions with data from a biometric database on Sonoran Desert plants. 4. As predicted, empirical data support the ubiquity of the 3/4-power scaling of photosynthetic surface area in plants, but nevertheless show that the morphological dimensions (height, spread) in plants with minimal branching scale with exponents differently from those in plants with fractal-like external branching. 5. We then compare expectations under the minimal branching model with those of geometric similitude and fractal branching models, which make predictions that are close to those of the minimal model. Confidence intervals for empirical data sometimes include all three models. However, unanimous agreement in interspecific cases, and greater support in intraspecific cases, appear to favour the minimal model. 6. It is generally thought that succulents, particularly cacti, exhibit morphological adaptations that limit water loss via surface areas while increasing the capacity for water storage. Our model and supporting empirical data strongly suggest that the succulent morphology has evolved from selection to minimize external branching but not necessarily the scaling of external surface areas. 7. Our work demonstrates that a common body of allometric theory, based on the scaling of resource-exchange networks, provides a theoretical baseline that can account for much diversity in land plant form and architecture.
3599272|1. Differences in timing of development can greatly affect morphology and locomotor performance, which are of crucial importance in juvenile organisms. Early hatching in amphibians can occur in response to egg threats, and early hatched individuals may suffer the costs of physical immaturity posthatching. 2. We measured maximum jumping performance for early hatched (EH) and normal hatched (NH) froglets of the direct-developing frog Eleutherodactylus coqui on both a wet and a dry substrate. Snout-vent length, hindlimb length and mass were compared with jumping ability and behaviours on the wet substrate were scored. 3. EH froglets had lighter mass, shorter relative hindlimbs and performed more poorly on both substrates than NH individuals. Between groups, hindlimb length and snout-vent length scaled higher with mass than the expected geometric scale. EH froglets also engaged in more walking and swimming behaviour than did NH froglets on wet substrates. 4. We found that EH froglets have shorter relative hindlimbs and poorer jumping performance than NH froglets. EH froglets may compensate for their poor jumping ability by using other forms of locomotion. Limbs that are longer than theoretically predicted may help these terrestrial organisms escape forest-floor predators.
10.2307/2389977|1. Ecophysiological, morphological and dendroecological attributes were examined in species growing in understorey and newly formed gap environments in mixed-Quercus forests of northern Virginia. 2. Gap environments were characterized by higher photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) but were not different from non-gap control plots in their soil moisture, predawn leaf water potential (), leaf temperature or leaf to air vapour pressure deficit (VPD). In addition, few significant differences existed between regeneration responses at gap and control sites. 3. Plants in gaps experienced higher rates of net photosynthesis (A) and leaf conductance to water vapour diffusion (g<sub>wv</sub>) than control plants, although parameters did not differ between early vs late successional species. Gap plants also produced leaves with smaller leaf area and greater leaf thickness, leaf mass per area (LMA) and stomatal density than control plants. 4. All gap species experienced accelerated height growth compared to non-gap plants, with early successional Sassafras albidum (Sassafras) and Liquidambar styraciflua (Sweetgum) exhibiting the highest rates. In contrast, average radial growth in small, understorey trees was not significantly different between habitat type, although Quercus alba (White Oak) did respond significantly to the most recent gaps. 5. Many small trees (6-12 cm d.b.h.) were surprisingly old - up to 100 years in age. Despite severe suppression periods in these trees, they experienced release events during their lifetime, although not necessarily to the most recent gaps. This may partially explain the lack of correlation between ecophysiological and growth parameters.
2656339|1. Daubenton's Bats (Myotis daubentonii) foraging over a stream concentrated their activity over calm surfaces, avoiding an adjacent area with small ripples (< 3 cm high). Aerial insects were most abundant over the ripples, so insect distribution could not explain why the bats avoided this area. 2. The bats flew low over water and always (N = 22) directed the head forwards, presumably emitting the echolocation beam parallel to the surface, thus minimizing clutter. At an angle of incidence of 30<sup></sup> there was significantly more clutter from the rippled water. 3. The ripples produced ultrasonic noises in the form of transient pulses at an average rate of 6.2 per second. In the present case, such pulses were common enough potentially to interfere with target detection by the bats. Transient noises and echo clutter from moving ripples may be the principal reason why bats generally avoid foraging low over turbulent water. 4. The target strength of a potential insect prey at the water surface and the source levels of the bats' searching signals were measured to use in estimating the echo level at the bat when it detects the prey. The echo level at detection (+ 38 dB sound pressure level) was about the same as the clutter level extrapolated to the detection distance. This suggests that Daubenton's Bat operates at very low signal-to-noise ratios when foraging for insects near the water surface.
3599115| 1. We studied seasonal changes in the thermoregulatory behaviour of the lacertid lizard Psammodroums algirus in a Mediterranean evergreen forest. Body temperatures (T
40603060|1. The use of feathers as nest lining material has traditionally been explained by the thermoregulatory properties of feathers. Feather nest lining could additionally affect nest detectability by predators, or play a role in a sexually selected context. Furthermore, feather nest lining harbours microorganisms that may influence environmental conditions where eggs and nestlings develop. 2. Microorganisms growing on nest lining feathers could affect the bacterial load of eggshells because they occupy space and/or produce antimicrobial substances against other bacteria, including egg pathogens. Feathers of different colours are known to differ in their bacterial community (i.e. feather degrading bacteria) and, thus, colour composition of nest lining feather could also affect the bacterial environment of avian nests. 3. Here we tested this hypothesis in the barn shallow (Hirundo rustica) by exploring the relationship between eggshell bacterial loads and number of feathers, and the effect of experimentally modified colour composition of nest lining feathers on eggshell bacterial load. 4. In agreement with the hypothesis we found that, before treatment, the number of nest lining feathers (mainly that of unpigmented-white colour) predicted eggshell bacterial load, and that, at the end of the incubation period, eggshells of experimental nests with white feathers had a lower bacterial density than those in experimental nests with black feathers. 5. We failed to detect a relationship between bacterial load and hatching success. However, since evidence of that relationship exists for other species, these results would explain the previously detected experimental effect of colour composition of nest lining feathers on hatching success of swallows. 6. Nest design in general, and the use of nest-lining white feathers in particular, may therefore have important consequences for reproductive success of birds. The reduced eggshell bacterial loads of experimental white nests would explain preferences by barn swallows for feathers of white colour.
2390327|1. Parthenogenetic species are often geographically more widely distributed than their sexual relatives. This success in colonizing can be explained either by dispersal of one or a few clones of wide physiological tolerance or by the distribution of many locally adapted clones. 2. Here we compare the influence of salinity on reproductive output, feeding rate, growth rate and size at birth between two genotypes of Potamopyrgus antipodarum to address the questions (i) Do these traits vary in response to changing salinity? (ii) Does the response to a salinity gradient differ between genotypes? (iii) Can the patterns of variation, in relation to salinity, contribute to explaining the geographical distribution of P. antipodarum in Europe? 3. Our results demonstrate that genetic variation among populations of P. antipodarum is reflected in differences in life-history traits and feeding rates in response to a salinity gradient. The phenotypic differences between the genotypes are consistent with the geographical distribution of P. antipodarum clones in Europe. 4. The overall response to salinity of both genotypes of P. antipodarum suggests an optimum at 5% S; however, both genotypes showed a broad salinity tolerance and were able to feed, grow and reproduce over the entire salinity range tested (0-15% S). The broad environmental tolerance of both genotypes together with their widespread geographical distribution across Europe provide evidence consistent with the general-purpose genotype hypothesis.
3599046|1. Leaf traits are commonly associated with the life history, distribution and resource requirements of a species. To improve our understanding of the ecological and physiological differences between tropical savanna and forest trees, we compared leaf traits of species native to savanna and gallery (riverine) forests in the Cerrado region of central Brazil. 2. Congeneric species pairs from 14 different taxonomic families were studied, each with a savanna species and a forest species present at the study site. Only individuals growing in savanna conditions under full sun were studied. We measured foliar nutrients,
4139359|1. Leaf life span (LLS) is one of the traits involved in the leaf economics spectrum (ranging from fast acquisition to efficient conservation of resources). How it relates to nutrient resorption efficiency (R
41319597|1.Carotenoid-based signals typically vary in both the total concentration of carotenoids deposited and the relative quantities of different constituent carotenoids. As these constituents often have differing spectral properties, the relative and absolute concentrations of different carotenoids deposited in a signal can significantly affect the spectrum of light reflected. A critical but rarely tested assumption of hypotheses concerning the information content of carotenoid-based signals is that their colour directly reveals the concentration and composition of constituent carotenoids to intended recipients. Most previous studies have attempted to address this question using either photographic techniques or by analysing recorded reflectance spectra, neither of which take into account the specific properties of the receiver's visual system. 2. Here, we use psychophysical models of the visual system of three-spined sticklebacks (Gasterosteus aculeatus) to estimate their sensitivity to variation in the concentration and relative abundance of constituent carotenoids of males' carotenoid-based sexual signals. 3. We demonstrate that sticklebacks are acutely sensitive to variation in both the total concentration of carotenoids in the signal and the relative proportion of its constituents, and that the accuracy of these assessments is largely unaffected by the presence or absence of ultraviolet radiation in the illuminant. We discuss these findings in relation to the evolution, maintenance and information content of carotenoid-based sexual signals.
2390395|1. We quantified pollen deposition on the stigma, pollen removal from the anthers and pollen losses in Echium vulgare, visited by workers of Bombus terrestris under controlled conditions. We used dye as a pollen analogue. Bumble-bees were trained to visit a sequence of non-emasculated flowers to estimate pollen carryover and to visit individual flowers to estimate pollen loss. 2. Carryover of pollen grains and dye particles between flowers was similar, which justifies using dye as a pollen analogue. On average 93.8% of the dye particles on the bee were carried over to the next flower. Only a small fraction of the pollen grains was deposited on the stigma (0.15%). A much larger fraction (6.1%) was lost in another way: passively during flight, through grooming or on floral parts other than the stigma. The bees removed 44% of the pollen grains from a fresh flower and 50.3% of this removed pollen adhered to the bee. 3. We predict that, using the parameters mentioned above, during a single visit to a newly opened flower, a bee collects an amount of pollen grains which will bring about 60% geitonogamous self-pollination in the next flower visited. The expected percentage of self-pollination is considerably less if bees visit flowers that have been visited before.
40603108|1. Deceptive species are a characteristic trait of insect-plant mutualisms. Deception of pollinators is essential for reproduction in diverse plant species; however, mimicry in seed dispersal is almost unknown. Myrmecochory, the dispersal of diaspores by ants, is a mutualism in which the elaiosome, a lipid-rich seed appendage, works as an ant reward. This coevolved interaction may be exploited by cheating, non-rewarding diaspores that mimic elaiosomes. 2. Our study assesses the impact of the morphology and fatty acid composition of diaspores on ant dispersal in rewarding and cheating myrmecochores and non-myrmecochorous species. Four elaiosome types (defined by Sernander 1906) were included in our research: the 'Viola odorata type', with a clearly defined elaiosome, the similar but diplochorous ' Euphorbia type' with an additional ballistic dispersal of diaspores, and the 'Puschkinia' and ' Heptica! types, which we classify as' cheaters' as they mimic ant rewards by chemical cues. 3. We tested the influence of morphology, chemical composition of diaspores and presence of rewards on removal rates of diaspores, dummies impregnated with seed extracts and pure fatty acids and scent-standardized diaspores in a population o Formica polyctena ants with 10 European spring ephemerals, mostly Ranunculaceae. The main free fatty acids of diaspores were identified by gas chromatography and mass spectrometric analysis. 4. Removal rates of diaspores and dummies treated with seed extracts were significantly influenced by their fatty acid composition. Discriminant function analysis confirmed oleic acid as the main trigger substance eliciting seed-removal behaviour by ants in most species. Oleic acid content and removal rates differed among elaiosome types and were highest in rewarding myrmecochores, lower in cheaters and smallest in non-myrmecochorous seeds. Removal rates of scent-standardized diaspores did not differ among mutualists and cheaters suggesting a selective pressure for morphological adaptation and were lowest in non-myrmecochorous species, thus corroborating an influence of diaspore morphology on ant-removal patterns. 5. For the first time, we demonstrate chemical mimicry in myrmecochory as a means of seed dispersal.Evolutionary stability of the ant-seed mutualism is maintained by the ability of ants to discriminate between certain types of rewards and to respond with differential diaspore distribution rates.
10.2307/2390155|We investigated the mechanism by which grass litter (dead Poa pratensis L. shoots) suppressed the emergence of seedlings of four old-field forbs (Centaurea nigra L., Dipsacus sylvestris Huds., Hypericum perforatum L., Verbascum thapsus L.) by determining the effect of litter on their seed germination and shoot extension. 2. When seeds were placed beneath litter (715 gm
3599026| 1. In both interspecific and intraspecific comparisons, maternal body size is the strongest predictor of fecundity for many kinds of animals. However, it has not been widely appreciated that the usual empirical descriptors of this relationship (correlation coefficient, slope and P-value of the linear regression between maternal body size and off-spring number) are sensitive to a factor that is very labile and subject to methodological bias: the degree of maternal investment, specifically the ratio of litter mass to maternal body mass (relative clutch mass, RCM). 2. Samples of females used to assess reproductive allometry may often be biased with respect to RCM. For example, RCMs may vary through time within a single population as a consequence of prey availability, or may vary geographically among populations. Also, females with low RCMs may be more difficult to capture, or may be discarded by researchers who do not realize that they are reproductive. 3. Our analyses on 173 litters of aspic vipers (Vipera aspis Linn) from central western France show that estimates of reproductive allometry are very sensitive to RCM: samples composed of high-RCM females show a positive and highly significant reproductive allometry, whereas samples composed of low RCM females do not. Conclusions also depend on the method of regression analysis used. This result has strong implications for methodology (i.e. selection of samples, choice of analytical methods and timescales of study) in this field of research. 
40407730|1. Recent studies of the sensory drive hypothesis suggest that communicative signals evolve readily whereas change in sensory perception is more constrained by the demands of the physical environment. 2. Here, we find that diurnal Sphaerodactylus macrolepis geckos collected from dark, forested habitats were best able to detect motion in very dim light (< 10 lux), whereas geckos collected in brightly-lit coastal areas exhibited optimal motion detection at a much brighter light range 200-300 lux. 3. Motion detection by geckos from both habitat types declined as light intensity increased above 300 lux. These differences were observed after the lizards had been living in a common laboratory environment for 1 full year and are hence unlikely to be due to acclimation effects. 4. Light conditions for optimal visual performance match the light conditions of the natural habitats in which the lizards are found. Our results support the suggestion that visual performance may evolve quickly and that the sensory drive process may be best described as repeated co-evolution between signals and receiver sensory systems. 5. Thus, for animals that inhabit wide ranges of visual habitats, the sensory drive process may potentially act differently on separate visual response properties, resulting in diverse levels of variation and divergence in visual performance and communication systems.
10.2307/2389536|Hunger level influences a predator's motivation to search for food. Whilst foraging a predator may be faced with situations involving a trade-off between energetic gain during feeding or the pursuit of other activities that are necessary for survival and reproduction. The movements of the caterpillar hunter Calosoma affine Chaudoir were studied in short (recently cut) and full-grown (tall) alfalfa by tracking beetles in the field at night, using a portable harmonic radar system. Full-grown alfalfa contained high densities of prey for Calosoma affine (during an outbreak of alfalfa caterpillars/armyworms), while stubble fields, i.e. short alfalfa, represented low prey densities. Hungry Calosoma affine displayed directed movements in short alfalfa (low prey density), whereas the movement pattern of hungry beetles in full-grown alfalfa (high prey density) could be described as a correlated random walk related to near-search activities; foraging inside the base of crown stems. Satiated beetles moved randomly, i.e. displayed a correlated random walk within both short and full-grown alfalfa. Satiated beetles, only, climbed and foraged in the plant canopy. The longest distance covered and the velocity were highest for hungry beetles tracked in short alfalfa. A significant reduction in speed was obtained for hungry beetles in full-grown alfalfa, while satiated beetles exhibited a similar speed within the different growth stages of alfalfa. Time to ingest caterpillars/armyworms, biomass gained per minute, and the amount of prey traces left after feeding, increased with increasing size of the prey. Mean biomass ingested increased with increasing temperature. However, the overall rate of ingestion decreased with time due to satiation. The influence of motivation on predatory movements displayed by adult Calosoma affine within short and full-grown alfalfa is compared with differences in prey density and prey availability. Moreover, the foraging behaviour exhibited by Calosoma affine within extrinsic (temperature) constraints, and the importance of energy requirements for various parameters of the time budget are discussed.
4540083| 1. Carotenoids are micronutrients with many beneficial health-related effects. They are effective antioxidants and stimulants of the immune system. Carotenoids cannot be synthesized in animals and must be obtained from food. As such, they may limit reproductive output and performance, and on the proximate level mediate repro trade-offs. 2. We studied carotenoid limitation in wild Great Tits (Parus major) by supplementing prelaying and laying females with lutein, the most abundant carotenoid in this species. We followed the effects of this supplementation on egg yolk carotenoid composition, and offspring and parental performance. 3. Females transferred the supplemented lutein into egg yolks, increasing lutein concentration to the upper limit of naturally occurring concentrations in control pairs. Concentrations of zeaxanthin, -carotene and -carotene did not differ between supplemented and control pairs. 4. Effects on offspring and parental performance were generally absent or weak. There were no effects on timing of laying, clutch size, hatching success, nestling survival, nestling mass (day 6 and 14), tarsus length or T-cell mediated immune response. Males on supplemented nests fed their young more than those on control nests. There was no positive effect on female feeding or mass. 5. Negligible effects of lutein supplementation on offspring and parental performance might be explained by high natural abundance of carotenoids or other antioxidants, where additional carotenoids bear no strong advantage to the birds. Additionally, conflicting results of different studies may be explained by species-specific features of their life-histories. 
10.2307/2389498|The effect of soil-dwelling insect herbivores on early successional vegetation was investigated by means of a manipulative field experiment. The application of a soil insecticide (Dursban 5G) was used to reduce the natural levels of root herbivory in treatment plots and the number of plant species compared with those in control plots. Significantly more plant species established in insecticide-treated plots, with the perennial forbs showing the most marked difference. The effect increases with successional age. There was no difference in microsite availability between treatments; thus, the enhancement of plant species richness appears to be due to a reduction in predation of dormant seed, mortality after germination or during seedling establishment.
10.2307/2389659|Growth and concentration of N, P and K in the pleurocarpous moss Calliergonella cuspidata (Hedw.) Loeske were compared on two substrates (chalk grassland soil and pure quartz sand), with or without additional spraying with a nutrient solution. The investigations were carried out in a chalk grassland and under glass in garden experiments. The aim of the experiments was to investigate the relative importance of precipitation and the soil as sources of nutrients for this moss and to quantify the dry deposition of nutrients on the bryophytes in a chalk grassland. In the garden the increase in dry weight of the bryophytes was greater on chalk grassland soil than on sand and, on the sand only, was significantly enhanced by fertilization. The concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium in the plants were higher on grassland soil than on sand and were enhanced by fertilization. No additional dry deposition as compared to bulk deposition was recorded on the bryophytes. The results indicate that on the chalk grassland soil the nutrient supply from the soil is sufficient and that a factor other than supply of N, P and K is restricting the growth rate since addition of these elements does not stimulate growth.
40205474|1. The soil sink for carbon is important in regulating climate and soil fertility. The sink strength is dependent on the balance of soil carbon decomposition and formation. Variation in the rates of these processes to manipulations of resource availabilities under global change, such as elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide, is not explained by soil microbial theory. 2. To investigate disparate responses of soil carbon dynamics in field investigations, to altered carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus availability, we couple fractionation, isotope and mesocosm techniques to quantify soil carbon decomposition and formation under different resource regimes. These regimes involve addition of multiple levels of carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus, alone and in combination. 3. We hypothesize that: (i) there is no net effect of labile carbon input rate on soil carbon stocks because reductions in soil carbon decomposition are offset by reductions in soil carbon formation; (ii) with simultaneous nutrient addition soil carbon stocks will increase because nitrogen will inhibit further soil carbon decomposition, and mitigate reductions in soil carbon formation observed under elevated labile carbon availability alone; (iii) this increase in soil carbon stocks will be a product of greater formation and decreased decomposition of slower-cycling, mineral-associated, soil carbon, whereas less stable, particulate soil carbon will simply turnover faster (due to greater soil carbon decomposition and formation). 4. In contrast to our predictions formation of soil carbon is positively correlated with labile carbon input rates. In addition, nutrient amendment does not interact with carbon amendment to affect total soil carbon contents. However, there are significant interactive effects when the formation and decomposition responses of different soil carbon fractions are considered. For nitrogen alone, its effects on soil carbon fractions follow our hypotheses. However, phosphorus amendment increases decomposition of the soil carbon fraction that constitutes a longer-term sink. 5. Our results highlight the need for rhizodeposition, phosphorus and soil carbon fractions to be explicitly considered when interpreting potential soil organic carbon responses to altered resource availability. In the discussion, we make four recommendations for future investigations to improve our understanding of soil carbon responses to altered carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus availabilities.
826671|1. Mass-based and area-based rates of respiration, leaf nitrogen content, leaf total protein content, non-structural carbohydrates and leaf mass per unit area (LMA) all decreased with depth in the canopy of Nothofagus fusca (Hook. F.) Oerst. (Red beech) trees grown for 5 years at ambient (36 Pa) or elevated (66 Pa) CO
41239298|1. Growth of the body length in vertebrates is well known to be unidirectional, with organisms progressively increasing in body size as they become older. However, there is evidence that body length shrinkage is a survival strategy for some vertebrates under unfavourable environmental conditions. Here we report both experimental and field evidence that the body length of young stream-dwelling salmonids can decrease in winter. 2. In examining how juvenile salmonid fish responded to harsh environmental conditions, we were faced with unexpected and previously undocumented observations in terms of growth performance, indicating that fish do shrink in harsh winter conditions. Young salmonids showed significant shrinking of individual body length, up to 10% of the body length, over the course of winter. The dynamics of the growth in length of these fish can be explained by a combination of anorectic stress and environmental conditions. Under stable, sheltered underwater conditions fish were best able to maintain positive growth in length. 3. We propose that growth in body length of a vertebrate animal can be temporally negative, individuals suffering from nutritional deficits shrinking in their length in addition to losing their body mass. There is circumstantial evidence that subsequent compensatory growth can have unexpected and dramatic longer-term costs. Experimental approaches, both field-and laboratory based, are sorely needed to reveal how common a phenomenon negative structural growth is among animals, and what the consequences are for individual performance, and, furthermore, for population dynamics.
40963562|1. In contrast to other phenotypic traits, selection on physiological traits remains largely undocumented. We have evaluated survival selection imposed by prdation by dragonflies on the activity of arginine kinase (Ak), a key enzyme delivering energy for escape performance in invertebrates. 2. To accomplish this, we conducted a semi-natural field enclosure experiment in which we manipulated predation by large dragonfly predators, and quantified escape swimming speed and Ak in the prey, the damselfly Enallagma vesperum. To avoid confounding selection on Ak with selection on other swimming speed-related variables, we also scored all morphological and behavioural traits thought to underlie swimming speed in these damselflies. 3. Dragonfly predators imposed considerable mortality and selected for faster swimming speed and higher activity levels of Ak. Furthermore, higher Ak levels contributed to higher swimming speeds, confirming the mechanistic role of Ak for escape performance. Although morphological (size of the caudal lamellae which generate trust) and behavioural (number of beats made by the abdomen during swimming and the start angle of the C-start) variables contribute to increasing swimming speed, we detected no selection on these variables. This may be due to functional redundancy. 4. Taken together, our results indicated selection on Ak and suggested that selection on physiological traits may be as strong as selection on morphology and life history traits.
2656447|1. We studied the changes in body mass, metabolizable energy intake rate (ME) and basal metabolic rate (BMR) of a Thrush Nightingale, Luscinia luscinia, following repeated 12-h migratory flights in a wind tunnel. In total the bird flew for 176 h corresponding to 6300 km. This is the first study where the fuelling phase has been investigated in a bird migrating in captivity. 2. ME was very high, supporting earlier findings that migrating birds have among the highest intake rates known among homeotherms. ME was significantly higher the second day of fuelling, indicating a build-up of the capacity of the digestive tract during the first day of fuelling. 3. Further indications of an increase in size or activity level of metabolically active structures during fuelling come from the short-term variation in BMR, which increased over the 2-day fuelling period with more than 20%, and in almost direct proportion to body mass. However, mass-specific BMR decreased over the season. 4. The patterns of mass change, ME and BMR of our focal bird following two occasions of 12-h fasts were the same as after flights, indicating that fast and flight may involve similar physiological processes. 5. The relatively low ME the first day following a flight may be a contributing factor to the well-known pattern that migrating birds during stopover normally lose mass the first day of fuelling.
4139369|1. Testosterone (T) co-ordinates the seasonal and sex-specific expression of numerous physiological, behavioural and morphological traits that contribute to male reproductive success. However, increased susceptibility to parasitism has been proposed as a potential cost of elevated plasma T. 2. During the spring breeding season, male striped plateau lizards Sceloporus virgatus harbour significantly more ectoparasitic mite larvae (Acari: Trombiculidae) than females. Plasma T levels are also elevated in males at this time, suggesting that sex differences in mite parasitism may be driven by underlying sex differences in circulating T. 3. We tested this hypothesis experimentally by manipulating plasma T levels of yearling males via surgical castration and exogenous T implants. Upon recapture of free-living animals, we found significantly fewer mites on castrated males relative to either intact controls or castrated males that received T implants. 4. After removing variance attributable to treatment effects, we observed (1) a positive correlation between residual measures of plasma T and mite load, and (2) a negative correlation between residual measures of mite load and growth rate. These correlations suggest a growth cost associated with mite parasitism. 5. Previous studies have shown that exogenous T increases parasitism, but ours is one of the few to show that castration also reduces parasitism. This result, coupled with the fact that our induced plasma T levels remain within physiological limits, makes this one of the clearest demonstrations of a functional relationship between T and parasitism in any free-living vertebrate.
10.2307/2389594|Insecticides have often been implicated in causing single-stage outbreaks in tropical plantation pests. We discuss two mechanisms whereby insecticides may trigger outbreaks: 1 Catastrophic synchronization, in which natural enemies are excluded from the system. 2 Dynamic synchronization, in which natural enemies persist. We further distinguish between transient and persistent generation cycles caused by dynamic synchronization. Using population models and evidence from the field, we argue for dynamic synchronization as the most important mechanism and discuss the implications for integrated pest management.
41319570|1. Most animal studies of ecological immunology have focused on parasite resistance: defence mechanisms through which animals prevent infection or reduce parasite growth. Resistance mechanisms have obvious fitness benefits by reducing the fitness losses attributed to infection. 2. Intriguingly, animal researchers have largely ignored the role of tolerance mechanisms, through which hosts do not reduce parasite infection or growth, but alleviate the negative fitness consequences of parasite infection or growth instead. This omission stands in sharp contrast with the plant literature, where tolerance has been studied for decades and led to many important insights. 3. Here, we show that the plant literature has a lot to offer for understanding defence against parasites in animals. We argue that the prevailing views on tolerance in the plant literature should direct research on animals, and that theoretical ecological and evolutionary studies should be built on tolerance measures that are feasible and relevant in empirical studies. 4. Studying tolerance will enhance our understanding of how animals deal with parasites in their natural environments and may provide novel ways to combat disease.
41239291|1. Resource-limiting conditions impose a change in the energetic distribution between competing physiological processes. Over the past decade there has been increasing interest in trade-offs between the immune system and competing energy-consuming life-history traits. However, the trade-offs with energy saving mechanisms, such as heterothermy, have received limited attention. 2. The goal of this study is to determine how daily heterothermy expression could be adjusted to counterbalance the energetic requirements for the activation of the immune system depending on food availability (ad libitum vs. 40% calorie restriction) in a heterothermic primate, the Grey Mouse Lemur (Microcebus murinus). 3. On the day of the immune challenge, torpor was removed through the onset of fever, inducing a thermogenic cost. On the days following, food-restricted individuals returned to deep torpor (i.e. energy saving) whereas those fed ad libitum continued to skip torpor for at least three additional days. 4. The rapid return to an energy saving state in food restricted individuals raises new questions on the relationship between body temperature and immunocompetence. We suggest that (i) hyperthermia provides the first line of defence against pathogens, which is a trait common to all organisms, (ii) but that hypothermia may also protect the host by inhibiting pathogen proliferation.
3806607|1. We argue here that host plant quality affects many life-history traits of herbivorous insects and these traits often interact. Studies that look only at a limited number of traits often fail to determine the overall effect of plant quality on larval performance and adult fitness. Parameters such as mating success and adult longevity are frequently neglected even though they are affected by larval feeding and are crucial to overall fitness. 2. To illustrate this, we examined a whole suite of life-history traits of the moth Lobesia botrana after rearing larvae of this grape pest on three different grape cultivars. 3. Development time, mating success, fecundity, egg size and fertility were differentially affected by the cultivar on which the larvae were reared. Our results highlight that decreased fecundity can be balanced by an increase in egg size and fertility. 4. Throughout this study, we emphasize that drawing conclusions about larval food quality can be spurious when based on too few life-history traits. Therefore, it is essential to study all fitness related life-history traits to fully understand the effects of larval food quality on herbivore fitness.
3599310| 1. Nitrogen or phosphorus limits plant growth in many wetlands. If specific mechanisms reducing losses of the growth-limiting nutrient have been favoured by selection, the N and P resorption efficiency (RE) during leaf senescence (NRE, PRE: the fraction of N or P resorbed) might depend on the type of nutrient limitation. 2. The size, mass, and N and P concentrations of green and senesced leaves were determined for 10 graminoid species at Dutch and Swiss wetland sites, with N: P ratios in leaves (6-27 by mass) indicating N or P limitation. 3. During senescence, leaf area decreased by 8-19%, and leaf mass by 8-38%; NRE ranged from 0 to 87%, and PRE from 30 to 96%. PRE correlated strongly with NRE (r = 091) but was, on average, 17% higher. Within the Swiss or Dutch sites, NRE and PRE did not correlate with foliar N: P ratios, indicating that RE was not directly adjusted to the type of nutrient limitation. 4. NRE and PRE were, on average, higher at the P-limited Swiss sites than at the N-limited Dutch sites. Because PRE exceeded NRE, high RE would be most beneficial when P limits plant growth. This may have contributed to the dominance of graminoids with high RE in P-limited wetlands. 
2390332|1. To test hypotheses concerning adaptation and acclimation of tree species to shaded habitats we determined the growth, biomass partitioning and morphology of seedlings of nine near-boreal tree species in high- and low-light greenhouse environment (25 and 5 of full sunlight, respectively), comparable to sunlit gap and shaded microsites in boreal forests. The species differ widely in shade tolerance, seed size and leaf life span. 2. In low light, all species allocated proportionally more biomass to stems and less to roots, but the same to foliage, compared with the high-light environment. At a common size, all species had finer leaf morphology (higher specific leaf area, SLA) but coarser root morphology (lower specific root length, SRL) in low than high light. From a whole plant perspective, all species enhanced leaf area per unit plant mass (leaf area ratio, LAR) in low light and root length per unit plant mass (root length ratio, RLR) in high light. 3. Shade-intolerant deciduous species had higher RGR, SLA and SRL than larger seeded evergreens: ranking from Populus, Betula and Larix spp., then to five evergreen Pinus, Picea and Thuja spp., which were generally comparable in these traits. There were no changes in growth rankings of species between high- and low-light environments, nor consistent differences among species in biomass partitioning. Hence, species differences in leaf and root morphology (SLA, SRL) drove whole plant patterns, such as Populus, Betula and Larix had greater total leaf area and root length per unit plant mass (LAR and RLR, respectively) than the evergreens. Interspecific variation in RGR in both high and low light was positively correlated (r  0.9) with SLA, SRL, LAR and RLR, and negatively correlated (r  -0.9) to seed mass and leaf life span. 4. These data suggest that SLA, SRL, NAR and RGR are closely associated with variation in life-history traits and that variation in leaf and root structure more strongly influences patterns of RGR among species and light environments than does biomass partitioning.
3599166| 1. This study presents an easy protocol to measure the amount of immunoglobulins from the blood serum of different bird species in the wild (Ficedula hypoleuca Pallas, Parus caeruleus L., Lanius meridionalis Temminkck, Lanius collurio L., Athene noctua Scopoli and Falco tinnunculus L.) by direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, ELISA using commercial antichicken antibodies. 2. Additionally, the ELISA technique is validated for detecting serum immunoglobulins by means of other electrophoretic (sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, SDS-PAGE, and native electrophoresis) and immunological (Western blot) methods. 3. The results by Western blot show that the commercial antibody recognized proteins with apparent molecular weight according to heavy and light chains of immunoglobulins. 4. Both ELISA and Western blot data were correlated, implying that the commercial antibody bound to immunoglobulins and not to other proteins or ELISA plates. Densitometric data achieved by SDS-PAGE and native electrophoresis were only correlated in some species indicating a problem in detecting clearly the heavy and light chains, and -globulin fraction, respectively. 5. It is concluded that the proposed protocol is easy to carry out and may be used to detect total serum immunoglobulins from most bird species. 
10.2307/2390152|1. In some overwintering insects, several authors have suggested a trade-off in the allocation of metabolic reserves between diapause maintenance and post-diapause reproduction. To investigate this trade-off, the diapausing larvae of the bruchid Kytorhinus sharpianus were exposed to various periods of chilling (5
4540080| 1. Small mammalian folivores, such as the koala, are considered to be energetically limited by their relatively small gut capacity compared with metabolic requirements and the gut-filling effect of their poorly digestible leaf diet. However, during peak lactation, female koalas increase their food intake (35%) to meet the nutritional demands of reproduction. 2. This study examines mechanisms by which reproductive female koalas overcome limitations to food intake. 3. Digesta retention in the gastrointestinal tract was measured in free-living koalas using inert solute (cobalt (Co) complexed with EDTA) and particle markers (chromium (Cr)-mordanted to cell wall constituents' 600-1180 m in diameter). 4. The whole gut rate of passage of both markers was 2-3 times faster than in captive koalas, probably because of 35/o%-69% greater food intakes in the wild. As in captive koalas, the solute marker was retained longer than the particle marker in free-living animals, indicating selective retention of fluid, solutes and small particles (including bacteria) in the hindgut caecum and proximal colon. The digesta retention of both markers were unaffected by the 35% increase in food intake associated with reproduction, largely due to a 42% increase in the solute marker pool size in lactating animals. The pool size of large particles in the digesta was unchanged. 5. Thus, female koalas meet the nutritional demands of reproduction at least partly by an increased solute digesta pool size, minimizing the detrimental effects of increased food intake on digestion of solutes and small particles, and on faecal loss of microbial protein. There was some indication that they also increase the passage rate of large particles or increase the efficiency of separation of large and small particles to reduce the gut-filling effects of large, poorly digestible particles. 6. Clearly the digestive strategy of the koala is more flexible, and limitations to food intake less stringent, than previously thought. Female koalas accommodate the increased food intake required to meet the demands of free-living and reproduction without compromising nutrient extraction from their eucalypt leaf diet. We suggest that similar flexibility in digestive strategy is likely to play an important role in the way that most small mammalian herbivores, especially arboreal folivores, meet the nutritional demands of reproduction. 
41319614|1. The reliability of species distribution models (SDM) to predict the probable response of alien plants to climate change rests on the assumption that plant performance in relation to temperature in the introduced range will be similar to that observed in the native range. Yet, alien plants may exhibit enhanced performance or different environment-distribution relationships following their introduction into a new area. Empirical data are therefore essential to test whether the responsiveness of species to climate is equivalent in the native and introduced ranges. 2. This study tests the assumption that phenological responses of plants to temperature are similar in both their native and introduced range. First flowering date (FFD) is widely used to assess the responsiveness of plants to recent warming arising from global change. For 19 species native to Europe, FFD observed in both the UK and USA between 1970 and 2000 was examined in relation to interannual variation in local temperatures. General trends, variability and responsiveness of FFD to warming were examined for consistency in the contrasting climate of Oxfordshire and Washington DC. 3. Mean FFD in Oxfordshire was a powerful predictor of the same variable in Washington DC, although summer flowering plants in Oxfordshire tended to flower earlier in the season in Washington DC. FFD varied considerably over 30 years, but across all species, the range in FFD revealed a similar trend in both regions with larger ranges observed for earlier flowering species. 4. Comparable trends were found between Oxfordshire and Washington DC in the degree to which flowering advanced or regressed per unit temperature increase. In response to warming, the majority of species flowered earlier in both countries and the degree to which FFD responded to increasing temperature was greatest for species flowering earlier in the year. 5. These equivalent phenological responses to temperature across continents imply prediction of the performance of alien plants under climate change may be derived from a species' behaviour in its native range. While these findings support the use of SDM, they also indicate that these models could be significantly improved through the integration of phenological relationships parameterized from data in the native range.
10.2307/2390136|1. During the first three weeks of growth with plentiful water and mineral nutrients 27 Mediterranean species of annuals showed a linear negative correlation of relative growth rate (RGR) with log initial seedling weight. The lower RGR values resulted mainly from lower specific leaf area (SLA) and occurred despite higher values for unit leaf rate (ULR); they were associated with larger amounts of DNA per cell and probably with larger cell size. 2. The RGR values for a given seed size fell in the sequence Asteraceae > Poaceae > Fabaceae. The Asteraceae had the highest leaf weight ratios, the Poaceae the highest SLA values, and the Poaceae and Fabaceae the highest ULR values. 3. The result of competition between larger- and smaller-seeded species is likely to depend on the distance apart at germination. 4. The species with the largest seeds tend to occupy the soils with a richer nutrient supply and greater water-holding capacity, and thus the species which tolerate the drier, more nutrient-poor sites have smaller seeds and higher potential RGR values.
10.2307/2389654|Paternal investment in offspring has been shown to occur in many insect species, but its impact on reproductive fitness is often difficult to demonstrate. Males of the cactophilic fruit fly species, Drosophila mojavensis (Patterson and Crow), provide an ejaculate donation to females which is incorporated into their developing oocytes. Male size is uncorrelated with donation size in this species. The amount of this donation is depleted with successive matings, although male fertility remains constant. Males are observed to court preferentially females whose ovaries contain mature oocytes, thus ensuring the rapid utilization of their own sperm and their paternity. Females allowed unlimited access to dietary yeast exhibit high levels of fecundity, but nutritionally deprived females are not able to manufacture enough oocytes to utilize the sperm from a single mating. In the absence of dietary yeast, early female fecundity is enhanced by male ejaculate donations. However, the ejaculate donation does not appear to influence total lifetime fecundity in the absence of continued remating. Females of this species remate frequently. In natural populations, during periods of dietary stress, nutrients derived from repeated matings may constitute an important resource for total lifetime fecundity of females.
3599096|1. Density can influence growth through exploitation competition and behavioural or chemical interference. Negative effects of population density on the growth rate of Sea Lamprey larvae have been reported in several field and laboratory studies, but the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. 2. In this study the role of population density and waterborne-mediated interference on the growth rate of Sea Lamprey larvae was assessed in two laboratory experiments. The effects of these factors were evaluated by comparing growth of larvae reared at three different densities (27, 75 and 128 individuals m
2390444|1. The replacement of dry, fuzzy cribellar prey capture thread by viscous, adhesive capture thread was a major event in the evolution of orb-weaving spiders. Over 95% of all orb-weaving species now produce adhesive threads. 2. Adhesive thread achieves its stickiness with a much greater material economy than does cribellar thread. 3. Transformational analyses show that, relative to spider mass, adhesive orb-weavers invest less material per mm of capture thread and produce stickier capture threads than do cribellate orb-weavers. 4. The total cost of producing an orb-web that contains cribellar thread is reduced by 32% when a spider recycles its silk and another 34% when these capture threads are replaced by adhesive threads of equal stickiness. 5. The increased economy with which adhesive capture thread achieves its stickiness may have been an important factor that favoured the origin and success of modern orb-weaving spiders that produce adhesive capture threads.
10.2307/2389455|The structure of the incisor arcade in ruminant ungulates is likely to affect the degree to which animals can be selective in choosing food items. Species of ruminant which feed predominantly on grasses have broader more flattened incisor arcades when compared at the same size with species which browse on woody dicotyledonous plants. This is likely to reflect the differential dispersion of food items on the food plants of these two different groups of ruminants.
3598957|1. A growing consensus is developing that the impact of species on ecosystem properties is mediated, at least partially, by the traits of their component species. A previous study demonstrated that the field decomposition of complex litters produced by different communities of a Mediterranean successional sere was related to the average trait value of these communities. Here we scale down to the species level, to test whether similar relationships are found for selected species from these communities. We also test whether litter decomposability can be considered as part of the suite of traits characterizing the fast-slow growth continuum in plants. 2. We chose 12 of the most abundant herbaceous species characteristics of three stages of the old-field succession mentioned above. We investigated trait variation and covariation for the eight following traits: specific leaf area (SLA), leaf phosphorus (LPC), nitrogen (LNC) and carbon (LCC) concentrations, leaf dry matter content (LDMC) and leaf total phenols (TPh), all on material collected in the field; and litter decomposability
10.2307/2390162|1. Models of plant-plant interactions often assume that root systems are symmetrically arranged around individual plants and, therefore, below-ground competition intensity is a function of inter-plant distance. To explore this assumption, we measured three-dimensional distributions (horizontal and vertical dimensions) of roots in one plot each of a 3-year-old Sweetgum Sprout (root-stock: 4 years) and 3-year-old Loblolly Pine monoculture. 2. In each plot, 0.5 m grids were set and all roots in each 0.25 m
3599282|1. In contrast to other social bees, bumble-bees exhibit considerable size variation within the worker caste. This size variation has not been adequately explained, although it is known that larger workers tend to be foragers and smaller bees spend more time in the nest. We quantify size variation and mean size for foragers of 22 bumble-bee species inhabiting climates ranging from arctic and montane to the lowland tropics. 2. Mean size was larger in bee species from cold climates compared with temperate bumble-bees. Within species, individuals from Scotland tended to be larger than those from southern England. However, tropical bumble-bees (mostly belonging to the sub-genus Fervidobombus) were largest of all. We suggest that although a lower limit to size may be imposed by inhabiting cold climates, overheating does not constrain large size in bumble-bees from hot climates, perhaps because they have efficient mechanisms for heat loss through shunting heat to their extremities. 3. Tropical bees had shorter thoracic setae than species from cooler climates, while B. terrestris from Greece had shorter setae than those from southern UK. Presumably shorter setae enhance heat loss in warm climates. 4. Larger workers of B. terrestris were found to have smaller extremities, in proportion to their size, than small workers. We suggest that heat retention is more important in large bees that spend more of their time foraging, than in small bees which spend much of their time in the nest where incubation of the brood requires them to lose heat. 5. In the temperate climate of southern UK, we found no evidence for ambient temperature having a differential effect on activity of workers of B. terrestris according to their size. We suggest that, at least in temperate climates, size variation in bumble-bee foragers is probably not an adaptation to temperature variation. Instead it may improve colony foraging efficiency since foragers of different sizes are suited to, and tend to visit, different flower species.
3599158|1. A model was developed to examine effects of the stem biomass fraction on the optimal responses of plants to soil nitrogen availability. 2. Our model predicts that the optimal leaf: root ratio and optimal photosynthetic capacity (P
10.2307/2389675|The spatial and physical characteristics of foliage varied systematically with canopy height in a broad-leaved evergreen forest of Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides (Hook.f.) Poole (mountain beech) in the Craigieburn Range, South Island, New Zealand. Leaf inclination angle, leaf weight per unit area, leaf nitrogen concentration, leaf photosynthetic capacity and leaf reflectance of photosynthetically active radiation all decreased with depth in the canopy. These changes will result in a more uniform distribution of photosynthetically active radiation through the canopy and a greater canopy carbon gain than possible in canopies composed of randomly oriented leaves with constant physical properties. The mean leaf area index of the Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides foliage was 6.7 and mean branch silhouette area index was 1.4. Mistletoe (Alepis flavida [Hook.f.] Tiegh) was present in the canopy and had a leaf area index of 0.14, and a stem silhouette area index of 0.02. Total beech and mistletoe foliage biomass was 1183 and 36 g m<sup>-2</sup> respectively and total beech and mistletoe foliage nitrogen mass was 12.3 and 0.37 g m<sup>-2</sup>.
826675|1. To determine if the response of trees to herbivory is related to their ability to store nitrogen, saplings of Pinus sylvestris L., Betula pendula Roth. and Sorbus aucuparia L. were clipped, either when dormant or at spring bud burst, to remove half the previous year's shoot growth. The impact of clipping on N remobilization and uptake was quantified in relation to their growth responses. 2. Pinus sylvestris stored N during the winter in needles grown the previous summer, whereas B. pendula and S. aucuparia used their woody roots and older stems. Therefore, N remobilization was unaffected by clipping the deciduous species, but was reduced by half in the evergreen. 3. For both P. sylvestris and B. pendula, root uptake contributed N for leaf growth immediately after bud burst, concurrently with remobilization. Sorbus aucuparia had remobilized half the N from storage before any N was taken up by the roots. 4. Pinus sylvestris, which has a fixed pattern of growth, produced a lower total needle mass when clipped, but individual needles were heavier. Nitrogen uptake during summer was reduced by 26 and 44% for winter- and spring-clipped saplings, respectively. Both deciduous species showed compensatory leaf growth such that, by the end of the summer, leaf mass (and B. pendula leaf area) were unaffected by clipping. Nitrogen uptake by both deciduous species was unaffected by clipping. 5. We conclude that the site of N storage during winter is a crucial factor in determining the response of a sapling to herbivory, as interactions with the growth patterns of the three species can lead to different responses to damage. We suggest that for evergreen trees, the production of antiherbivory compounds serves primarily to protect N stored in their foliage, rather than the leaves themselves.
3599119|1. Many threatened bryophytes are restricted to patchy and temporary substrates such as dead wood and tree stems. Their persistence depends on successful colonizations of new patches. Spore germination may then be limited by substrate quality and wetness. 2. In vitro experiments were used to test the effects of pH and moisture on the establishment of spores of the moss species Neckera pennata Hedw. and Buxbaumia viridis (DC) Moug. & Nestl. 3. Low pH and water potential prolonged the lag phase preceding germination and reduced final germination. The interaction between pH and moisture suggests that high water availability facilitates germination at suboptimal pH, and vice versa. 4. The results reflect the species' habitats: the wood-inhabiting B. viridis had higher capacity to germinate at low pH, while spores of the epiphyte N. pennata showed earlier germination at low water potential and survived longer in a dry state. This supports the notion that bryophytes are most strongly affected by substrate quality during establishment. 5. We suggest that a trade-off exists among moss spores between the ability to colonize substrates with low moisture-holding capacity and low pH, and that the positive effect of high pH is largely that it speeds up germination thereby enabling the spores to exploit short, moist periods.
20142757|1. Phenotypic plasticity may confer a fitness benefit to organisms in a spatially heterogeneous environment. However, the evolution of such adaptive plasticity can be limited by the constraints imposed by interacting environments. Moreover, adaptive plasticity may be masked by reduced growth in a low-quality environment. The allometry between plasticity of morphological traits and overall growth is often overlooked. 2. We addressed these issues by examining the effect of shade produced by neighbouring plants (neighbour shade) on a small annual plant, Geranium carolinianum. Plants were grown in two field sites, a wood margin and an old field. A clipping treatment was used to manipulate neighbour shade at both planting sites. We measured petiole length to quantify shade avoidance response. Genotypic selection analysis was used to assess the fitness consequences of petiole length. 3. Petioles were longer in the wood margin than in the old field and were similar between neighbour environments. However, overall plant size differed among the environments. As a result, relative to plant size, petioles were longer when individuals were surrounded by neighbours than when neighbours had been removed, but were similar between sites. After taking the size into account, plants with longer petioles had higher fitness than plants with shorter petioles in all environments. 4. The functional response of petioles to neighbour shade was revealed only when the passive plasticity of plant size was considered. The lack of differential selection across neighbour environments together with active elongation of petioles in response to neighbours suggests that the current shade avoidance response is adaptive.
10.2307/2389628|Many animals are capable of ingesting food faster than it can be digested, and the resulting constraint on processing rate may significantly affect foraging behaviour. Dynamic models allow physiological factors, including gut-processing rate, gut fulness and energy reserves to be considered in addition to external influences when predicting foraging decisions. Foraging decisions of Nucella lapillus (L.), a predatory gastropod on rocky shores, were predicted using a dynamic-programming model that included energy reserves and gut contents as state variables, with a limited rate of gut processing. Behaviour was simulated using coupled submodels; an initial choice of remaining in a safe, foodless, refuge or foraging at risk in the open, followed by choices of accepting or rejecting prey during a tidally limited period of searching. The optimal decision to refuge or forage appears to be mainly a function of gut contents; below a threshold level, forage, above, remain in shelter. Because of the gut-contents threshold, dogwhelks should be time minimizers when ingestion rate exceeds digestion rate, but energy maximizers when the converse is true. Energy reserves interact with risk of mortality; high values reducing the amount of time when it is optimal to forage. Smaller dogwhelks are more likely to maintain an energy surplus, perhaps explaining the observed decline in asymptotic size on more risky, wave-beaten shores. The diet is predicted to expand to include prey of lower profitabilities as searching time runs out. Contraction of the diet should occur toward higher ranked prey as the gut-contents threshold for sheltering is approached.
3599153| 1. Studying variability of parental foraging and provisioning behaviour in relation to reproductive success is fundamental to improving understanding of regulation of reproductive effort in animals. The hypothesis that parents with higher foraging effort have higher offspring growth rates was tested in chick-provisioning Adlie Penguins in Antarctica over five consecutive years. 2. Time spent diving per day, an index of foraging effort, varied among male and female parents, and among pairs. These daily interindividual or interpair differences in time spent diving appeared to be consistent over the 2-week study period within each breeding season. 3. Frequency of meals delivered by parents was positively correlated with their brood growth rate. Meal frequency was, however, independent of the amount of time spent diving per day by parents and the time spent diving did not affect brood growth rates. 4. Rates of body mass loss of breeding pairs were positively correlated with brood growth rates. 5. Our results did not support the hypothesis that parents with higher foraging effort have higher offspring growth rates. It is suggested that parental allocation of resources obtained during foraging, rather than the degree of foraging effort, is the more important process determining offspring growth rates in Adlie Penguins. 
826628| 1. Elevated oxygen consumption during recovery is the majority of total metabolic costs associated with short vigorous activity, thus any assessment of total costs associated with such activity should also examine the excess postexercise oxygen consumption (EPOC). This study examined EPOC and total metabolic costs in Dipsosaurus (N = 8; 75  3 g) over a variety of submaximal intensities: 50%, 100% and 400% of the maximum aerobic speed (MAS = 0 27 m s
2656397|1. Published studies of the highly specialized mouthparts of adult scarabaeid dung beetles have proposed that the beetles feed on (1) liquid with minute particles, squeezed out of the dung by the mandibular molars, and/or (2) dung particles that are finely ground by the same molars. These hypotheses were tested experimentally. 2. The maximum size of ingested particles was determined in six Aphodius species (Scarabaeidae, Aphodiinae) feeding on dung with latex-balls of known diameters. The probability of ingestion decreased with particle size. The diameter of balls with a 5% chance of ingestion varied between species from <5 m to about 25 m. This maximum size, which precludes hypothesis (1), was related to feeding habits, not to body mass. 3. Simple experiments did not indicate any comminution by the mouthparts of dung particles. 4. It is suggested that coarse (mostly indigestible) particles are rejected by filtering setae and that the remaining small particles, prior to ingestion, are concentrated on the molars by squeezing which eliminates superfluous water. 5. Since 40-50% of the dry matter in fresh dung from grazing cows, sheep and horses consisted of particles <20 m, food competition among adult Aphodius seems unlikely in spite of their selective feeding.
10.2307/2390582|1. Net nitrate-uptake rates, nitrogen contents and nitrate-reduction rates of Rumex palustris and Plantago major spp. major plants grown on loose or compacted soil were studied. 2. Compaction lead to a slower growth rate for both species. Accumulation of nitrate caused increased internal nitrogen concentrations in P. major when grown on compacted soil. 3. After transfer to a nutrient solution plants of both species grown on compacted soil showed faster nitrate-uptake rates, when expressed per unit lateral-root length or lateral-root surface, than plants grown on loose soil. For Plantago, rates also increased when expressed per unit shoot or root dry weight. 4. Based on measured nitrate-reductase rates, only R. palustris should be able to reduce the largest part of the amount of nitrate taken up from the nitrate solution in the time period it was exposed to this solution. 5. Nitrate-reductase activities of R. palustris and the shoot of P. major correlated well with the internal nitrate concentrations. Roots of P. major showed no correlation at all. A possible explanation for this is compartment of nitrate and nitrate-reductase activities in these roots. 6. The accumulation of nitrate in roots of P. major, occurring on compacted soils, may be beneficial for maintaining the osmotic potential needed to penetrate soils with a high mechanical resistance. Rumex palustris, a species not occurring on compacted soils, does not show such an accumulation.
4139329|1. Relationships of leaf traits with rainfall at the place of origin of seed (
4540086|1. Effects of climate change may affect the Sphagnum species composition in bogs, and ultimately the functioning of the whole ecosystem. We investigated the effect of different water tables on the competition between six Sphagnum species in the glasshouse. The amount of precipitation (234 mm year
40863633|1. Many organisms respond to seasonal temperature fluctuations by the reversible modification of whole-animal performance. Semiaquatic ectotherms, which possess this acclimatory capacity in swimming speed, lack the plastic response in terrestrial locomotor performance and vice versa. Theory predicts that the presence of reversible (seasonal) thermal acclimation or fixed phenotypes depends on the predictability of future thermal conditions (i. e. accuracy of temperature cues) in a given environment. Alternatively, comparative data suggest that thermal acclimation is induced by disparate temperature cues in water and on land. 2. We tested both predictions by examining the seasonal acclimation response in thermal sensitivity of maximal swimming and running speed in adult alpine newts, Ichthyosaura (formerly Triturus) alpestris. 3. Following the seasonal variation in environmental temperatures, we exposed newts to 5 C from November to March and, after a gradual temperature increase, to either a constant (15 C) or fluctuating (10-20 C) thermal regime from May to June. At the end of each treatment, we measured newt swimming and running capacity at five temperatures (range 5-25 C). In the field, hourly temperatures were recorded in various aquatic and terrestrial microhabitats to obtain information about the predictability of thermal conditions in both environments. 4. Seasonal acclimation shaped the thermal sensitivity of swimming speed under both constant and fluctuating temperature treatments. Thermal sensitivity of running speed was markedly modified by a fluctuating thermal regime so that newts ran at the highest test temperature faster than cold-acclimated individuals. Natural thermal environment contained a similar proportion of predictable variation in water and on land. 5. Complex seasonal acclimation of locomotor capacity in newts was influenced by the disparate thermal cues, i. e. mean acclimation temperature or diel temperature fluctuations, rather than by the different accuracy of these cues in water and on land. Future confrontations of theory with empirical data will require more attention not only on the assumptions of adaptive thermal acclimation but also on the ecologically relevant thermal conditions during acclimation experiments.
10.2307/2390282|1. Exposure to high light intensities (250 and 1000  mol photons m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>) caused a rapid and strong decline in F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>M</sub> in hydrated lichens. However, all species except the old-forest indicators Lobaria pulmonaria and Evernia divaricata recovered original values of F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>M</sub> within 2-3 days at 18 <sup></sup>C. 2. Lichen indicators of long ecological continuity, especially within the threatened Lobarion community, were most susceptible to high light, also in evidence by increased chlorophyll degradation in hydrated thalli with increasing PFDs. Usneion species showed a moderate level of photoinhibition; those members of the family Parmeliaceae that are ubiquitous were the most resistant. 3. A reduction in temperature from 18 to 9<sup></sup>C during high-light treatment caused a larger and more permanent reduction in F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>M</sub> in hydrated thalli of Lobaria pulmonaria than of Parmelia sulcata. 4. F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>M</sub> was permanently reduced in air-dry thalli subjected to high PFD; irreversible and very low levels of F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>M</sub> developed within 2-3 days of high-light exposure for tested Lobarion species measured after 48-h recovery in moist conditions at low light. Ubiquitous Parmeliaceae species maintained fairly high F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>M</sub> throughout the 7-day exposure; Usneion species were intermediate. The lichen indicators of long ecological continuity showed a large and highly significant chlorophyll degradation, whereas the remaining species had some kind of protecting mechanisms. 5. Clear-fellings of forests are likely to be detrimental for presently declining lichens of ancient forests by causing a sudden increase in PFDs on remaining lichen thalli.
3599202|1. We quantitatively compare the fitness function linking male mating success in the field to body size and the allometric relationship linking testis length (estimating sperm production) to body size, both empirically derived, for the yellow dung fly Scathophaga stercoraria (Diptera: Scathophagidae). 2. We find that both relationships are similarly non-linear (quadratic) and increasing. The most parsimonious interpretation of this congruence is that the evolution of testis size (and hence sperm numbers) evolutionarily 'tracks' the number of copulations a male of a given size can expect, resulting in the particular non-linear testis size-body size allometry evident. 3. We offer a general, two-tiered statistical approach for this kind of quantitative comparison.
41239306|1. Surviving prolonged food deprivation requires various metabolic adaptations such as energy and protein sparing, which can be highly conflicting with energy-demanding stages of an animal's life history such as growth. 2. Due to the maternal attendance pattern, subantarctic fur seal (Arctocephalus tropicalis Gray) pups must repeatedly endure exceptionally long fasts of increasing duration throughout the 10-month lactation period. Little is known of (i) how these infants adapt to such extreme energetic constraints while sustaining growth and development; and (ii) the ecological implications of repeated prolonged fasting in early life in terms of offspring survival, maternal care and growth strategy in this species, as well as the evolutionary consequences of such life history trait. 3. Physiological responses to prolonged fasting and how they change with development throughout the pre-weaning period were investigated. Results show that beginning with their first fast, subantarctic fur seal pups are able to mobilize lipid reserves preferentially while conserving protein stores in response to nutritional deprivation. As pup age, profound changes in energy expenditure allow the implementation of an efficient strategy of fat storage and lean body mass preservation, which proves highly adaptive in the face of the low maternal provisioning rates experienced. 4. Despite increasing fasting durations, pup mortality decreased markedly throughout the maternal dependence period. Consistent with predictions, field measurements indicate that fasting endurance, although limited in early life, increases up to durations of nearly 3 months with age. Results suggest that the maternal provisioning strategy could be constrained by these ontogenetic changes in pup fasting abilities. 5. Furthermore, extreme energetic constraints and local density-dependent effects appear to exert a strong selective pressure upon the adoption of a convergent growth strategy between the sexes aiming to maximize fat storage and pre-weaning survival. 6. The issues of resulting trade-offs between pre-and post-weaning survival and the evolutionary consequences of extreme fasting abilities are also addressed.
2656504|1. The investigation covered whether sexual dimorphism could affect flight performance in a manner that is consistent with differences in at-sea distribution of male and female Wandering Albatrosses, Diomedea exulans Linnaeus. Adult morphology was also compared to near-fledged chicks to assess whether morphological differences are consistent with different at-sea distributions of adults and fledglings. 2. Body girth, mass, wing span and area were measured on 24 females (16 adults and 8 chicks) and 32 males (20 adults and 12 chicks) breeding in the Crozet Archipelago. 3. On average, adult males had longer wings (4%, 311  4 cm) with 6.8% more area (6260  270 cm<sup>2</sup>), but were also 20.4% heavier (9.44  0.59 kg) than adult females. As a result, wing loading in adult males was 12.1% greater than adult females. 4. When compared with adults, total wing area of chicks was lower resulting in higher wing loading because of the incomplete growth of chicks at the time measurements were collected. However, projected chick growth to fledging indicates that wing loading would be lower in fledglings than adults. 5. Because wing loading determines flight speed, it is conceivable that windier regions of the sub-Antarctic/Antarctic are more optimal for male albatrosses because they have higher wing loading. Conversely, wing loading is lower in adult females and fledglings, which could make them better adapted to exploit lighter winds of the subtropical and tropical regions. Thus, size dimorphism may have a functional role in flight performance that influences the at-sea distribution of adult and fledgling Wandering Albatrosses.
40407746|The relationship between the composition of communities of micro-organisms and their hosts remains poorly understood. We conducted extensive field studies of feather-degrading bacteria, other cultivable bacteria, and fungi on the plumage of a migratory bird, the barn swallow Hirundo rustica Linnaeus, to understand the association between micro-organisms, host sociality and host antimicrobial defences, as reflected by the size of the uropygial gland. 2. The abundance of feather-degrading bacteria, but not other cultivable bacteria or fungi, decreased with increasing size of the uropygial gland. 3. Females had more feather-degrading bacteria than males. 4. Barn swallows living in larger colonies had more feather-degrading bacteria than less social conspecifics. 5. These findings suggest that the uropygial gland plays a specific role in regulating the abundance of feather-degrading bacteria that furthermore depends on the social environment of the host.
10.2307/2389883|1. Rules of resource capture, utilization and release derived from CSR theory have been used to construct a cellular automaton model simulating secondary succession and spatial patterns of vegetation development on gradients in resource concentration and intensity of disturbance. It is confirmed that simple differences in the resource dynamics of founder populations are sufficient to generate a succession in which there are phases of dominance and decline consistent with Egler's initial floristic composition hypothesis, Odum's theory of ecosystem maturation and Connell and Slatyer's inhibition model of secondary succession. 2. Differences in resource dynamics may also permit a stable coexistence of populations in the presence of gradients of vegetation disturbance. Patterns of vegetation development on a resource gradient are strongly affected by the prevailing levels of disturbance and the resource storage capacity of component populations.
10.2307/2389324|To test whether low nutrient supply limits the intensity of competitive interactions among plants by limiting their growth, the reproduction and survival of a target species (Hieracium floribundum Wimm & Grab.) were compared in the presence and absence of neighbours, both on infertile soil and in fertilized plots in an abandoned pasture. Removing neighbours increased the recruitment and survival of the target species, but only in fertilized plots (i.e. significant neigh-bour removal x fertilization interaction). Even when allowing for increased recruitment and survival due to fertilizer itself, removing neighbours still improved recruitment and survival more in fertilized plots than in unfertilized plots. These results indicate that low nutrient supply can constrain competition by limiting plant growth at the infertile end of a naturally occurring, soil fertility gradient. Change in population density along such a gradient probably reflects variation in the intensity of competition along the gradient.
41319624|1. The immunocompetence handicap hypothesis (ICHH) proposes that androgen-induced immunosuppression is the mechanism that restricts the expression of exaggerated male ornaments to superior males. Numerous tests of this hypothesis have been conducted on the humoral and cell-mediated components of immunity, with mixed results. Surprisingly, no study so far has addressed whether macrophage phagocytosis, a basic immune function, plays a role in the ICHH. 2. We tested whether the ornament size of male spotless starlings (Sturnus unicolor) is a predictor of in vitro macrophage phagocytosis. We found that a moderate physiological concentration of testosterone (T) induced strong phagocytic inhibition. We found no relationship between ornament size and phagocytic activity in basal conditions. 3. Basal phagocytosis was not significantly predicted by ornament size or original testosterone levels. Contrary to expectations, phagocytosis under a moderate T concentration was negatively related to ornament size. Furthermore, a nonsignificant trend for original T concentration to negatively affect T-medium phagocytosis was also found. 4. Our results provide support to the ICCH and suggest that males with exaggerated ornaments and high T concentrations may counteract the inhibitory action of testosterone by some compensatory mechanism. Possible candidates include the presence of immunoenhancing substances, such as melatonin or antioxidants, or differential receptor activity. These mechanisms should be evaluated when testing the reliability of the ICCH in wild populations.
2656517|1. Grass leaves are often inhabited by fungal endophytes that can enhance host growth. In some forage species, endophytes improve host resistance to, and recovery from, drought. 2. Our objective was to determine if the growth of genotypes of Lolium perenne L. was improved by endophytes during recovery from drought. 3. Thirteen infected genotypes were cloned into ramets. Half were treated with a systemic fungicide to eliminate the endophyte (E-); half were untreated and retained high endophyte levels (E+). In a glasshouse, half of all E- and E+ ramets were watered regularly, whilst half were exposed to a 2 week drought on two occasions, each followed by a 3 week recovery period. 4. After the first drought and recovery period, endophytes significantly reduced tiller production in the drought-stressed group. 5. After the second drought and recovery period, effects of drought on live leaf area and dry mass were highly dependent on host genotype, but not endophytes. The mean tiller mass of E+ ramets after drought was significantly less than that of watered E+ ramets, but this was not true in E- ramets. For six genotypes there was greater mass allocation to storage in the tiller bases of E- ramets after drought. 6. This perennial ryegrass population showed marked genotypic variation in the ability to recover from drought stress, but endophytes played little or no role in this ability. For some host genotypes there may be a metabolic cost of harbouring endophytes during environmentally stressful conditions.
10.2307/2389694|Maximum photosynthetic rates of Eriophorum vaginatum L. growing in the field in interior Alaska followed a seasonal pattern similar to those of air temperature, nitrogen and chlorophyll, being lowest at snow melt, increasing sharply in summer and declining in autumn. Total photosynthetic potential per tiller reached 80% of the seasonal maximum within 3 weeks of snow melt, enabling plants to exploit the long photoperiod and high irradiance that characterize early summer. New leaves gradually replaced overwintering leaves as the major source of photosynthate as a result of sequential leaf development. Nitrogen and phosphorus were stored over winter in rhizomes primarily as arginine, glutamine, asparagine and alanine, and as an unidentified soluble organic phosphate, respectively. Rhizome nutrient stores declined in spring coincident with the increase in photosynthetic potential of shoots. Then, in the latter half of the growing season, accumulation of rhizome reserves coincided with the decline in shool nitrogen and photosynthetic potential. We conclude that the seasonal development of photosynthetic capacity in E. vaginatum requires the sequential pattern of leaf production and senescence as modified by seasonal flux of nutrients into or out of rhizomes. The similarity of seasonal patterns of air temperature and photosynthetic potential suggests that temperature acclimation may also be an important determinant of photosynthetic potential.
3599277|1. Low internal energy reserves at the beginning of the breeding season may impose physiological constraints on an animal's reproductive investment and may alter the optimal trade-off between investment in reproduction and somatic condition. 2. Here we examine how the energetic condition of female Mountain Pine Beetles (Dendroctonus ponderosae) affects their reproductive investment. We starved beetles to simulate the decrease in energy that accompanies dispersal and tested whether starved beetles had decreased egg number and decreased egg size, or both. We further distinguished whether changes are due to physiological constraints or shifts in allocation between reproduction and somatic condition. 3. We found that starved beetles produced smaller eggs than non-starved beetles, but females were able to partially offset the energetic deficit by feeding at their breeding habitat. Starvation did not decrease the number of eggs beetles produced. 4. The number and size of eggs produced depended on whether females allocated energy to reproduction or to somatic condition. However, this life-history allocation decision was independent of the amount of energy beetles had at the beginning of reproduction. 5. Our results demonstrate the importance of assessing reproductive investment in the context of other life-history trade-offs. Specifically, since egg size in Mountain Pine Beetles was highly dependent on both the amount of energy remaining after dispersal and whether energy was allocated to reproduction or somatic maintenance, we expect both of these trade-offs to be under strong selection.
40863641|1. In ectotherms, temperature and body size are the most influential and well studied variables affecting metabolic rate. Understanding mechanisms driving the evolution of metabolic rates is crucial to broader ecological theory. The metabolic cold adaptation hypothesis (MCA) makes predictions about the evolution of ectotherm metabolic rates and temperature-metabolic rate reaction norms. 2. We examined intra and interspecific patterns in metabolic rate among populations in the Fundulus notatus species group (F. notatus, F. olivaceus and F. euryzonus). We ask if patterns of intra and interspecific variability in metabolic rate are consistent with the MCA and if metabolic rates in general are developmentally plastic. 3. Support for the MCA was mixed among intra and interspecific tests. The northern population of F. olivaceus had increased metabolic rate and no difference in temperature sensitivity (slope of temperature-metabolic rate reaction norm). Northern populations of F. notatus had lower temperature sensitivity and no difference in overall metabolic rate. The southern coastal drainage endemic (F. euryzonus) had intermediate metabolic rates compared to southern populations of the other two more broadly distributed species. Metabolic rates were also developmentally plastic. Adults reared at warmer temperatures had lower metabolic rates after accounting for body size and temperature. 4. Differences in thermal regimes explain some variability in metabolic rates among populations consistent with MCA. However, interspecific comparisons are not consistent with MCA and are likely influenced by species differences in ecology and life history strategies.
2390486|1. Recently, there has been much interest in physiological trade-offs between parasite resistance and fitness-related traits such as secondary sexual characters or reproductive effort. More specifically it has been suggested that (i) energetically costly activities may suppress the immune system and (ii) that this immunosuppression is caused by costly immune defences competing with other bodily demands for scarce resources, e.g. energy. 2. The possibility was investigated of an energetically based trade-off between humoral (antibody-based) immunocompetence and other costly activities, by immunizing Blue Tits, Parus caeruleus, with novel antigens (proteins) thereby inducing antibody responses, and performing two experiments. In experiment 1, one group of birds was subjected to cold stress, thereby increasing their daily energy expenditure and the effect on immune responsiveness was investigated. In experiment 2, the basal metabolic rate (BMR) of immunized birds was measured to investigate the energetic costs of mounting the antibody responses. 3. In experiment 1, birds subject to increased energy turnover had significantly lower antibody responses, consistent with the hypothesis that environmental stress could suppress immunocompetence. However, in experiment 2 the energetic costs of these antibody responses were found to be low and at most 8-13% of BMR, indicating that adaptive resource allocation of energy was an unlikely explanation for the lowered immune responsiveness in the cold stress treatment (experiment 1). 4. It is concluded that our data provide some support to the idea that there may be a trade-off between immunocompetence and energetically costly activities such as ther-moregulation, reproduction or mate attraction, although this trade-off may not necessarily be based on energy or nutrient limitation (i.e. resource allocation models). Two non-energetic explanations are briefly discussed, one adaptive and one non-adaptive, that could explain the immunosuppression in our study as well as in other behavioural and ecological contexts.
10.2307/2389670|Photoinhibitory damage to forest floor herbs can occur in sunflecks. This imposes an energy cost on the plant, relative to hypothetical non-photoinhibitable plant, due to the decreased photosynthesis during the sunfleck and during the recovery period after the sunfleck, and to the cost of synthesizing, maintaining and operating the protein synthesis apparatus which repairs photodamage. Some forest floor herbs, such as Oxalis oregana Nutt., avoid photoinhibition by leaflet folding when exposed to high photon flux densities. However, such folding incurs an energy penalty in terms of the cost of synthesizing, maintaining and operating the leaflet-folding (pulvinar) apparatus and as a result of decreased photosynthesis during leaf unfolding after the sunfleck due to reduced light interception in low-light conditions. In addition, the repair machinery is also present in O. oregana. Using data from the literature the costs of repair (no leaf folding) and avoidance (leaf folding) are computed for a shade environment with (a) no sunflecks, (b) two sunflecks of full sunlight lasting 2 min each and separated by 2 h and (c) two sunflecks of full sunlight lasting 30 min each and separated by 2 h. The first two shade environments give an energetic advantage to the plant which has the repair mechanism only, while the plant with the avoidance mechanism as well is energetically superior in longer sunflecks. The conclusions are discussed in relation to the speed of response which is selectively useful in pulvinar and stomatal movements, and the relative rarity of the leaf-folding mechanism of avoiding photoinhibition.
4139355| 1. The chemical composition of primary producers, which occupy the base of food webs, is highly variable over space and time. Determining the causes of these variations is crucial to the understanding of ecosystem functioning. 2. By differentially stocking and recycling nutrients, heterotrophic organisms such as bacteria may change the nature of the factor that limits algal growth, thus influencing algal chemical composition. 3. We tested this hypothesis by growing a green alga, Scenedesmus obliquus (Turpin) Ktzing, along a phosphorus gradient in the presence or absence of a bacterial community. 4. We first confirmed that the limiting factor affects the chemical composition of phytoplankton. We then observed that the bacteria switched the nutrient that limited algal growth, from nitrogen to phosphorus in high N:P media. This generated considerable variation in algal stoichiometry. 5. We propose that the bacterial compartment may have a greater influence on the structure and functioning of aquatic ecosystems than previously believed. 
41319587|1. We studied the effect of size-selective predation on the outcome of competition between two differently sized prey species in a homogenous environment. 2. Using a physiologically structured population model, we calculated equilibrium food concentrations for a range of predation scenarios defined by varying maximum predation intensity and size-selectivity, the latter being characterized by the neutral selection length (NSL), where negative selection of small prey size-classes turns into positive selection of larger prey. We parameterized the model according to the well-studied example of fish predation on two differently sized cladoceran species, Daphnia pulicaria and Daphnia galeata. 3. Although the larger D. pulicaria was principally the better competitor for food, competitive superiority shifted to the smaller D. galeata under certain predation scenarios. The lowest predation intensity needed to induce a shift from D. pulicaria to D. galeata was found at NSL values in between the sizes at maturity of both species. 4. Analysing the per capita mortality rates as a result of the underlying parameters of the mortality model, NSL and maximum predation intensity, revealed that the tolerable mortality rate of daphnids decreased as NSL increases towards values close to the size at maturity. This effect was most pronounced in D. pulicaria, thus explaining a higher vulnerability of the larger species to size-selective predation. 5. A reduction of the size at maturity in the smaller species (D. galeata) as a phenotypic response to the presence of fish resulted not only in an increased capability to withstand predation, but also in competitive dominance shifts over the larger D. pulicaria at lower predation intensities and a much wider range of NSL as a trait-mediated indirect effect. 6. Overall, our results demonstrate that shifts in dominance of differently sized herbivores under size-selective predation regimes may be facilitated by the demonstrated alteration in competitive capacities and thus might not be exclusively caused by direct predation effects.
10.2307/2390066|1. For organisms with indeterminate growth a trade-off between growth and reproduction is expected. The detection of this trade-off depends not only on the covariance between these two traits, but also on the variation of their sum, the total production (TP=growth+reproduction). The smaller the relative variation in TP, the more likely it is to detect the trade-off. To investigate this trade-off, we studied biomass allocation and variation of 56 clones of Daphnia magna from two populations under two food conditions. 2. Broad-sense heritabilities of clutch mass, growth, TP and the allocation ratio (R=clutch mass/TP) were higher in rich than in poor food conditions. Growth and R showed no genetic variation at the low food level. 3. No negative correlations were found for the expected trade-off between biomass allocated to reproduction and to growth. Correction for the time period between two reproductive events and for body length, both of which might influence TP, did not influence this result. However, some negative correlations were found between current reproduction and growth during the subsequent instar. 4. Two-way ANOVA with R as the dependent variable show significant food and population effects for some instars. Including length as a covariable in this two-way ANOVA revealed significant effects for the covariable and for food level in all instars. Population effects and population x food interactions were significant in all but two adult instars, indicating that body size does not constrain genetic variation for biomass allocation, and that the food level plays an important role in detecting population effects.
10.2307/2390503|1. There is increasing acceptance of the ideas that tests of adaptationist hypotheses should consider the importance of phenotypic plasticity for the traits involved, and explicitly incorporate the phylogeny of the organisms in question. 2. However, it is difficult to combine these two concepts. For many cases of major life-history shifts, transitional forms displaying intermediate character states no longer exist, and thus their reaction norms cannot be measured directly. None the less, indirect tests may be done by using extant taxa on either side of the relevant transition. 3. This paper provides an example of such a test on a reproductively bimodal lizard species (Lerista bougainvillii, Gray 1839) to infer phenotypic responses to incubation temperature in the putative intermediate form between oviparity and viviparity. 4. By virtue of this tight taxonomic focus and parallel experimental manipulations of extant taxa, predictions of alternative adaptationist hypotheses on the selective forces responsible for this evolutionary transition, from incubation in the nest to incubation in utero, are tested. 5. By examining the responses of offspring phenotypes to experimental manipulation of incubation conditions in the extant oviparous and viviparous forms, it was possible to `reconstruct' those of the now extinct transitional form. 6. The data on phenotypically plastic responses obtained here suggest that the phylogenetic shift from oviparity to viviparity would have induced changes in hatching times, as well as in hatchling morphology and behaviour, in the transitional form.
20142813|1. Some invasive alien plants accelerate nutrient turnover in the ecosystem because the litter they produce has a high specific leaf area (SLA), high concentrations of nutrients and low concentrations of lignin and polyphenolics, and therefore decomposes rapidly. These litter properties are typical of plants from nutrient-rich but not nutrient-poor ecosystems, and we therefore hypothesize that species that successfully invade nutrient-poor ecosystems might not exhibit them. We tested our hypothesis in a nutrient-poor tropical forest on a granitic island in the Seychelles. 2. Leaf litter properties and annual decomposition rates of six native and six invasive woody species were compared in a field experiment. Each species group included two pioneer, two understorey and two canopy species. We also compared soil fertility under trees of Cinnamomum verum (dominant alien canopy tree), Falcataria moluccana (alien pioneer N-fixing tree) and Northea hornei (dominant native canopy tree), measuring total nutrient concentrations and nutrient absorption by ion exchange resins. 3. Within the ecological groups of pioneer and canopy species, litter of invasive species had higher mean values of SLA (120% higher) and leaf N concentration (80% higher), and litter decomposition was 40%-80% faster (rate k) than for native species; however, there were no such differences in the group of understorey species. Soils sampled under the three tree species differed little in nutrient concentrations. 4. The results indicate that even on the very nutrient-poor soils of the granitic Seychelles, some pioneer invasive species produce more decomposable litter and therefore have the potential to alter rates of nutrient cycling. However, the small differences in soil fertility beneath native and invasive trees suggest that impacts of invasive species on nutrient cycling are more complex and less predictable in nutrient-poor ecosystems, where several nutrients may be co-limiting, and native and alien species coexist.
10.2307/2389440|Water relations of Digitaria adscendens (H.B.K.) Henry and Eleusine indica (Linn.) Gaertn., grown in pots were compared to assess their resistance to water stress in relation to differences in their distribution around coastal sand-dunes. Leaf water potential, leaf conductance and leaf growth rate in E. indica decreased markedly during the 19 days after water was withheld. D. adscendens, however maintained higher leaf water potential and leaf conductance. Under unwatered conditions, E. indica showed significant restriction of total root growth and root penetration into the deeper soil profile. In contrast, D. adscendens showed no marked reduction in root growth or root penetration until 19 days after water was withheld. During the process of soil drying, both species preferentially consumed soil water in the upper part of the soil profile for the first 11 days. After 11 days, the main depletion zone for D. adscendens extended into the deeper soil profile with time but not that for E. indica. These results indicate that the greater root penetration of D. adscendens into deeper soil under the unwatered condition allowed it to maintain the relatively higher leaf water potentials, leaf conductance and leaf growth rates. It is concluded that this different response to water stress may account for the different distribution of D. adscendens and E. indica around coastal sanddunes.
40407747|1. The development of antipredator defences in the larval stage of animals with complex life cycles is likely to be affected by costs associated with creating and maintaining such defences because of their impact on the timing of maturation or metamorphosis. 2. Various theoretical treatments have suggested that investment in defence should both increase or decrease with increasing resource availability, but a recent model predicts investment in defences should be highest at intermediate resource level and predator density. 3. Previous models of investment in defence and timing of metamorphosis provide a poor match to empirical data. Here we develop a dynamic state-dependent model of investment in behavioural and morphological defences that enables us to allow flexibility in investment in defences over development, the timing of metamorphosis and the size of the organism at metamorphosis that were absent from previous theory. 4. We show that the inclusion of this flexibility results in different predictions to those of the fixed investment approach used previously, especially when we allow metamorphosis to occur at the optimal time and state for the organism. 5. Under these more flexible conditions, we predict that morphological defences should be insensitive to resource level whilst behavioural defences should either increase or decrease with increasing resources depending on the prdation risk and the magnitude of the fitness benefits of large size at metamorphosis. 6. Our work provides a formal framework in which we might progress in the study of how the use of antipredator defences is affected by their costs. Most of the predictions of our model in are in good accord with empirical results, and can be understood in terms of the underlying biological assumptions. The reasons why simpler models failed to match empirical observations can be explained, and our predictions that are a poor match help to target the circumstances which warrant future study.
2656372|1. It is shown that reallocation of resources from dying offspring to their surviving siblings leads to significant reductions of fitness losses due to early developmental errors. 2. The reason resource reallocation can improve offspring fitness is because mothers do not provide offspring with the optimal amount of resources from the offspring's point of view. Rather, mothers trade their investment per offspring off against the number of offspring. Hence, surviving offspring can use reallocated resources fruitfully. 3. Animals suffering high offspring mortality can reduce this cost by producing large packages of resources shared by offspring. This allows for better reallocation of resources. Furthermore, by overstocking their resource packages with eggs they can anticipate embryo mortality and obtain offspring that will on average be more optimal in size. 4. In accordance with our prediction, parthenogenetic flatworms studied here produce larger cocoons than sexuals and they overstock smaller cocoons with eggs. However, higher embryo survival in large cocoons may also explain both these phenomena.
3599358|1. Most models of growth are simply mathematical descriptions of growth trajectories. They are evaluated empirically based on goodness of statistical fit. 2. Recently we (West et al. 2001) presented a theory of growth based on first principles of energy conservation and allocation. The critical parameters are defined precisely and operationally in terms of measurable fundamental parameters not directly connected to growth, so the mechanistic basis of the model can be evaluated by testing both the assumptions and the predictions. To the extent that available data permit such evaluation, they generally support the model for many classes of organisms including mammals, birds, fish and crustacea. 3. Our model provides a basis for understanding the general and fundamental features governing ontogenetic growth. It is intended to explain the major patterns in terms of first principles of energy allocation to production (of new cells) and maintenance (of existing cells) that are applicable to all organisms. While the model is not intended to account for all of the observed variation in growth rates and life histories it does provide a baseline for developing more detailed treatments of ontogenetic growth. 4. Ricklefs (2003) has criticized the conceptual foundation of our theory as it applies to birds and asserts that it cannot account for many of their growth and life-history attributes. 5. He correctly points to similarities in mathematical form and statistical fit between our growth model and that of von Bertalanffy 1938, but fails to point out the fundamental conceptual differences between the two models. 6. With respect to birds, our model suggests a new hypothesis based on water balance, for the difference in growth allometry between altricial and precocial species. In particular we show that ours is the only model discussed by Rickless that correctly predicts the absolute value and scaling characteristics of the total energy metabolized by altricial birds from hatching to fledging. 7. In contrast, Rickless's models are of limited utility since they are primarily designed for birds, and are based on qualitative concepts such as 'growth potential' and 'functionality' of tissues and therefore do not readily lead to quantitative predictions. 8. Our model does not imply that mature or asymptotic size is determined simply by resource supply. It allows for a mature body size that is set by natural selection and that results in a balance of energy allocation between production of new biomass and maintenance of existing biomass.
10.2307/2389268|Many studies have shown reduced survival in association with reproductive activities even when conditions are virtually optimal. The present study investigates this `survival cost of reproduction' in the predacious carabid beetle Notiophilus biguttatus F. by varying prey supply and temperature. Both egg production and metabolic rate were shown to increase with food intake rate. A decrease in rates of egg production and metabolism achieved either by food limitation or by temperature reduction resulted in more or less the same increase in survival probability. By changing food supply level during the course of an experiment, it was found that the consequences of egg production, metabolic rate and/or nutrition on survival are lasting. The results are compared with two hypotheses for the cause of the survival cost, viz. the hypothesis that egg production accelerates ageing (implying lasting consequences) and the hypothesis that egg production is attended with a risk (which, if survived, has no lasting consequences).
2656393|1. In warm arid and semiarid environments, the accumulation of clay minerals produces increasingly well developed soil horizons with the passage of time. Differences in the strength of development of two prominent soil horizons, silt- and clay-rich surface vesicular (Av), and clay-enriched subsurface argillic (Bt), may strongly influence the amount and seasonal continuity of plant-available water and the physiological activity of long-lived desert shrubs. Three sites were selected on an alluvial piedmont (bajada) in the Mojave Desert that varied in surface and subsurface horizon development. The first site, a deep deposit of stabilized dune sand, entirely lacked soil horizon development. The second site had a well developed surface stone pavement and underlying Av horizon, but lacked an argillic horizon in the sandy subsoil. The third had a well developed surface pavement and Av horizon, and a deeper, well developed clay-rich argillic horizon. Seasonal water potential and gas-exchange responses of the evergreen desert shrub Larrea tridentata [DC.] Cov., and volumetric soil water content (), were measured monthly in 1996 on these three soils in order to test the hypothesis that desert pavements, Av and subsurface Bt horizons differentially affect the effectiveness and utilization of seasonal precipitation. 2. Predawn and midday water potentials (<sub>pd</sub> and <sub>mid</sub>), net photosynthetic rates (A<sub>net</sub>), and stomatal conductances (g<sub>s</sub>) in L. tridentata were highest in the deep, sandy dune soils lacking horizons that could restrict surface and subsurface infiltration. Plants growing in these soils also showed no physiological response to summer precipitation events. Following a single large precipitation event during the growing season (3.8 cm), the water potentials, A<sub>net</sub> and g<sub>s</sub> in L. tridentata were similar in the first (sand dune) and second (pavement and Av horizon) sites. However, plant performance on these soil surfaces showed marked seasonal declines, and did not respond to a small pulse of summer rainfall. Plants growing at the third site (older soils with strongly developed pavement, Av and Bt horizons) had very low gas-exchange rates and water potentials. However, following convectional summer thunderstorms L. tridentata showed improved water relations and gas exchange in these soils. 3. Midday water potentials were frequently anomalously higher than predawn water potentials, up to +6 MPa late in the growing season, especially on soil surfaces with well developed soil horizons. This anomaly was due to seasonal decreases in <sub>pd</sub> accompanied by invariant midday . In general, <sub>pd</sub> was correlated with  across the depths measured. 4. Correlations between <sub>mid</sub> with  at 35 cm increased dramatically with increasing Bt horizon development, suggesting that seasonal <sub>mid</sub> may have been due to the vertical translocation of water (`hydraulic lift'). 5. Our results show that subsurface and surficial soil horizon development differentially affects the seasonal availability of water for desert plants. During wetter parts of the season, subsurface horizons limit the degree of water availability, while surface soil characteristics have the greatest influence on the effectiveness of summer precipitation. These findings suggest that the effectiveness of climatic precipitation and attendant plant utilization of water resources in warm desert systems may depend on the physical soil condition.
20142890|It has recently been recommended that one can experimentally test the hypothesis of coexistence in competition experiments by varying the proportions of different species, with a fixed combined density. This recommendation is based on the use of the per-capita growth rate of rare species as a criterion for species coexistence. Here, I will discuss why this is not a good idea; it is argued that because mortality and reproduction in plants is known to be affected by density in nonlinear ways it is essential to include density as an experimental factor in competition experiments when making predictions about coexistence.
2656354|1. Pinus taeda seeds, developed under ambient or elevated (ambient + 200 l l<sup>-1</sup>) [CO<sub>2</sub>], were collected from Duke Forest, North Carolina, USA in October 1998. Seeds were germinated in nutrient-deficient soil in either ambient or elevated [CO<sub>2</sub>] (ambient + 200 l l<sup>-1</sup>) greenhouse chambers and allowed to grow for 120 days. 2. Seeds that developed in elevated [CO<sub>2</sub>] had 91 and 265% greater weight and lipid content, respectively, and three times the germination success, compared to those developed in current ambient [CO<sub>2</sub>]. 3. Seedlings from the elevated [CO<sub>2</sub>] seed source had significantly greater root length and more needles regardless of greenhouse chamber, but there were no treatment effects on tissue or total biomass. 4. Severely limiting nutrient conditions resulted in significant photosynthetic down-regulation by seedlings grown in greenhouse chambers with elevated [CO<sub>2</sub>], regardless of seed source. 5. Our hypothesis that greater seed reserves from CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment would synergistically affect seedling growth responses to elevated [CO<sub>2</sub>] was not strongly supported. Nonetheless, seeds produced in a CO<sub>2</sub>-enriched environment may have fundamental changes in their viability, chemistry and germination that may affect reproduction.
4139344|1. A negative relationship between water availability and the abundance of
10.2307/2390207|1. Different patterns of nitrogen acquisition and use among species were important determinants of a successional sequence in the early stage of primary succession on Mt. Fuji. 2. The first colonizer, Polygonum cuspidatum, had the highest relative growth rate (RGR) under nitrogen-limited conditions, which arose from the higher plant nitrogen concentration (PNC) than the second colonizer, Miscanthus oligostachys, and higher nitrogen productivity (NP) than the third colonizer, Aster ageratoides. 3. Polygonum cuspidatum allocated proportionately the least biomass to roots, while it had the highest specific root length and maintained a high absorption rate per unit root weight. NP of Polygonum cuspidatum was high because allocation of nitrogen to the leaves was high. 4. Although M. oligostachys allocated the least nitrogen to its leaves, it also had high NP because the nitrogen-use efficiency of its leaves was the highest. 5. Aster ageratoides allocated the least biomass to leaves and had the lowest NP of the three species. Large investment of biomass in roots, however, enabled this species to absorb much nitrogen, leading to high PNC under high nutrient conditions. 6. The relatively high RGR of Polygonum cuspidatum, even under nitrogen-limited conditions, is advantageous for colonization by this species while coping with disturbances due to the unstable ground surface of Mt. Fuji.
40863647|1. Clearcut logging results in major changes in ectomycorrhizal fungal communities, but whether this results in the loss of key functional traits, such as those associated with nutrient acquisition from soil organic matter, is unknown. Furthermore, little is known about the importance of resource partitioning in structuring ectomycorrhizal fungal communities following disturbance because most research on these communities has focussed on life history strategies. By studying functional traits, such as activities of enzymes involved in the catabolism of organic macromolecules in soil, we can determine whether a physiological potential for resource partitioning exists in pioneer ectomycorrhizal communities and whether severe disturbance affects these important ecosystem services. 2. We used activities of key hydrolytic enzymes in the ectomycorrhizospheres of Douglas-fir seedlings regenerating at clearcut sites as a functional trait to test whether these differed from those at recent wildfire sites or control forests. We sampled the most abundant types of ectomycorrhizas from 16-month-old seedlings from sites exposed to (i) low or (ii) high severity wildfire, (iii) sites that had been clearcut logged in the same year as the fire and (iv) sites that contained control stands of mature Douglas-fir. We expected differences in activities among ectomycorrhizas sampled from different disturbance treatments and among those formed by different fungal species. 3. In spite of large differences in soil chemistry, activities of acid phosphomonoesterase, 7V-acetylglucosaminidase and -glucosidase, when averaged among the ectomycorrhizas sampled per site, were not affected by disturbance agent. However, activities varied up to sixfold among mycorrhizospheres of different fungal species on the same seedling. Multivariate analysis also indicated some consistent differences in enzyme profiles among ectomycorrhizas formed by specific fungal species, independent of treatment. 4. The finding that ectomycorrhizal fungal communities exposed to different disturbance agents are functionally similar with respect to the activities of three mycorrhizosphere enzymes supports the conclusion that complementarity exists among ectomycorrhizal fungi. The substantial physiological diversity among ectomycorrhizal fungi at the scale of an individual seedling's root tips, especially at control mature forests, indicates the potential for resource partitioning within the ectomycorrhizal community and access to a wider range of nutrient sources by each seedling. 5. Functional similarity among ectomycorrhizal fungal communities across a disturbance severity gradient suggests that dry interior Douglas-fir forests are resilient to severe disturbances such as high severity wildfire and clearcutting with forest floor removal. Moreover, our results suggest that current harvesting practices emulate natural disturbances with respect to site-level mycorrhizosphere enzyme activity. The large variation in activity among fungal species, however, indicates that a substantial simplification of the fungal community through other perturbations, as expected with climate change, has the potential to affect ecosystem function.
20142862|1. The effects of moisture conditions, seed morphology, vegetation structure and hydrodynamic variables on seed retention were examined in a system where the dominant dispersal agent is water. Experiments were conducted in a tidal salt marsh and in a flume facility where hydrodynamic variables could be controlled. 2. Moisture condition of seeds greatly influenced which factors were most important in determining seed retention. Seed type (buoyancy) was the most important factor when seeds were dry with seeds possessing very low floating capacity (Plantago maritima) being retained in greater numbers than seeds with intermediate floating capacities (Suaeda maritima and Elytrigia atherica). 3. In contrast, hydrodynamic variables dominated retention processes when seeds were waterlogged. The application of waves in addition to flow velocity dislodged more seeds than flow velocity alone. 4. Vegetation structure influenced retention in both dry and wet conditions but less so than other factors. Denser, less rigid vegetation types retained greater numbers of seeds than more open, more rigid vegetation types. 5. Results suggest that buoyancy traits appear to determine whether seeds move in the drier summer and autumn months after initial detachment from parent plants but the intensity of wave action will determine whether waterlogged seeds stay in a microsite during the wetter months of late autumn to early spring.
10.2307/2389554|The effects of diet on morphology of the feeding apparatus were explored in the pumpkin-seed sunfish, Lepomis gibbosus Linnaeus. Adult pumpkinseeds feed primarily on gastropod molluscs that they crush between their pharyngeal jaws. Development of the muscles and bones of the pharyngeal jaws was contrasted in two Michigan (USA) lakes that differed both in snail density and in the numbers of snails in pumpkinseed diets. In least squares regressions of muscle masses, bone masses and bone shape variables on body mass, all structures examined showed isometry or positive allometry, with those structures most directly involved in snail crushing tending to scale with positive allometry. Of nine pharyngeal jaw muscles that were examined, analyses of covariance found six to be significantly larger in fish from snail-rich Three Lakes. The primary crushing muscle, the levator posterior, was more than twice as massive in Three Lakes fish than it was in fish from snail-poor Wintergreen lake. All three of the pharyngeal jaw bones used to exert crushing forces on snails were found to be significantly larger and of different shape in fish from Three Lakes. The masses of one muscle and two bones that do not function in prey crushing showed no differences between lakes. Teeth on the crushing surfaces of the jaw bones were worn down, and thus, shorter in Three Lakes fish. Ontogenetic variation in growth rates of two muscles, the levator posterior and the retractor dorsalis, occurred in fish from Three Lakes. These muscles exhibited strong positive allometry between 40 and 80 mm standard length (SL), the size range over which fish diets shift from soft-bodied invertebrates to snails, but growth slowed to strong negative allometry in fish larger than 80 mm. These differences between lakes in muscle and bone growth appear to be a direct consequence of the physical regime created by repeatedly crushing snails during ontogeny. This plasticity indicates that transformations in the feeding mechanism may originate as specific responses to the demands of novel diets.
2656539|1. Anhydrobiosis is a survival strategy used by soil nematodes that confers protection from environmental stress and is induced by desiccation. 2. To study the use of anhydrobiosis by soil nematodes from the Antarctic Dry Valleys, soil was collected from field sites, and nematodes were extracted using an anhydrobiotic extraction technique. Nematodes were found in a coiled form that characterizes the anhydrobiotic state. 3. The proportion of nematodes coiled ranged from 30 to 80% and appeared to reach a maximum in soils drier than 2% gravimetric soil moisture content. 4. Wetting of dry soils to 12% gravimetric soil moisture content resulted in rapid uncoiling of nearly 100% of nematodes within 6 h. 5. In this cold desert ecosystem, long periods of inactivity appear to be an important aspect of soil nematode life history as their activity may be restricted to the period following infrequent snowfall and melt.
2656507|1. The <sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C discrimination () by a series of co-occurring and replacement Eucalyptus species was measured across an eightfold decrease in rainfall. As  is a measure of the stomatal limitation on photosynthesis, it should provide a subcontinental scale measure of water-limited plant physiological performance. 2. Leaf  of five of 13 species decreased with decreasing rainfall, seven exhibited no trend, and one increased. Wood  decreased in eight species, showed no trend in four, and increased in one species. 3. Species replacements were marked by a shift in  reflecting greater stomatal limitation on carbon assimilation. 4. Wood  was less variable than leaf . 5. There was a non-linear response of the multispecies average leaf and wood  to decreasing total annual rainfall. This response reflected the spatial pattern of the sensitivities of  to decreasing rainfall of the individual species. It was not the result of a proposed emergent behaviour where the trend in the multispecies average differed from that of the individual species. 6. Patterns of  across the distributions of species (reflecting increasing stomatal limitation on assimilation) did not provide a simple measure of the physiological limits of the distribution of eucalypts in north-western Australia.
2656511|1. Attempts at determining the physiological basis of species' differences, such as the ability to grow in deep shade, have been of limited success. However, this basis is fundamental to predicting species' responses to rising atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> in the forest understorey. We linked a leaf photosynthesis and a tree architecture model to predict the effects of dynamic and steady state photosynthetic characteristics, crown architecture and elevated atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration ([CO<sub>2</sub>]) on crown-level carbon gain (A<sub>crown</sub>). Twenty-four-h A<sub>crown</sub> was modelled for shade-tolerant Acer rubrum and shade-intolerant Liriodendron tulipifera saplings growing for three years in a forest understorey under ambient and elevated [CO<sub>2</sub>] in free-air CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment. 2. Two factors best explained A<sub>crown</sub> in ambient [CO<sub>2</sub>]: tree light environment and sapling allometry. Microsite light environment influenced carbon gain via daily photosynthetic photon flux (PFD), average diffuse PFD and sunfleck characteristics. Species differences in specific leaf area (SLA) and size-related biomass allocation to leaves affected the effective leaf area and hence A<sub>crown</sub>. 3. At a common above-ground biomass, small saplings (100 g above-ground dry mass) of L. tulipifera had higher A<sub>crown</sub> than A. rubrum samples due to larger SLA and greater biomass allocation to leaves. Larger saplings of the two species had similar A<sub>crown</sub> due to greater carbon allocation to leaves with increasing plant size in A. rubrum vs L. tulipifera. For saplings > 800 g, A<sub>crown</sub> was greater in A. rubrum than in L. tulipifera. Enhancement of A<sub>crown</sub> by elevated [CO<sub>2</sub>] on sunny days was similar for both species. 4. Overall, though the shade-tolerant species had lower A<sub>crown</sub> than the shade-intolerant species at a common small size, our results indicate that the relative performance of these species can reverse at larger sizes due to allocational differences. These results suggest that elevated [CO<sub>2</sub>] may accelerate competition for light between A. rubrum and L. tulipifera as these species grow larger in the understorey.
10.2307/2389591|Laboratory studies were carried out with hybrid red-legged partridges to investigate interactive effects of combinations of pesticides which may arise as the consequence of induction of an activating enzyme or inhibition of a detoxifying enzyme. The ergosterol biosynthesis inhibitor (EBI) fungicide, prochloraz, was found to be a potent inducer of liver enzymes in this species. Pretreatment with prochloraz strongly increased the toxicity of the organophosphorus insecticide malathion, and this was attributed to the induction by prochloraz of one or more forms of cytochrome P450 responsible for malathion activation. Prochloraz pretreatment resulted in greater inhibition of serum cholinesterase activity at 24 h after dosing with the organophosphorous insecticides dimethoate (P<0.05) and chlorpyriphos (P<0.1). Partial inhibition of blood B-esterase activity by pretreatment with malathion was associated with a strong amplification of carbaryl toxicity to partridges. Brain cholinesterase inhibition was depressed by 88% and some birds died where the compounds were used in combination. The interaction between malathion and carbaryl was greater than additive with respect to both the lethal effect, and to the inhibition of brain cholinesterase activity.
10.2307/2390510|1. Repeated measurements of daily field metabolic rate (FMR) were made on 11 Meadow Voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus Ord.) by means of the doubly labelled water technique. The objective was to quantify the individual consistency of FMR by calculating the repeatability of successive measures on the same individuals. One more general goal was to test whether FMRs are sufficiently repeatable to be convenient for field studies of natural selection. 2. Voles were all non-reproductive females, 5-7-months old. They were maintained individually in outdoor enclosures 25 m<sup>2</sup> and were injected 1-3 times with doubly labelled water. Two to six measures of daily FMR were thus obtained per individual (x=4.09, SD=1.51, n=11) over a period of 42 days in July and August 1994. 3. Body mass and rate of change in body mass accounted for 31.6% of the observed variation in FMR; ground-temperature variations had no significant effect on FMR, probably owing to the small range of temperatures experienced by voles. 4. Repeatability of mass-corrected log<sub>10</sub> FMR measurements was low (r=0.261). This low repeatability was very consistent with the results of a previous study on consistency of mass-specific daily energy expenditures of caged pouched mice. 5. A partition of the total variance observed in mass-corrected FMR showed that 63.0% of the variance originated from differences within individuals, 27.6% from differences among individuals, and 9.4% from measurement error. FMR was not consistently higher or lower on the first or second day of measurement, indicating no clear effect of handling stress. 6. A practical implication of these results is that single measurements of daily field metabolic rates are not necessarily a good predictor of the average 24 h energy budget for a given individual. On a more theoretical basis, these results indicate that, although the ability of an animal to manage its energy economics may largely determine its selective value, daily FMR seems to be a poor candidate variable to relate this ability to individual fitness in experimental studies. 7. We suggest that future studies of repeatability of FMR should concentrate on energetically constraining periods. This would allow further evaluation of the potential role of interindividual differences in FMR as a tool for understanding evolutionary pathways that shaped energy economics of animals.
10.2307/2389899|1. Procellariiform birds accumulate large fat reserves during the nestling period; much of this is metabolized prior to fledging. We suggest that these energy reserves result from chronic overfeeding, which provides insurance against stochastic variation in food provisioning. 2. We develop a simulation model based on food provisioning and physiological measurements of Leach's storm-petrels and assess fat accumulation as a function of meal size. The simulations reveal that a level of food provisioning sufficient for accumulating, on average, the fat reserves of a typical fledgling results in the starvation of many chicks because of the chance occurrence of long periods of below-average feeding. Fledging success can be elevated by increasing meal size, but this results in overfeeding on average and the accumulation of unnecessarily large fat reserves that must be reduced prior to flight. 3. A second simulation model addresses foraging at sea by adults. This can produce the pattern of food provisioning observed at nests by assuming a random distribution of daily foraging success and that adults base their decision to continue foraging or return to the nest to feed their chick on the state of their own energy reserves. 4. Thus, these models relate the accumulation of fat reserves in petrel chicks to stochastic variation in foraging experienced by individual birds rather than temporal variation in the feeding conditions for the population as a whole.
3598966|1. Measurements of the rate of oxygen consumption (V
41239286|1. Marine copepods of the genus Calanus can reproduce prior to the spring bloom in the absence of sufficient food. Their starvation physiology, and hence the factors limiting their pre-bloom population growth (egg production), remain poorly understood. 2. Stoichiometric theory can provide insights into the factors controlling an organism's growth and the fate of elements in an ecosystem. It is underpinned by substrate utilization efficiencies that relate to key physiological processes such as absorption efficiencies (AEs) and biomass turnover. These parameters are seldom investigated, particularly in the case of essential 'micronutrients' such as the polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). 3. Calanus spp. were fed briefly and subsequently starved for 5 days to determine basal turnover rates of biomass carbon, nitrogen and essential PUFAs. The effect of short-term fasting on nitrogen isotope signatures was also examined. The elemental, fatty acid and isotopic composition of their faecal pellets were compared to that of their food, providing insights into AEs and digestive isotopic discrimination. 4. Gut AEs typically followed the sequence: PUFA > nitrogen > carbon, although low AE for DHA was a notable exception. Starvation-induced losses of carbon, nitrogen, EPA and DHA demonstrate that homeostatic organisms must ingest all of these substrates in substantial quantity to achieve positive net growth. 5. Egested material was significantly depleted in  C and  N relative to the ingested food. We attribute this to isotopic discrimination at the macromolecular level, indicating that food quality contributes to the isotopic signature of a consumer organism. Values of   in the copepods' tissues did not increase during starvation, despite significant losses of bulk nitrogen. This supports the suggestion that dissimilatory protein pathways in marine crustaceans are non-discriminating. 6. The significant basal turnover rates and variable AEs for essential PUFAs and nitrogen presented herein demonstrate that organisms cannot be assumed to utilize all nutritious substrates with the same, high efficiency, even when scarce in the diet. Our data highlight the need for a more detailed understanding of organismal physiology before isotopic and stoichiometric models can be meaningfully constructed and parameterized.
3599010|1. Reproduction of Heteromurus nitidus (Collembola) feeding on conidial fungi, ectomycorrhizal fungi and soil algae in single and mixed diets was investigated. Feeding on mixed diets generally increased Collembola reproduction even in combinations of fungi/algae of high food quality with those of low food quality, indicating that Collembola generally benefit from feeding on mixed diets. 2. The contribution of dietary species in mixed diets to Collembola nutrition was quantified using stable isotope methods. Incorporation of carbon from fungal/algal species into H. nitidus in mixed diets varied with food quality indicating that Collembola are able to adjust the proportion of food materials ingested to maximize fitness. 3. Fractionation of
10.2307/2390076|1. Given the diminishing returns associated with animal pollination, floral mechanisms that restrict pollen removal by individual pollinators and encourage transport on many pollinators generally promote a plant's cumulative success in pollen dispersal. Effective mechanisms for dispensing pollen should allow facultative adjustment of removal in response to the prevailing frequency of visits to a plant. 2. We investigated whether the poricidal anthers of Dodecatheon conjugens, a buzz-pollinated species, function as dispensing mechanisms by (a) comparing pollen removal in response to buzz frequencies that pollen-collecting bumble-bees (Bombus spp.) produce (400 Hz) with removal stimulated by higher frequencies and (b) comparing removal from flowers that waited different periods of time for their first visit. 3. Mechanical vibration of D. conjugens flowers for 1s at frequencies 400 Hz removed an average of 9.7% of available pollen, compared to 23.4% for 450-1000 Hz vibrations (all frequencies involved similar input energy). Buzzing by bees and mechanical vibration removed more pollen from older virgin flowers. 4. These results imply that the poricidal anthers of Dodecatheon flowers are `tuned' higher than the buzz frequencies used by their pollen-collecting pollinators, so that they effectively restrict pollen removal, while also allowing increased removal when visits occur rarely. Previously published results from other buzz-pollinated species indicate that poricidal anthers generally function as dispensing mechanisms. 5. Poricidal anthers probably enabled convergent evolution of the solanoid flower, which localizes pollinator-flower contact so as to reduce pollen loss during transport.
4139364|1. The nutrient supply network model of the metabolic theory of ecology predicts that metabolic rate scales as
10.2307/2390078|1. We exammed the effects of daily inflorescence size (three-, six-, nine- and 12-flowered) and the position of flowers within an inflorescence (bottom, middle and top) on the frequency of self-fertilization using genetic markers and experimental manipulation of garden populations of Eichhornia paniculata, a self-compatible bee-pollinated plant. 2. Based on the observed tendency for bees to forage upwards on inflorescences and a model of the relation between pollen carry-over and the number of flowers visited per inflorescence, we predicted that the frequency of self-fertilization should increase from bottom to top flowers and with increasing inflorescence sizes. 3. Electrophoretic analysis of open-pollinated progeny arrays supported both of these predictions. The fraction of self-fertilized seeds increased progressively from bottom to top flowers within an inflorescence and there was a significant increase in the frequency of self-fertilization with daily inflorescence size. Inflorescences of all sizes exhibited equivalent increases in the frequency of self-fertilization of flowers from bottom to top positions. 4. The general agreement between our experimental results and model expectations emphasizes the strong influence of pollinator behaviour on mating patterns in self-compatible plants. Such effects have the potential to act as strong selective forces maintaining both anti-selfing mechanisms in mass-flowering species and protandry in species with vertical inflorescences visited by negatively geotactic pollinators.
10.2307/2389533|There are constraints on the rate of energy intake of foraging animals, and allocation of energy, for example, to growth therefore must be at the expense of allocation to other purposes, such as energy storage. Moreover, the relative amount of energy allocated to different kinds of activities is likely to depend upon food availability. We have compared the patterns of energy allocation between adders, Vipera berus (L.), in populations inhabiting two different island groups in the Baltic Sea. These adders primarily feed on field voles, Microtus agrestis (L.), which undergo great population density fluctuations. In order to survive periods of low food supply adders allocate some energy to storage, and they can be expected to increase the proportion of energy devoted to storage when food levels and rate of energy intake decrease. Individuals allocating much energy to storage have less energy available for growth, reproduction and maintenance, and one can expect a trade-off between growth and energy storage, especially during resource shortage. Since the size of energy reserves influences fasting endurance, while body size influences future reproductive success, the pattern of energy allocation between growth and storage might have important fitness consequences for these animals. We compared the size of energy reserves (body mass in relation to body length) and the growth rates of individual male adders from two localities with different densities of field voles. Relative body mass was similar to both adder populations, but individuals grew faster where vole density was higher. This suggests that the pattern of energy allocation changed with resource availability. We also investigated the relationships between relative growth rate and relative mass within the two adder populations. We found a significant negative relationship where prey density was low, and a negative but non-significant relationship where prey density was high, indicating a trade-off between growth and energy storage in male adders that changes with food availability.
10.2307/2390260|1. We tested whether plants increase root:shoot ratios to compensate for limitations of below-ground resources in a manner consistent with optimal partitioning theory or whether the relative production of roots and shoots is controlled by species-specific developmental patterns. Individuals of two annual plant species, Abutilon theophrasti and Chenopodium album, were grown from seed in controlled greenhouse conditions under high- or low-nutrient regimes. Mid-way through the experiment, a sub-set of low-nutrient-grown plants were given high nutrient availability and a sub-set of high-nutrient-grown plants were transferred to a low nutrient environment. 2. Under continuous nutrient regimes: (1) high-nutrient-grown plants of both species grew faster and had a lower root:shoot ratio than low-nutrient-grown plants, consistent with optimal partitioning theory; (2) both species exhibited a substantial amount of ontogenetic drift as root:shoot ratios decreased through ontogeny (subsequent to an initial increase in R/S shortly after germination); (3) allometric analyses revealed that increased allocation to roots occurred very early in ontogeny for both species, after which the relative growth of shoots exceeded that of roots in low-nutrient-grown plants compared to their high nutrient-grown counterparts - a result inconsistent with optimal partitioning theory. 3. Under temporally varying nutrient regimes: (1) growth substantially increased in low-nutrient-grown plants that were switched to a high-nutrient environment without a change in root:shoot partitioning; (2) there was no change in growth or partitioning when plants were switched from a high- to a low-nutrient regime. 4. We conclude that, for these annual species, root/shoot partitioning is partially consistent with optimal partitioning theory but that is also highly ontogenetically constrained. This constraint is evident both in substantive ontogenetic drift in partitioning and in the period during development that plasticity in partitioning can be expressed.
2656482|1. Southern Toad, Bufo terrestris, tadpoles were reared at two temperatures and two food levels in a 2 x 2 factorial design. Effects of treatments on age and size at metamorphosis, metabolic rate (MR), sprint speed and endurance of metamorphs were measured. 2. Across all treatments, MR, sprint speed and endurance were negatively related to age at metamorphosis and positively related to mass at metamorphosis. Therefore, decreases in larval period duration and increases in mass at metamorphosis may be advantageous in terms of locomotor performance, but disadvantageous because of the cost of increased energy expenditure on maintenance, all else being equal. 3. After removing the effects of age and size at metamorphosis, neither of the treatments nor their interaction significantly affected locomotor performance. In contrast, MRs of metamorphs were significantly affected by the interaction between the food and temperature treatments, independent of age and size at metamorphosis. Thus, aspects of the larval environment may affect metamorph physiology, and possibly fitness, via mechanisms other than differences in age and size at metamorphosis.
3599196| 1. The relationship between heat shock protein Hsp70 expression level and the duration of heat-induced male sterility was investigated in four populations of Drosophila buzzatii Patterson and Wheeler. The effect of heat hardening on the duration of sterility was further examined after flies developed at either 25 or 31 C. In addition, Hsp70 expression was measured in testes after development at three different thermal regimes. 2. Four main hypotheses were tested: (i) Hsp70 is expressed in testes of D. buzzatii males even at non-stressful temperatures, and the level of expression increases with increasing rearing temperature. (ii) Hsp70 expression level differs between populations and is negatively correlated with the duration of poststress sterility. (iii) Experimentally induced Hsp70 expression at the pupal stage shortens the sterility period of flies reared above the temperature threshold of sterility. (iv) In contrast, a hardening treatment during the pupal stage of flies reared at 25 C results in a longer time to fertility. 3. The results matched the hypotheses, leading to the conclusion that higher Hsp70 expression reduces the duration of heat-induced male sterility. 
3599085|1. This paper evaluates box-counting dimension as a quantitative clumping index for discontinuous plant cover, and applies it to studies of both small- and large-scale ecological processes in desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria) swarming. 2. The quadrat under study is tiled with squares of increasing size, and the relationship between the number of occupied squares and square size gives the box-counting dimension. This index is high for random distributions and decreases when the vegetation is clumped; it is also positively linked to the abundance of vegetation. 3. At the scale of individual locusts, this index captures the space-filling properties of vegetation that promote change to the gregarious phase and the onset of swarming. At the very large scale, box-counting dimension measured from satellite imagery reflects topography, which influences the concentration and migration of locust swarms. 4. Fractal geometry considers scale of measurement in quantifying pattern and provides a framework to interpret ecological phenomena across spatial scales. Demonstration of a statistically significant relationship between the box-counting exponent and locust behaviour shows how this approach can be applied to ecological studies.
10.2307/2389478|An individual of the aquatic carnivorous plant Utricularia vulgaris L. simultaneously bears many traps ranging in size from about 1 to 5 mm long. The traps are dimorphic, one type being in the vast majority. The shape, volume and biomass of majority-type traps conform to scaling relationships that allow various attributes of functional and ecological consequence to be predicted from an easily measured length. Trap size is not a reflection of the duration of development or age since maturity of a trap, since each cohort of traps consists of a range of trap sizes, resulting from differential rates of cell division and expansion. The investment of carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus resources in an individual trap scales with biomass such that about 40 small traps can be produced for the same initial outlay as one large one. Larger traps have a wider aperture and much more capacious lumen than small traps, potentially accommodating larger prey and more of them, but it remains to be discovered whether the benefits due to more prey caught by large traps scale to offset the greater costs of production.
2390435|1. a microcosm experiment was performed to test the impacts of Cognettia sphagnetorum on carbon leaching in a cambic stagnohumic gley soil. 2. Leaching of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) was significantly enhanced by C. sphagnetorum, with the greatest effect being found in the upper, 0-6 cm, soil layers. The ratio of DOC to dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) in the leachate decreased in faunted systems, indicating that the enchytraeids were mobilizing carbon from organic matter with a low C to N ratio. 3. The verical distribution of the enchytraeids had an effect on the production of DOC, and this vertical distribution is affected strongly by climate. It is proposed that increases in DOC found in a field soil-warming experiment with the same soil are largely a result of changes in the vertical distribution of these organisms.
826587| 1. In 72% of a sample of common mussels Mytilus edulis L. that had been attacked by ventrally hammering Oystercatchers, Haematopus ostralegus L., the mussel had been opened through the right valve rather than the left. 2. In a matched sample of unopened shells, 565% of mussels were ventrally thinner on the right. Mussel thickness differences were unrelated to overall mussel thickness, so this proportion should apply also to opened shells even though they are on average thinner than unopened shells. 3. Since Oystercatchers attack a higher proportion of mussels by the right valve than are actually thinner on the right, their preference cannot depend solely on detecting measurable differences in thickness. 4. The pattern of preference can best be explained if Oystercatchers detect and attack the thinner valve in the mussel when the thickness difference between the two valves is more than a threshold of 036 mm, and otherwise always attack the right valve. This strategy would save 155% of the blows the birds would make if they attacked shells without regard to differences in valve thickness. 5. The improvement in the overall net energy intake rate that could be achieved by such a valve thickness discrimination strategy was 36%. 
826593|1. The hypothesis is tested that functional limitations, possibly related to the risk of disruptive xylem embolism, maintain the leaf water potential of trees within a safety range. This strategy would particularly apply to conifers. 2. It is also hypothesized that homeostasis in water transport is achieved by a combination of short-term stomatal regulation and the optimal allocation of resources between transpiring foliage, conductive sapwood and absorbing roots. 3. The implications of this hypothesis for responses of plant structure to the environment are explored from a theoretical viewpoint, focusing in particular on the effects of temperature, vapour pressure deficit and soil water availability and texture. 4. A comparison with published data sets confirms model predictions of greater allocation to transpiring foliage with increasing temperature, and lower allocation with increasing vapour pressure deficit and soil drought. Allocation to fine roots would respond more strongly to drought, and the effect would be magnified by coarse soil textures. 5. The applicability of the model to other taxa remains to be determined, and the extent to which the observed structural adjustment is the result of phenotypic plasticity or long-term adaptation is still unclear.
3599076|1. Theory predicts that plants that achieve fitness more through male function may be less tolerant of herbivory than those that achieve fitness through the female function. We tested this hypothesis by measuring the degree of infection and damage inflicted by the gall-forming eriophyid mite Aceria macrorhynchus on three different sexual morphs (males, protandrous bisexuals and protogynous bisexuals) of the Mediterranean tree Acer opalus. 2. The dependence of each morph on male function, estimated by registering gender changes over 5 years and quantifying male function, decreased in the order males, protandrous, protogynous. 3. The same decreasing order was found in the degree of gall infection produced by the mite, and in the reduction of photosynthetic rates and shoot growth, but not in the carbon-isotope discrimination caused by the mites. 4. Mites attack the morphs of A. opalus that rely more on the male function more often and more harmfully than they do other morphs. Male-biased herbivory is a selective force that could have been driving the separation of sexes in the genus Acer.
3599249| 1. An increasing abundance of the non-indigenous evergreen woody plant species Prunus laurocerasus has been observed in the understorey of Swiss temperate forests. We addressed the question whether rising atmospheric CO
826693|1. The effects of leaf display and biomass partitioning on light capture efficiency were examined in a non-branching understorey palm, Licuala arbuscula, by using a three-dimensional geometric simulation model. This species has several fan-shaped laminae, attached on long petioles at a mostly constant deflection angle (D
3599130|1. Pollinator visitation patterns in relation to variation in floral display size may be modified both quantitatively and qualitatively by local plant density. In this study four measures of pollinator response by Bombus spp. (plant visitation rate, bout length, proportion of flowers visited, flower visitation rate) were investigated under two or three different plant densities in two consecutive years in a natural population of Digitalis purpurea L. 2. Plant visitation rate increased with floral display size in both years, and was higher in dense patches compared with sparse ones in 1999. Bout lengths increased with display size in 1999, and bouts were longer in sparse patches. However, the actual rate of increase with display size was independent of plant density for both response measures. 3. The proportion of flowers visited decreased with floral display size in both years, and in 1999 the decline was faster in high-density patches. As a result, the proportion visited was higher in dense patches for the smallest display sizes, and higher in sparse patches for larger display sizes. 4. Flower visitation rate decreased with floral display size in both years. This is inconsistent with the idea that bees achieve an ideal free distribution across flowers. There was no significant effect of plant density. 5. These results demonstrate that local plant density variation may modify the functional relationship between floral display size and pollinator visitation rate, and potentially influence plant mating patterns.
826673| 1. Rapid cold hardening was examined in three common Antarctic microarthropods using differential scanning calorimetry over timescales between 3 and 30 h, under field and controlled laboratory conditions. 2. In fresh field samples and cultures of the springtail, Cryptopygus antarcticus (Willem), and cultures of the mites, Alaskozetes antarcticus (Michael) and Halozetes belgicae (Michael), maintained under summer field-simulating conditions, supercooling point (SCP) distributions tracked microhabitat temperature variation over the observation period. 3. Controlled acclimation of samples of summer-acclimatized C. antarcticus caused significant cold hardening after 12 h at temperatures around 0C (+3 to -2C). No response was obtained at higher or lower temperatures, or in field-fresh winter-acclimatized animals. The latter did not lose cold hardiness when held at positive temperatures for 12 h. 4. Gradual cooling of C. antarcticus over 20 h from +5 to -5C caused a considerable increase in cold tolerance. Rewarming partially but non-significantly reversed this effect. The greatest response occurred between +3 and +1C. Maximum faecal pellet production also occurred in this interval, but gut clearance alone was not sufficient to explain observed cold hardening. 5. It is hypothesized that these species possess a hitherto unrecognized capacity to alter cold hardiness in summer in response to environmental temperature cues over a shorter timescale than previously thought, by a mechanism that relies on neither gut clearance nor concentration of body fluids via water loss. This ability may reduce the developmental costs of premature entry into an inactive, cold-hardy state. 
10.2307/2389300|It has been suggested that the `alba' female morph of Colias butterflies might be a mimic of white pierine butterflies. It was previously found that no major palatability differences exist among Colias, pierines, and other less related butterflies in a Colorado montane ecosystem, thus ruling out strong mimetic relationships among Colias and the pierines. We now examine the distributions in space and time of these same Colias and pierine species, to determine whether they co-occur sufficiently that any form or strength of mimetic relationship among them is possible. High densities of the pierine genus Pontia co-occur in space and time with Colias alexandra Edwards, which has a very low frequency of the `alba' morph, while Pieris itself is negatively correlated in time, though partially overlapping in space, with Colias scudderi Reakirt, which has a very high frequency of `alba'. (The pierine Euchloe does not overlap strongly with either Colias in space.) This strongly negative association of pierines with `alba' frequency in Colias is incompatible with any type of mimetic relationship among `alba' and the pierines. Other observations suggest that this negative association extends beyond these particular test species, and that the fitness of `alba' may be a negative function of pierine density for at least two reasons.
20142819|1. Comparative studies of ageing address the evolutionary lability of the rate of ageing as an indication of potential for, and constraints on, the extension of life span. 2. Experimental studies on ageing have focused on damage induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and other stresses, and on the mechanisms to prevent or repair this damage. Research on animal models has revealed genes with large effects on life span. However, the relevance of some animal models to human ageing is unclear and it is not known whether evolved differences in ageing involve such major gene effects. 3. Studies on the demography of populations of vertebrates in the wild show that animals suffer from senescence in nature. Variation in the rate of ageing is consistent with evolutionary theory in that senescence is delayed in populations that suffer relatively low extrinsic mortality. 4. Populations of longer-lived individuals suffer a higher proportion of ageing-related mortality, and thus stronger selection against early ageing. The presence of ageing-related deaths in these populations suggests a lack of suitable mechanisms that would further extend life span. 5. Similar patterns of ageing-related mortality in wild and captive or domesticated populations indicate that most ageing-related death is caused by intrinsic factors, such as tumours and cardiovascular failure, rather than increasing vulnerability to extrinsic causes of mortality. 6. Studies of several wild populations of long-lived birds suggest that ageing-related mortality is often catastrophic, with individuals maintaining high levels of condition until shortly before their demise. 7. Comparative studies of many species suggest connections between early development and the pattern of ageing later in life, consistent with laboratory studies on variation within individual species. The physiological connections across the life span are not well understood. 8. Comparative studies have provided important insights into the ageing process. However, we still lack information on important issues, including the causes of death in natural populations, the relationship of within- and between-population variation in the rate of ageing, the genetic basis of variation in rate of ageing in natural populations, and detailed longitudinal studies of individual health and reproductive success in relation to age at death.
2656560|1. The size-grain hypothesis maintains that as terrestrial walking organisms decrease in size, their environment becomes less planar and more rugose. The benefits of long legs (efficient, speedy movement over a planar environment) may thus decrease with smaller body size, while the costs (larger cross-sectional area limiting access to the interstitial environment) are enhanced. 2. A prediction from this hypothesis - that leg size should increase proportionately with body mass - is examined. Ants are among the smallest walking animals and extend the size gradient five orders of magnitude beyond the traditional `mouse to elephant' curve. The mass of 135 species of worker ants spans 3.7 orders of magnitude (0.008-53 mg). Larger ants tended to be slimmer and longer legged. Ant subfamilies varied in their scaling relationships, but four out of five showed a positive allometry for hind leg length (b > 0.33). Mammals, in contrast, show isometry for leg length over six orders of magnitude. 3. It is suggested that ants make a transition from living in an interstitial environment when small to a planar environment when large, a habit continued by most terrestrial mammals. Head length and pronotum width are robust estimators of mass in ants.
2656367|1. We present data on the gas exchange of 32 Beech-Spruce model ecosystems including understorey species, which were planted on acidic or calcareous soil in 16 (half-split) open-top chambers in 1994 and were continuously exposed to the combinations of two CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations and two wet nitrogen deposition rates for 3 years. 2. Instantaneous mid-season net ecosystem carbon-exchange rates (NEC) were determined during the day (11.00-16.00 h, NEC<sub>d</sub>) and at night (22.00-02.00 h, NEC<sub>n</sub>) with a mobile chamber in July 1996 and August 1997 for both soil types and, in addition, in August and September 1996 on acidic soil only. 3. Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> increased NEC<sub>d</sub> at all sampling dates on both soil types and under both N deposition rates. Increased nitrogen deposition stimulated NEC<sub>d</sub> on acidic soil but not on calcareous soil, irrespective of the CO<sub>2</sub> level. NEC<sub>n</sub> was increased in elevated CO<sub>2</sub> on both soil types (but more on the calcareous soil), but did not respond to increased nitrogen deposition in both years. The daytime instantaneous ecosystem evapotranspiration (ET<sub>d</sub>) was not significantly affected by the CO<sub>2</sub> and nitrogen treatments at any sampling date. Year to year differences in NEC<sub>n</sub> and ET<sub>d</sub> were small, but a doubling in NEC<sub>d</sub> occurred throughout the observation period. 4. Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> caused a small but significant increase in stem dry mass on calcareous soil only and increased nitrogen deposition stimulated stem biomass production on acidic soil only. Leaf area index was not affected by CO<sub>2</sub>, but was increased under high nitrogen deposition. 5. Our results suggest that nitrogen deposition and soil type are major co-determinants of the carbon balance of forests in a future CO<sub>2</sub>-rich world.
2656448|1. The energy budgets of lactating and non-reproductive female Brown Long-Eared Bats fed primarily on noctuid moths ( 27.2 kJ g<sup>-1</sup>) were constructed and compared in flight enclosures in captivity. 2. The average dry food consumption of non-reproductive individuals was 1.8 g bat<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> (gross energy intake = 48 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>). The average food consumption throughout days 10-35 of lactation was 2.0 g bat<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> (gross energy intake = 53 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>). Lactating females obtained six times more energy from increased food consumption than from mobilization of fat stores, compared with non-reproductive bats. 3. Milk export, calculated using the difference in water turnover between lactating and non-reproductive bats (measured using <sup>2</sup>H turnover) averaged 2.6 ml bat<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> (22.9 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>). This was similar to the average milk intake of sucklings estimated from <sup>3</sup>H turnover (22.9 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>). 4. Energy available for respiration from food and mobilization of fat stores was 18.2 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> for lactating females compared with 36.8 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> for non-reproductive females. In comparison, respiratory daily energy expenditure (DEE) of lactating and non-reproductive bats, measured by doubly labelled water (DLW), was 21.3 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> and 23.6 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Hence, there was a discrepancy between respiratory DEE (measured by DLW) and net available energy estimates for non-reproductive bats but not for lactating bats. 5. Respiratory DEE for lactating bats was equal to or less than that of non-reproductive females, suggesting they used compensatory mechanisms in their energy budgets in lactation.
3599279|1. Numerous studies have suggested that basal metabolic rate (BMR) is related to variation in mass of specific 'energy-expensive' organs such as heart and kidney. 2. However, there are inconsistencies among studies with regard to those organs that show positive relationships with BMR, potentially because such studies assume constant organ metabolic intensity or capacity (e.g. oxidative activity). 3. This paper investigates metabolic adjustments (citrate synthase activity) in four key organs (pectoral muscle, heart, kidney and liver) in free-living reproductive female European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) throughout the breeding season to determine if the cost of egg production results in readjustments in organ mass-specific enzyme activity. 4. Citrate synthase (CS) activity varied in relation to breeding stage and/or year, but this variation was not consistent among different organs. For some organs, total enzymatic activity was directly related to changes in organ mass in relation to breeding stage. For others, increased organ mass was associated with a decrease in mass-specific CS activity, resulting in no net change in total organ oxidative capacity among breeding stages. 5. Even though the liver is actively involved in yolk precursor production during egg formation, no evidence was found for up-regulation of mass-specific oxidative enzyme activity in this organ. 6. Metabolic adjustments at the organ level may occur independently from organ mass changes and this confounding effect may be responsible for part of the inconsistencies found between previous studies in terms of organs mass-RMR relationships.
41319586|1. Diet and health are intimately linked and recent studies have found that caloric restriction can affect immune function. However, when given a choice between diets that differ in their macronutrient composition, pathogen-infected individuals can select a diet that improves their survival, suggesting that the nutritional composition of the diet, as well as its calorie content, can play a role in defence against disease. Moreover, as individuals change their diet when infected, it suggests that a diet that is optimal for growth is not optimal for immunity, leading to trade-offs. 2. Currently, our knowledge of the effects of diet on immunity is limited because previous experiments have manipulated either single nutrients or the calorie content of the diet without considering their interactive effects. By simultaneously manipulating both the diet composition (quality) and its caloric density (quantity), in both naive and immune-challenged insects, we asked how do diet quality and quantity influence an individual's ability to mount an immune response? And to what extent are allocation trade-offs driven by quantity-versus quality-based constraints? 3. We restricted individuals to 20 diets varying in their protein and carbohydrate content and used 3D response surfaces to visualize dietary effects on larval growth and immune traits. Our results show that both constitutive and induced immune responses are not limited by the total quantity of nutrients consumed, but rather different traits respond differently to variation in the ratios of macronutrients (diet quality), and peak in different regions of macronutrient space. The preferred dietary composition therefore represents a compromise between the nutritional requirements of growth and immune responses. We also show that a non-pathogenic immune challenge does not affect diet choice, rather immune-challenged insects modify their allocation of nutrients to improve their immune response. 4. Our results indicate that immune traits are affected by the macronutrient content of the diet and that no diet can simultaneously optimize all components of the immune system. To date the emphasis has been on the effects of micronutrients in improving immunity, our findings indicate that this must be widened to include the neglected impact of macronutrients on defence against disease.
826674|1. This study evaluates the potential for indirect competition between two phloem-feeding aphids as mediated by a shared host, pecan Carya illinoensis. In a greenhouse experiment, one of two aphid species, Monellia caryella and Melanocallis caryaefoliae, were introduced to pecan seedlings, removed for a period, and then introduced for a second time. Aphid performance and food quality, i.e. phloem amino acid concentration and composition, were measured in leaves after the first and second exposure to aphids. After the second exposure, leaves had been fed upon previously by either conspecifics or heterospecifics, and both direct and delayed effects were evaluated on adjacent leaves. 2. The performance of M. caryaefoliae was reduced by previous aphid feeding of both conspecifics and heterospecifics. The performance of M. caryella was unaffected by prior aphid feeding. 3. Feeding by M. caryaefoliae induced changes in amino acid content of the phloem. This alteration occurred within infested leaves and did not cause any changes in the phloem of adjacent leaves. 4. Feeding by M. caryella did not induce changes in phloem amino acid content, but seemed to inhibit M. caryaefoliae's ability to alter the phloem. The inhibition caused by M. caryella was local and might be the cause of the indirect competition observed.
2390369|1. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that birds suppress their adrenocortical response to stress when breeding in a severe environment. 2. We measured increases in circulating levels of corticosterone following capture and handling in populations of Willow Warblers, Phylloscopus trochilus, breeding in a rich deciduous forest in southern Sweden and in Willow Warblers breeding in a subarctic environment in Swedish Lapland. Data from an 8-year study on survival rates and nest predation in southern and northern Sweden are also included. 3. By comparing the changes in corticosterone levels immediately following capture, handling and restraint, and then up to 1-h post-capture across gender and latitude, we were able to assess possible ecological influences. 4. Willow Warblers had about the same survival rates in northern and southern Sweden (0.27 and 0.30, respectively). Depredated clutches were normally replaced in southern Sweden (72%), but not in northern Sweden (1%). 5. A reduced adrenocortical response to stress was found in Willow Warblers of both sexes breeding in northern Sweden where conditions were more severe and the nesting season shorter than in southern Sweden. At the southern site, males had a significantly more robust adrenocortical response to stress than females, whereas at the northern site changes in corticosterone following capture were identical in males and females. Maximum corticosterone levels generated by the capture stress protocol were significantly higher in males at the southern site than in all other groups. 6. There were marked individual variations in the patterns of corticosterone changes following capture in all groups, but there were no significant relationships of dynamics of corticosterone changes to body mass or fat score in males. However, in females at the southern site, the maximum corticosterone level and the rate of corticosterone increase during the capture stress protocol were positively correlated with body mass. In contrast, at the northern site females showed negative correlations of body mass with maximum corticosterone and rate of corticosterone increase. These differences may reflect different ecological bases for modulation of the adrenocortical response to stress with latitude, and with gender.
4139365|1. Opportunistic breeding (i.e. breeding whenever favourable conditions occur, regardless of interval or periodicity) is a strategy often adopted by animals breeding in habitats where food resources important for offspring survival are unpredictable. 2. One putative adaptation for this breeding strategy is the maintenance of a partially activated reproductive system year-round. Breeding readiness is assumed to be the default state and reproduction is therefore suppressed only when environmental conditions become inhibitory. 3. We tested this assumption in an opportunistic archetype, the Australian zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata, by comparing reproductive activation and suppression in freeliving zebra finches in two climatically different habitats: (1) an unpredictable habitat of arid central Australia, where breeding is closely tied to aperiodic rainfall and can occur during any month of the year, and (2) a more predictably seasonal habitat in southern Australia, where breeding occurs during approximately the same months each year. We quantified reproductive activation by measuring gonad size and circulating gonadotrophin concentration during the breeding and nonbreeding seasons in the predictable habitat and within a nonbreeding period during drought in the unpredictable habitat. 4. We found reproductive readiness changed consistently between the breeding and nonbreeding state in the predictable habitat, but more nonbreeding birds in the unpredictable habitat maintained an activated reproductive system even though they had poorer body condition. We found no evidence for suppression of reproductive activity by stress hormones (i.e. elevated glucocorticoids). Furthermore, birds were able to activate the reproductive axis quickly when removed from inhibitory field conditions and responded equally well to various stimulatory cues.
10.2307/2390059|1. A model is developed to explore conditions that favour mass blooming vs extended blooming. It is assumed that the pollinators arriving at a plant visit all flowers on that plant, that pollen uptake and deposition are constant fractions of amounts on the flower and pollinator, respectively, that seed set is limited by resources, and that there are no seasonal restrictions on flowering. 2. If the number of pollinator visits is independent of the flowering strategy, then it is quite immaterial how many flowers are presented at the same time in a self-compatible (SC) species, whereas presenting flowers one at a time is optimal in a self-incompatible (SI) species. Depending on the values of other parameters, mass blooming can be an evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) if plants that practice it attract more pollinators. Selection for mass blooming is more likely to occur in SC species than in SI species, if pollinators are scarce and if pollen transfer rates are low. 3. Empirical data are discussed in relation to optimization of flower presentation under time-constraints.
2390306|1. The distribution of body sizes among mammalian species has been modelled by Brown, Marquet & Taper (1993), who suggest that reproductive power (the rate at which energy from the environment is channelled into offspring production) is maximized at a size of 100 g, and the observed size distribution among species reflects the way reproductive power depends on size. The model makes a testable prediction about life-history allometries: namely, that components of reproductive power should not scale linearly with body size but should change sign at the optimum size. 2. A large set of life-history data from a single clade of small mammals, the bats (Order: Chiroptera), was analysed to test this key prediction. The analyses in this study offer no support for the idea that allometries of reproductive power change sign in bats, either at 100 g or at any other size. Furthermore the life-history allometries of bats, which are mostly below the 100 g optimum, were broadly the same as in mammalian taxa larger than the optimum size. 3. These findings together contradict a key prediction of Brown et al.'s (1993) model to explain the skewed body size distribution across mammalian species.
10.2307/2390284|1. In contrast to hummingbirds, passerine frugivores prefer hexose sugars to sucrose and absorb sucrose poorly. It has been predicted that the sugar preferences and digestive physiology of specialized passerine nectarivores will be similar to those of frugivores. 2. We examined the preferences of 11 Lesser Double-collared Sunbirds, Nectarinia chalybea (Nectariniidae), for 20% (w/w) solutions of sucrose, glucose, fructose, a 1:1 glucose+fructose mixture, and xylose. The order of preference was found to be sucrose=glucose+fructose=fructose>glucose>xylose. The birds rejected xylose, which has recently been found in the nectar of Protea and Faurea (Proteaceae). 3. Preferences for different sugar concentrations were also tested. In the case of sucrose and fructose, the sunbirds preferred 20% to 10% solutions, but were indifferent to 20% vs 30%. They preferred 20% to 30% glucose, but were indifferent to 10% vs 20%. 4. The concentration and sugar composition of the cloacal fluid were measured after feeding on known diets. The sunbirds absorbed sucrose, glucose and fructose from the ingested food at close to 100% efficiency, but xylose was excreted. 5. The results of this study thus contradict the belief that passerine nectarivores are inefficient at digesting sucrose and reject sucrose in favour of hexose sugars.
10.2307/2389947|1. A low-cost portable instrument was designed to measure the red:far-red ratio (660:730 nm) and photosynthetically active radiation (PAR, 400-700 nm). The sensor head comprises three gallium arsenide phosphide photodiodes associated with tintedglass filters. 2. Such detection takes advantage of the spectral response curves of these diodes, which provide a narrow bandpass response when combined with an appropriate filter. No interference filtering and no amplification is required. The output is displayed on a battery-powered unit enclosing two digital voltmeters for both PAR and red:far-red ratio readings. 3. The unit is easy to produce and requires no knowledge of electronics. The instrument was tested under field conditions against a spectroradiometer. 4. This approach may provide a basis to assess other spectral vegetation indices such as NDVI.
10.2307/2389890|1. The objective of the study was to establish the role of endogenous circannual physiological cycles in regulating the grazing behaviour of red deer. 2. This was investigated by manipulating the timing of seasonal cycles in red deer hinds by administration of melatonin between July and October and comparing the subsequent grazing responses to either a low or high herbage biomass at the times of previously observed seasonal decline (autumn) and rise (spring) in voluntary food intake of enhoused animals. Food intake was determined using the n-alkane marker technique. 3. Melatonin treatment resulted in respective 15- and 10-day advances in the timing of the onset and termination of the breeding season of non-pregnant hinds, indicating a phase-shift in the underlying circannual rhythm of reproduction. 4. Melatonin also caused a significant depression in herbage intake by hinds grazing high herbage biomasses during autumn consistent with an advance in the timing of the seasonal appetite decline. Treatment did not affect the intake of hinds on the low biomasses in the autumn or animals on either pasture during spring. 5. The study demonstrates that endogenous seasonal appetite changes influence level of food intake in grazing deer, but the expression of these seasonal cycles is dependent upon food availability.
10.2307/2389792|1 Growth and survival of juvenile Armadillidium vulgare (Latrielle) in the laboratory were greatest on a diet of an excess of freshly fallen leaves from dicotyledonous plants but decreased with decreasing supply of this food, even though alternative lower quality foods were provided in excess. Growth in the laboratory was positively related to temperature but mortality was not clearly related to temperature over the range observed in the field. 2 Growth and survivorship of a field population on a Breckland grass health are described for a 2-year period during which density declined from 673 m<sup>-2</sup> to 102 m<sup>-2</sup>. The demand for high-quality food by the field population peaked during a period of rapid growth in spring and early summer when supply of leaf litter from dicotyledonous plants was at a minimum. Litter production peaked in autumn after isopods had finished breeding and when low temperatures reduced their consumption rates. 3 Competition for high-quality food in spring and early summer during this period could have reduced growth and survivorship sufficiently to account for the observed decline in population density. 4 A simulation model, based on laboratory observations, closely predicted the observed decline in the field population. Further simulations also predicted the higher population densities observed in the field before this study and also the lower equilibrium densities found on the site since the study.
826687|1. Asymmetric competition is an unequal division of resources amongst competing plants. Thus, competition may be asymmetric in the sense that some individuals remove a disproportionately large amount of resource. Alternatively, competition may be asymmetric in that one species removes a disproportionately large amount of resource. The mechanisms determining the two forms of asymmetry may be similar, for example through initial size advantage or over-topping. 2. We explore the consequences of these two forms of asymmetry for competition models that predict mean performance as a function of the density of interacting species. We do so using neighbourhood models that explicitly consider the allocation of resources to individuals within an interacting mixture. 3. Asymmetric individual competition is modelled by assuming that individuals are formed into a competitive hierarchy such that individuals at the top of the hierarchy are able to remove more resources than those at the bottom. Mean performance declines exponentially, moving from top to bottom of the hierarchy. Asymmetric species-level competition is modelled by assuming that one species occupies all of the upper positions in the competitive hierarchy and hence dominates the resource. 4. When competition is asymmetric at the species level, yield-density responses follow an exponential decline. Otherwise, arithmetic mean performance follows a classic hyperbolic response. 5. Using this approach, we explore the asymmetry of competition between wheat and three species of weeds.
4139337| 1. In many insects species, males contribute large nutritional gifts to females during mating, generally as seminal fluids (ejaculates) or spermatophores. These nuptial gifts can affect both male and female fitness, and can mediate selection on male body size. However, it is unclear how environmental variables, such as temperature and diet, affect gift size and the consequences of gift size for male and female fitness. 2. We examine how temperature and rearing host affect male nuptial gift size (both total ejaculate size and the proportion of a male's mass allocated to his seminal fluids), and the relationship between gift size and female reproduction, in two populations of the seed-feeding beetle Callosobruchus maculatus. 3. Males reared at lower temperature (20C) produced substantially larger ejaculates than males reared at higher temperatures (25, 30 and 35C). However, males allocated a smaller proportion of their body mass to their ejaculate at the lowest temperature compared with other temperatures. This effect of temperature on male allocation to their ejaculates mirrored the effect of temperature on female body size - male ejaculate size remained a relatively constant proportion of their mate's body mass across temperatures. 4. Rearing host also affected male ejaculate size but the magnitude and direction of the host effect differed between populations. 5. Rearing temperature affected the relationship between male body mass and ejaculate size. Temperature also affected the relationship between female body mass and fecundity. The relationship between male body mass and ejaculate size was significantly lower when beetles were reared on cowpea than when beetles were reared on azuki or mung. 6. We found no evidence that male body size or nuptial gift size affected female fecundity in either population of C. maculatus. We thus propose that the effect of nuptial gift size on male fitness is through a reduction in female mating frequency and thus increased paternity for males producing larger nuptial gifts. 
3599022| 1. Avian nectarivores consume a simple food which is generally dilute, but may vary widely in concentration and thus in water content. 2. Energy intake over 24 h was investigated in the Whitebellied Sunbird Nectarinia talatala (A. Smith) (mean mass 93  10 SD g, n = 7) fed a wide range of sucrose concentrations (007-25 M), with and without access to supplementary water. 3. On diet concentrations between 025 and 25 M sucrose, birds showed perfect compensatory feeding by adjusting volumetric intake to maintain constant energy intake. 4. However, reduced intake on the two lowest concentrations of 007 and 01 M meant that the birds could not meet their energetic requirements and lost mass. We propose that physiological constraints associated with ingestion of large volumes of preformed water restrict intake at these very low concentrations. 5. Drinking of supplementary water varied greatly among individuals, but increased as diet concentration increased. This free water consumption effectively diluted the most concentrated diets of 15-25 M sucrose to an average value of 105 M, thus providing an indirect assessment of the birds' concentration preferences. 
3599074|1. The aim of this study was to investigate the structure and thermoregulatory function of nests of the Long-Tailed Tit, Aegithalos caudatus. 2. The feather lining of Long-Tailed Tit nests represents a major portion (41%) of the total nest mass. 3. The mass of feathers varied among nests and declined through the breeding season, but there was no seasonal loss of nest insulation quality because of increasing ambient temperatures. 4. In an experiment to investigate the seasonal decline in the feather mass of nests, feathers were added to nests at an early stage of the lining phase of nest construction. Nest structure and insulating properties were then examined following nest completion. 5. The total mass of feathers in treatment and control nests did not differ significantly and there was no significant difference in their nest insulation quality. 6. Our results demonstrate that Long-Tailed Tits adjust their nest-building behaviour according to the nest's thermal environment. Moreover, nest structure appears to be adjusted to prevailing environmental conditions rather than being a function of feather availability or time constraints.
10.2307/2390262|1. The mutualistic fungus of leaf-cutting ants produces ant rewards in the form of nutritive bundles of hyphae called staphylae. We studied how worker activities affect staphyla production by the fungus garden of Atta sexdens. 2. Ant-free fungus garden that was exposed to workers for 3 h produced 1.3 times more staphylae 2 days later than garden that remained ant-free. 3. Simulating the possible mechanical and chemical reasons for this effect showed that damaging hyphae with a mounted needle increased the subsequent standing crop of staphylae after 3 days by 1.2 times. Removing staphylae had no effect on subsequent standing crops, but total crops (which included the staphylae previously removed) were greater than on control garden. Crude head extracts and worker faeces had no visible effect on staphyla production. 4. Surfaces of the fungus garden that were easily accessible to workers produced significantly more staphylae than inaccessible surfaces. 5. The pruning activity of the ants and the response of the fungus can be interpreted both as an evolved behavioural adaptation by the ants to maximize the production of the staphylae they eat, and as a physiological adaptation by the fungus to produce nutritive staphylae for the ants only in those areas where and when the ants are active.
3806541|1. Field studies are needed to understand how plants respond to environmental stresses. However, transcriptional responses of plants interacting with biotic stressors, such as herbivores or competitors, have been measured primarily in controlled environments. Using oligonucleotide microarrays (with 60 and 568 genes), we determined how accurately glasshouse (GH) studies of transcriptional responses to methyl jasmonate (MeJA) elicitation and competition reflect the responses of Solanum nigrum L. plants grown under field conditions. We used MeJA to elicit herbivore resistance in a standardized manner. 2. In field-grown plants (experiment I), 13 genes (from the 60-gene microarray) involved in defence and primary metabolism were significantly up- or downregulated by MeJA elicitation, which also increased the activity of trypsin proteinase inhibitors. 3. We also grew S. nigrum with competitors in GH (experiment IIa) and field mesocosms (experiment IIb), and used the 60-gene microarray to examine the MeJA-elicited transcriptional changes. Both GH- and field-grown plants consistently regulated genes involved in oxylipin signalling and primary metabolism. However, the larger number of downregulated genes in GH-grown compared with field-grown plants suggests that field-grown plants are less sensitive to MeJA elicitation, probably because they are exposed to more abiotic stresses. 4. The 60-gene microarray did not reveal any effects of competition, but the analysis with the 568-gene array identified many genes, some of which are involved in stress-signalling pathways and significantly altered only in plants grown with competitors. These alterations were associated with a significant decrease in fitness (number of fruits). 5. We conclude that microarrays can be used successfully to monitor the gene expression of plants growing in natural environments, and we identify key genes that are regulated in plants interacting with competitors and herbivores. Whether these transcriptional responses mature into phenotypic changes should be determined by additional phenotypic analysis.
10.2307/2389849|1. That many animals and plants continue to grow after reproduction begins is a theoretically challenging evolutionary problem. We compare and extend the theories predicting intermediate resource allocation patterns. Our population dynamics model is developed for freshwater clams, which typically show considerable growth after maturity. 2. In the simulations, we used an age- and size-structured discrete-time resource allocation model, and applied dynamic programming algorithms to determine the resource allocation strategies that maximize fitness, measured as expected lifetime production of offspring, R<sub>0</sub>. 3. High levels of mortality select for early maturity and high reproductive effort. 4. Some adult growth is optimal in cases of size-dependent survival and production rates. However, this is not a sufficient explanation of the levels of adult growth observed. 5. We consider two trade-offs related to the mass of the offspring: one between relative glochidia mass (ratio of glochidia weight to the weight of the rest of the body) and production weight, and the other between relative glochidia mass and survival. In both cases, substantial adult growth is optimal, and the growth curves produced by the model are similar to those observed in clams. We discuss how these trade-offs are likely to arise in freshwater clams.
2656390|1. This study explores the importance of flower position for reproductive success of individual flowers of the deceptive terrestrial orchid, Dactylorhiza maculata (L.) Soo. 2. Upper flowers had smaller lips and produced lighter pollinia than those in other parts of the inflorescence, probably due to architectural effects. 3. Dry weight of seed capsules decreased from bottom to top in the inflorescence in both open-pollinated and hand-pollinated plants. However, removal of flowers from the middle and lowest parts of the inflorescence considerably increased seed production of the upper flowers. Decreased seed set was due to decreased resource availability because of the long maintenance time of opened but not pollinated lower flowers. 4. Experimental self-pollination resulted in reduced seed set compared to that following pollination with cross-pollen, but decreased seed set was independent of flower position within an inflorescence. 5. Dactylorhiza maculata with large inflorescences did not have better pollination success. The production of more flowers than the plant is able to fully support may have evolved as an ovary reserve in case of flower herbivory, or as a `bet-hedging' strategy through which the plant can increase seed production in years with good pollinator availability.
2390445|1. Procellariiform seabirds such as Manx Shearwater accumulate large quantities of lipid during the nestling period, and a series of recent papers suggests that these lipid reserves provide a buffer against pronounced and unpredictable variation in food provisioning, resulting in part from an inability of parents to regulate food supply to the nest. Supplementary feeding was used to test experimentally whether or not parents were able to adjust their level of food provisioning according to the nutritional requirements of the chick. 2. There was no difference between experimental and control groups in parental provisioning rates before supplementary feeding began. Thereafter, chicks given daily supplements received significantly fewer feeds from their parents, although the mass of food delivered during each feed did not differ between groups. The total amount of food received by chicks in the experimental group (parental delivery plus supplementary food) was only slightly higher than the amount delivered by parents in the control group, indicating that parents adjusted their provisioning rate downwards, although they did not compensate completely for the additional food provided by the supplements. 3. These results indicate that in Manx Shearwaters, nestling obesity is not related to an inability of parents to monitor changes in the chick's nutritional status. These results are discussed in relation to the optimization of nestlings' lipid reserves. It is suggested that evidence of a reduction in parental food provisioning in response to a decrease in the food requirements of chicks does not refute the hypothesis that nestling obesity provides a buffer against highly variable food delivery. However, these results do suggest that in species that feed their chicks at comparatively short average intervals, variability in provisioning should be viewed as arising from highly variable and unpredictable foraging success among parents, and not from an inability of parents to assess the nutritional requirements of their offspring.
40963557|1. A central tenet of life-history theory is that investment in reproduction compromises survival. However, the underlying physiological mechanisms that link reproduction to survival are poorly understood, particularly in wild populations. 2. Previous experiments in the brown anole lizard (Anolis sagrei) show that the elimination of reproduction via surgical ovariectomy results in a dramatic increase in the survival of wild females. We hypothesized that this trade-off reflects underlying differences in energy allocation between reproduction and physiological processes that influence survival. 3. To test this hypothesis, we compared ovariectomized (OYX) females to reproductive controls (SHAM) with respect to four physiological parameters that are thought to influence survival: energy storage, haematocrit, immune function and parasitemia. 4. Consistent with previous studies, we found that OVX females exhibited increased survival and growth relative to reproductive SHAM females. At the end of the breeding season, OVX also exceeded SHAM with respect to energy storage, haematocrit and immune response to phytohemagglutinin challenge. 5. Contrary to our predictions, OVX were more likely than SHAM to exhibit high levels of parasitemia. However, growth and parasite load were positively correlated in OVX and negatively correlated in SHAM, suggesting that reproductive investment may compromise parasite tolerance rather than parasite resistance. 6. Collectively, our results provide direct experimental evidence that reproductive investment affects several key physiological traits that likely interact to influence survival in wild populations.
3599328|1. The offspring of avian species, especially those of colonial breeders, are exposed to a number of pathogens immediately after birth. The chick's immune system is, at that early stage still immature and inefficient. As a consequence, diseases can have a strong impact on chick survival. 2. The ability of mothers to transmit passive immunity in terms of antibodies of their own acquired immunity to their chicks is probably an essential pathway to enhance the chick survival. Since the production of antibodies is costly, females are expected to adjust the transmission of passive immunity to the local disease environment. 3. We found that in Black-headed Gulls (Larus ridibundus L.) yolk antibody concentrations are positively correlated with local breeding density. This transmission pattern is likely to be adaptive, as the aggregation of birds will enhance the local presence of pathogens. 4. When birds were forced to re-settle after the colony had been flooded (10-20% of the original number of breeding pairs re-settled), this relationship was no longer present. The lack of such a relationship may be explained by the fact that females may retain certain levels of antibodies as a consequence of infections that occurred during the first breeding attempt at a difference breeding density. 5. Within clutches, maternal antibodies decreased with laying sequence, in particular in eggs hatching male chicks. This transmission pattern may contribute to the observed mortality pattern found in gull species.
10.2307/2389428|Nectar production over periods of one and 24 hours, total rinsable sugars, potassium content and amino acids were measured in field populations of Prunus spinosa L., Crataegus monogyna Jacq. and Rubus fruticosus L. All the species showed similar diurnal patterns of nectar secretion but differed significantly in sugar concentration of the nectar standing crop. R. fruticosus produced a greater volume of nectar of lower concentration than the other species and also had a relatively lower concentration of amino acids but higher concentration of potassium. In terms of total caloric reward offered R. fruticosus may be more attractive to many insects. The species do not compete for pollinators since they do not flower at the same times. P. spinosa and C. monogyna have much smaller and more crowded flowers than R. fruticosus. This is combined with lower caloric rewards per flower and may be a means of enhancing pollination by providing greater visual attraction to insects, while economizing on energy expenditure.
3599296|1. Reproductive behaviour of plants may change in contrasting habitats. In two separate glasshouse experiments, we studied effects of population origin (early vs. late successional and low vs. high altitudinal habitats) and environmental effects (competition and temperature) on plant size and sexual vs. clonal reproduction in Geum reptans L. 2. Plant size and reproduction differed significantly among populations, but only plant size differed between contrasting habitats. 3. If plants grew with competition or at warm temperature, plant size and reproduction were reduced and more plants reproduced only with stolons. Individuals with flowers were larger than those that reproduced only with stolons, indicating a smaller minimum plant size for clonal than for sexual reproduction. 4. Populations of different origin changed little in their response to environmental treatments. Plants from early successional habitats tended to produce more flowers in the competition-free treatment, whereas in plants from late successional habitats the opposite was true. 5. The results indicate limited adaptation in reproductive behaviour to contrasting habitats. Nevertheless, great size-dependent plasticity in the proportion of sexual vs. clonal reproduction ensures population persistence and reproduction in a large range of habitat conditions.
20142797| 1. How body mass and body temperature influence metabolic rate has been of interest for decades. Today that interest can be seen in the form of debates over the proper scaling coefficients, and the mechanistic underpinnings of allometric models for metabolic rate in relation to body mass and body temperature. We tested explicit assumptions built into what we term the Arrhenius fractal supply (AFS) model of these relationships. This model, and its assumptions, is foundational to the controversial Metabolic Theory of Ecology. 2. In addition to predicting that the scaling exponent for body mass is 3/4, the AFS model originally predicted that metabolic responses to body temperature, measured as activation energies, should fall between 02 and 12 eV. More recently, the latter range was narrowed to 06 and 07 eV. 3. To test the AFS's predictions, we used multiple regression of ln(metabolic rate) as a function of ln(body mass) and 1/(body temperature) to fit the best scaling exponent for body mass to nine data sets of many diverse species. 4. For the majority of the data sets, in addition to not supporting a scaling exponent of 3/4, the analyses indicated that effects of body temperature sometimes fell outside the range of 06-07 eV, indicating that the predictions of the AFS model do not hold universally. 5. Effects of body temperature, however, did fall within the range of 02-12 eV. To aid interpretation of these results, we transformed activation energies into QS. At ecologically realistic temperatures, the values of Q that approximate activation energies of 02-12 eV ranged from c. 14 to 61 (where 61 is clearly unreasonably high). Hence, any model that predicts activation energies between 02 and 12 eV does not appear to be an informative scaling model at the organismal level. 6. The AFS model is foundational for the Metabolic Theory of Ecology. While we commend the attempt to incorporate scaling of metabolism into ecological theory, and the research it has inspired, we caution against using untested, and likely incorrect, assumptions as a foundation to a general theory of ecology. We recommend that scientists allow the data to determine the best model for incorporating energetics into ecological theory. 
826672|1. This study investigates the effects of experimental plant communities on different trophic levels in the soil food web of abandoned arable land. 2. In April 1996, a biodiversity experiment commenced using a continuation of agricultural crop rotation (CCR), spontaneous succession with naturally colonizing plant species (NC) and late-successional plant species sown in low-diversity (LD, four plant species) and high-diversity (HD, 15 plant species) communities. The nematode community was used as an indicator of the influence of the experimental plant communities on different trophic levels in the soil food web. 3. The nematode abundance in the experimental plant communities differed from that of the continued crop rotation, but there were hardly any differences between the natural, the low-diversity and the high-diversity plant communities. 4. The abundant plant-feeding nematodes and the somewhat less abundant bacterivorous nematodes were stimulated most by the sowing treatments. Fungivorous nematodes were stimulated less, while the numbers of omnivorous and carnivorous nematodes did not change significantly. 5. The diversity of the nematode community did not change over 2 years. 6. It is concluded that experimental plant communities have either small short-term effects or a delayed impact on the soil food web compared with the effect they have on above-ground invertebrate community development.
40205539|1. Signals used during male combat are expected to be honest indicators of fighting ability. However, recent studies show that dishonesty in male signalling is more prevalent than previously believed. 2. Here we show that regenerated (leptochelous) claws in male Uca mjoebergi fiddler crabs are not only dishonest signals of two types of whole-organism performance capacities that are likely to be useful during fights (claw closing force and pull-resisting force), but they are also less effective as weapons in situations where males are unable to bluff. 3. Original (brachychelous) male claws are statistically significant predictors (independent of body size) of both closing force and the force required to pull a male out of a tunnel. By contrast, leptochelous claw size does not convey information on those performance capacities following control for body size. 4. Furthermore, claw size affects fighting ability such that leptochelous residents are at a significant competitive disadvantage to brachychelous residents, although claw type does not affect the ability of non-resident males to win fights. 5. This study is among the first to show that male armaments can dishonestly signal performance traits that are likely important for winning fights, and is the first to show evidence for dishonest signalling of multiple components of fighting ability.
2656524|1. `Alba' is a genetic polymorphism in butterflies of the genus Colias (the sulphurs) which confers on its female carriers white (A-) rather than yellow (aa) wings. Previous studies of `alba's' resource-based effects in Colias alexandra and Colias scudderi suggested the rare morph should be eliminated in each species. Here the selective regime acting on `alba's' wing colour effect is examined to determine if it can maintain polymorphism. 2. Field experiments and observations reveal species-specific differences in morph fecundity resulting from selection on wing colour. `Alba' female and male Colias lose flight time, an index of Colias fitness, to unproductive courtship with pierines (white butterflies in the subfamily Pieridae), a form of interference competition. Flight time losses are greater in C. alexandra, which co-occur more extensively with pierines than C. scudderi. `Alba' females also spent less time being harassed by courting male Colias than yellow females; this form of sexual selection on morph wing colour is particularly strong in C. alexandra. 3. Loss of male and `alba' female Colias flight time and the degree of male Colias preference for the yellow morph correlate with the extent each Colias species co-occurs with pierines, suggesting interference competition influences Colias courtship decisions and `alba' frequency. 4. Both interference competition and sexual selection are density dependent in their effects; these effects were modelled using Holling's equation. Modelling results show temporal variation in Colias and pierine densities over the past 20 years caused morph fitness to vary such that in at least one year each morph in each species had greater relative fitness with respect to colour-based selective pressures. Although this selective regime does not maintain polymorphism under temporal models of fitness variation, trade-offs between these colour-based effects and `alba's' temperature and resource-based effects in a spatially heterogeneous environment could maintain polymorphism.
40407773|1. Egg and offspring resistance to pathogens is a major determinant of survival and has been mainly ascribed to maternal factors. However, paternal production of antimicrobials was recently suggested to increase offspring survival in species where males perform egg care. 2. In the peacock blenny, Salaria pavo, & demersal spawning species where males exhibit a pair of anal glands producing lysozyme-like compounds, we tested the antimicrobial activity and the egg protection efficacy of these glands. The anal gland secretion (AGS) has an inhibitory effect on the growth of both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, including those causing the most severe fish diseases in marine culture. The egg clutches cared for by males deprived of anal glands have a significantly lower survival rate than those cared for by sham-operated males and non-viable eggs showed clear signs of bacterial infection. 3. Anal gland secretion production and its protein content are proportional to gland size. In species where male parental care plays a crucial role in offspring survival, females are expected to assess mates selecting those traits that are reliably associated with parental ability. Hence, we experimentally challenged females with dummy males differing in anal gland size. Females definitely preferred dummy males with larger anal glands, suggesting that their choice is driven by the pursuit of direct fecundity benefits. 4. These findings indicate that antimicrobial production is a crucial component of male parental care. The contribution of antimicrobials to male performance as fathers suggests that the development of traits devoted to this function may influence male attractiveness and be sexually selected.
20142759|1. Traditionally, large pattern elements in conspicuous warning signals are assumed to be selected by predation because increasing signal strength enhances education and avoidance of predators. However, variation in the colour pattern of a warningly coloured species often exists even within a location, and many warning signals have relatively small pattern elements. This suggests that there must be opposing selection pressures that can constrain warning signal expression, resulting in variation in warning signals as well as suboptimal signals for predator education. 2. We quantified the variation in the warning signal of Parasemia plantaginis-moth larvae. With a full-sib rearing experiment, we tested whether this variation has a genetic as well as an environmental component, by measuring the warning signal size of the developing larvae that were reared on either Rumex or an artificial diet. We also measured whether signal development was correlated to other life-history variables. 3. We show that the relative size of the warning signal varies among families but increases with larval age. The signal development also has an environmental component, since signal size develops more slowly and remains smaller in larvae feeding on the artificial diet than in those feeding on Rumex. Also, larvae with a short development time produced large warning signals. We also found that the larvae with a large orange signal were more likely to survive to adulthood. 4. Our results suggest that diet and life-history correlates can constrain development of the warning signal. Our study underlines the importance of considering life-histories of animals, not only predation, when studying the evolution of warning signals. Constraints of multiple selection pressures should be incorporated into the theory of the evolution of aposematism.
10.2307/2390056|1. Maximum photosynthesis and dark respiration by epigeal cotyledons of various thickness (0.2-5.0 mm at the centre) for 10 tropical tree species were measured with an oxygen electrode. 2. The balance of photosynthesis and respiration in cotyledons of each species was closely related to cotyledon thickness of the species. Per unit dry mass, both gross and net photosynthetic rates were strongly correlated with the inverse of cotyledon thickness (1/cotyledon thickness). Thin cotyledons (e.g. 0.2 mm) had very high rates of gross photosynthesis (e.g. 0.6 mol O<sub>2</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), while cotyledons thicker than 1 mm had photosynthetic rates just high enough to balance respiration and achieve a small but positive net photosynthesis. 3. There was no significant correlation between dark respiration rate per unit mass and cotyledon thickness, indicating similar respiration rates for storage cells and photosynthetic cells. 4. Per unit area, gross photosynthetic rates were high (e.g. 16 mol O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) and did not differ significantly among species with various cotyledon thicknesses, indicating a similar total amount of photosynthetic machinery per unit area. 5. Stomatal frequencies on the abaxial surface of cotyledons were positively and linearly correlated with maximum photosynthetic rates and dark respiration rates on a dry mass basis, but no such correlation existed on an area basis. 6. Unlike true leaves, there was no relationship between nitrogen content and photosynthetic rate for cotyledons of the 10 species. 7. The study demonstrated higher photosynthetic capacities in both thin and thick cotyledons than previously reported. Photosynthesis by thick epigeal cotyledons can supply all the energy required for non-photosynthetic function, e.g. modification and export of stored reserves.
10.2307/2389911|1. Examination of light absorption by photosynthetic tissues of 156 specimens from 128 species of chlorophyll a containing photosynthetic organisms, ranging from single-celled cyanobacteria to trees, confirmed the existence of a universal law involving the asymptotic increase in light absorption with increasing chlorophyll a density. 2. The chlorophyll a concentration of photosynthetic tissues decreased as the tissues become thicker, thereby avoiding high areal chlorophyll a density and inefficient light absorption. Light absorption per unit photosynthetic tissue weight was strongly, linearly related to the chlorophyll a concentration, explaining the lower growth rates and higher light requirements of thick, compared to thin photosynthetic organisms and the dominance of thin photosynthetic organisms in shaded environments. 3. These results confirm the importance of the thickness of photosynthetic tissues as a major factor in light harvesting and photoadaptation, and help explain the strong dependence of plant growth on the thickness of the photosynthetic tissues.
10.2307/2390174|1. Photosynthetic pigment composition, leaf area and leaf mass per area (leaf sclerophylly index, LSI) were analysed seasonally on young and mature leaves of three height levels of Cistus ladanifer, a drought semi-deciduous Mediterranean shrub, along a latitudinal transect within the Iberian Peninsula. 2. Climate and soil conditions varied widely along the transect. Annual rainfall ranged from 471 to 792 mm, mean annual temperature from 10.2 to 18.1 <sup></sup>C, winter type from warm to cold, soil pH from 3.6 to 6.2 and organic matter from 0.46% to 6.96%. 3. Leaf characteristics showed very wide ranges: 0.38-4.42 mg g<sup>-1</sup> DW and 103-901 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> for total chlorophyll, 1.72-4.91 for chlorophyll a/b ratio, 1.77-6.80 for the ratio of optical densities OD<sub>430</sub>/OD<sub>665</sub>, 0.9-11 cm<sup>2</sup> for leaf area and 9.6-34.6 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> for LSI. 4. The localities of the transect were ordinated by Principal Component Analysis (PCA) on the basis of climate and soil conditions. A third PCA, based on leaf characteristics, was more related to the climatic PCA than to the edaphic one, differentiating two groups of sites with extreme latitude values and a third group with intermediate latitudes. 5. Leaf characteristics of Cistus ladanifer were especially influenced by seasonal changes. A reduction in chlorophyll content and leaf area, and concomitant increases in OD<sub>430</sub>/OD<sub>665</sub> and LSI, were detected in summer. The highest chlorophyll contents and the lowest OD<sub>430</sub>/OD<sub>665</sub> ratios were found in autumn or winter, whereas the largest leaves were found in spring and the less sclerophyllous ones in winter. These findings are discussed in relation to the seasonal cycle of growth of Mediterranean semideciduous shrubs. 6. Plants from the localities of both latitudinal extremes of the transect showed suboptimum leaf characteristics as compared with plants from intermediate localities. Leaf differences caused by soil, leaf age and leaf location within the canopy were generally of little significance. The importance of leaf plasticity in the ability of Cistus ladanifer to grow in a range of harmful environments is emphasized.
2390482|1. A method based on the calculation of major and minor axes of bivariate ellipses to estimate relative rates of evolutionary diversification of two traits is presented. The advantage of ellipse analysis over the more common allometric or regression approaches to variation in comparative data is that diversification of each trait is estimated relative to that of the other. This can reveal differences in the relative rates of diversification of two traits among sister groups or, through hierarchical analysis, over the history of a lineage. 2. Equations are provided for calculating the size, shape and orientation of bivariate ellipses based on the variance-covariance matrix of the original data. Standard errors and biases of these parameters are also quantified. 3. Applications of ellipse analysis to the relationship between egg size and incubation period in birds illustrate differences in the diversification of two traits between independent lineages. Nested analysis of covariance based on taxonomic levels further illustrates how relative rates of evolutionary diversification may vary through the history of a monophyletic group. 4. A simple model incorporating both independent (special) and correlated (general) change in two traits shows how different shapes and orientations of bivariate ellipses can be produced by different rates of evolutionary diversification in special and general genetic factors. 5. Ellipse analysis is a descriptive tool that can clarify patterns of diversification. It cannot distinguish differences in evolutionary responsiveness (phylogenetic constraint) from differences in the selective environment affecting the shape and orientation of the bivariate ellipse. It can, however, provide a more detailed characterization of trait evolution than other comparative methods, taking advantage of the additional information provided by the shape and, in some cases, the dimensions of the bivariate ellipse.
2390362|1. Shrubs of Caryocar brasiliense are intensively visited by many ant species in the cerrado vegetation of south-east Brazil. Ants collect nectar from the extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) located on the buds at the apex of the plant. 2. The proportion of C. brasiliense shrubs occupied by ants greatly surpassed that of neighbouring plants without EFNs and this resulted in many more termites being attacked and removed on this plant than on plants lacking EFNs. Ant attacks on Caryocar were more frequent near the EFNs. 3. Ant-exclusion experiments with Caryocar shrubs revealed that ants significantly reduce the infestation levels by the butterfly Eunica bechina, the sucking bud Edessa rufomarginata, the bud-destroying fly Prodiplosis floricola and by a stem-galling wasp. Ants had no effect on the infestation by a leaf-galling wasp. 4. Control (ants present) and treatment (ants excluded) plants produced equal numbers of buds but flower and initial fruit production was significantly greater for ant-visited plants. Higher abortion rates of initial fruits by control plants resulted in similar final fruit and seed sets for plants in either experimental category. 5. The extremely low fertility of cerrado soils is suggested as a possible factor constraining the ability of Caryocar shrubs to provide the resources necessary for growth and development of their heavy fleshy fruits. Higher production of initial fruits by ant-visited shrubs would be neutralized by competition among developing fruits and subsequent abortion. 6. Possible ant-derived benefits to C. brasiliense include: protection of vegetative tissues during plant growth, larger floral display and increased attractiveness to bat pollinators, increased male contribution to fitness through pollen donation and selective abortion of genetically inferior progeny as the maternal investment is adjusted to match available resources.
3599211|1. Most studies of plant palatability do not consider its seasonal variability, and infer general life-history patterns from single-date feeding experiments. This paper investigates whether different seasonal patterns in the palatability of perennial plant species in one community can alter their relative susceptibility to grazing. 2. The palatability of eight freshwater macrophyte species growing at the same site was monitored during 1 year through nine consecutive feeding experiments using a generalist consumer, the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. 3. Plant palatability varied significantly throughout the year, and reached its maximum in autumn. Beyond this general trend, seasonal patterns in palatability differed markedly between species, and two (Callitriche platycarpa and Nuphar lutea) showed no significant seasonal variations. 4. Despite the interspecific differences in seasonal patterns of palatability, species' palatability rankings remained stable throughout the year. Therefore feeding experiments performed at a single sampling date are suitable to assess the relative palatability of a set of species.
10.2307/2390090|1. A data set of 36 years (1954-1989) of observations on first flowering dates (FFD) of 243 species of angiosperms and gymnosperms in one locality in southern central England is presented and analysed. 2. Individual FFDs ranged from 1 January to 17 August, and species varied considerably in the standard deviation of their FFD. The most variable species were mainly annuals and there was a negative relationship between mean FFD and variability, early-flowering species being the most variable. 3. For 219 of the 243 species, it was possible to fit regression equations for FFD to some set of monthly mean temperatures of the preceding months. These fits were generally best for woody plants and geophytes. February temperature was overall the most important determinant of flowering time. Sixty per cent of species flowering between January and April were affected by temperature 1-2 months before flowering; for summer (May onwards) flowering species, temperatures up to 4 months previously were important. 4. High spring temperatures advanced flowering by a mean of 4 days per degree. In contrast, both spring- and summer-flowering species were retarded in flowering by high temperatures in the previous autumn. 5. These relationships were used to simulate the effects of climatic warming: an overall increase of 1 <sup></sup>C in each month would advance flowering in some species and retard others, by as much as 6 weeks. Retarded species were early-flowering, advanced species late-flowering. These results suggest a high degree of dependence of flowering time on temperature, and the variation between species implies that responses to climatic warming may be difficult to predict.
3599157| 1. In most animals, females live longer than males, and large individuals live longer than small individuals. We examine both gender and body size effects on adult lifespan in two species of seed beetles (Callosobruchus maculatus and Stator limbatus), and test whether body size differences between males and females can explain gender-differences in mortality rates and lifespan. 2. In both species, the effect of age on mortality rate was best described by a logistic mortality curve. C. maculatus females have a higher initial mortality rate than males, while males have a much higher rate of increase of the mortality rate with increasing age. In contrast, S. limbatus males had a higher initial mortality rate (opposite to the pattern seen in C. maculatus) but males and females did not differ in the rate of increase of mortality with increasing age. 3. Body size was positively correlated with lifespan in both species, but it explained very little of the variance in lifespan (R
10.2307/2389906|1. A comparative study has been made of the allometric relationships among below-ground and above-ground dimensions of seedlings (6.5-27 cm tall) of 14 abundant shade-tolerant species taken from the forest floor in a warm-temperate rain forest on Yakushima Island, southern Japan. 2. The allometric lines between below-ground dimensions are significantly different between species, which reflects the differentiation between the species developing tap-roots and those developing horizontal fine roots in the same forest. The difference correlates with a difference in seed size, but not with height at maturity or habitat (ridge vs slope or gully). It is hypothesized that the differences in root architecture are related to `choices' in microsite for establishment, the large-seeded tap-rooted species being better suited to soft soil and deep litter, and the small-seeded lateral rooters to rocky soil and a lack of litter. 3. The allometric relationship relating below-and above-ground dry mass is not sufficient to characterize a species' architecture; a species may have a large ratio of root mass to shoot mass but a low ratio of fine-root length to leaf area. 4. Interspecific differentiation in below-ground allometries at the seedling stage is not correlated with that in above-ground allometries at the seedling stage or with that in above-ground allometries at the sapling stage with developed branching architecture. Allometric `design' in architecture at the sapling stage (related to earlier or later canopy-gap formation) is variously combined with that at the seedling stage (related to the microsite of establishment).
10.2307/2389757|The effect of nutrient enrichment on growth of mountain birch at different elevations in Swedish Lapland is reported. Fertilizer experiments using nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and a complete fertilizer containing nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and micronutrients (NPK) were conducted on established trees at tree-line, forest limit and valley sites and their growth and nutrient characteristics were compared to those of non-fertilized control trees. Leaf area and weight in NPK- and N-fertilized trees were about 30% greater than in control and P-fertilized trees at all elevations but specific leaf area showed no significant change. No noticeable elevational effect on specific leaf weight was found. Total non-structural carbohydrate concentration levels did not vary with elevation nor were they correlated with concentrations of foliar nitrogen, phosphorus, or potassium in control or treatment groups. Leaf concentration of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium generally increased with elevation in control trees. In spite of this, application of nitrogen-containing fertilizer (N and NPK) increased height growth most at the tree-line and least at the lowest elevation. Phosphorus application caused increased above-ground growth only at the tree-line in 1982 but not at other elevations or at the tree-line during the 2 following years. Number of long shoots was increased by all treatments, but most by N and NPK. Leaf nutrient concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium in control trees did not correlate strongly with growth when trees at all elevations were analysed together. However, when analyses were performed within elevations, the correlation between nitrogen and growth increased and was statistically significant at the tree-line. Correlation between growth and nutrient concentration was weakened by fertilizer application. Thus, nutrient application affected foliar nutrient concentration differentially and reduced the within-zone relationships between growth and nutrient concentration. The growth response to nutrient application was evident for 2 subsequent years.
2390554|1. Seed dispersal is widely recognized to be of crucial importance in the ecology of plant communities, yet characterization of dispersal capacity rarely goes beyond two categories: `good' and `poor' dispersers, defined on the basis of dispersule morphology. 2. We describe a new apparatus which determines the rate of fall of seeds in air by detecting their passage through two fans of laser light. 3. This apparatus is able to measure rate of fall in smaller seeds than previously published methods and reveals that there is no justification for the arbitrary division of species into two wind dispersal categories.
20142818|1. Research on senescence has largely focused on its underlying causes, and is concentrated on humans and relatively few model organisms in laboratory conditions. To understand the evolutionary ecology of senescence, research on a broader taxonomic range is needed, incorporating field, and, where possible, longitudinal studies. 2. Senescence is generally considered to involve progressive deterioration in performance, and it is important to distinguish this from other age-related phenotypic changes. We outline and discuss the main explanations of why selection has not eliminated senescence, and summarise the principal mechanisms thought to be involved. 3. The main focus of research on senescence is on age-related changes in mortality risk. However, evolutionary biologists focus on fitness, of which survival is only one component. To understand the selective pressures shaping senescence patterns, more attention needs to be devoted to age-related changes in fecundity. 4. Both genetic and environmental factors influence the rate of senescence. However, a much clearer distinction needs to be drawn between life span and senescence rate, and between factors that alter the overall risk of death, and factors that alter the rate of senescence. This is particularly important when considering the potential reversibility and plasticity of senescence, and environmental effects, such as circumstances early in life. 5. There is a need to reconcile the different approaches to studying senescence, and to integrate theories to explain the evolution of senescence with other evolutionary theories such as sexual and kin selection.
4139373|1. The immune system and its component parts have evolved and are maintained due to the fitness benefits that hosts acquire in terms of parasite resistance. However, there are relatively few studies of the fitness consequences of natural variation in immunity in free-living populations, mainly due to the complexity of the immune system and logistic problems of assessing immunity and fitness components. 2. We quantified two aspects of humoral immunity in a population of Barn Swallows Hirundo rustica, natural antibodies and complement that constitute the first line of defence against parasites. 3. The magnitude of both immune components increased during the breeding season. 4. Very old adults had reduced levels of natural antibodies, providing evidence consistent with immuno-senescence, while that was not the case for lysis. However, there was no evidence that survivors from one year to the next had stronger agglutination or lysis than nonsurvivors. 5. Females with a second clutch had higher levels of natural antibodies than females that only had a single clutch, while males showed no differences. Annual fecundity of females decreased with natural antibody levels, that was not evident in males. Therefore, in females, natural antibody and complement levels are important predictors of vital rates. 6. Tail length of male partners, but not of females, explained the variation in female natural antibodies and complement, while there was no similar effect in males. This pattern may have arisen from differential parental investment by females mated to the most attractive males. 7. The abundance of four different ectoparasites was not predicted by either immune component.
10.2307/2390138|1. Mikania scandens plants of three stem-length classes: small (< 4 cm), medium (4-10 cm) and large (> 10 cm), were transplanted into flooded or drained soil. After six weeks the relative growth rates (RGR), based on both dry weight and stem elongation, of the small plants under flooded conditions were 50% greater than those in drained soil. For the medium and large classes, the RGR values of the drained and flooded plants were similar. 2. Stem and root cross-sections revealed that flooded plants had two- and threefold respectively more aerenchyma tissue, with the amount in the stem decreasing in an acropetal direction. The stem surface contained stomata, not lenticels. The mean number of stem stomata was 267 and 57 for flooded and drained plants respectively on the 21 cm stem section above the water or soil line. 3. In root tissue ethanol and malic acid were below detectable concentrations, suggesting that anaerobic respiration was not an important component of metabolism under flooding. 4. Rather, M. scandens acclimatized anatomically with an increase in aerenchyma tissue and stem stomata, which would facilitate oxygen diffusion to the roots. Unlike other herbaceous, wetland species that use leaf stomata, the oxygen appeared to be derived from stem stomata. In this vine, insufficient oxygen diffusion down the long internodes probably necessitates use of stem stomata near the water-line. 5. These results indicate that M. scandens is flood-resistant, and may partially explain why it becomes a weed problem in flooded areas of Florida.
10.2307/2389891|1. To find out which properties enable plant species to dominate in nutrient-poor habitats and which properties benefit species in nutrient-rich habitats, we studied the growth and morphology of eight perennial grass species from habitats with contrasting soil fertilities in a pot experiment under controlled conditions in a glasshouse. 2. The species were grown under nutrient-poor and nutrient-rich conditions. Ranked from the least responsive to the most responsive to the supply of nutrients they were: Festuca ovina, F. rubra, Anthoxanthum odoratum, F. arundinacea, Alopecurus pratensis, F. pratensis, Arrhenatherum elatius, Lolium perenne. 3. The response correlated positively with the Ellenberg nitrogen number of the species. No differences in initial relative growth rate were found between the species, but after 4 weeks the plant dry weight increased with increasing nitrogen number as a result of variation in embryo plus endosperm weight. 4. Species characteristic of nutrient-rich hayfields are taller and show a more homogeneous vertical distribution of photosynthetic area than the species from nutrient-poor habitats, which have most of their leaf area below 15 cm. Species from the nutrient-poor habitats allocated less dry matter to the roots and consequently more to the shoot, than species from nutrient-rich conditions. However, leaf and root morphology seem to be most clearly adapted to the habitat. 5. Species from nutrient-rich habitats have a higher specific leaf area (SLA) than species from nutrient-poor habitats, while species from nutrient-poor habitats had more root length per unit root weight (SRL) than species from nutrient-rich habitats.
10.2307/2390157|1. A unique opportunity to study conditions for plant growth at the onset of glaciation was offered as a retreating glacier at Ellesmere Island, Canada, revealed well-preserved, subfossil plants (41170 radio-carbon years old) of Cassiope tetragona, an arctic dwarf-shrub previously used to study climate-related growth of modern plants. 2. Growth and flowering of the ancient and modern shoots of C. tetragona from the same locality were examined retrospectively. The ancient shoots produced leaves in each, and flowers in each except one, of the last 26 years before they died, although this production was significantly lower and less variable among years than in the modern shoots. 3. Predictions based on regression between modern plant performance and climatic data from the study site imply that the mean July temperature of the period immediately preceding the glaciation of the area was about 0.7
3806542|1. The neutral theory of biodiversity provides a simple yet elegant explanation of species diversity patterns. By specifying speciation rates, dispersal and community size, and assuming that all individuals in a community are ecologically identical, the theory generates species abundance distributions that are remarkably similar to those observed in nature. 2. Here we show that incorporation of the Allee effect in a neutral community results in considerable decrease in species richness and radically different dominance-diversity curves, with an excess of both very abundant and very rare species but a shortage of intermediate species, than predicted by the current neutral model. 3. We also find that even a small Allee effect can cause a considerable decline in the time of species coexistence. However, dispersal limitation within a community indeed enhances coexistence as presumed by Hubbell's theory, but its effect is limited and is probably insufficient to negate the ubiquitous small-population disadvantages caused by the Allee effect and other agents alike. 4. The remarkably good fit between the predictions of neutral theory and certain observations implies that either the Allee effect is not important, which seems unlikely, or that other stabilizing mechanisms (i.e. rare species advantages, perhaps resulting from interspecific niche differentiation) oppose the Allee effect.
2390371|1. The available data related to the activity energetics of lizards in the field were collated with respect to three indices of activity energetics: the ecological cost of transport (ECT) expressed as a percentage of the total energy, the proportion of total energy used in all forms of activity (%AR), and the sustained metabolic scope (SusMS), defined as the ratio of the total energy expenditure to the total resting metabolism. 2. The ECT values of lizards ranged from 3 to 36% with five of 11 species having values >20%. The percentage AR ranged from 23 to 80% for lizards during active seasons, with most species having values > 50%. The SusMS ranged from 1.1 to 5.1. 3. Values of ECT are higher for lizards than for mammals, in part because the costs of maintenance metabolism are higher in mammals. 4. The percentage AR and SusMS values of mammals are higher than those of lizards. 5. It follows from the previous two points that the proportion of the total daily energy that is expended in non-locomotory activities is disproportionately higher in mammals compared with lizards. 6. The energy expended in locomotion is a significant portion of the energy budget of lizards. This is generally true for all seasons in which there is activity.
10.2307/2390169|1. Empirically, parasite distributions are often best described by the negative binomial distribution; some hosts have many parasites while most have just a few. Thus identifying heterogeneities in parasite burdens using conventional parametric methods is problematical. In an attempt to conform to the assumptions of parametric analyses, parasitologists and ecologists frequently log-transform their overdispersed data prior to analysis. In this paper, we compare this method of analysis with an alternative, generalized linear modelling (GLM), approach. 2. We compare the classical linear model using log-transformed data (Model 1) with two GLMs: one with Poisson errors and an empirical scale parameter (Model 2), and one in which negative binomial errors are explicitly defined (Model 3). We use simulated datasets and empirical data from a long-term study of parasitism in Soay Sheep on St Kilda to test the efficacies of these three statistical models. 3. We conclude that Model 1 is much more likely to produce type I errors than either of the two GLMs, and that it also tends to produce more type II errors. Model 3 is only marginally more successful than Model 2, indicating that the use of an empirical scale parameter is only slightly more likely to generate errors than using an explicitly defined negative binomial distribution. Thus, while we strongly recommend the use of GLMs over conventional parametric analyses, either GLM method will serve equally well.
826705|1. To study the potential for complementarity in nitrogen acquisition from different soil depths, we injected an isotope tracer (
41239233|1. In this essay I summarize current trends in the evolutionary ecology of plant defence, while advocating for approaches that integrate community ecology with specific tests of classic evolutionary hypotheses. Several conclusions emerge. 2. The microevolution of defence is perhaps best studied by reciprocal transplant experiments of differentiated plant populations while simultaneously manipulating the presence of the herbivore(s) hypothesized to be the agent(s) of natural selection. 3. Although there is continued interest in the costs of defence, I argue that some empirical approaches to estimating costs (e.g. genetic engineering) may provide limited insight into evolutionary processes. 4. Essentially all plants employ several different lines of defence against herbivory. It is thus time to abandon searching for single silver bullet traits and the simple trade-off model (where traits are arbitrarily expected to negatively covary across genotypes or species). We still know very little about which trait combinations are most effective and have repeatedly evolved together. Thus, some of our prominent theories (e.g. a predicted trade-off between direct and indirect defence) need to be revised. 5. Studies of the macroevolution of plant defence are enjoying renewed interest due to available phylogenies and analytical methods. Although general trends are not currently surmisable, we will soon have strong case studies evaluating both biotic and abiotic drivers of convergent evolution in defence strategies and the role of defence evolution in the adaptive radiation of plant lineages. 6. The evolution of specificity is proposed as a final frontier in understanding complexity in plant-herbivore interactions. Although it is abundantly clear that plants can deploy highly specific defensive responses that are differentially perceived by herbivore species, how such responses evolve and are physiologically regulated remains an important gap. Relatively straightforward methodologies are now available to close the loop between plant perception of herbivory, hormonal responses, and production of defensive end-products across genotype or species.
10.2307/2390117|1. The life-history patterns of the cladoceran Daphnia hyalina, widely distributed throughout northern temperate lakes, were observed to vary in the presence of different size-selective predators. 2. These changes were apparently initiated by waterborne cues released by predators. 3. In the presence of a cue released by predators preferring large adult D. hyalina, the daphnids reproduced at a smaller size and used a higher percentage of resources for reproduction than in the absence of this cue. The opposite was observed when daphnids were exposed to a cue originating from a predator preferring small juvenile D. hyalina. 4. The chemically induced responses in life-history traits took place within one generation of a single clone. 5. These results are in agreement with demographic theories concerning direct effects of size-selective predation on prey and are interpreted as adaptive responses to seasonal predators.
20142834|1. Large female insects usually have high potential fecundity. Therefore selection should favour an increase in body size given that these females get opportunities to realize their potential advantage by maturing and laying more eggs. However, ectotherm physiology is strongly temperature-dependent, and activities are carried out sufficiently only within certain temperature ranges. Thus it remains unclear if the fecundity advantage of a large size is fully realized in natural environments, where thermal conditions are limiting. 2. Insect fecundity might be limited by temperature at two levels; first eggs need to mature, and then the female needs time for strategic ovipositing of the egg. Since a female cannot foresee the number of oviposition opportunities that she will encounter on a given day, the optimal rate of egg maturation will be governed by trade-offs associated with egg- and time-limited oviposition. As females of different sizes will have different amounts of body reserves, size-dependent allocation trade-offs between the mother's condition and her egg production might be expected. 3. In the temperate butterfly Pararge aegeria, the time and temperature dependence of oviposition and egg maturation, and the interrelatedness of these two processes were investigated in a series of laboratory experiments, allowing a decoupling of the time budgets for the respective processes. 4. The results show that realized fecundity of this species can be limited by both the temperature dependence of egg maturation and oviposition under certain thermal regimes. Furthermore, rates of oviposition and egg maturation seemed to have regulatory effects upon each other. Early reproductive output was correlated with short life span, indicating a cost of reproduction. Finally, large females matured more eggs than small females when deprived of oviposition opportunities. Thus, the optimal allocation of resources to egg production seems dependent on female size. 5. This study highlights the complexity of processes underlying rates of egg maturation and oviposition in ectotherms under natural conditions. We further discuss the importance of temperature variation for egg- vs. time-limited fecundity and the consequences for the evolution of female body size in insects.
4540102|1. During the adult stage many arthropod species, including aphid predators and parasitoids, depend on nectar and honeydew as a source of carbohydrates. Despite the importance of sugar feeding for these organisms, we know little about their energy and nutrient provision under field conditions. 2. Here we assessed the nutritional state of adult parasitoids, hoverflies and lacewings in a Swiss winter wheat (WW) and a spring wheat (SW) field and studied the contribution of honeydew to the diet of these aphidophagous insects. The total sugar level and the glucose-fructose ratio were used as indicators for nutritional state and sugar feeding. 3. Over 76% of the collected individuals from each of the three insect groups in both fields had recently consumed carbohydrates. The average nutritional state was significantly higher in the SW field for Chrysoperla carnea and Aphidius spp. 4. Honeydew consumption by insects is commonly investigated by analyzing target insects for the presence of honeydew 'signature' sugars, such as melezitose and erlose. However, our laboratory studies show that adults of the three insect orders investigated synthesize these 'honeydew-specific' sugars after sucrose feeding. 5. As the erlose-melezitose ratio of sucrose-fed Aphidius spp. and the hoverfly Episyrphus balteatus differed clearly from the honeydew sugar profiles of wheat infesting aphids, this ratio could be used as an alternative indicator of honeydew feeding. However, this method could not be used for the lacewing C carnea. 6. Our data show that 55% (WW) and 59% (SW) of field-collected Aphidius spp. which showed evidence of sugar feeding could be classified as having consumed honeydew within the 24-48 h before collection. Evidence of honeydew feeding by hoverflies, on the other hand, was found to be much more variable, ranging from 0% in the WW field to 44% in the SW field. 7. This study shows that the detection of honeydew consumption in field-collected insects based on honeydew oligosaccharides can be feasible even when insects synthesize these oligosaccharides themselves.
20142843|1. Resprouting in woody plants is a trait that facilitates persistence in disturbance-prone environments. Patterns of allocation of resources for resprouting may depend on the severity of disturbance to which the plants are adapted. Fire-adapted plants allocate more resources to below-ground structures for resprouting after destruction of above-ground structures. However, plants that resprout in response to disturbances where above-ground structures survive may remobilize above-ground resources for resprouting. 2. In coastal sand dunes, stem leaning and partial uprooting of trees result in high frequency of resprouting (389% of individuals; 906% of species). We tested whether 'good' and 'poor' resprouters differed in allocation to root biomass and root carbohydrate reserves. Species were assigned to categories of resprouting ability based on the frequency of multi-stemmed individuals in the local population. To control for phylogenetic effects, we contrasted poor and good resprouter species pairs from three families. 3. We tested whether plants stored more reserves in roots or stems and whether above-ground resources were remobilized for resprouting. The latter was measured from the number and dry mass of sprouts produced by trees cut to stump heights of 10 and 150 cm above-ground level. 4. Good resprouters had larger seedling root:shoot ratios and higher stem and root carbohydrate concentrations than poor resprouters. Both good and poor resprouters maintained higher carbohydrate concentrations in stems than in roots. 5. For both good and poor resprouters, 150-cm stumps produced more sprouts than 10-cm stumps. At each stump height, good resprouters produced more sprouts than poor resprouters. 6. Resource allocation in coastal dune trees appears to be a bet-hedging strategy. After low-severity disturbances, resprouting occurs by remobilization of above-ground resources. Below-ground resources may be more costly to remobilize but may allow recovery from occasional more severe disturbances.
40407715|1. Wood anatomical characteristics are an important source of information about how trees are coping with the conflicting requirements of optimal hydraulic conductivity and safety. In this study we compared the vessel characteristics of "Avicennia marina and Rhizophora mucronata" to contribute to a better understanding of the difference in distribution of these two mangrove species. 2. Density, grouping and diameters of vessels together with vessel element length of A. marina trees growing on seven different study sites in Gazi Bay (Kenya) were measured and compared with the vessel characteristics of R. mucronata of the same research area. Furthermore, the relation of environmental factors related to the water relations of mangrove trees to the wood anatomy of both species was tested. 3. Vessel density of both species and vessel grouping of A. marina are higher with higher salinity. In addition, A. marina was shown to have a higher vessel density, a higher vessel grouping, smaller vessel diameters and shorter vessel element lengths as compared to R. mucronata. 4. As the vessel characteristics of A. marina are related to protection against cavitation or the effects of cavitation, we can infer that this species has a water transport system which can be considered safer under water limiting conditions than that of R. mucronata. 5. The contrast in the safety of the water transport system between the two mangrove species studied is reflected in their distribution at local scale, over the land-sea ecotone, and it may also explain the wide latitudinal distribution of A. marina as compared to R mucronata. 6. This conclusion emphasizes the importance of the anatomy of the water transport system for survival under diverse environmental conditions. In general it is shown that dominant species of a single ecosystem can deal with the stressful conditions they live in by contrasting ecological strategies.
2390421|1. In many animal species, dietary habits shift with body size, and differ between the sexes. However, the intraspecific range of body sizes is usually low, making it difficult to quantify size-associated trophic shifts, or to determine the degree to which sex differences in diet are due to body-size differences. Large snakes are ideal for such a study, because they provide a vast range of body sizes within a single population. 2. More than 1000 Reticulated Pythons (Python reticulatus) from southern Sumatra were examined, with specimens from 1.5 to > 6 m in snout-vent length, and from 1 to 75 kg in mass. Females attained much larger body sizes than did conspecific males (maxima of 20 vs 75 kg, 5 vs 7 m), but had similar head lengths at the same body lengths. 3. Prey sizes, feeding frequencies and numbers of stomach parasites (ascarid nematodes) increased with body size in both sexes, and dietary composition changed ontogenetically. Small snakes fed mostly on rats, but shifted to larger mammalian taxa (e.g. pangolins, porcupines, monkeys, wild pigs, mouse deer) at 3-4-m body length. 4. Adult males and females showed strong ecological divergence. For some traits, this divergence was entirely caused by the strong allometry (combined with sexual size dimorphism), but in other cases (e.g. feeding frequency, dietary composition), the sexes followed different allometric trajectories. For example, females shifted from rats to larger mammals at a smaller body size than did conspecific males, and feeding frequencies increased more rapidly with body size in females than in males. These allometric divergences enhanced the degree of sex difference in trophic ecology induced by sexual size dimorphism.
10.2307/2389416|The sampler extracts uncompressed cores of 20-cm diameter, 50-70 cm long from the surface layers of peat. Peat water remains undisturbed in the cores and fugitive variables such as E<sub>H</sub> are also retained. Slices as thin as 1 cm can be made with ease. Cores can be got from pools and hollows as well as from lawns and hummocks.
41239230|1. Several theories have provided a framework for understanding variation in plant defence against herbivores. Among them, the plant apparency theory and the resource availability hypothesis (RAH) have aimed to explain the patterns of defence investment and the selective pressures that have led to the variety of defensive strategies across species. Here we provide a historical review of both theories, present evidence that shaped their development and contrast their predictions. 2. We present the results of a meta-analysis of the utility of the RAH 25 years after it was proposed and compare it to apparency theory. We performed a meta-analysis of 50 studies that have examined plant growth, defences and herbivory in relation to resource availability across latitude and ontogeny. Specifically, we tested four predictions that follow the RAH: (i) species adapted to resource-rich environments have intrinsically faster growth rates than species adapted to resourcepoor environments; (ii) fast-growing species have shorter leaf lifetimes than slow-growing species; (iii) fast-growing species have lower amounts of constitutive defences than slow-growing species; and (iv) fast-growing species support higher herbivory rates than slow-growing species. 3. Our results confirm the predictions that species adapted to resource-poor environments grow inherently more slowly, invest more in constitutive defences and support lower herbivory than species from more productive habitats. Our data also showed that variation in growth rate among species better explains the differences in herbivory than variation in apparency, suggesting that the evolution of different defensive strategies across species is resource, rather than herbivore driven. We also found that the application of this theory appears robust across latitude and ontogeny, as the magnitude of the effect sizes for most of the predictions did not vary significantly between ecosystems or across ontogenic stages. 4. We conclude that the RAH has served as a valid framework for investigating the patterns of plant defences and that its applicability is quite general.
3598984| 1. Maternal diet can significantly influence the quality and size of eggs, and this may, in turn, influence the fitness of offspring. In this study, we show how antioxidants (vitamin E compounds and carotenoids) in the diet of female zebra finches influence the concentrations of antioxidants in their eggs. Antioxidants are biochemicals derived from the diet, which reduce damage to cell membranes caused by the free radicals produced during normal metabolism and growth. 2. Females were given either a seed-only or a seed + rearing food diet prior to egg laying. The seed + rearing food diet was more enriched with carotenoids, but had lower amounts of less effective antioxidants, such as -tocopherol. Eggs were collected as they were laid, then analysed to determine the concentrations of antioxidants using high-performance liquid chromatography. 3. Females in the two food groups had similar rates of food consumption and laid similar sized clutches. Females on the seed-only diet produced eggs of similar mass to that of females on the seed + rearing food diet. 4. The concentrations of the most effective antioxidant (-tocopherol) were higher in the eggs of females from the seed-only group and, for both food groups, concentrations decreased with successively laid eggs within clutches. The concentration of carotenoids in egg yolks did not differ between food treatments, but also decreased with successive eggs. Less effective antioxidants were relatively under-represented in eggs in relation to their availability in food, and were deposited in similar overall amounts between the two food treatments, and independently of laying sequence. 5. Our results indicate that egg size is not necessarily an accurate guide to egg quality, especially when comparing between clutches of different females or across species. Females may be able to adjust egg composition to influence offspring quality variation within broods, possibly traded-off against their personal use of antioxidants, their future reproductive success, control over sibling competition within their brood and/or brood reduction. 
10.2307/2390037|1. Fledging weight has been shown to correlate with survival in many bird species and, therefore, is an important component of fitness. Fledging weight results from growth during the nestling stage. Hence, environmental effects on nestling growth in altricial bird species play a key role in proximate explanations of selection after fledging. 2. We describe and test a method to quantify environmental effects on (daily) increments in nestling weight. It accounts for the known genetic component of growth and simultaneously detects the effects of short-term environmental fluctuations on growth. 3. The method is illustrated with data on daily weights of individual great tit nestlings from a rich and from a nutritionally marginal study area near Basel, Switzerland. However, the method can also be applied to other traits. 4. The observed weight increment is expressed as a ratio through division by the increment expected under good conditions. The expected increment is calculated from a Richards growth curve with a shape parameter derived from a fit on nestlings growing under favourable conditions and an asymptotic weight based on parental weight to incorporate the genetic component. 5. Under good conditions the ratio of realized over expected growth increment is on average close to 1.0 irrespective of nestling age. Under poor conditions, however, there is a decrease in ratio with an increase in age due to a larger influence of the environmental conditions later in the growth period. 6. The method is only useful when the expected growth increments are greater than the measurement error, in our examples about 0.1 g. 7. Monte Carlo simulations confirm that our interpretations are realistic. 8. We demonstrate that mean parental winter weight as an estimator of the asymptote is a practicable way of incorporating genetic variance in final body weight into growth models.
10.2307/2390074|1. Apical buds of mountain birches were clipped to simulate browsing by herbivores, and leaf traits of the subsequent leaf generation were recorded. 2. Clipping of only one quiescent apical bud from tips of all branches in winter mduced the whole ramet to produce short shoot leaves which were significantly larger and contained more water compared with leaves of unmanipulated ramets of the same birch individual. Such leaves were previously shown to be more suitable for herbivores than leaves of unmanipulated control trees. 3. Increasing the number of clipped buds to three or four per branch further intensified the responses: This demonstrated the importance of apical meristems for the regulation of resource allocation to growing short shoot leaves. Tree-by-treatment interactions were significant, indicating individual responses of the trees. 4. Removal of expanding apical buds in spring at the time of bud break induced responses that were similar to those in trees clipped in winter. Again individual trees responded differently so that the tree-by-treatment interaction was significant but the main effect of treatment was only marginally significant. Trees with advanced bud expansion did not respond, or responded only weakly, to the clipping treatment, whereas trees with delayed bud development still responded. Late leafing characterizes small-leaved dwarf birch-type trees and there was a significant negative correlation between leaf size in control ramets and increase in leaf size caused by spring clipping of buds. 5. The sensitivity of mountain birch to disturbances of apical dominance might make it possible for herbivores to manipulate the quality of their food resource.
2656347|1. Thermal adaptation was investigated in the fruitfly Drosophila buzzatii Patterson and Wheeler. Two natural populations originating from a high- and a low-temperature environment, respectively, were compared with respect to Hsp70 (heat shock protein) expression, knock-down resistance and heat shock resistance. 2. Three main hypotheses were tested: (i) The expression level of Hsp70 in flies from the high-temperature habitat should be down-regulated relative to flies from the colder habitat. (ii) Flies having higher Hsp70 expression levels should be weakened most by a hardening treatment and go faster into coma, as Hsp70 level reflects stress intensity, and therefore display reduced heat knock-down resistance. (iii) Heat shock resistance should be increased in the population with highest Hsp70 expression because the level of Hsp70 is positively associated with this trait. 3. The results generally matched the hypotheses. Hsp70 expression was reduced in the high-temperature population. Knock-down resistance was higher in the high-temperature population and survival after heat shock was lower in the high-temperature population. 4. This study showed genetic differences in thermal tolerance between populations, indicating that high temperature in nature may be an important selective factor. Moreover, knock-down resistance in this study seems to be a more relevant trait than standard heat shock resistance for identifying thermal adaptation in natural populations.
826694|1. Seed germination characteristics are often modified after seeds are ingested by frugivores. Factors that are intrinsic either to the plant or to the frugivore's digestive tract are responsible for the great variation observed in germination response. 2. Our objectives were to determine whether and how the seed germination patterns of five common western Mediterranean plant species are affected by seed passage through the guts of their major dispersers, and to elucidate the mechanism by which such patterns are changed. 3. We used captive birds (Turdus merula and Sylvia melanocephala) to obtain ingested seeds and compared their germination rate (speed) and germinability (final percent germination) with those of controls (uningested, pulp-removed seeds), controlling for seed age, size and source. Germination was monitored for 2 years in an experimental garden. We evaluated the possible changes in seed traits after ingestion by measuring weight and coat thickness, and by observing seed coat sculpture. 4. Rate of seed germination, but not germinability, changed in all species after gut treatment. The greatest effect was in Osyris, in which germination was much enhanced. A great acceleration of germination, which is likely to translate into a seedling size advantage, was also found in Asparagus. In the other three species tested, germination was slower for ingested than for control seeds. 5. For Rubus and Rubia seeds, we found a different germination response depending upon the frugivore species tested. A different degree of seed coat scarification caused by differences in gut retention time, chemical and/or mechanical abrasion probably account for such responses. 6. In three of the species (Osyris, Rubia and Phillyrea), seed weight decreased after gut treatment. Such weight loss was not caused by any change in coat thickness, but may have been because of the scarification and consequent alteration of the seed coat structure. 7. The five Mediterranean species studied germinate when rains are most likely to fall (mostly autumn and spring). The different speed of germination promoted by gut treatment within frugivores may increase the probability that seeds can recruit successfully at a given time and in a given place. 8. This study suggests that frugivores contribute to the heterogeneity in germination characteristics not only within plant populations but also within plant communities, each frugivore species having a particular effect on the seeds of each plant consumed.
10.2307/2390154|1. Climbing plants utilize external structures as support for upright growth. Because climbers lack the capacity to hold themselves upright, their performance in natural vegetation will be restricted by the availability of suitable supporting structures and by their efficiency in ascending these structures. 2. In a greenhouse experiment we studied the effect of external support on height growth and biomass partitioning in three herbaceous tendril climbers and three herbaceous twiners from the temperate zone. To simulate the success and failure of encountering support, one third of all plants was supplied with support directly at the start of the experiment, one third remained unsupported during the whole experimental period (3 months) and the remaining third was offered support after they had attained their maximum self-supporting height (approximately half way through the experimental period). 3. Supported plants were longer than unsupported individuals of the same species. Total plant dry weight was not affected by support availability. However, unsupported plants allocated more plant mass to shoots relative to roots and invested more aboveground mass in branches relative to the main shoot than did supported plants. Furthermore, unsupported plants produced a larger number of branches, that presumably were foraging for external support. Overall responses were consistent in all climbers. 4. Plasticity in allocation patterns and morphology may be interpreted as adaptations allowing herbaceous climbers to forage for external support.
20142871|1. It has been proposed that in longer-living leaves the allocation of biomass to structural components is greater than in shorter-living leaves, leading to a greater leaf mass per area (LMA) and to lower assimilation rates. However, direct evidence in support of this hypothesis is very scarce. 2. In the present work we investigated the relationships between leaf duration and LMA, leaf thickness and fibre concentrations (cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin) in five oak species, five pine species and three additional tree species, differing in leaf life spans. Correlations among leaf life span and the other leaf traits were obtained both across species (TIPs) and as phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs). 3. Leaf thickness and LMA increased steadily with leaf longevity. No relationship was found between leaf longevity and the lignin concentration per unit leaf mass. Evergreen leaves were found to have higher mean concentrations of cellulose and hemicellulose than deciduous ones. However, no relationship was observed between leaf longevity and the concentration of structural carbohydrates across the set of evergreen species, although PIC correlations revealed increases in cellulose with leaf longevity within particular lineages. 4. Our findings reveal that leaf reinforcement by structural carbohydrates depends on leaf habit (deciduous vs. evergreen) and, within a given lineage, also on leaf longevity. However, among the evergreen species co-occurring in a particular environment, leaf duration may apparently be increased, with no need for increases in the concentration of structural components per unit leaf mass.
10.2307/2390292|1. A laboratory-scale model spruce ecosystem has been established to monitor the effects of exudates on roots, mycorrhizas and the rhizosphere. 2. Vertical windows were installed for the observation of root growth and mycorrhiza formation. Cuvettes could be mounted in the place of the vertical windows and planted with axenically precultured spruce seedlings as test plants. 3. The roots of test seedlings and ecosystem plants remained separated by a 60- m nylon net except for the interconnecting mycorrhizal hyphae. This allowed sampling of the seedlings without disturbance of the below-ground part of the ecosystem. 4. When the test plantlets were cultivated on artificial supports such as glass fibre sheets instead of forest soil, it was possible to collect roots together with the associated micro-organisms, i.e. to study a rhizosphere without edaphic components.
10.2307/2389369|1 Reproductive allocation (RA), defined as weight of reproductive structures as a proportion of total above-ground biomass, was measured in 40 species of British grasses grown under greenhouse conditions. Reproductive structures were defined as the entire inflorescence, plus stem above the highest culm leaf. 2 RA varied from zero, in a few species which did not flower even after 2 years' growth, to over 50% in most annuals. 3 All eight species of annuals flowered in the first year of growth and had consistently high values of RA. 4 Perennials of deeply shaded, droughted or nutrient-deficient habitats took 2 years to flower and had consistently low values of RA. 5 Among the perennials of more mesic habitats, RA was correlated with growth form. RA was low in all stoloniferous or rhizomatous species. In tufted species RA was variable but low in only a minority. In both annual and perennial tufted species, RA was negatively correlated with potential maximum height.
3599231|1. Woody plant responses to crown removal in fire-prone vegetation are of two types: resprouting (resprouters) or killed (obligate seeders). Obligate seeders maximize their fitness by ensuring they are reproductively mature before the next fire; resprouters invest in structures that increase their chance of surviving the next fire. 2. We tested whether seven congeneric pairs of resprouter and obligate seeder shrubs differ in plant size, leaf traits, water relations, biomass allocation and root starch formation in response to resource availability. This was tested by examining the interactive effects of water and nutrient availability in a factorial experiment. 3. Plant size (dry mass and shoot length), leaf area and stomatal conductance did not differ consistently among resprouters and obligate seeders, but were affected by water and nutrient availability. Leaf-area ratio and specific leaf area were not affected consistently by nutrient or water availability, and did not differ among obligate seeders and resprouters. 4. Biomass allocation responded to resource availability and differed between resprouter and obligate seeder pairs. Nutrient addition reduced allocation to root mass, and resprouters consistently allocated more than obligate seeders to root mass. Leaf mass ratios were higher in obligate seeders, and were maintained at the expense of stem mass when nutrients limited growth. 5. Starch concentrations in the roots of resprouters were higher than in obligate seeders. Resprouters increased the concentration of starch in their roots when growth was limited by nutrients, but obligate seeders did not. Resprouters appear to develop a starch-storage capacity through both reserve formation and accumulation mediated by nutrient availability. 6. Allocation, rather than growth differences, provide some insight into why resprouters are often more common than obligate seeders, especially on fertile sites. Seedlings of resprouters may be advantaged at fertile sites because allocation to roots and starch reserve formation enable them to be better competitors after fire. We predict that the interplay of biomass allocation, reproduction, starch storage and disturbance frequency provide a framework for patterns of coexistence in shrubs in fire-prone ecosystems.
10.2307/2389515|1. The Queensland blossom bat (Syconycteris australis) is a specialist nectar and pollen feeder. Physiological factors that affect the efficiency of pollen use as a nitrogen source include pollen digestion and alimentary retention times. I examined how pollen of different forms affect these digestive constraints in blossom bats. 2. Twice as many pollen grains were empty in the intestine compared to the stomach, suggesting that the stomach is not the main site of pollen digestion. The percentage of pure Banksia pollen (53%) digested was similar to that of pure Callistemon pollen (55%). The percentage of Banksia pollen digested did not increase with time spent in the gut. 3. Pollen type affects the rate of food passage, in that the mean retention time (MRT) of Callistemon pollen (50 min) is significantly shorter than that of Banksia pollen (163 min). An experiment using a mixture of different-sized pollen grains, consisting of large Grevillea and Banksia and small myrtaceous pollen, showed that each pollen type had a similar passage time through the gut. This indicates that larger pollen is not selectively retained in the gut. 4. Gut passage rates for blossom bats are considerably faster than passage rates of other pollen feeders, but slower than fruit passage rates in larger flying foxes.
826683|1. Little is known about how population density affects the foraging behaviour of individuals. Simple models are developed to predict the net effect of density on the quitting-harvest rates of optimal foragers. The theory was tested with experiments that measured the foraging behaviour of free-ranging Deer Mice under control and reduced densities. 2. An increased density of conspecifics may (a) reduce the costs of foraging by increasing competition for resources (reduces the energetic state of the forager; competition hypothesis) or (b) increase the costs of foraging by increasing the value of time spent on social activities (social benefits hypothesis). 3. A reduction in the costs of foraging caused by competition will reduce the quitting-harvest rate of an optimal forager, whereas an increase in the value of alternative activities will increase the quitting-harvest rate. Both hypotheses predict a reduction in optimal foraging time with increased density. 4. The hypothesis that applies to Deer Mice (Peromyscus maniculatus, Wagner) was assessed by measuring their foraging activity and quitting-harvest rates at control and reduced population densities on four study plots located in boreal forest in north-western Ontario, Canada. 5. Deer Mice increased their per capita foraging activity and their quitting-harvest rates when population densities were reduced. The results confirm the very important role of competition in the behaviour of optimal foragers.
10.2307/2389864|1. In solitary insect parasitoids hosts can only support the development of a single larva. We review the experimental evidence for the ability of parasitoid females to distinguish between hosts parasitized by a conspecific, hosts parasitized by a female of a different species, and self-parasitized hosts. 2. We consider the case of a female that is able to distinguish between unparasitized, self- and non-self-parasitized hosts and a dynamic programming model is developed to predict circumstances under which this female will not discriminate between host types. Host patches deplete when the wasp is foraging in them and the decisions of the wasps concerning whether or not to accept a non-self-parasitized host and how long to stay in a patch are based on the numbers of each host type left in the patch. 3. Handling times, the fitness increments gained through oviposition in a particular host, travel time between patches and the initial numbers of each host type in the patch are shown to influence both patch residence time and the number of parasitized hosts accepted for oviposition. Mortality risks within and between patches and the age of the female affects its foraging strategy. 4. The results of this study are compared with the predictions of a rate-maximizing equivalent of the dynamic programming model and it is shown that the predictions derived from dynamic programming not only include those from rate-maximizing models as a special case but also that the predictions differ when mortality risks are different within and between patches.
10.2307/2389973|1. Plants of Encelia farinosa growing along a 135-m slope in the Sonoran Desert of Arizona experienced differences in their seasonal moisture regimes. During the spring and summer the slope was characterized by progressively increasing moisture stress from the bottom (wash site) to the top (ridge site). The moisture differences were reflected at the community level by the presence of more cacti at the ridge site and more grasses at the wash site, and at the organismic level by more negative plant water potentials and less negative <sup>13</sup>C values (higher water-use efficiencies) in plants of E. farinosa at the ridge site. 2. Analysis of genetic variation within the population using electrophoresis revealed no evidence of allele frequency differences between plants in the wash site and those in the ridge site. Estimates using electrophoretic markers indicated that gene flow along the gradient was high enough to overcome genetic differentiation by genetic drift alone. Despite high levels of gene flow along the topographic gradient, there was evidence of genetic differentiation at the genotype level and physiological level. Differential genotype selection was supported through observations that wash plants exhibited deficiencies of heterozygotes at two out of five variable loci, compared to ridge plants. 3. In a series of greenhouse studies, physiological differentiation was observed through lower stomatal conductances and more conservative use of limited soil moisture supplies in ridge plants, compared to plants from the more mesic wash site. The responses of photosynthesis rate and stomatal conductance to decreasing pre-dawn water potentials were similar between wash and ridge plants. 4. The results indicate that physiological differentiation in this population of E. farinosa occurs with respect to patterns of water use, rather than patterns of tolerance to water stress.
10.2307/2389960|1. An unusual suite of sexually dimorphic features characterizing the voiceless Bornean frog, Rana blythi, could be the product of sexual selection or intraspecific niche dimorphim. s. Males have enlarged heads, hypertrophied jaw muscles and bony processes or fangs in the lower jaw. Males are also larger than females. 3. Alternative explanations for the sexual dimorphism are explored by testing the predictions of a biomechanical model for trophic specialization and mapping the historical transformation of the sexually dimorphic characters on a phylogeny of voiceless frogs and their relatives. 4. The results of this analysis indicate that the unusual morphology is most likely the result of sexual selection. 5. The incorporation of approaches from functional morphology considerably strengthens our ability to discriminate between alternative hypotheses for the origin of sexually dimorphic characters.
40603116|1. Life-history theory predicts a trade-off between costs of current reproduction and future survival of individuals. Studies of short-lived animals in general support this prediction. However, the effect of nutritional stress during reproduction on survival of long-lived animals is poorly understood. 2. We examined the link between nutritional stress, fecundity and return to a breeding colony (hereafter 'survival') of black-legged kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyld) at two colonies with contrasting patterns in adult survival, fecundity, and numerical trends. 3. We tested the observational (at Duck and Gull Is., Cook Inlet, Northern Gulf of Alaska) and experimental (at Middleton I., Gulf of Alaska) relationships between variations in the secretion of the stress hormone corticosterone (CORT) and food abundance. Then, we examined the relationships between nutritional stress (as reflected in CORT), reproduction, and survival of individuals. 4. On average, CORT was higher in kittiwakes breeding on Duck I. (declining, low fecundity, high survival) compared to those breeding on Gull I. (increasing, high fecundity, low survival). 5. At both colonies, CORT was directly negatively correlated with food abundance quantified at sea. Experimental feeding of individuals ad libitum resulted in a reduction of CORT in birds breeding on Middleton I. These results suggest that CORT is a reliable measure of food availability and defines nutritional stress (stress) in kittiwakes. 6. On Gull I., where survival is low (86%), production of young declined as stress increased. On Duck I., where survival is high (93%), parents always failed in raising young, though they experienced a wide range of stress levels. 7. Survival of individuals is linked to their CORT levels during reproduction. High levels of CORT predicted disappearance of individuals from both colonies. 8. The results support the hypothesis that nutritional stress during reproduction affects both survival and reproduction in long-lived animals. However, even within a species the ways in which survival and reproduction trade-off against each other may vary among populations. Results suggest that reproductive consequences of nutritional stress might differ between declining and increasing populations, which should be tested. We conclude that severity of nutritional stress during reproduction is one of the major factors defining population processes in kittiwakes.
10.2307/2389632|Thoracic temperatures of two species of unpalatable danaine butterflies in Papua New Guinea were high, exceeding ambient temperature on average by 5.5<sup></sup>C. Males and females of both species flew under conditions of intense solar irradiance, and in most cases showed significant regulation of thoracic temperature. Thoracic temperature excess was not, however, positively correlated with solar irradiance, body mass, or wing loading. In general, equilibrium temperature of a flying butterfly is influenced by choice of microhabitat, flight metabolism, and convective cooling. Interactions between these factors can be complex, and may alternatively result in thoracic temperatures close to ambient (as reported previously for unpalatable neotropical butterflies), or in a high thoracic excess, as exemplified by the danaine butterflies considered here. Association between palatability and thermal biology in butterflies thus has a variety of possible outcomes.
2656445|1. Gas exchange is strongly seasonal in temperate deciduous forests; however, virtually no studies have described measurements made at the leaf scale through the whole growing season. This level of detail is important to understanding processes as substantial differences may occur within the canopy between species and between sun and shade leaves. 2. Gas exchange was measured weekly throughout the growing season in leaves of Oak (Quercus robur) and Sycamore (Acer pseudoplatanus) trees at Wytham Woods, UK. In Q. robur sun, shade and intermediate leaves were sampled on each occasion. 3. Acer pseudoplatanus came into leaf before Q. robur and commenced net assimilation (A) earlier. Maximum irradiance saturated photosynthetic rates (A<sub>max</sub>) in Q. robur were reached approximately 50 days after budburst and were maintained until approximately 20 days before abscission. Acer pseudoplatanus lost its leaves before Q. robur in the autumn and showed no seasonal trend in A<sub>max</sub>. The lag between budburst and attainment of maximum photosynthetic rate in Q. robur was substantial and represented a quarter of the potential growing season. 4. A<sub>max</sub> of A. pseudoplatanus (3.5 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) sun leaves was substantially lower than that of Q. robur (10.4 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) despite A. pseudoplatanus being a fast-growing species. The earlier flushing of A. pseudoplatanus leaves in the spring could not completely compensate for this. It is likely that other variables, such as total leaf area, are responsible for the high growth rate of A. pseudoplatanus, rather than high photosynthetic rates. 5. Shade leaves of Q. robur had lower A<sub>max</sub> and mean A than sun leaves; their quantum efficiency was also lower. Consistent with this, sun leaves had a higher nitrogen content per unit area, resulting from a lower specific leaf area (SLA). 6. Week to week variations in solar radiation influenced A; this could be described by a non-rectangular hyperbola. Stomatal conductance (g<sub>s</sub>) decreased in conditions of high vapour pressure deficit (VPD). However, this did not decrease A as high VPD was associated with high solar radiation and the stimulation of photosynthesis caused by high photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) more than compensated for the reduction by VPD.
2656337|1. Hibernation may alter the relationship between pathogens and their hosts; low host temperatures can prevent pathogen replication. Therefore, manipulating the timing and duration of torpor bouts could allow animals to gain an advantage over pathogens. 2. Thirty-two Turkish Hamsters (Mesocricetus brandti) were placed in short-day, cold conditions. After 10 weeks, 20 animals were challenged with an antigen to simulate a pathogen infection. Ten of these animals were returned to the cold (`cold-challenged'). The other 10 animals were placed in warm conditions (`warm-challenged'). Twelve animals received saline injections and were returned to the cold (`cold-control'). Cold-challenged animals spent significantly more time in torpor than did cold-control animals. 3. After 6.5 weeks, all animals were housed in warm conditions and ceased torpor. Both cold-challenged and warm-challenged animals received a second injection of antigen. There was no correlation between time spent euthermic and level of secondary humoral response of cold-challenged animals. The secondary humoral response of the cold-challenged animals was significantly lower than that of warm-challenged animals. 4. In this study immune status influenced torpor duration, and torpor caused immunosuppression. Hibernators may manipulate body temperature in order to combat pathogens while their own immune systems are suppressed.
2656331|1. To examine the relationship between male-female emergence patterns and ejaculate dynamics, patterns producing sperm and seminal fluids in male internal reproductive organs, the size of a spermatophore transferred at mating and the fate of spermatophore contents moved into female storage organs were compared among the fishflies (Megaloptera: Corydalidae: Chauliodinae), Parachauliodes continentalis, P. japonicus and Neochauliodes sinensis. 2. Spermatophore contents moved into female storage organs decreased rapidly in P. japonicus and N. sinensis, but hardly at all in P. continentalis. This suggests that the females of the former two species may remate sooner than the latter species as it is known in insects that material remaining in the storage organs mechanically inhibits receptivity to mating. 3. Male P. japonicus and N. sinensis increased in internal reproductive organ mass continuously after adult eclosion, and the spermatophore size produced at the first mating increased with male age. In contrast, the internal reproductive organs of P. continentalis were relatively small and did not increase in mass after emergence. P. continentalis transferred a constantly smaller spermatophore at any copulation than the former two species. 4. Males of P. japonicus and N. sinensis emerged earlier than females, while P. continentalis showed a nearly simultaneous emergence pattern between the sexes. It seems that males of P. japonicus and N. sinensis (more polyandrous than P. continentalis) inhibit female receptivity for a longer time period by emerging earlier and transferring larger ejaculates. In these two species, the number of sperm ejaculated at the first mating also increased with male age. The increase in sperm number by emerging earlier may be adaptive for the males owing to numerical sperm competition when the female remates.
4139392|1. Endophytic fungi are associates of most species of plants and may modify insect community structures through the production of toxic alkaloids. Fertilization is known to increase food plant quality for herbivores, but it is also conceivable that additional nitrogen could increase the production of the insect toxic alkaloid, peramine, in endophyteinfected plants. 2. The relative importance of soil fertility and endophyte infection on herbivores and their natural enemies is unknown. As performance of the host plant is often affected by an interaction between endophyte infection and genetic background, four different plant cultivars were tested. The main questions addressed in this study were whether plant cultivar and fertilizer addition to endophyte-infected and endophyte-free Lolium perenne affect alkaloid concentrations, plant life-history traits and the abundances of aphid species and their parasitoids. 3. In a full factorial outdoor experiment we found a strong positive effect of fertilizer on plant biomass and on the abundance of aphids and parasitoids. While plant traits differed between cultivars, there was little effect of cultivar on either aphid or parasitoid abundance. Only endophyte-infected plants contained alkaloids, and the concentration of peramine was enhanced in fertilized plants. However, endophyte infec had no negative effect on aphid or parasitoid abundances. Plant traits were only weakly influenced by endophyte infection in the field, which contrasts with plant growth room studies, where both germination rate and plant height were influenced by endophytecultivar interactions. 4. The generally weak effects of endophytes in the outdoor experiment could be explained by various additional constraints under field conditions and the relatively low peramine concentration that we observed.
10.2307/2390110|1. Even though herbivorous fish have longer digestive tracts than carnivorous fish, a fact which agrees with optimal digestion theory, the existence of a relation between relative length of the digestive tract and capacity to digest and assimilate algal material has not been experimentally demonstrated. 2. We tested whether an increase in gut dimensions during ontogeny was associated with an increase in capability of fish to digest macroalgae in Aplodactylus punctatus. 3. Total gut length of this temperate marine fish increased from 43 to 237 cm as body length increased from 22 to 42 cm total length (TL). 4. Macroalgae, mainly fronds of the brown kelp Lessonia trabeculata, were the principal item found in their guts. 5. Individuals smaller than 30 cm had a higher proportion of invertebrate biomass in their gut than larger fish (40.6% and 0.3% of total content, respectively). 6. Transit time for Lessonia fronds increased as a function of body size, ranging between 20 h in fish 26.6 cm TL and 52 h in 40.0 cm fish. 7. Apparent digestibility of organic matter and total nitrogen increased as a function of body size from 38% to 80% when feeding on a Lessonia diet, and from 57% to 96% on a Ulva sp. diet. 8. These results explain why small herbivorous fish need to consume animal prey to satisfy their high mass-specific protein demands. 9. This study constitutes the first experimental demonstration in fish that an increase in relative gut length is associated with an increase in the capability to digest macroalgae. This allows larger fish to meet their energetic demands by consuming algae owing to their capability to digest low-quality food.
41239307|1. Given the enormous quantitative pollen requirements of bees and their high efficiency in pollen removal, flowers should balance the need to attract bees for pollination on the one hand and to restrict pollen loss to bees on the other hand. Although various morphological flower traits have been identified that reduce excessive pollen losses to bees, the question of whether pollen might also be chemically protected remains largely unexplored. 2. In this study we compared the larval performance of the two very closely related and highly pollen generalist solitary bee species Osmia bicornis and Osmia cornuta on four different pollen diets. 3. Despite their very large pollen diet breadth, the two bee species showed striking differences in their ability to develop on pollen of the same plant species. Osmia bicornis developed well on Ranunculus pollen but failed to do so on Echium pollen, whereas the reverse held true for O. cornuta with the exception of two larvae grown on Ranunculus pollen that developed into dwarfish adults. Both bee species performed well on Sinapis pollen, while neither of the two species managed to develop on Tanacetum pollen. 4. The observed differences in larval survival of these two Osmia species when reared on the same pollen diet as well as their failure to develop on Tanacetum pollen clearly demonstrate that bees require physiological adaptations to cope with the unfavourable chemical properties of certain pollen. 5. Our results show a remarkable analogy of bee-flower relationships with herbivore-plant interactions and possibly indicate that the pollen of certain plant taxa might be chemically protected.
4540090|1. As essential compounds of plant cell walls, hemicelluloses account for about a quarter of all plant biomass worldwide. 2. In seed cotyledons and endosperm of species from several plant families, hemicelluloses are used as mobile carbon reserves. Whether cell wall hemicellu of nonreproductive plant tissue are multifunctional molecules, which can also serve as carbon sources during periods of enhanced carbon demand, is still equivocal. 3. This review summarizes the current understanding of a possible reserve function of hemicelluloses. Although several descriptive and experimental studies suggested at least partial mobility of cell wall polysaccharides in mature, non-reproductive plant tissues, there is still a need for a broad-scale, ecophysiological exploration of the actual nature of hemicelluloses beyond their structural function. 4. The chemical heterogeneity of hemicelluloses may be the major problem for precise quantitative analyses on a large, comparative scale. 5. Because of the abundant distribution of hemicelluloses in plants, the existence of a significant mobile carbohydrate pool in cell walls of non-reproductive organs would shed rather new light on plant carbon relations in a source-sink context. 6. Consequently, a reserve function of hemicelluloses questions the conventional division of cell compounds into structural (i.e. immobile) and non-structural (i.e. mobile) compounds.
41319577|1. Traditional approaches to understanding species responses to environmental conditions have focused on the isolated effects of single Stressors, despite the fact that in nature organisms experience a variety of conditions. 2. In tropical monsoonal areas, intertidal animals can face hot desiccating conditions during emersion preceded, or followed by, intense rainfall. The combined effects of these stresses on physiological responses and protein profiles were investigated in a limpet, Cellana grata. 3. With short exposure (60 min) to single Stressors, heat stressed limpets had elevated heart rates and more concentrated haemolymph and mantle water osmolalities than under normal temperatures or awash. Animals under rain had reduced haemolymph and mantle water osmolalities, but similar heart rates to unstressed animals. 4. After 120 min, unstressed animals did not differ in their physiological responses. Heat stressed limpets, however, had faster heart rates and more concentrated haemolymph and mantle water osmolalities, whilst those under rain had the lowest osmolalities, but similar heart rates to unstressed animals. 5. Limpets under rain followed by heat stress had faster heart rates, but lower haemolymph and mantle water osmolalities compared to animals under normal temperatures or heat stress. Limpets that were heat stressed, followed by rain, had similar heart rates to animals awash, under rain or normal temperatures but lower haemolymph osmolalities than other treatments, with the exception of limpets under rain. 6. There was a positive relationship between haemolymph and mantle water osmolalities, except for animals under rain, where mantle water osmolality was lower than the haemolymph, suggesting some isolation of body fluids from the external medium. 7. Haemolymph protein/peptide mass spectra of heat stressed animals (either before or after rain) were similar, while all other treatments differed, suggesting differential expression and regulation of proteins. 8. Heat stress invokes a more active physiological and protein level response than rain, but their combination had an interactive effect on limpets' metabolism. 9. Identifying the effects of multiple stresses at a variety of biological levels highlights the interactive effects which impact species, and provides a more complete understanding of how species may respond to environmental changes in their natural habitats.
10.2307/2389672|r/K theory classically predicts that offspring size should increase under density-dependent selection. However, this is questionable, being based on implicit rather than explicit assumptions (the logistic model does not include offspring size as a parameter). From recent models of optimal offspring size (Sibly & Calow, 1983; Taylor & Williams, 1984) it can be shown that density should select for larger offspring if density-dependence in the per capita rate of increase is mainly due to a reduction of the juvenile growth rate or survivorship. In contrast, density should select for smaller offspring if such density-dependence is mainly due to a reduction of adult fecundity or survivorship. Therefore, the outcome of selection cannot be predicted without precise knowledge of the density-dependence of age-specific reproduction and mortality rates. To test the above models, genetically identical individuals of Simocephalus vetulus (Muller) were reared in a density gradient; density-dependence in the per capita rate of increase was shown to be mainly due to a reduction of the juvenile growth rate, thereby selecting for larger offspring; offspring size at birth appeared to be phenotypically plastic and to increase with density. Models were therefore qualitatively supported. However, a discrepancy occurred in quantitative predictions; offspring were produced larger than predicted. Field and laboratory studies are suggested to address this.
4540038|1. Ecologically significant evolutionary change, occurring over tens of generations or fewer, is now widely documented in nature. These findings counter the long-standing assumption that ecological and evolutionary processes occur on different time-scales, and thus that the study of ecological processes can safely assume evolutionary stasis. Recognition that substantial evolution occurs on ecological time-scales dissolves this dichotomy and provides new opportunities for integrative approaches to pressing questions in many fields of biology. 2. The goals of this special feature are twofold: to consider the factors that influence evolution on ecological time-scales - phenotypic plasticity, maternal effects, sexual selection, and gene flow - and to assess the consequences of such evolution - for population persistence, speciation, community dynamics, and ecosystem function. 3. The role of evolution in ecological processes is expected to be largest for traits that change most quickly and for traits that most strongly influence ecological interactions. Understanding this fine-scale interplay of ecological and evolutionary factors will require a new class of eco-evolutionary dynamic modelling. 4. Contemporary evolution occurs in a wide diversity of ecological contexts, but appears to be especially common in response to anthropogenic changes in selection and population structure. Evolutionary biology may thus offer substantial insight to many conservation issues arising from global change. 5. Recent studies suggest that fluctuating selection and associated periods of contemporary evolution are the norm rather than exception throughout the history of life on earth. The consequences of contemporary evolution for population dynamics and ecological interactions are likely ubiquitous in time and space.
4139328|1. Climate projections suggest that extreme events will increase in frequency during this century. As tundra is recognized to be among the most vulnerable biomes, we exposed patches of arctic tundra vegetation to an experimental heatwave (by infrared irradiation), followed by a recovery period. The heating increased the surface temperature with an average of
3599216| 1. We employed standardized measurement techniques and protocols to describe the size dependence of whole-tree water use and cross-sectional area of conducting xylem (sapwood) among several species of angiosperms and conifers. 2. The results were not inconsistent with previously proposed -power scaling of water transport with estimated above-ground biomass. However, for a given size, angiosperms transported considerably greater quantities of water than conifers. 3. In the angiosperms studied, the scaling of water transport with sapwood area, stem diameter and above-ground biomass was best described by sigmoid functions rather than a power function, consistent with the previously reported size dependence of other processes such as growth. 4. At least three distinct species groupings for relationships between sapwood area and stem basal area were observed. Scaling of sapwood area with stem radius was well described by a power function of the form
826604|1. Environmental variables that positively affect one aspect of plant fitness, may have no effect, or even negatively affect some other component of fitness. 2. Using individuals of Achillea millefolium grown under field conditions in Michigan, USA, the hypothesis was tested that seed number was determined largely by plant biomass, while seed germination success depends on tissue nutrient concentrations. The impact was assessed of four biotic and abiotic factors on seed number and germination success: root competition, shoot competition, fertilizer, and removal of fungi by fungicide application. 3. Using a path analysis, it was found that total plant biomass positively affected both seed number and germination success, while inclusion of other variables did not greatly affect the amount of variation the model was able to explain. Fertilizer and fungicide increased, while root and shoot competition decreased both seed number and germination. 4. Fungicide applied to the maternal plant increased biomass but decreased tissue phosphorus concentrations. In species where germination responds to nutrient concentrations, the potential exists for opposing impacts of environmental treatments on different components of fitness. 5. This study suggests that environmental impacts on seed number will outweigh impacts on germination success under field conditions, and that biomass is an adequate surrogate for fitness in herbaceous plants.
3599344|1. Recent studies in Scotland suggest that the outermost tail feathers of Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica Linnaeus) may be around 10-12 mm longer than the aerodynamic optimum, with sexual selection for long tails accounting for this extra length. 2. To test this hypothesis, we shortened the outermost tail feathers in male and female Barn Swallows in southern Spain by cutting 1, 11 or 21 mm from the tips of the feathers, and checked for change in haematocrit 1 month later. Haematocrit levels were high when birds arrived at the breeding grounds due to an intense effort for flight during migration, but these levels decreased during the breeding season. We predicted that this decrease would be more pronounced when tail length was closer to the aerodynamic optimum (tails shortened by 11 mm), and less pronounced as tail length was displaced from that optimum (tails shortened by 1 or 21 mm). 3. Contrary to expectations, we found that the smaller the experimental reduction in tail length, the more pronounced the decrease in haematocrit. Barn Swallows with little parental effort and originally long tail feathers experienced a more pronounced decrease in haematocrit than individuals with strong parental effort and originally short tail feathers, respectively, although only in the group of birds with tails shortened by 21 mm. 4. These results do not support the hypothesis that outermost tail feathers in Barn Swallows have been elongated because of sexual selection, at least in the population studied, but are consistent with tail length being at an aerodynamic optimum, or very close to it. Differences in tail length among populations might help to understand the disagreement with previous studies.
40205480|1. To increase understanding of the water table's influence on both fine-root growth and wholeplant growth of tree species in arid and semi-arid regions, we exposed Populus alba L. cuttings to contrasting soil water conditions via various water table gradients. 2. One-year-old rooted cuttings were grown individually in pots containing sandy soil in a greenhouse for 90 days in four water-table depth treatments: constant depth at 45 cm from the soil surface, constant depth at 30 cm, constant depth at 15 cm, and fluctuating depths between 45 and 30 cm. Growth responses, biomass partitioning, and structure and morphology of leaves and roots were determined for harvested trees every 30 days. 3. Fine (< 1-mm diameter) root growth was affected by water-table levels and water profiles, even in the fluctuating water-table depth treatment. Fine root proliferation was inhibited below the water table and was stimulated in the layers just above the water table and near the soil surface. 4. At the whole-plant level, with deeper water tables, P alba allocated more biomass to roots and root morphology changed, but total root length did not increase, suggesting that trees faced with soil water deficits are not likely to increase root surface area to obtain more water. 5. Total biomass and root length in each treatment were positively correlated and the relationships were similar among the treatments, although the growth responses varied under the various watertable conditions. These results suggest that variation in root length may have an important effect on the biomass of the rooted cuttings across a gradient of water-table depths.
41239449|1. As a first approximation, whole-body metabolic rate can be considered as the sum of metabolic rates of constituent cells. Yet, among several current explanations of metabolic rate scaling, only two explicitly invoke cell architecture of organisms: (1) the Metabolic Theory of Ecology, which predicts size invariance of metabolically active cells, such as erythrocytes and (2) the cell metabolism hypothesis postulating partial dependence of metabolic scaling on the cell size (CS), which is mediated by nucleus/genome size variation. 2. Here, we tested (1) and (2) by comparing standard metabolic rate (SMR), erythrocyte size (used as a proxy of CS) and nucleus size (NS) between diploid and triploid individuals of a small fish (body mass of c. 3 g) belonging to the Cobitis taenia hybrid complex. 3. We demonstrated a positive correlation of CS with genome/nucleus size and an inverse relationship between those traits and SMR. SMR scaled to body mass with a 092  005 exponent, which significantly differed from the 3/4 value, while CS scaled with body mass with an allometric exponent of 005  0007, which significantly differed from 0. Ploidy level explained c. 85% of CS variation. 4. Our results provide empirical support for CS and genome/nucleus size being important determinants of metabolic rate variation and consequently, its allometric scaling. They call attention to the significance of a long-neglected integration of cellular and organismal perspectives in studies of body size-metabolic rate relationships and their consequences for energy utilization in the wild.
20142775|1. The thermal sensitivity of locomotor performance has often been described in terms of speed, but the trajectory of locomotion may play an equally important role in capturing prey or escaping predators. Hypotheses based on physical constraints or behavioural plasticity predict relationships between the speed and the tortuosity of running, which should affect the thermal sensitivity of locomotion. 2. We measured the speed and tortuosity of running by leaf-cutter ants over a range of temperatures from 10 C 40 C. Tortuosity was estimated by the fractal dimension of each path. 3. As we expected, ants ran faster at higher temperatures, but they also followed straighter (less tortuous) paths. A negative relationship between speed and tortuosity was observed both within and among thermal environments. 4. Both biomechanical and behavioural mechanisms might have caused the observed relationship. Turning at high speeds should be more difficult because of the force needed to overcome inertia, and turning at low speeds could help ants evade a predator. Staged encounters with predators should help to define the ecological significance of the trade-off between speed and tortuosity.
826713|1. Impatiens glandulifera Royle and Heracleum mantegazzianum Sommier et Levier are widespread, non-indigenous plant species in the UK. A variety of correlational analyses suggest that their spatial extent is limited by climate, although no experimental studies have tested this hypothesis. This paper reports the first detailed experimental examination of the impact of climate on the performance of the two species. 2. Seeds of each species were sown, in each of 2 years, in replicated plots along an elevational gradient (10-600 m a. s. l.) in north-east England. Both species germinated readily at all elevations, even in areas well above their current limits within the study area. The plants were, however, smaller at higher altitudes. Impatiens glandulifera also produced fewer seeds with increasing elevation. 3. Plant performance was assessed in relation to actual and interpolated climate data along the elevational transect. For H. mantegazzianum, the timing of germination was correlated most strongly with the pre-emergence heat sum; for I. glandulifera this relationship was significant in one year only. Maximum height of both species was correlated with increasing post-emergence heat sum, as was pod production by I. glandulifera. The biomass of second-year H. mantegazzianum plants varied non-linearly with post-emergence heat sum. For both species, overwinter survival of seeds was not related to winter temperature or frost days. Overwinter survival of first-year H. mantegazzianum plants declined with increasing frost incidence. 4. The results suggest that, of the two species, only I. glandulifera is currently most limited by temperature, although this is not the only factor determining the distribution of the species.
3806616|1. We investigated the influence of duration of inundation-induced diapause, incubation temperature and clutch of origin on incubation duration and survivorship of eggs of the Snake-Necked Turtle, Chelodina rugosa, from the wet-dry tropics of northern Australia. 2. Eggs of C. rugosa survive at least 25 weeks' inundation, almost 6 months, with a clear optimal inundation duration of 6 weeks. Eggs not held under water suffered the same mortality as eggs inundated for 25 weeks. Underwater nesting is not a facultative capacity but, rather, inundation is essential for optimal survivorship of embryos. 3. Inundation duration had a profound effect on incubation period, reducing it by up to 9 weeks over what would be expected for a given temperature. Eggs inundated for up to 7 weeks complete incubation faster than had they been laid at the same time in dry ground. 4. There was remarkable variability in incubation period remaining after correcting for the effect of incubation temperature, inundation duration and clutch. 5. We interpret these traits as adaptations that match the timing and duration of the period available for nesting to the timing and duration of the period available for successful hatching, emergence from the nest and hatchling survival. Our interpretation is placed in the context of considerable environmental stochasticity in the factors driving these variables.
3599338|1. The aim of this study was to search for specific signatures of biogenic structures (i.e. earthworm casts, termite sheathings and mound material, and ant deposits) made by 15 species of soil engineers in a Colombian savanna. We thus investigated the organic matter (OM) biochemical composition of biostructures using near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and its relationship with selected biological (respirometry) and chemical attributes. 2. We found significant differences in OM quality and potential respiration rate among biostructures. These results were attributed to production patterns of biostructures and invertebrate feeding behaviour. A multiple co-inertia analysis was performed with NIRS, respirometry and chemical results. It separated (i) carton termite mounds, (ii) earthworm casts and organo-mineral termite mounds and (iii) termite sheathings and ant deposits. 3. These results suggest that NIRS spectra might be used as 'fingerprints' to identify organisms responsible for soil aggregate production. Moreover, the ordination given by the co-inertia analysis is proposed as a basis for a functional classification of soil engineers, assuming that different biostructure properties imply different effects on soil functioning.
10.2307/2390583|1. Passive greenhouse apparatus is commonly used to investigate the in situ biological response of terrestrial communities to global warming. 2. Although close conformity of greenhouse treatment effects to general circulation model (GCM) scenarios is widely claimed, no proof of such a relationship has yet been published. 3. Here, the relationship between passive greenhouse thermal environment and future climate conditions is considered using temperature data collected from within and without greenhouses deployed in the maritime Antarctic. It is revealed that in terms of thermal extremes, diel and annual variation, and overall distribution across the temperature spectrum, such apparatus achieves only poor simulation of GCM forecasts. 4. During summer, greenhouses induce an amplified daily range of temperatures, elevated maxima and accelerated rates of change. 5. During spring and autumn, diel temperature variation continues inside the greenhouses while snow cover protects the controls. 6. During winter, an inverse treatment effect occurs, in which the relative depth of snow cover causes lower temperatures in greenhouses than in controls. 7. These treatment effects differ significantly from GCM climate predictions. Changes recorded in the composition, structure and function of greenhouse biota may thus be artefacts of the methodology. 8. Thorough a priori testing of greenhouse treatment effects is recommended for future climate change studies that are to be conducted in environments subject to seasonal snowfall, solar elevation and day length.
40205547|1. Inducible trophic polymorphisms are greatly underappreciated forms of phenotypic plasticity that allow organisms to respond dynamically to the environmental variation by enabling them to change the trophic level upon which they feed. Although inducible trophic polymorphisms occur in a diverse array of organisms, their costs, benefits and their consequences for long-term population and community dynamics are poorly understood. 2. We studied the inducible trophic polymorphism of the freshwater hymenostome ciliate Tetrahymena vorax, whose isogenic populations can contain three distinct morphs: pyriform, bacterivorous microstomes; larger, carnivorous macrostomes; and elongate, 'tailed' microstomes. We tested whether (i) the tailed microstome constitutes an inducible defence against macrostomes and (ii) the transformation of microstomes into macrostomes is size-dependent. We also describe the dynamics of the three morphs in the presence and absence of an intraguild prey (Colpidium) across a gradient of growth medium concentrations to infer potential trade-offs in the success of different morphs at different productivity levels. 3. Macrostomes do not discriminate between pyriform microstomes and readily consumed heterospecific prey (Colpidium). Tailed microstomes display greatly reduced susceptibility to consumption by macrostomes as compared with undefended, pyriform microstomes. Morph dynamics are consistent with the hypothesis that tailed microstomes function as an inducible defence against cannibalism; tailed microstomes and macrostomes appear simultaneously, in both the presence and absence of Colpidium. At low productivity, T. vorax achieves higher rates of growth when feeding on Colpidium instead of on bacteria. At higher productivity, this pattern is reversed, with growth rates maximized in the absence of Colpidium. 4. The reduced consumption rate of tailed microstomes by cannibalistic macrostomes, together with the simultaneous induction of tailed microstomes and macrostomes, suggests that both morphs comprise a coordinated adaptive response to the presence of intraguild prey.
3599024| 1. Aristida stricta and Schizachyrium scoparium are C
41239437|1. Our understanding of the contribution of interspecific interactions to functional diversity in nature lags behind our knowledge of spatial and temporal patterns. Although two-species mutualisms are found in all types of ecosystems, the study of their ecological influences on other community members has mostly been limited to third species, while their influence on entire communities remains largely unexplored. 2. We hypothesized that mutualistic interactions between two respective ant species and an epiphyte mediate the biological traits composition of entire invertebrate communities that use the same host plant, thereby affecting food webs and functional diversity at the community level. 3. Aechmea mertensii (Bromeliaceae) is both a phytotelm ('plant-held water') and an ant-garden epiphyte. We sampled 111 bromeliads (111 aquatic invertebrate communities) associated with either the ant Pachycondyla goeldii or Camponotus femoratus. The relationships between ants, bromeliads and invertebrate abundance data were examined using a redundancy analysis. Biological traits information for invertebrates was structured using a fuzzy-coding technique, and a co-inertia analysis between traits and abundance data was used to interpret functional differences in bromeliad ecosystems. 4. The vegetative traits of A. mertensii depended on seed dispersion by C. femoratus and P. goeldii along a gradient of local conditions. The ant partner selected sets of invertebrates with traits that were best adapted to the bromeliads' morphology, and so the composition of the biological traits of invertebrate phytotelm communities depends on the identity of the ant partner.Biological traits suggest a bottom-up control of community structure in C. femoratus-associated phytotelmata and a greater structuring role for predatory invertebrates in P. goeldii-associated plants. 5. This study presents new information showing that two-species mutualisms affect the functional diversity of a much wider range of organisms. Most biological systems form complex networks where nodes (e. g. species) are more or less closely linked to each other, either directly or indirectly, through intermediate nodes. Our observations provide community-level information about biological interactions and functional diversity, and perspectives for further observations intended to examine whether large-scale changes in interacting species/community structure over broad geographical and anthropogenic gradients affect ecosystem functions.
2390548|1. We examined natural grazing by livestock (sheep and goats) on Albaida Anthyllis cytisoides L. with the aim of determining whether variation in the allometric relationships between plant parts provides a sensitive indicator of the impact of grazing. 2. The intra-individual variation in translatory symmetry with scale and increased complexity of fractal structures reflect environmental disturbance under heavy grazing pressure and lack of grazing. 3. Fitness consequences of grazing were also investigated. Grazing promotes growth and adult survival, and a drop in seed production as a consequence of consumption. In spite of that, total inclusive fitness (population rate of change) tends to increase with grazing. 4. Moderate grazing, while promoting growth, also enhances stability of vegetative structures. The favourable effect of moderate levels of herbivory on A. cytisoides is reflected in the homeostatic maintenance of its translatory symmetry and in the increased complexity of its fractal structures.
40603115|1. Environmental constraints in woodland habitats favour long-range communication signals with slow modulations of frequency and amplitude, while constraints in open habitats favour faster modulations. 2. Spectral filtering by the peripheral auditory system results in a trade-off between frequency resolution and temporal resolution of modulations. Greater frequency resolution requires integration of acoustic signals over a longer period of time, which in turn decreases responsiveness to temporal modulations. 3. Here, we test the hypothesis in songbirds that woodland habitats have selected for narrowly tuned auditory filters with high frequency resolution of tonal elements, while open habitats have selected for broader auditory filters with greater temporal resolution of rapid modulation. 4. Auditory filter shapes were measured at 2, 3 and 4 kHz in three woodland species, the darkeyed junco (Junco hyemalis), tufted titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor) and white-breasted nuthatch (Sitta carolinensis), and two open-habitat species, the house sparrow (Passer domesticus) and white-crowned sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys). Auditory filter shapes were derived from auditory brainstem response thresholds in notched noise using Patterson's rounded exponential (roex) auditory filter model. 5. Auditory filters increased in bandwidth with increasing frequency in all species except the dark-eyed junco. Auditory filters were generally narrower in woodland species than open-habitat species as predicted, although auditory filters of the junco were relatively narrow only at 4 kHz, and the difference between white-crowned sparrows and tufted titmice was not significant. Finally, at 4 kHz, open-habitat species had auditory filters with lower signal-to-noise response thresholds than woodland species (i.e. greater response efficiency). 6. The results suggest that environmental constraints on song structure have influenced the evolution of peripheral auditory filters in songbirds, although species using signals not optimized for long-range transmission should be less affected. Differences in filter bandwidth between darkeyed juncos and white-crowned sparrows are noteworthy because Junco and Zonotrichia share a recent common ancestor as sister genera within the Emberizidae. Finally, open-habitat species may compensate for inherently lower sensitivity in noise of broad auditory filters with greater response efficiency.
10.2307/2390130|1. Hypotheses that have been proposed to account for egg clustering in insects, and in particular the idea that it might be a defence against predators, were tested using the two-spot and seven-spot ladybirds, Adalia bipunctata and Coccinella septempunctata. 2. Clusters of eggs were not more viable than single eggs and, when supplied with an abundance of food, groups of larvae were not more viable and did not develop faster than single larvae. 3. Clustered eggs were not less vulnerable to cannibalism than single eggs. 4. Single eggs, however, were more likely to be eaten by predators than eggs in clusters and predators were more strongly deterred from attacking clusters than single eggs. 5. The strength of the deterrent effect associated with mixed species egg clusters was a function of the proportion of non-conspecific eggs in the cluster.
2656434|1. An instrumented perch was used to measure the reaction forces during take-off of starlings from perches of three thicknesses. There was no significant decrease in reaction force with decreasing perch thickness; however, over the range of perch sizes there was a 10-fold decrease in safety factor and a 400-fold increase in the energy of deflection of the thinnest perch. 2. The implications of these results are that birds do not change their take-off strategy when faced with perches of variable thickness and that, as a result, leaps from thin perches are very much less efficient than those from thicker perches. Birds appear not to adjust their leaping behaviour to minimize the risk of substrate failure during take-offs.
2656314|1. The influence of leaf thickness on internal conductance for CO<sub>2</sub> transfer from substomatal cavity to chloroplast stroma (g<sub>i</sub>) and carbon isotope ratio (<sup>13</sup>C) of leaf dry matter was investigated for some evergreen tree species from Japanese temperate forests. g<sub>i</sub> was estimated based on the combined measurements of gas exchange and concurrent carbon isotope discrimination. 2. Leaves with thicker mesophyll tended to have larger leaf dry mass per area (LMA), larger surface area of mesophyll cells exposed to intercellular air spaces per unit leaf area (S<sub>mes</sub>) and smaller volume ratio of intercellular spaces to the whole mesophyll (mesophyll porosity). 3. g<sub>i</sub> of these leaves was correlated positively to S<sub>mes</sub> but negatively to mesophyll porosity. The variation in g<sub>i</sub> among these species would be therefore primarily determined by variation of the conductance in liquid phase rather than that in gas phase. 4. <sup>13</sup>C was positively correlated to mesophyll thickness and leaf nitrogen content on an area basis. However, g<sub>i</sub> values did not correlate to <sup>13</sup>C. These results suggest that difference in <sup>13</sup>C among the species was not caused by the variation in g<sub>i</sub>, but mainly by the difference in long-term photosynthetic capacity. 5. Comparison of our results with those of previous studies showed that the correlation between leaf thickness and g<sub>i</sub> differed depending on leaf functional types (evergreen, deciduous or annual). Differences in leaf properties among these functional types were discussed.
40863630|1. Oxidative stress and antioxidants have been studied in a number of disciplines, but these disciplines have not always been informed by each other's work. 2. Here, we discuss the strengths and weaknesses of oxidative stress and antioxidant research in the areas of (i) ecology, (ii) ageing research, (iii) epidemiology, and (iv) physiology of model organisms, with an emphasis on what ecologists can learn from and bring to other fields. 3. We find that physiologists provide an essential role in clarifying basic mechanisms, but that many of their findings are context-dependent. Ecologists and epidemiologists bring strengths in understanding the relevance of context, whether it is across species, environments, or diets. Ageing research has helped to provide a clear theoretical framework for all fields and has thus spurred much of the research to date. 4. Comprehensive understanding of the complexity of oxidative balance systems will rely on integration of knowledge of physiological pathways from studies of model organisms, knowledge of long-term interactions of many parameters from epidemiological studies, and knowledge of specificity and generality of results across species and conditions as gleaned from ecological studies. 5. Studies of ageing have helped to show that all fields of antioxidant/oxidative stress research should focus not on individual markers of oxidative damage or antioxidant status, but on how they integrate into oxidative balance systems. Free radicals can have beneficial roles in signalling as well as causing damage and should not be interpreted out of context.
10.2307/2390054|1. Light-saturated photosynthetic rates were compared for plants collected from populations at two elevations (1400 m and 3050 m) in the California Sierra. Plants were grown under warm and cool temperature regimes in a glasshouse at high photon flux densities. 2. There were large differences between the populations in photosynthetic carbon uptake, with the high-altitude plants exhibiting greater assimilation rates than those from the low-altitude population under both thermal regimes. Light-saturated photosynthetic rates did not differ in the two temperature regimes for the low-altitude plants, and were higher in the warm than the cool environment for the high-altitude plants. 3. While there were strong genetic differences between the two populations, heritability for light-saturated carbon assimilation rate was close to zero within both populations. 4. The results suggest that photosynthetic adaptation to altitude in Achillea lanulosa occurs primarily by an increase in the efficiency of CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation at higher altitudes, rather than by a close match between the optimum temperature for photosynthesis and general ambient temperatures in the native habitat.
41319590|1. Ecological factors that alter mortality rates, such as predation, can cause evolutionary change. However, in addition to killing prey, predators can reduce prey abundance and increase food to survivors. Such indirect effects may also cause evolution. Predictions from theory that models how life histories evolve in response to increased mortality rates often change when they include indirect effects. Thus, indirect effects need to be evaluated to couple theory with natural systems. 2. Trinidadian killifish, Rivulus hartii, are found in communities with and without guppies Poecilia reticulata. Rivulus densities decline when guppies are present, which may be due to competitive or predatory interactions with guppies that increase Rivulus mortality rates. We previously showed that Rivulus from sites with guppies begin reproduction earlier and have increased reproductive allotment compared to Rivulus from sites with just Rivulus. Such divergence is inconsistent with theory that considers changes in juvenile mortality alone, but is consistent with theory that incorporates indirect effects. Here, we explored the mechanism of divergence with mark-recapture studies that compared the population biology of Rivulus between communities that are and are not sympatric with guppies. 3. Rivulus were 50% less abundant when guppies were present but guppies were not associated with increased adult mortality rates. Related experiments show that the declines in density are likely due to guppy prdation on young Rivulus. Guppies do not appear to negatively impact Rivulus growth via competition. Rivulus with guppies grow > 3x faster than Rivulus from sites upstream, above waterfalls that exclude guppies. If guppies competed with Rivulus for resources, then we would instead expect to see their presence be associated with a decline in Rivulus growth rates. When Rivulus were transplanted from above to below this barrier, their growth accelerated to match the residents. This response instead argues that the differences in growth are mediated by an environmental factor, likely lower population densities, which allow Rivulus from sites with guppies to grow faster. 4. These results imply that an indirect effect of guppy prdation on young Rivulus, which is the presumed agent of selection, improves the fit of empirical findings with theoretical predictions.
10.2307/2390092|1. Leaf gas exchange and nutrition were measured in 13 woody species ranging from slash-and-burn crops and colonizing weeds through early, mid- and late-secondary successional species in an oligotrophic rain-forest ecosystem. All species were located on tierra firme sites near San Carlos de Rio Negro, Venezuela, in the north central Amazon basin. 2. Net photosynthetic capacity (A<sub>max</sub>), maximum leaf diffusive conductance (g), specific leaf area (SLA) and foliar calcium (Ca) and magnesium concentration were highest in the earliest successional species and lower in species common to each latter successional stage. Leaf life span and an index of leaf toughness increased with successional habit. Mass-based A<sub>max</sub> (A<sub>mass</sub>) and leaf life span were both highly correlated (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.97 and 0.93, respectively) with the time during secondary succession when individual species are most common. These patterns were consistent with observed decreases in light and nutrient availability during secondary succession. However, although leaf nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) concentrations were greater in the crop and the earliest colonizers than all other species, they did not differ among subsequent early, mid- and late-successional species, despite the continuing decline in A<sub>max</sub>, g, SLA and leaf Ca. 3. Variation among species was 60-fold for leaf Ca (from 13.5 to 0.2 mg g<sup>-1</sup>), 30-fold for leaf life span (1.5-50 months), 10-fold for A<sub>mass</sub> (470-47 nmol g<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) and  three-to fourfold for area-based A<sub>max</sub> (A<sub>area</sub>, 18-6  mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), SLA, and foliar N and P concentrations. Leaf Ca concentrations in late successional species were among the lowest values on record. 4. Retranslocation prior to leaf fall was greater for P (average of 62%) than N (43%) in all species. Retranslocation of N was higher in the crop and earliest colonizer species (average of 53%) than in the other early (45%) or late successional species (34%). Species with high A per leaf N (A<sub>leaf N</sub>) had high N retranslocation and these two measures of N use were well correlated (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.80). 5. Net photosynthetic capacity was significantly correlated with both leaf N and P, especially among early successional species across a broad range of N and P. For roughly half of the data restricted to leaves of lower leaf N, P and Ca concentrations, A<sub>mass</sub> was strongly correlated with leaf Ca concentrations but not with either N or P.
3806531|1. A glasshouse
10.2307/2389750|Water is a limiting resource in deserts. Therefore, when examining relationships between a desert organism and its environment, water influx can be used as an integrated physiological and ecological response. The desert snail Trochoidea seetzenii is widely distributed in the Negev Desert. Like most desert snails, it is dormant most of the year, becoming active when sufficient moisture, either as dew or rain, is available. Its activity is then limited during the hours of the day when moisture is present. Unlike other desert snails, T. seetzenii generally aestivates above ground on bushes and is found in watersheds in the wadi and on both north- and south-facing slopes. Water influx, using tritiated water, was measured in T. seetzenii when only dew was available as a free water source and when snails used shrubs as their microenvironment. Measurements were made on snails on north- and south-facing slopes of a watershed and at low and high snail densities. Three main conclusions emerged. Firstly, tritiated water could be used to estimate water influx in snails and this method could have wide-ranging applications in physiological and ecological studies on free-living desert invertebrates. The tritiated water dilution method underestimated total body water volume by 1.7% indicating that there was negligible exchange of tritium with non-aqueous hydrogen and underestimated measured water intake by 13.9%. Secondly, in spite of the environmental differences between north- and south-facing slopes, the desert snail, T. seetzeeni had similar daily water influx on both slopes; 54.8  l and 51.4  l per snail on the north- and south-facing slopes, respectively. These results suggested that the snails were able to select microsites on both slopes in which the net effect on water influx was similar. Thirdly, there was interference among snails in searching for water and as a result water influx was density dependent. Daily water influx at a density of 10 snails m<sup>-2</sup> was 63.3  l snail<sup>-1</sup> and at a density of 50 snails m<sup>-2</sup> was 42.9  l snail<sup>-1</sup>.
40205525|1. The relationship between thermal resistance and expression of inducible heat shock proteins, especially Hsp70, depends on the species and temperature treatments. The induction of Hsp70 has been shown to be essential for heat stress survival in a number of species, yet the maximum protein expression levels do not coincide with peak survival after heat hardening in Drosophila. 2. Here we study the functional relationship between heat-induced expression of the heat shock protein Hsp70, and thermal resistance in adult Orchesella cincta by comparing thermal resistance (survival of 374 C for 60 min) with Hsp70 gene and protein expression levels, all three measured at time points 2,4, 6, 23, 27, 49 h after a heat hardening treatment (354 C for 60 min). 3. Thermotolerance increased over time after heat hardening until 49 h after exposure when the experiment ended. On the other hand the expression of hsp70 messenger RNA reached a peak within the first 2 h and then sharply decreased after 6 h. Within 23 h hsp70 expression was back to control levels. 4. Surprisingly, protein levels of Hsp70 followed thermotolerance and reached the highest levels 49 h after heat hardening. A significant positive association was found between thermotolerance and Hsp70 protein levels, but not with hsp70 mRNA levels. 5. Our results support a strong correlation between Hsp70 expression levels and thermal resistance following a heat hardening treatment. They also show that gene and protein expression follow different dynamics, a difference that may be important for our understanding of the role of candidate genes in functional studies.
40205487|1. Body condition affects the timing and magnitude of life-history transitions. Therefore, identifying proximate mechanisms involved in assessing condition is critical to understanding how these mechanisms affect the expression of life-history plasticity. Nutrient storage is an important body condition parameter, likely playing roles in both attaining minimum body-condition thresholds for life-history transitions and expression of life-history traits. 2. We manipulated protein availability for females of the flesh fly Sarcophaga crassipalpis to determine whether reproductive timing and output would remain plastic or become fixed. Liver was provided for 0, 2, 4 or 6 days of adult pre-reproductive development. Importantly, liver was removed after the feeding threshold had been attained and females had committed to producing a clutch. 3. We also identified the major storage proteins and monitored their abundances, because protein stores may serve as an index of body condition and therefore may play an important role in life-history transitions and plasticity. 4. Flesh flies showed clear post-threshold plasticity in reproductive timing. Females fed protein for 2 days took c. 30% longer to provision their clutch than those fed for 4 or 6 days. Observations of oogenesis showed the 2-day group expressed a different developmental program including slower egg provisioning. 5. Protein availability also affected reproductive output. Females fed protein for 2 days produced c. 20% fewer eggs than females fed 4 or 6 days. Six-day treated females provisioned larger eggs than 4-day treated females, followed by 2-day treated females with the smallest eggs. 6. Two storage proteins were identified, LSP-1 and LSP-2. LSP-2 accumulation differed across feeding treatments. The 2-and 4-day treatment groups accumulated LSP-2 stores but depleted them during provisioning of the first clutch, whereas the 6-day group accumulated the greatest quantity of LSP-2 and had substantial LSP-2 stores remaining at the end of the clutch. This pattern of accumulation and depletion suggests that LSP-2 could play roles in both provisioning the current clutch and future clutches, making it a good candidate molecule for affecting reproductive timing and allotment. LSP-1 was not associated with post-threshold plasticity; it was carried over from larval feeding into adulthood and depleted uniformly across all feeding groups.
10.2307/2390036|1. A model and computation scheme are given for predicting forced ventilation in the fur on an animal limb or torso, modelled here as a fur-covered cylinder with the hairs erect. 2. External pressures on the fur are predicted from potential flow theory for the outer stream, and Darcy's law is used to calculate velocities within the fur. 3. The permeability distribution in the fur is predicted from animal data and known solutions for creeping flow through regular arrays of cylinders. 4. The predicted velocities in the fur are proportional to the square of the wind speed, and will be important in modelling the transport of energy and moisture from mammals. 5. Predicted velocity profiles and streamlines in the fur are presented as functions of wind speed for five mammalian species.
826724|1. Patches of fertile soil support concentrations of roots, but whether this reflects increased production or increased longevity is not known. We examined the production and longevity of roots of the grass Festuca rubra in response to soil heterogeneity. We also explored the extent to which root dynamics reflect shoot responses to heterogeneous soils. 2. Root and leaf dynamics were followed in pots of heterogeneous or homogeneous soils containing the same total amount of nutrients. Digital minirhizotron images of roots and leaves were collected weekly. 3. Root length was significantly greater in homogeneous than heterogeneous soils. This was caused by significantly larger root production but shorter life span. In contrast, soil heterogeneity had no effect on leaf production or longevity. 4. Within heterogeneous pots, root and leaf production were strongly concordant, both being significantly greater in fertilized patches. More roots died in fertilized patches, but leaf mortality was not affected. Longevity of neither roots nor leaves was affected by the location of a fertile patch. 5. Spatial variation in production of roots and shoots in response to nutrient patches was concordant. Roots and shoots, however, showed independent responses to the presence of within-pot heterogeneity. A decrease in total root length in heterogeneous soils was a counterintuitive result of decreased production and increased longevity.
4540051|1. Social status has striking effects on individual physiology, but the extent to which it influences pathogen resistance has rarely been explored. Here we examine how social status within groups of wintering house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) relates to immunocompetence and susceptibility to an infectious disease. 2. We assayed cellular and humoral components of the immune response, then quantified symptom severity in response to experimental infection with Mycoplasma gallisepticum, a naturally occurring bacterial pathogen that causes periodic epidemics in social aggregations of house finches across North America. 3. Socially dominant house finches mounted stronger immune responses to phytohaemagglutinin but weaker antibody titres to sheep red blood cells. Dominant males, but not females, showed significantly lower symptom severity and proportion of time symptomatic when inoculated with M. gallisepticum. 4. Individual condition was not associated with social status before or after infection, but infection with M. gallisepticum created disparities in resource access across social status. Infected dominant birds of both sexes fed for significantly more time intervals than infected subordinate birds following infection. 5. Changes in resource access may partly underlie observed relationships between social status and disease severity, but the detected sex-specific interactions suggest a role for endocrine-immune relationships that warrant further study. Overall, our results indicate that social behaviour can influence both immunocompetence and resistance to an infectious disease of broad impact in the wild, highlighting the importance of considering the social context of individuals in studies of disease in natural populations.
10.2307/2389624|Chlorophyll fluorescence has been widely used in laboratory studies in understanding both the mechanism of photosynthesis itself and the mechanisms by which a range of environmental factors alter photosynthetic capacity. The measurement of chlorophyll fluorescence is both non-destructive and non-invasive, and thus has considerable potential for use in the field situation. Applications range simply from a means of rapidly identifying injury to leaves in the absence of visible symptoms to a detailed analysis of causes of change in photosynthetic capacity. This paper introduces the topic of chlorophyll fluorescence, its interpretation and its application in field studies, giving particular attention to interpretation and measurement of fluorescence induction kinetics and to the application of recently developed modulated light fluorimeters. Three commercial fluorimeters designed for field applications were compared: (1) Plant Stress Meter, BioMonitor AB, Sweden; (2) MFMS, Hansatech Ltd, UK; (3) PAM 101, H. Walz, Federal Republic of Germany. The structure and potential of each are briefly reviewed. It was beyond the scope of this comparison to examine the full potential of each instrument but measurements of the widely used parameter F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>max</sub> were made with each on: (1) Triticum aestivum L. leaves treated with the herbicide Atrazine; and (2) Picea abies (L.) Karst. samples collected from sites which were known to receive different levels of ambient air pollution. In both experiments, the results obtained from the three fluorimeters showed good agreement. The relative merits of each instrument to field applications are discussed.
826569| 1. Egg size in turtles often increases with female size, contrary to expectations of optimality. Functional constraints on egg width imposed by the pelvic aperture or the gap between the carapace and plastron (the caudal gap) have been inferred for a few populations but appear inapplicable in others. 2. For Sternotherus odoratus (the Common Musk Turtle), the pelvic aperture was always wider than the width of the female's largest egg by at least 37 mm. The caudal gap was narrower than the widest egg for 257% of the females. 3. Egg width increased, and elongation (length/width) decreased, as female size and clutch size increased. 4. Females at three ecologically contrasting sites differed appreciably in size but produced eggs of the same mean shape and size, despite the strong within-site changes in both egg size and shape with female size. As the younger females at all sites were of similar age and produced eggs of similar size and shape (again, despite differences in body size), egg size and shape may be age-specific. 5. No optimal egg size prevailed but the scaled residuals of egg size with female mass were less variable than were those for clutch size. 
2390424|1. Resource availability, competition and genetic difference are among the main factors causing size variation in plant populations. These factors also have great effects on the variation in reproductive allocation. We examined the effects of soil nutrient availability, competition and genetic identity on the size dependency of reproductive allocation in Abutilon theophrasti families grown under different conditions of soil nutrient and conspecific competition. 2. Soil nutrients, competition and genetic identity brought about a strong dependency of reproductive allocation on size. However, these factors differed in functional forms and signs of the size dependency. 3. An allometric (log-log) regression between seed mass and vegetative mass fit the data better than a linear regression. The slopes of allometric regressions for each nutrient treatment were lower than 1.0. Therefore, there was a negative relationship between plant size and reproductive allocation. However, the slopes calculated over different nutrient treatments were greater than 1.0 (i.e. positive relationship between plant size and reproductive allocation). We suggest that these two reproductive allometries indicate two different biological relationships: the former represents a physiological trade-off between resource acquisition and reproductive allocation within a plant and the latter represents an allometric response to soil nutrients. 4. Genetic identity showed intrinsic effects on size dependency of reproductive allocation owing to trade-off and not as a result of the allometric response to soil nutrients. 5. Nutrient availability changed the slopes of the allometric regressions. An increase in nutrient availability alleviated the negative relationship between plant size and reproductive allocation. 6. The slopes of the allometric regressions within nutrient treatments were significantly higher in competition treatments than in competition-free treatments, although the slopes of the regressions over different nutrient levels did not differ between the two treatments. These results suggest that the effects of competition on reproductive allocation are owing to indirect effects of size difference on the allometric relationship rather than intrinsic effects.
4139382| 1. Plants usually respond to carbon dioxide (CO) enrichment by increasing photosynthesis and reducing transpiration, but these initial responses to CO may not be sustained. 2. During May, July and October 2000, we measured the effects of temporarily increasing or decreas CO concentration by 150-200 mol mol on daytime net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE) and water flux (evapotranspiration, ET) of C-C grassland in central Texas, USA that had been exposed for three growing seasons to a CO gradient from 200 to 560 mol mol. Grassland grown at subambient CO (< 365 mol mol) was exposed for 2 days to an elevated CO gradient (> 365 mol mol). Grassland grown at elevated CO was exposed for 2 days to a subambient gradient. Our objective was to determine whether growth CO affected the amount by which grassland NEE and ET responded to CO switching (sensitivity to CO). 3. The NEE per unit of leaf area was greater (16-20%) and ET was smaller (9-20%), on average, at the higher CO concentration during CO switching in May and July. The amount by which NEE increased at the higher CO level was smaller at elevated than subambient growth concentrations on both dates, but relationships between NEE response and growth CO were weak. Conversely, the effect of temporary CO change on ET did not depend on growth CO. 4. The ratio of NEE at high CO to NEE at low CO during CO change in July increased from 10 to 126 as the contribution of C cover to total cover increased from 26% to 96%. Conversely, in May, temporary CO enrichment reduced ET more in C- than C-dominated grassland. 5. For this mesic grassland, sensitivity of NEE and ET to brief change in CO depended as much on the C-C composition of vegetation as on physiological adjustments related to prior CO exposure. 
2656527|1. Many plants produce extrafloral nectar (EFN) to nourish ants and other animals which defend them against herbivores. We aimed to find reasons for the high variability in amounts of EFN produced by most plant species. We investigated the influence of several biotic and abiotic factors (time of day, leaf age, nectar removal and leaf damage) on secretion rates of EFN in the common south-east Asian pioneer tree species, Macaranga tanarius (L.) Muell. Arg. 2. In most experiments leaves were washed with pure water and bagged in nets to protect them against nectar-collecting insects, and nectar was collected and quantified 24 h later. Six soluble sugars and up to eight amino acids were detected in nectar samples derived from untreated, field-grown plants. Total amounts of soluble substances varied more than the relative composition of EFN. 3. Nectar secretion rates were highest on young, expanded leaves. A diurnal pattern with a secretion peak in the first 2 h after dusk was detected in the field. Nectar removal had a positive effect and its accumulation a negative effect on further EFN production. Artificial leaf damage (punching leaves with a needle or removing parts of the leaf blade with scissors) led to a significant induction of EFN production for the next 3 days. 4. Extrafloral nectar of M. tanarius was secreted in complex patterns influenced by different biotic and abiotic factors; its production appeared to be adapted temporally and spatially in order to ensure optimal use of invested resources.
10.2307/2390184|1. Pelagic seabirds feeding far from their nest are likely to have to adjust their foraging effort to environmental constraints to meet their energy requirements. Foraging effort of wandering albatrosses, measured as distance travelled daily and flight velocity, was studied throughout the 1-year breeding season using satellite telemetry and compared to a model of the foraging effort required to cover breeding costs at the successive stages of the breeding cycle. 2. Foraging effort was greatest during the long pelagic trips of the fledging period, when birds covered daily the longest distances and had the highest flight velocities, and lowest during the late incubation period. Birds are able to increase their foraging effort by flying at night during moonlight. Foraging effort increases with day-length and wind speed. Females fly farther than males during incubation and brooding. 3. The daily amount of food necessary to fulfil the power requirement at sea is highest during the brooding period and the lowest after the chick has been left alone on the nest. The model suggests that foraging effort should nonetheless be highest after the chick has been left alone because wandering albatrosses brood their chick when food is most available, but rear fledglings during the less favourable period. 4. The predictions of the model appear to fit well with our results and suggest that the timing of the most constraining period in terms of energy requirement, the brooding period, occurs during the period of supposed highest prey abundance. 5. Birds are able to cope with the highest demand for foraging effort during the less favourable period in terms of food availability and duration of the day-length by increasing their foraging effort through night foraging. 6. The possible causes for the contrasting foraging efforts observed in males and females are discussed and it is suggested that they result from the segregation of feeding zones between the two sexes.
10.2307/2389318|Food dependence in growth, development, reproduction and survivorship are important components in modelling the interaction between an organism and its food supply, and may help to explain demographic patterns observed in laboratory and field populations. In the field, the freshwater zooplankter Daphnia appears to live for extended periods at very low food levels. While Daphnia is one of the most well-studied organisms, there are few data on the performance of individuals receiving food supplies that resemble field levels. We present results from experiments on a single clone of D. pulex Leydig that illustrate the food dependence in growth, development, reproduction, and survivorship. These results show that allocation among competing processes of reproduction and growth can be modified by the pattern of food supply and that food dependence in maturation delays provide support for the hypothesis that cycles in the abundance of Daphnia field populations are `single-generation' cycles.
40407712|1. The evolution of many floral traits is thought to have been shaped by pollinator-mediated selection for increased attractiveness or an improved mechanical fit of flowers to pollinators. Yet, few studies have examined experimentally the independent and interactive effects of different aspects of flower morphology on plant reproductive success. 2. In the orchid Platanthera bifolia, perianth size and spur length are positively correlated within and among populations. To test the hypothesis that pollination success and seed output increases with increasing perianth size and spur length, we manipulated the two traits in a factorial design in a long-spurred population of P. bifolia pollinated by long-tongued hawkmoths. Additionally, to determine whether differences in selfing rate can explain variation in fruit set and fruit size, we performed controlied self-and cross-pollination. 3. Plants with long spurs had more flowers pollinated, more pollen removed and produced more and larger fruits compared to plants with short spurs. In contrast, perianth size did not affect the pollination success or fruit production of P. bifolia. 4. Fruit production and fruit size did not differ among flowers pollinated with self-and cross pollen, respectively. This indicates that reduced pollen deposition rather than pollinator-mediated self-pollination caused the reduction in fruit set and fruit volume observed after shortening of the spur. 5. The results demonstrate that spur length, but not perianth size, is criticai for reproductive success in P. bifolia, and suggest that among-population differentiation in perianth size may reflect a correlated response to selection on spur length. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that visual display is less important than other eues for the reproductive success of P. bifolia, and underscore the necessity to experimentally examine the functional significance of putatively adaptive traits.
10.2307/2390073|1. Rearing temperature may affect juvenile mortality, growth and development rates, adult mortality rate, and/or population growth rate. Increased juvenile growth rate may affect the trade-off curve relating fecundity to development period, lowering it and making it less steep. Here we identify the overall effects of temperature on optimal adult size. Larger bodies are favoured by decreased juvenile mortality rate and decreased population growth rate (the sum of these is termed discounted juvenile mortality rate). 2. The effects of the other variables depend on whether environmental heterogeneity is spatial or temporal. Under spatial heterogeneity larger adult bodies are favoured by increased juvenile growth rate but varying adult mortality rate has no effect. Under temporal heterogeneity larger adult bodies are favoured by increased adult mortality rate but the effects of juvenile growth rate depend on the details of the changes in the fecundity-development period trade-off curve. 3. If discounted juvenile mortality rate does not increase at higher temperatures, some of these predictions are hard to reconcile with the finding that higher rearing temperatures generally result in smaller adult bodies. Using available data, we conclude that temperature effects on juvenile growth in spatially heterogeneous environments, and on adult mortality in temporally heterogeneous environments, would generally predict larger rather than smaller size. 4. Predictions involving juvenile mortality and population growth rate are also evaluated using the available data, and mechanisms linking temperature to increased juvenile mortality are discussed. They include increased molecular damage, ectotherm predation and parasitism, drought and oxygen shortage.
10.2307/2389497|A simple growth model of two Carex species (Carex diandra Schrank and Carex acutiformis Ehrh.) was constructed on the assumptions derived from experiments in solution culture. The model assumed (1) that the gross photosynthesis and dark respiration of the shoot are proportional to the amount of leaf and shoot nitrogen, (2) that the root respiration is a sum of respiration for maintenance of biomass, for growth and for ion uptake, and (3) that the partitioning of dry matter and nitrogen to component organs are constant fractions of the total plant dry matter and nitrogen, respectively. The model gave the relative growth rate (RGR), photosynthesis and respiration under steady-state exponential growth for a given nitrogen availability. C. diandra consistently had a higher RGR than C. acutiformis, while the difference in nitrogen productivity (growth rate per unit of plant nitrogen) was small between the two species. Higher photosynthetic rates in C. diandra were caused by a higher nitrogen use efficiency in the leaves and by higher nitrogen uptake activities in the roots. C. diandra had higher respiration rates in both shoot and roots, but they were more than compensated for by the higher photosynthetic activity. The model predicts that the RGR is more sensitive to proportional changes in photosynthetic nitrogen use efficiency than to changes in respiration coefficients.
2656545|1. In order to reveal the direction and magnitude of phenotypic selection on the stigma height of heterostylous morphs in a natural population of Primula sieboldii E. Morren (Primulaceae), morphological traits including stigma and anther heights, flowering phenology, local density of potential mating partners, size of ramet, number of pollen grains deposited from the opposite morph and seed set were measured in two flowering seasons. 2. Both components of female reproductive success, pollen receipt and seed set, were significantly larger in the long-styled than in the short-styled morph in both years. 3. Selection analyses based on bivariate correlation and path-analysis models revealed positive relationships between stigma height and pollination or seed set in the short-styled morph only, although the effect was statistically significant only in one year. In contrast, seed set in the long-styled morph was correlated with ramet size. 4. Morph difference in reproductive success and the natural selection revealed for higher stigmas in the short-styled morph should be ascribed to the narrow corolla tube of the species that strictly restrict the path of the proboscis of the pollinators.
41239357|1. Tree allometry often varies among coexisting species of different maximum height (H max ) in forests. Although shoot growth patterns directly influence overall tree architecture, the structures of current-year shoots at the tops of crowns have not been directly related to differences in tree allometry across species. 2. I investigated height-dependent changes in structure and biomass allocation patterns in current-year shoots of four coexisting tree species differing in H max in a cool-temperate forest in Japan. The relative importance of total biomass, biomass allocation, shoot allometry, and shoot angle to vertical growth was quantified and compared with tree allometry. 3. Height-dependent changes in total biomass of current-year shoots varied across species. In contrast, stem length per unit mass, shoot angle, and total leaf area per unit stem cross-sectional area decreased, and leaf mass per unit area increased with height in all species. Vertical growth rate consequently declined with increasing height in all species. Sensitivity analyses revealed that the primary determinant of declining vertical growth rate was change in stem length per unit mass; shoot angle was a secondary determinant. In contrast, increases in total shoot mass with height modulated declining vertical growth rates. 4. Vertical growth rate was greater in two canopy species than in two sub-canopy species at given heights at the shoot level, and this pattern coincided with allometry between tree height and trunk diameter. In contrast, vertical growth rate was greater in sub-canopy species than in canopy species near their maximum heights. These patterns suggest that allometric differences between species may be useful for evaluating crown-development patterns, but not for estimating H max of species.
2390464|1. The response of photosynthesis to radiation is an often-studied but poorly understood process, represented empirically in most photosynthesis models. However, in scaling photosynthesis from leaf to canopy, predictions of canopy photosynthesis are very sensitive to parameters describing the response of leaves to Photosynthetic Photon Flux Density (PPFD). 2. In this study, a mechanistic, yet still simple, approach is presented that models the degree of light saturation in leaves explicitly, assuming a heterogeneous environment of PPFD and chlorophyll. 3. Possible mechanisms determining the ratio of chlorophyll to nitrogen are considered, including a direct dependence on PPFD, a mechanism involving the red/far-red ratio of light in the canopy, and an approach based upon maximizing photosynthesis. 4. Comparison of model predictions with two data sets of light, nitrogen and chlorophyll from canopies of Populus and Corylus suggests that the red/far-red mechanism is the most realistic. The data also show that the trees studied do not always optimize their nitrogen partitioning to maximize photosynthetic yield. 5. We then apply the model to the data sets, to predict the shape of light response curves of leaves within canopies and assess the applicability of simple scaling schemes, in which full acclimation of photosynthesis to PPFD justifies the use of big-leaf models. We conclude that, at least for the data used, basic assumptions of such schemes do not hold.
10.2307/2389851|1. We examined the branching patterns of plant root systems to test the expectation that these differ both in a species-specific fashion in species from habitats differing in soil resource availability and as a plastic response to varying resource levels. 2. We grew 17 species of winter annual plants in a common greenhouse environment at two soil resource levels. Water and all nutrients were varied in tandem. The species were from collections made at two stabilized sand dune sites in Israel; one a resource-poor desert site, the other a relatively rich mediterranean site. 3. Branching pattern was quantified by Fitter's altitude topological index. High values of this index indicate a herringbone branching pattern, with root systems consisting of a main axis and primary laterals only. Low values indicate a more dichotomous branching pattern. 4. Dicots showed the predicted plastic response, tending towards more herringbone root systems with decreased resource availability. Dicots from the lower-resource desert site had more herringbone root systems than those from the richer mediterranean site, although this difference was significant only when the species were grown under low-resource conditions. 5. Grasses were relatively invariant, with close to maximally herringbone topology and did not show any significant plastic response or differences between species of different habitats.
40205520|1. Nitrogen and phosphorus supply influences the rate of litter decomposition and nutrient dynamics during decomposition. Besides the total amount of N and P available to decomposers, their relative supply (N : P ratio) might be important, e. g. through an influence on the composition and activity of microbial communities. 2. We carried out two experiments using laboratory microcosms to test that (i) N : P ratios (in either litter or the environment) determine whether N or P limits the rate of decomposition, (ii) the 'critical' N : P ratio between N and P limitation depends on overall nutrient availability, (iii) litter colonization by fungi and bacteria depends on the N : P ratio, and (iv) N : P ratios determine if proportionately more N or P is retained or immobilized by the litter. 3. In one experiment, cellulose as a nutrient-free litter analogue was incubated on sand fertilized with varying N : P supply ratios, whereas in a second experiment, Carex leaf litter with varying N : P ratios was incubated on nutrient-free sand. 4. Results essentially support our hypotheses. Cellulose decomposition was N- or P-limited depending on the N : P supply ratio. The shift from N to P limitation occurred at N : P supply ratios of 17-45, depending on overall nutrient supply. Bacteria were most abundant on cellulose at low N : P supply ratios, when decomposition was N-limited, while fungi were relatively more important at high N: P ratios, when decomposition was P-limited. The amounts of mineral N and P immobilized on cellulose and those released from litter, both in absolute terms and relative to supply, depended on the type of nutrient limitation (N vs. P). 5. The N : P ratio of nutrients available to decomposers appears to be an important determinant of plant litter decomposition, the relative importance of fungi and bacteria in litter-associated microbial communities, and litter nutrient dynamics.
4139350|1. Animal-pollinated plants influence their mating success through characteristics of their individual flowers and the arrangement of flowers into inflorescences. Previous studies of inflorescence function have focused on flower number, so the influences of traits of individual flowers on pollinator attraction and self-pollination between flowers remain unknown. 2. To investigate the effects of flower size and number on pollinator attraction and behaviour on inflorescences, we reduced the perianth size of flowers of Delphinium bicolor Nuttall and Delphinium glaucum S. Watson. 3. Reduction in flower size decreased the number of visits per inflorescence by bumble bees (Bombus spp.), but increased the number of probes per visit. In contrast, both attraction and probes per visit increased in a decelerating manner with number of open flowers. The average number of probes per flower, which combines the effects of pollinator attraction and behaviour on inflorescences, did not differ significantly between small- and large-flowered plants, or with flower number. 4. The absence of significant variation among plants with different floral and inflorescence characteristics in visits per flower and nectar standing crop per flower indicate that bees achieved an ideal free distribution. 5. Our results suggest that large flowers reduce the incidence of geitonogamous pollination without reducing the frequency of probes per flower.
41239361|1. Ageing is frequently claimed to result in an age-dependent deterioration in immune function. 2. Our results, however, based on 30 known-aged water pythons (Liasis fuscus; age ranging from <1 to 18 years) immunized with keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH), demonstrate that agerelated changes in immune function may follow different and opposing pathways. 3. Python-specific humoral antibodies (SpAb) showed an age-dependent decrease in cross-reactivity to KLH, whereas natural antibodies (NAbs) ability to bind to this antigen increased with age. 4. Notably, when humoral SpAb and NAb titres were combined, no effect of age was detected in antibody cross-reactivity, strongly suggesting that NAbs may play a crucial role in maintaining immunocompetence during the ageing process.
2656494|1. Phylogenetic methods that account for the degree of relationship between species are increasingly commonly used for cross-species comparisons of ecological data. In particular `phylogenetic contrasts' are commonly used to generate data for analysis that are phylogenetically independent. The efficacy of this technique for removing phylogenetic correlations is rarely tested, however. 2. For a number of reasons, including non-Brownian modes of evolution, phylogenetic contrasts may not always be phylogenetically independent. This lack of independence defeats the object of phylogenetic analysis and effectively invalidates the results of such analyses. Typically such problems may be overcome using simple data transformations but it is necessary to identify the correct transformation for each analysis variable. 3. Examples are presented for which contrasts have failed to control for phylogenetic correlation. This was because the correct transformation of the data was not identified prior to analysis. It is highlighted that the very act of transformation of data increases our understanding of the ecological variables being studied because the choice of transformation depends on how the character in question evolved.
10.2307/2389316|Previous work showed the existence of additive genetic variation in development rate, which was negatively genetically correlated with body weight. In a selection experiment, short culture intervals were used to select for fast development rates and long culture intervals for slow development rates. It was predicted that selection in short culture intervals would result in lighter, shorter lived adults and vice versa. As predicted, selection by short culture intervals did result in lighter insects and the trend in adult longevity was in the expected direction. A subsidiary aim of the experiment was to investigate a previously unstudied aspect of the beetles' plastic response to immediate circumstances. It was predicted that adults given fresh beans would devote maximal resources to oviposition and so would have fewer resources left for personal survivorship and later oviposition. As predicted adults lived significantly longer on old than on fresh beans and late fecundity was higher in adults transferred to fresh beans from old beans than in adults transferred from fresh beans. These results are discussed in the general context of evolutionary responses to environmental heterogeneity.
2656318|1. A replicated experiment tested the null hypothesis that stand-alone electronic temperature recording devices produce sets of operative temperatures similar to those produced using lizard models. 2. Commercially available electronic temperature recording devices (HOBO XT<sup>TM</sup> with external probe and Tidbit<sup>TM</sup>) produced sets of operative temperatures nearly identical to models designed to mimic the size, shape, scale architecture and colour of two species of common North American lizards. 3. Tidbits<sup>TM</sup> performed better than external probes. 4. These results suggest that electronic devices (especially Tidbits<sup>TM</sup>) can be substituted for models in many applications and that size, morphology, scale architecture and colour contribute very little to temperature change in small-sized life-like models widely used in field-based studies on the thermal ecology of vertebrates. 5. Small differences between temperatures recorded by electronic devices and detailed lizard-shaped models fitted with thermal probes suggest that these models may nevertheless be necessary for certain kinds of studies.
4139353|1. Quantifying the amount of resources remaining under plant cover is essential for assessing plant-plant interactions or biological invasions. Although resource levels fluctuate in time, their quantification is performed mainly by instantaneous measurements. We investigated how instantaneous measurements are related to the amount of resources cumulated throughout one growing season, measuring parameters of both light and soil water depletion. 2. During a growing season, we measured regularly light and soil water levels under the cover of 18 plant species grown as monocultures in a common garden. The temporal dynamics of light and soil water depletion were assessed within each monoculture using mechanistic modelling approaches. 3. The total amounts of resources remaining over the year under the range of communities were best predicted by instantaneous measurements performed at critical periods, differing among resources. The significance of prediction decreased dramatically for other dates, including the period of peak production, but without changing the ranking of communities according to ability to deplete resources. We therefore recommend that such measurements should be limited to qualitative studies, and that mechanistic modelling for quantitative assessments should be developed.
10.2307/2390577|Previous authors have suggested that large animals are more efficient at extracting energy and nutrients from food resources because of their more favourable metabolic rate to gut capacity ratio (MR/GC). For herbivores in particular, the utilization of low quality vegetation becomes progressively more difficult with decreasing size because of the time-dependent nature of the microbial fermentation of plant fibre. 2. The relationship between fibre digestibility, a measure of digestive efficiency important to herbivores, and body size was investigated for three species of Neotoma. Animals ranged in mass from 80 to 400 g. A diagram was constructed which reflected allometric predictions, but also incorporated several mediating factors, such as intake and food sorting behaviour. Because of the high correlations between the variables, path analysis was utilized to evaluate the relative importance of each factor in affecting fibre digestibility. 3. Overall, a low correlation (0.105) was found between fibre digestibility and body mass. Path analysis revealed that this low correlation could be partitioned into a relatively strong direct influence of body mass (0.761) and opposing indirect effects through intake and food sorting (-0.563 and -0.094, respectively). While it is clear from the analysis that body mass is of critical importance in influencing fibre fermentation, actual ecological or evolutionary implications are more difficult to assess. It is plausible, for example, that the apparent propensity towards insular gigantism common among small herbivores is at least partially the result of selection acting on digestive efficiency.
10.2307/2389766|Standard metabolic rates (SMR) are frequently used to estimate the maintenance costs of free-ranging ectotherms. Ecologically relevant sources of variation in the rate of metabolism not accounted for by SMR (e.g. nutritional status, time of day) can significantly affect estimates of the maintenance costs of free-ranging ectotherms. This study reports the effects of temperature, sex, population and time of day on the rate of oxygen consumption of resting Sceloporus merriami. The rate of oxygen consumption of fasted lizards (standard conditions) was strongly dependent on temperature, sex and population, and it was not constant over the inactive period (scotophase). Average rates of oxygen consumption were as much as four times higher than the minimal rate (SMR) for all individuals. Our results indicate that the cost of maintenance of S. merriami calculated using SMR is from two to four times lower than the cost estimated from the average rates of oxygen consumption of fasted lizards. These results have important implications for ecologists interested in comparing lizard productivity with similarly sized endotherms. Rates of oxygen consumption at 32 and 37<sup></sup>C increased by as much as 37% after lizards were fed 10-15% of their live mass in crickets. This effect was not observed at 25<sup></sup>C. Because oxygen consumption is not constant over the scotophase and because free-ranging lizards usually have food in their guts, we conclude that when estimating the energy budgets of free-ranging lizards ecologists should use the rate of oxygen consumption averaged over the scotophase of fed animals, not SMR.
10.2307/2390057|1. In experimental populations of self-compatible, tristylous Eichhornia paniculata plants of the long-styled morph (L) consistently sire fewer seeds on the mid-styled morph (M) than do plants of the short-styled morph (S). This mating asymmetry results in gender differences between the L and S morphs. 2. Observations of pollinators and floral manipulations of genetically marked plants in experimental populations were used to evaluate three potential causes of differential siring success: pollinators prefer the S morph leading to higher male success; long styles interfere with pollen pick-up by insect visitors; and pollen from long-level anthers of the S morph sires more seeds on the M morph than pollen from short-level anthers of the L morph. 3. Visitation by pollinators did not differ significantly among morphs. Excision of styles failed to increase the siring ability of the L morph on the M morph. After removal of non-mid-level anthers from the L and S morphs, no difference in siring ability was detected. Thus long-level anthers provided increased male fitness. This could occur either because pollen transfer from long-level anthers exceeds pollen transfer from short-level anthers or because long-level pollen has greater post-pollination siring success on mid-styles that does short-level pollen. 4. Differences in floral architecture may predispose morphs of heterostylous plants to differential success as male parents. Architectural constraints on male performance imposed by the placement of female and male organs within flowers may be of general importance for floral evolution.
10.2307/2390067|1. Thermoregulatory mechanisms, both behavioural and physiological, have been studied for a number of insect taxa. However, little is known about the thermal ecology of large flying insects inhabiting thermally extreme environments such as deserts. 2. I studied the thermal biology of nine species of dragonflies, including seven species of libellulids and two species of aeshnids, during diurnal summer activity at a permanent pond in California's Mojave Desert. 3. Most species were active throughout the day during the hot summer months when shade air temperatures ranged between 18 and 45<sup></sup>C. 4. Thoracic temperatures of all species studied were maintained more precisely and much higher (mean=37.5-43.2<sup></sup>C) than, and often exceeded the thermal death point (HT) of, congeners and conspecifics previously studied in cooler habitats. 5. HT was greater (mean=51.9-53.3<sup></sup>C) in these desert populations than their non-desert counterparts. 6. In contrast to studies in cooler habitats, no differences in thermoregulatory abilities or activity periods were observed between `fliers' and `perchers', or between libellulids and aeshnids, in the desert populations.
3599018| 1. Despite the fundamental importance of temperature to a variety of physiological processes, such as photosynthesis and transpiration in plants, accurately quantifying and integrating differences in surface temperatures is often difficult, if not impossible. 2. An inexpensive, user-friendly technique is now available whereby plants and animals can be air-brushed with a non-toxic, heat-sensitive paint that will generate six or more distinguishable colours across a temperature range of 5 C and a resolution of <1 C. These temperature-indicating colours can then be photographed and evaluated quantitatively using image analysis software. 3. Compared to a more traditional temperature measurement technique (thermocouples), this method resulted in a mean surface temperature of up 51 C warmer than the mean thermocouple temperature, as well as a computed 45% difference in transpirational water loss for a single leaf, multiple leaves on a shoot, and leaves within a crown. 
2656513|1. Field-based studies on reptile thermoregulation increasingly rely upon physical models to estimate operative temperatures. Some investigators use models that mimic the size, shape, colour and posture of their study species, but such details may have little influence on thermal regimes (and hence, complex models may be a waste of time and money). 2. Temperatures were measured at 10-min intervals inside 48 hollow copper-pipe models exposed to natural weather conditions over a 27-day period, in a factorial design to examine the effects of model attributes on thermal profiles. 3. These data clarify the ways in which model size, colour (reflectance), orientation and degree of contact with the substrate affect (a) mean, minimum and maximum temperatures, and (b) the number of hours per day that the models exceed specified thermal thresholds. Also examined are (c) interactions between model attributes in these respects, and (d) the ways in which such effects depend upon local weather conditions. 4. Model temperatures were affected by all of the attributes tested, but with few interactions between these effects. Although statistically significant, the effects of model attributes upon operative temperature regimes were generally minor (<5% of mean values). 5. Guidelines for the use of physical models in future research are provided.
10.2307/2389539|Proliferation and distribution of roots in fertile soil microsites were evaluated in the field for three perennial Great Basin species from soil samples frozen in situ. A chemical determination allowed the identification of fine roots of grass and shrub in soil samples containing roots of the shrub, Artemisia tridentata (Rydb.) Beetle, with either Pseudoroegneria spicata (Pursh) A. Love or Agropyron desertorum (Fisch. ex Link) Schult. Root proliferation of the shrub was considerably influenced by the species of grass roots in the patches; root densities of Artemisia were generally two to three times more abundant with Pseudoroegneria than when with Agropyron. There was also a greater tendency for roots of Artemisia and Pseudoroegneria to segregate (avoid one another) in comparison with the combination of Artemisia and Agropyron. Interference at the level of individual roots is suggested. The species also reacted to the fertile microsites differently; only Agropyron exhibited a significant proliferation compared to control microsites. In general, Agropyron had greater root densities than Pseudoroegneria. Root densities of the three species in fertile and control patches were not proportional to exploitation of P (Caldwell, Manwaring & Jackson, 1991). Roots of the shrub were four to 10 times more effective in P acquisition per unit root length than the grass species.
10.2307/2390121|1. Physiological methods applicable to scales between individual leaves and whole forests have the potential to improve substantially our understanding of ecosystem gas exchange. 2. We compared three approaches for determining the canopy gas exchange of individuals representing a pair of mediterranean-climate oak species. 3. We estimated transpiration from the Penman-Monteith equation, measured sap flow with heat-balance sensors, and also measured net CO
2390487|1. The effects of the nutritional quality of the adult diet (primarily protein content) on testis mass, body condition and courtship vigour were studied in a Hawaiian Drosophila, D. grimshawi, a lek-forming species under strong sexual selection. The primary goals of this study were to determine whether there is a trade-off between investment in reproductive and somatic tissues, and to examine whether this trade-off is influenced by quality of the adult diet. 2. Quality of the adult diet had a major influence on male body condition, courtship vigour and testis mass, but males varied in their investment patterns even within diet treatment. 3. Body condition, a measure of phenotypic quality, was significantly related to how much males invested in testis and body tissues, but the nature of the relationships differed between males fed high- or low-quality diets. 4. Paragonia volume was significantly smaller for adult males fed low-quality diets than for males fed high-quality diets. Nutrient-deficient diets apparently forced males to trade off investment in testes and body condition, and in body condition and courtship vigour, but nutrient-rich diets did not result in severe trade-offs. 5. Collectively, the results suggest that fluctuation in adult diet quality of male D. grimshawi might influence male reproductive quality in ways that might limit female reproductive output and/or be a factor for female choice in this species.
2390530|1. Measurements are presented of CO<sub>2</sub> flux from woody stems of two shrub species in the Sahelian zone of West Africa (Guiera senegalensis and Combretum micranthum). Measurements were made on excised stems and in situ. 2. An experiment suggested that the respiration rate was closely related to the stem surface area but showed little relationship with stem volume, and was therefore associated with the cambium and phloem rather than the sapwood. This contrasts with several studies in which sapwood volume appeared to be the dominant component and the difference is attributed to the comparatively small diameter of stems in the shrubs studied here. 3. Measurements were made of the response of stem CO<sub>2</sub> flux to photosynthetic photon flux density (Q) and gave evidence of corticular photosynthesis in the stems. 4. The response of stemrespiration to temperature was determined in situ. The data were analysed using a variant on the standard exponential relationship with temperature, R=(R<sub>om</sub>+R<sub>og</sub>) exp(k T), where R is respiration rate, R<sub>om</sub> is maintenance respiration rate at 0 <sup></sup>C. R<sub>og</sub> is growth respiration rate at 0<sup></sup>C, k is a temperature coefficient and T is temperature. Data from the dry season were assumed to represent maintenance respiration and used to define R<sub>om</sub> and k. The R<sub>og</sub> term thus quantifies the increase in respiration during the wet season beyond this baseline level, presumably attributable to growth. Values of R<sub>om</sub> were 0.054 and 0.074  mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in G. senegalensis and C. micranthum, respectively, whilst R<sub>og</sub> ranged between 0.061 and 0.96  mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> during the wet season. 5. At ecosystem scale on an annual basis, stem respiration represented 17% of leaf photosynthesis, whilst corticular photosynthesis was at most 11.1% of stem respiration.
10.2307/2390513|1. Artificially constructed trees were used to study the effects of forest light environment (closed forest or large gap), branch type (branches from trees growing in closed forest or in the open) and branch spacing (15, 30, 45 cm) on light interception and transmission by Sugar Maple Acer saccharum. The artificial trees were created by cutting horizontal branches from mature trees and inserting the terminal 1 m of these branches into holes in a 160-cm high pole held vertically by a Christmas tree base. Three vertical rows of three branches, separated by 120<sup></sup>, constituted the tree. The artificial tree made it possible to vary the horizontal spacing of branches as well as move the tree to any desired environment (here, a large canopy gap and closed forest). Light transmission through the crown and interception by branches were measured at several points within the reconstructed crown with a LI-COR quantum sensor under overcast conditions. 2. A factorial ANOVA of light transmission (here defined as PPFD at the surface of a branch divided by PPFD at the surface of the branch immediately above) showed a highly significant effect of branch type, branch spacing and an interaction between these two factors but no effect of forest light environment. Another factorial ANOVA of branch light interception (here defined as PPFD 10 cm below a branch divided by PPFD measured at the branch's upper surface) showed a significant effect of branch type and an interaction between branch type and branch spacing. 3. This technique appears promising for the study of whole-tree architectural adaptations because branch architecture, tree architecture and light environment can be controlled and varied independently. Consequently, the functional significance of tree architectural parameters can be assessed independently and in any desired light environment.
4139393|1. Several studies have offered evidence for the occurrence of density-dependent growth in stream-living Brown Trout. However, such evidence has been gleaned for low-density populations, whereas studies on persistently high-density populations have claimed that growth is density-independent. Such a paradoxical observation is shared with other salmonids and has been assumed by several authors to suggest that stream salmonid populations may be regulated by two different mechanisms: density-dependent growth at low densities and density-dependent mortality, in the absence of densitydependent growth, at high densities. 2. This comparative long-term study explored the occurrence of density-dependent growth by examining growth during the lifetime across cohorts in three stream-living Brown Trout populations representing the opposite extremes of growth and density documented throughout the species' distributional range. 3. This comparison highlighted identical growth-recruitment patterns in a highdensity population with low potential for growth, in a low- population with high potential for growth and in a population with intermediate traits. In the three populations, growth declined with increased recruitment describing negative power trajectories. These observations are consistent with there being a single, negative power relationship between growth and density where the effects of density dependence are stronger at low densities and become negligibly low at high densities. 4. Stream-living Brown Trout populations may be regulated by the continuous operation of density dependence on growth and mortality. In poorly recruited cohorts density dependence may operate on growth but not on mortality during a time period after which density dependence operates on both growth and mortality. In highly recruited cohorts, density dependence operates simultaneously on growth and mortality from the youngest life stages.
3599006|1. High breeding density can cause elevated plasma androgen levels in adult birds. Since maternal androgens are deposited into egg yolk, high breeding density may result in elevated yolk androgen levels as well. 2. The relationship between breeding density and yolk androgen levels was examined in the European Starling, Sturnus vulgaris. The concentration and total content of yolk androstenedione and yolk testosterone were measured in eggs from 24 clutches distributed across nine different colonies of nestboxes. 3. Yolk androstenedione and testosterone levels were significantly higher in colonies where a greater proportion of nestboxes had active nests. 4. Yolk testosterone levels were significantly higher, and yolk androstenedione levels were marginally higher, in colonies with a greater absolute number of active nests. 5. Yolk androgen levels were not related to the number of active nests in adjacent nestboxes. 6. We conclude that female starlings nesting in colonies with higher breeding densities transfer more androgen to their eggs. 7. This relationship may be mediated by increased interfemale aggression, particularly towards floater females searching for mates or nests to brood parasitize, in high-density colonies. Such a relationship between environment and maternal yolk androgens may represent adaptive maternal modification of offspring phenotype or a non-adaptive physiological constraint which females cannot avoid.
2390326|1. A standardized protocol for analysing the behaviour of pollinators foraging on more than one plant type (species or morph) is needed. 2. A protocol is presented in which the first step is to test whether foraging trips are homogeneous in the frequency of visits to each plant type, or whether there are two or more groups of pollinators with different foraging preferences. 3. Tests for foraging preference and constancy in the sequence of plants visited then should be made separately for each homogeneous group. 4. A hypothetical example is given in which ignoring heterogeneity of preference would lead to the acceptance of a false null hypothesis of random behaviour. 5. A real example is given in which heterogeneity of preference was the only non-random aspect of pollinator behaviour (no significant positive constancy or overall preference), while transfer of powdered dye particles (pollen analogues) was assortative among floral morphs. 6. Heterogeneity of preference is probable, as many factors may cause individual pollinators to forage differently on the same patch of plants, and may be sufficient to produce non-random pollen transfer among plant morphs.
40205537|1. It has been argued that species living under unpredictable thermal conditions need to have more flexible physiological capabilities to meet with thermal stress than species living in thermally stable environments. Here we investigate if the ability to rapidly cold-harden in Collembola is influenced by thermal conditions of the habitat. 2. Collembola exploit diverse habitats and are therefore exposed to different thermal environments: soil dwelling (euedaphic) species occupy relatively stable environments, whereas surface dwelling (epedaphic) species can be exposed to more fluctuating thermal environments, but a single species can also be found in diverse thermal habitats within its geographic distribution. 3. We compared the inherent cold shock tolerance and ability to rapidly cold-harden in three epedaphic, two near surface dwelling (hemiedaphic) and four euedaphic species of Collembola using a similar experimental approach for all species. Additionally we compared three populations of the epedaphic species, Orchesella cincta, sampled along a climatic gradient (Norway, Denmark, Italy). 4. Inherent cold shock tolerance was estimated as LT by assaying cold shock survival following a 2 h exposure to a range of temperatures from 1 C to-12 C. Rapid cold-hardening (RCH) was induced by cooling individuals from 20 C to a temperature 7 C above the LT during 80 min, followed by 1 h at the specific cold shock temperature, which was close to the LT of the particular species. 5. There was large variation in cold shock survival among species. The capacity to rapidly cold-harden was found in all three ecotypes. 6. Genetic difference in the ability to rapidly cold-harden was seen in O. cincta from different climatic regions, consistent with the predictability of the thermal environment of their habitat. Population differences matched the daily fluctuations in temperature (CV) recorded at the site of collection as well as the day-to-day predictability (autocorrelation). The role of phylogenetic inertia was tested using sequence data from the cytochrome-c oxidase I (COI) gene and no signal of phylogeny was detected that could explain these population differences. 7. Our results show that genetic differences in RCH ability exist, consistent with latitudinal gradients in thermal fluctuations and predictability; thus comparative studies can provide important insight when exploring the role of acclimation in the geographical distribution of species.
40863631|1. Young birds often reproduce later in the season than older ones, with poorer breeding success, but the proximate mechanisms involved in such a pattern remain poorly studied, especially in long-lived species. One possible mechanism is the endocrine stress response which is accompanied by the release of corticosterone. Elevated corticosterone levels can trigger physiological and behavioural responses that may delay or even suppress reproduction. 2. We tested the hypothesis that the delayed timing of breeding of young birds may be related to a greater susceptibility to stress compared with older ones during the pre-laying period of the breeding season. For this purpose, known-age (7-44 years old) pre-laying snow petrels, Pagodroma nivea, were monitored for baseline and acute stress-induced corticosterone levels. We examined whether baseline and stress-induced corticosterone levels were related to age, and whether they could influence the decision to breed and egg-laying date. 3. Young snow petrels were more likely to skip the breeding season and to breed later than middle-aged birds. In addition, the oldest birds bred later than middle-aged ones, suggesting a possible senescence on laying dates. Baseline corticosterone levels were independent of age but young and very old birds were more sensitive to stress than middle-aged ones. However, there was no effect of stress-induced corticosterone levels on breeding decision and egg-laying date. Elevated baseline corticosterone levels during the pre-laying period were associated with a higher probability of skipping breeding in females and a delayed timing of egg-laying in both sexes. 4. These results suggest that the greater susceptibility of young breeders to stress was not the functional mechanism explaining their delayed timing of breeding. Baseline corticosterone levels, although independent of age, appear to be a more likely mediator of breeding decision and egglaying date. In long-lived birds, the relationship between age and timing of breeding may be rather indirect, as other age-related factors such as breeding experience or foraging skills may have a deeper impact on baseline corticosterone than age per se.
3806583|1. Lianas, which arguably benefit more than other growth forms from elevated CO
3599205|1. Effects of organisms that obtain resources from others (e.g. herbivores) can depend on the location of resource removal with respect to their 'prey'. We investigated whether such an effect can be seen in hemiparasitic plant-host plant interactions. 2. We conducted rhizotron studies of the interactions between Rhinanthus minor and individuals of two common host species, Festuca rubra and Festuca ovina. Parasites were grown at two distances from the host, and growth characteristics of hosts and parasites measured over time. 3. Parasites close to their host suffered reduced survival as a result of shading. Without shading these parasites attached earlier, produced more haustoria, grew larger and had a greater fecundity than those planted further away. This effect was significant for parasites infecting the fast-growing F. rubra, but not for parasites infecting the less vigorous F. ovina. Effect of parasite position on host biomass was significant only for F. rubra, which showed a greater reduction when infected by more proximal parasites. 4. Differences in the response of hosts to infection, and parasite growth, suggest the effect of the position of R. minor is host-species specific.
826753| 1. The morphology and distribution of six benthic colonial diatoms were investigated from the perspective of fractal geometry and stream ecology to test whether colonial complexity of benthic diatoms is associated with a tolerance to environmental variability, that is, if a random force, such as the unpredictability of current velocity, could be responsible for the development of a high morphological organization. 2. The fractal dimension of diatom colony perimeters ranged from 106 to 154, indicating a vast morphological variation from simple geometric shapes to very complex outlines. The niche breadth of the six colonial diatoms, defined from regression models of species abundance along a current velocity gradient, also showed a substantial variation, from 048 to 0 79 m s
2390401|Handicap models of sexual selection propose that male ornaments are indicators of male quality and that honest is enforced by the costs imposed by the exaggerated ornamental traits. In long-distance migratory birds that feed on the wing, the aero-dynamic cost of exaggerated ornamental characters should be particularly high because the size of the ornaments deviates from natural selection optimum. During migration, birds are expected to raise their oxygen consumption in relation to the energetic demands imposed by their morphology. An increase of haematocrit is an adaptive response to enhance oxygen uptaken and efficiency of transfer to the muscular tissues during spells of intense muscular activity. 2. The change of haematocrit of Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) after their arrival to the breeding sites, and the relationships between haematocrit values recorded after migration and the size of ordinary and sexually selected morphological characters in three Barn Swallow populations were analysed. 3. Males had higher haematocrit values than females. Individual haematocrit values declined after arrival to the breeding sites. Haematocrit values of males were significantly and positively correlated with the size of their ornamental tail but not correlated with other characters, thus suggesting that well-ornamented males, in order to arrive early, have to raise their haematocrit above the level of short-tailed males. 4. Males and females of similar tail length did not differ in their haematocrit, thus suggesting that sexual dimorphism in haematocrit might be functionally related to dimorphism in tail length. 5. Our results are consistent with the handicap principle because long-tailed males experience lower mortality and larger seasonal reproductive success compared with short-tailed males.
10.2307/2389865|1. The relationship between present reproductive activity and possible trade-offs in future growth and reproductive potential has been a topic of interest to evolutionary ecologists. 2. In many species of benthic suspension-feeding invertebrates energy available for growth and reproduction decreased as they increased in size until eventually all resources were required for maintenance metabolism and maximum size reached. 3. By studying sea scallops from natural habitats with different food regimes it was possible to assess the role of food ration in the allocation of resources to reproduction when they are constrained by body size. 4. Physiological estimates of seasonal energy intake and expenditure predicted maximum sizes of approximately 17 and 45 g for Placopecten magellanicus from habitats with low and high food availability, respectively. 5. These predictions agreed closely with measurements from field populations. 6. Reproductive output declined in senescent scallops from the low food environment but was maintained in larger senescent scallops from the higher food environment. 7. The seasonal availability of the food supply and the timing of the gametogenic cycle permitted reproductive output to be maintained during a period of the life cycle when all available resources were required for maintenance. 8. When food resources were limited fecundity was sacrificed for maintenance but when food was more readily available emphasis on fecundity continued.
2656490|1. Seedling relative growth rate (RGR) is often decomposed into the product of specific leaf area (leaf area per leaf mass, SLA), net assimilation rate (rate of mass increase per unit leaf area per unit time, NARa) and leaf mass ratio (ratio of leaf to total dry mass, LMR). Commonly, most cross-species variation in RGR is accounted for by variation in SLA, while no general relationships occur between RGR and either NARa or LMR. NARa can be factored into the product of leaf nitrogen productivity (rate of mass increase per unit leaf nitrogen per unit time, LNP) and leaf nitrogen concentration (area basis, LNCa). In this way the influence on RGR of leaf nitrogen - how it is displayed, and how it is utilized - can be investigated. 2. Seedlings of 28 Australian woody dicot species were grown under controlled, favourable conditions. Variation in SLA, LNP, LNCa and LMR explained c. 44%, 22%, 19% and 15% of variation in RGR, respectively. SLA and LNP were positively associated with RGR, while LNCa was negatively associated with RGR. LNP and LNCa were negatively correlated, the counteracting trends between RGR and each of these attributes resulting in no relationship between RGR and NARa. It is argued that this phenomenon may be widespread and may contribute to the inconsistency of reported relationships between NARa and RGR. 3. The functional balance between leaves and roots can be described in terms of mass allocation and morphology (static ratios or allometric coefficients) or, alternatively, in terms of leaf `activity' (NAR) and root `activity' (nitrogen uptake rate, NUR). At any given time most species allocated greater mass to leaves than to roots, but species with low RGR tended to be partitioning a greater ongoing proportion of new biomass to the roots rather than to the leaves, resulting in a proportionally greater increase in root surface compared with leaf surface over time. Nitrogen uptake rate was correlated with leaf and whole-plant nitrogen concentration, but not with other attributes. While it is clear that root and leaf functions must be coordinated (and thus in balance) for growth to occur, there is little evidence that this balance varies systematically with RGR across all species.
41319582|1. Optimal foraging theory assumes that a predator preys selectively to maximize fitness gain. The associated model assesses predator's fitness gain by estimating prey profitability in terms of appropriate foraging costs and benefits. While model developing, unsuccessful foraging was included in the model because it is inevitable and costly for a predator. However, it has rarely been taken into account in previous studies, nor has the consumption success been included in the estimation of prey profitability. Thus, although such model may successfully predict prey selection of many predators, it is inadequate in explaining prey selection of predators with highly variable consumption success. 2. In this study, we tested the prediction of optimal foraging model by accounting for consumption success in prey profitability for the prey selection of Whitmania laevis (Hirudinida: Hirudinidae), a shell-invading leech with highly variable consumption success in different prey. Five snail species, including three operculated species and two non-operculated species, were used as prey. 3. Our results showed that W. laevis exhibits prey-size selection. Leeches consumed more medium-sized snails among operculated species and more large-sized snails among non-operculated species, and the selection fitted the prediction of prey profitability by accounting for consumption success. Leeches also practiced prey-species selection, but such selectivity was confined to non-operculated species rather than snails with higher profitability. 4. Our study showed that when the consumption success was incorporated into the estimation of prey profitability, the optimal foraging model could, as predicting the prey-size selection of W. laevis, predict the prey selection of a predator with highly variable consumption success, which has been poorly predicted previously. This could also be the case for other predators with variable consumption success in future studies.
2390312| 1. We describe a new model of plant growth that is general, deterministic, non-stationary and mechanistic in nature. Its purpose is to investigate the extent to which the morphology and function of the whole plant can be determined by resource acquisition and utilization on the part of its components. 2. The model is a two-dimensional section, showing the plant in its above- and below-ground environments. The whole plant is represented by a branching structure made up from standard `modules'. The behaviour of the complete plant is determined exclusively by a rule set that acts only at the level of the individual module. 3. At the level of the whole plant, the model displays a classic S-shaped growth curve, plasticity in rootshoot allocation, and foraging in heterogeneous environments. 4. At the level of the plant population, the model exhibits self-thinning along a -2/1 self-thinning line. This accords with the behaviour expected of a two-dimensional system and also adds weight to the `geometric' interpretation of the -3/2 self-thinning line commonly seen in crowded populations of real plants. 5. An imposed `mutation' in one of the modular rules allows us to produce a modified plant type that displays active foraging. In a set of simulations involving a model community containing both the modified and standard plant types, the modified type predominates in resource-rich environments, and vice versa. 6. The simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of modular rule-based methods from which whole-plant behaviour can arise as an emergent property. The model suggests that active foraging carries a cost that cannot satisfactorily be borne at low levels of resource availability. It also implies that competition for resources, both above and below ground is in the form of a `contest' (rather than a `scramble'). The success of the modular model highlights the primacy of resource acquisition and utilization in determining the ecological status of the plant. 
2656501|1. Life-history traits of animals are known to change according to food quantity, but there is another type of resource depression, namely depletion of food quality. To examine life-history responses of herbivores to changes in resource quality, Daphnia obtusa Kurz, a common planktonic herbivore, were reared individually under several algal food regimes with different quantity and quality in terms of chemical composition. 2. Compared with Daphnia fed on a small quantity of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) sufficient food, Daphnia fed on a large amount of P deficient food grew more slowly at young ages but continually grew until older ages. This trend was also found for Daphnia fed on a large amount of N deficient food. 3. However, the size-specific reproductive investment (measured as biomass accrued per unit time) of Daphnia fed on a large amount of N or P deficient algae was similar to those fed on a small amount of N and P sufficient food, indicating complex life-history responses to food quality and suggesting that nutritional requirements for reproduction differ from somatic growth. 4. Compared with individuals fed high-quality and high-quantity food, Daphnia fed on a large amount of P deficient food produced smaller eggs, while individuals fed on a small amount of P and N sufficient food produced larger eggs. Furthermore, 15-30% of eggs produced by individuals fed on P or N deficient food ceased to develop and were aborted. 5. These results demonstrate that life-history responses to food quality differ from responses to food quantity. Since the chemical composition of algae is highly variable in nature, herbivorous plankton demographics may not be predictable from resource quantity alone.
10.2307/2389341|Limitations on the variability of features of the energy budget can importantly affect the evolution of reproductive fitness in organisms. Slobodkin & Dunn (1983) suggest that reproductive efficiency is constrained among species of Hydra. This paper shows that assimilation efficiency (AE) and the efficiency of converting maternal food into offspring during lactation (OPE) also vary little among five species of Peromyscus, and both are independent of body mass. The slight variation in gross OPE (including energy intake for female maintenance) that does exist is correlated with the amount of energy used for lactation relative to that used for maternal maintenance. Net OPE (excluding energy intake for female maintenance) is correlated with the relative energetic growth rate of the offspring (REGR). Net OPE also varies independently of body mass, but is correlated with REGR among 11 non-domestic rodent species in six genera (including Peromyscus). Although most of these rodents may be confined to a single `economic' constraint system, Sigmodon hispidus (Say & Ord) clearly has an unusually high OPE, an innovation apparently made possible by the use of maternal body reserves and by weaning of offspring before they become fully endothermic, thus reducing offspring maintenance costs supported by the mother. The correlation between OPE and REGR also indicates a positive relationship between the speed and efficiency of offspring production, not a negative one as theorized.
10.2307/2389943|1. The West African tree species Albizia zygia, Blighia sapida, Celtis mildbraedii, Chrysophyllum pruniforme, Cynometra ananta, Guarea cedrata, Heritiera utilis, Lophira alata, Mansonia altissima, Milicia excelsa, Pericopsis elata, Pterygota macrocarpa, Strombosia glaucescens, Terminalia ivorensis and Triplochiton scleroxylon, which represent different ecological guilds (pioneers, non-pioneer light-demanders and non-pioneer shade-bearers) and distributions on a rainfall and soil fertility gradient were tested for their response to differences in irradiance and soil fertility. 2. Seedlings were grown for 4 months at a common site on contrasting forest soils from a wet evergreen forest and a moist semi-deciduous forest and at five irradiances, which mimicked variation in irradiance from single tree falls to cleared land. 3. Pioneer species responded differently to irradiance by showing higher maximum relative growth rates (>30 mg g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>) and unit leaf rates (>3.0 g m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>) than non-pioneer shade-bearers (<22 mg g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> and <2.1 g m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>, respectively). Particularly at the irradiance level below 8% of ambient, pioneers also showed higher leaf area ratios (>220 cm g<sup>-1</sup>) and specific leaf areas (>400 cm g<sup>-1</sup>) compared to shade-bearers. Non-pioneer light-demanders showed intermediate responses to differences in irradiance. 4. The soil from the wet evergreen forest was more acid (pH <tex-math>$\leg$</tex-math> 4.87) than the soil from moist semi-deciduous forest (pH  6.12). It also had lower concentrations of total N and available P, K, Ca and Mn, particularly in the topsoil. Seedlings grown in wet evergreen forest soil showed reduced leaf foliar concentrations of P, Ca and Mg and to a lesser extent N, compared with those grown in moist semi-deciduous forest soil, but the response varied between species. Foliar nutrient concentrations, particularly of P and Mg, were lowest in species naturally restricted to wet evergreen forest. 5. The non-pioneer light-demander Mansonia altissima and the pioneer T. scleroxylon showed an increase of 300% and 100%, respectively, in maximum RGR when grown in the more fertile soil type. In contrast, RGR of the pioneer L. alata was increased by 80% in the less fertile soil. Species-specific differences in growth response, biomass allocation and foliar nutrient concentration may explain why some species are restricted to more fertile soils. Suggestions for further research are made.
40407731|1. The occurrence of endocrine disruption is increasing and may now affect most, if not all, ecosystems. Owing to its impact on survival and reproduction, it is increasingly important to consider this factor in ecological studies. The study of secondary sexual traits is of particular interest because they are under strong hormonal control and play a crucial role in mating. A neglected sub-lethal effect of endocrine disruption is the reduction of male attractiveness, and the distortion of the sexual selection process. 2. Nitrate is one of the most widespread endocrine disruptors because of its extensive use in agriculture. Studies, especially in amphibians, have mostly focused on early developmental stages, probably because these were considered critical for population dynamics. However, negative effects on adult survival or reproductive success may also affect population demography. 3. We surveyed nitrate concentration in a large sample of ponds. We then exposed male palmate newts, Triturus helveticus, to high (75 mg L) but realistic concentration of sodium nitrate to investigate the effect of nitrate on the expression of secondary sexual traits and male attractiveness. 4. Exposure to nitrate for 3 weeks was found to limit the expression of sexual traits and to reduce body growth; exposure for 10 days reduced male attractiveness. Female preferred males unexposed to nitrate in olfactory tests but not in visual tests. 5. The expression of secondary sexual characteristics and body size is reduced in males exposed to realistic nitrate concentration. However, a drop in male attractiveness may first be caused by disruption of the production of olfactory cues. Depending on the frequency of contaminated breeding sites, the disruption of male ability to express sexual signals might affect the sexual selection process in palmate newts and eventually reduce population reproductive output. We discuss the ecological and evolutionary implications of this result.
826617|1. Vegetation height across a 157-ha deciduous woodland was estimated using an airborne remote-sensing technique, airborne laser scanning (ALS), and the data obtained were used to produce a three-dimensional map of the canopy surface of the entire wood. 2. Field-based estimates of a tree canopy density index were compared with mean vegetation height calculated from the ALS data for sample areas of 54 54m
40205546|1. Predation can be difficult to measure in the field and immunological and DNA-based gut analyses are now routinely used to identify and quantify prey items consumed by predators. Alternative methods have largely fallen into disuse. 2. Chromatography has been largely ignored as a method of studying predation on the grounds of low specificity and an inability to provide quantitative results. We demonstrate here that this is not so, using gas chromatography--mass spectrometry of alkaloids of prey ladybird beetles. 3. The alkaloid hippodamine from a single egg of the ladybird Hippodamia convergens was detected in all ten third instar larvae of another ladybird, Harmonia axyridis, for 12 h after they had consumed a H. convergens egg; in one case of ten, hippodamine was still detected 36 h after egg consumption. Hippodamine was detectable in all 10 second instar larvae of the lacewing Chrysoperla rufilabris sampled 12 h after consuming a H. convergens egg. 4. The amount of hippodamine in H. axyridis larvae was quantifiable with an internal standard. Larvae that had consumed more eggs exhibited higher levels of hippodamine. The method therefore can be used to estimate the amount of prey biomass consumed. 5. A comparison of the alkaloids of five ladybird species that co-occur in Kentucky field crops found that, in general, the alkaloids were sufficiently distinct to allow species identification of ladybirds that had been consumed by predators, although there was some overlap between species in alkaloid content. 6. Especially when combined with mass spectrometry, chromatography is thus a method that potentially can be used to identify multiple prey simultaneously, while also obtaining quantitative information on the prey biomass consumed. This has not been achieved by the commonly-used molecular gut-analyses. We suggest the method is suitable for a wide diversity of prey types possessing endogenous taxon-specific chemicals such as defence compounds or pheromones. 7. As a secondary consequence of this study, several alkaloids have been identified from new ladybird species. We also have shown that H. axyridis, an invasive intraguild predator of other ladybirds, does not sequester alkaloids from allospecific ladybird prey.
10.2307/2389939|1. Body condition, reflecting size of the subcutaneous fat reserves at the end of the nestling period, is a good predictor of subsequent survival in nestling passerines. While the condition has traditionally been viewed as a highly plastic trait reflecting the nutritional statc of individuals determined by the quality of parental care, nothing is known about the genetics of this trait. 2. The heritability and underlying genetic, environmental and genotype-by-environment interaction components of variation in nestling body condition were estimated in the Collared Flycatcher, Ficedula albicollis. To distinguish between genetic and environmental causes of resemblance, a reciprocal split-brood design was applied where full-sibs were reared apart in two different experimentally created environments. 3. Nestlings reared in enlarged broods were in poorer condition than their full-sibs raised in reduced broods, indicating a large environmental component to phenotypic variation in body condition. 4. However, there was a significant additive genetic component to variation in body condition in all environments, but no evidence for genotype-environment interactions. As found earlier for life-history traits closely related with fitness, heritability estimates (in both experimental environments) were generally low (h<sup>2</sup>  0.30) and sometimes not significantly different from zero. 5. These results suggest that environmental influences, e.g. amount and quality of received food, are major determinants of offspring condition. However, the small but significant additive genetic component suggests that there are also inherited differences in offspring viability and survival potential.
3599326| 1. According to their geographical distribution, most Drosophila species may be classified as either temperate or tropical, and this pattern is assumed to reflect differences in their adaptation, especially in their cold tolerance. We investigated cold tolerance in a global collection of D. melanogaster by monitoring the time adults take to recover from chill coma after a treatment at 0 C. 2. Flies grown at an intermediate temperature (21 C) showed a significant linear latitudinal cline: recovery was faster in populations living in colder climates. 3. The role of growth temperature was analysed in a subset of tropical and temperate populations. In all cases, recovery time decreased when growth temperature was lowered, and linear reaction norms were observed. This adaptive phenotypic plasticity explained more than 80% of the total variation, while genetic latitudinal differences accounted for less than 4%. 4. The beneficial effect observed in adults grown at a low temperature contrasts with other phenotypic effects which, like male sterility, appear as harmful and pathological. Our results point to the difficulty of finding a general interpretation to the diversity of plastic responses that are induced by growth temperature variations. 
826650|1. Previous studies have suggested that piscivorous snakes generally use sideways head sweeping to capture prey in order to minimize drag on the skull and/or to avoid pushing prey items away from the mouth. However, some aquatic species of garter snakes (genus Thamnophis) have been reported to use fast forward strikes to capture fish and amphibians. To characterize fast forward striking as a mode of piscivory in snakes and compare its use among specialist and generalist species, the aquatic specialists Thamnophis couchii and T. rufipunctatus, and a terrestrial generalist, T. sirtalis, were filmed at 250 fps (frames per second) while preying on minnows. 2. Both T. couchii and T. rufipunctatus oriented visually toward prey items and struck forward rapidly with peak head velocities that approached speeds attained by fast striking booid, colubrid and viperid species on land. In contrast, T. sirtalis did not orient visually toward specific prey items and displayed strikes that were four to six times slower than those of specialist species. 3. Aquatic specialists used moderate amounts of cranial rotation during jaw opening and achieved maximum gape within 20 ms of jaw opening. In the generalist T. sirtalis, jaw opening took 40-60 ms and was due almost entirely to mandibular rotation. 4. Significant differences in the prey capture kinematics of the two aquatic specialists are consistent with the hypothesis that T. couchii is an open water hunter, whereas T. rufipunctatus is an ambush predator. Thamnophiine snakes display a diversity of aquatic prey capture styles that reflect different behavioral and mechanical solutions to the problem of feeding in water.
3599335|1. It is not always possible to track trophic interactions between predators and prey by direct observation. This is especially true when observing small or elusive animals with cryptic food-web ecology. Gut and/or faecal analysis can sometimes allow prey remains to be identified visually but is only possible when a component of the diet is resistant to digestion. In some cases there are no solid remains, and when there are it can lead to bias in interpretation of prey choice. 2. Numerous invasive and non-invasive methods have been developed to characterize predator-prey interactions but two principal areas dominate 'molecular' research. These are reviewed under the headings of monoclonal antibodies and DNA-based techniques. 3. Early 'molecular' studies of predator-prey food webs were dominated by the development of monoclonal antibodies. These methods continue to be used for mass-screening of field-collected arthropods for insect-specific proteins. 4. The application of species-specific primer design, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis (RFLP), DNA cloning and sequencing, comparative sequence analysis (e.g. BLAST; basic local alignment search tool), high-resolution gel electrophoresis, Temperature/denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE/DGGE) and automated fragment analysis with fluorescent probes is reviewed. The development of molecular techniques for use in predator-prey studies is primarily limited by their cost and the development of new procedures and equipment that complement them.
2656416|1. We describe a field facility that controls CO<sub>2</sub> along continuous gradients from superambient to subambient concentrations. The facility consists of two transparent, tunnel-shaped chambers, each 1-m wide and tall and 60-m long. Pure CO<sub>2</sub> is injected into one chamber during daylight to initiate a superambient CO<sub>2</sub> gradient (550-350 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>). Ambient air is introduced to the second chamber to initiate a subambient CO<sub>2</sub> gradient (350-200 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>). CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations at night are regulated at 150 mol mol<sup>-1</sup> above daytime values along each gradient. The CO<sub>2</sub> gradients are maintained by varying the rate and direction (day/night) of air flow. 2. Air temperature and vapour pressure deficit are regulated near ambient values by cooling and dehumidifying air at 5-m intervals along chambers. 3. Desired CO<sub>2</sub> gradients were regulated on grassland for virtually the entire 9-month growing season in 1998, including a 6-month drought. Consistent CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations were maintained along gradients despite seasonal variation in species composition, leaf area, and temperature. 4. Daytime temperatures in chambers tracked the seasonal pattern in 1998. The polyethylene covering on chambers transmitted 90% of incident light, but usually increased the ratio of diffuse to direct light. 5. By enabling the study of trends in plant and ecosystem responses to CO<sub>2</sub> over both subambient and superambient concentrations, elongated chambers fill a void in CO<sub>2</sub> research facilities.
10.2307/2389795|The relative photosynthetic rates of fronds of Ulva lactuca Linn. (Ulvales, Chlorophyceae) sampled from upper, middle and lower littoral zones, were measured when submerged and at different levels of desiccation under laboratory conditions. The upper and middle littoral fronds showed increased rates of photosynthesis under exposure to air but the lower littoral ones showed maximal rates under submergence and registered lower rates under exposure. The rates of the upper littoral fronds were significantly higher than those of lower ones, under desiccated conditions. The upper ones had higher moisture content than the middle and lower littoral fronds during submergence but they were fast to lose their moisture under desiccation. The moisture levels at which the photosynthetic rates began to fall were 45%, 72% and 100%, in the upper, middle and lower littoral fronds, respectively. It is inferred from this study that the upper littoral fronds of the species, which are subjected to longer periods of exposure and consequently more desiccation during emergence in nature, are better adapted to emerged conditions than the lower ones. The results further suggest that the three types of fronds could be locally adapted ecads or ecotypes, the differences being the outcome of their responses to the physical conditions operating along the intertidal belt.
10.2307/2389466|Reproductive potential at the level of the shoot was examined in three species of Ericaceous shrubs representing a range of growth forms (Rhododendron maximum L., an evergreen species with long-lived leaves; Kalmia latifolia L., an evergreen species with short-lived leaves and Rhododendron nudiflorum (L.) Torr., a deciduous species). A subsample of the shoot populations on 10 individuals of each species was used to determine the relationship between shoot properties (size and age) and (1) the probability of flowering and (2) the components of reproduction (flower buds per inflorescence, flowers per flower bud and capsules per flower). Physiological characteristics (nitrogen and nonstructural carbohydrate content) of shoots associated with size and age were also determined. In all three species, shoot size was shown to be a better predictor of reproductive potential than shoot age. The positive relationship of reproductive potential with shoot size appears to be related to internal resource availability. Where shoot age was related to flowering, this relationship could be partially explained by an age-size correlation. Information collected at the level of the shoot was also used to assess differences in flowering potential between individuals within species and between species. Variation in flowering potential between individuals appears to be determined at the stage of flower initiation and is largely due to differences in the number and size distribution of shoots between individuals. Differences between species appear to be related to leaf longevity and leaf structure.
10.2307/2390094|1. Nitrogen- and water-use efficiencies in biomass production were determined for three C<sub>3</sub> plant species at carbon dioxide concentrations ([CO<sub>2</sub>]) that spanned glacial to present atmospheric levels [200-350  mol CO<sub>2</sub> (mol air)<sup>-1</sup>]. The species were annual grasses Bromus tectorum and Triticum aestivum (two cultivars) and a woody perennial Prosopis glandulosa (alone and in mixtures with the C<sub>4</sub> grass, Schizachyrium scoparium). 2. Changes in nitrogen- and water-use efficiencies were used to investigate effects of increasing [CO<sub>2</sub>] on the relative requirements of C<sub>3</sub> plants for these frequently limiting resources. 3. Water-use efficiency (biomass produced/evapotranspiration; WUE) increased at higher [CO<sub>2</sub>] in all species but relative responses to [CO<sub>2</sub>] varied among species, cultivars and watering regimes. 4. Intrinsic WUE (net assimilation/stomatal conductance to water), calculated from stable carbon isotopes in plants, increased by about the same relative amount as did [CO<sub>2</sub>] in all species. 5. Nitrogen-use efficiency (biomass produced/plant N; NUE) rose at higher [CO<sub>2</sub>] only in well-watered B. tectorum and in P. glandulosa grown alone. 6. The more consistent increase in WUE than NUE in these species at higher [CO<sub>2</sub>] implies that rising [CO<sub>2</sub>] may have reduced the amount of water relative to nitrogen that some C<sub>3</sub> plants require and thereby altered the composition and function of terrestrial ecosystems.
10.2307/2389522|1. A general model is presented to analyse size-dependent reproductive output in plants. The model formulation makes it possible to test for both a minimum size for reproduction and a non-linear relationship between size and reproductive output. 2. The model is statistically analysed with the likelihood-ratio test. In contrast to previously proposed models, this model admits a hump-shaped relationship between reproductive effort (RE) and plant size. 3. Data for three species analysed here show that RE is not always monotonically increasing or decreasing with plant size. 4. For a realistic data set the statistically required sample size is calculated.
41239452|1. In studies of an organism's functional ecology, key behavioural traits such as foraging periodicity are assumed to be uniform across the species. In particular, the fundamental division between diurnal and nocturnal activity patterns is usually assumed to be a fixed one, with organisms demonstrating physiological traits optimised for a particular diel rhythm. 2. In this study, we explore the activity rhythm of a tropical reef fish, the golden-lined rabbitfish, Siganus lineatus. We make use of acoustic telemetry (manual tracking), combined with underwater observations of feeding behaviour to investigate the diel foraging patterns of S. lineatus, at three sites around the lagoon of Lizard Island, Great Barrier Reef. 3. We found significant differences in the activity patterns of shoreline and reef-based populations of S. lineatus. Individuals inhabiting the boulder-shoreline site foraged during the day and remained stationary in rest holes during the night, whereas individuals from the two reef populations foraged only during nocturnal hours, remaining stationary at the edge of favoured coral bommies during the day. To our knowledge, this represents the first example of a wholesale intraspecific shift in diel activity rhythm for a tropical marine fish. 4. We suggest that S. lineatus is a diurnal nominal herbivore whose biological rhythm has developed the flexibility to be nocturnal. This development may simply represent the masking effects of predation, competition or ontogeny, or it may represent entrainment over an evolutionary time-scale necessary to enable the species to expand its range into the coral reef environment. 5. Either way, the results identify S. lineatus as a potential subject for research into the relative importance of the various biological forces driving divisions along the temporal niche axis and suggest that the species has the potential to provide insights into the impact of biological rhythm plasticity on ecosystem functioning at the ecological and evolutionary level.
3599337|1. Diet analyses using C and N stable isotopes commonly focus on mean isotopic signatures; however, isotopic variance among individuals is likely to also contain useful information including details of omnivory. 2. Changes in isotopic signature as a result of dietary shifts are not instantly manifest in the isotopic signature of consumer tissues, but lagged over a period of time required for equilibration. Tissue turnover times have not previously been described in terms of variance in isotopic signature among individuals, and variance among individuals following equilibration with a constant diet is limited. 3. Temporal changes in 
3599319|1. Changes in the frequency of extreme events, such as droughts, may be one of the most significant impacts of climate change for ecosystems. Models predict more frequent summer droughts in much of England: this paper investigates the impact on different types of plants in an ex-arable grassland community. 2. A long-term experiment simulated increased and decreased summer precipitation. Substantial interannual variation allowed the effects of summer drought to be tested in combination with wet and dry weather in other seasons. This is important, as climate models predict increased winter precipitation. 3. Total cover abundance in early summer increased with increasing water supply in the previous summer; there was no effect of winter precipitation. Productivity is therefore likely to decrease with more frequent summer droughts, with no mitigating effect of wetter winters. 4. The percentage cover of perennial grasses declined during a natural drought in 1995-97; this was exacerbated by the experimental drought treatment and reduced by supplemented rainfall. Simultaneously, short-lived ruderal species increased; this was greatest in drought treatments and least with supplemented rainfall. 5. These trends were subsequently reversed during several years of unusually wet weather, with perennial grasses increasing and short-lived forbs decreasing. This occurred even in experimentally droughted plots, and we propose that it resulted from rapid coverage of gaps during wet autumns and winters. 6. Deep-rooted species generally proved to be more drought resistant, but there were exceptions. 7. We conclude that increased frequency of summer droughts could have serious implications for the establishment and successional development of ex-arable grasslands. Increased winter precipitation would moderate the impact on species composition, but not on productivity.
2390317|1. The extent to which parasitoid wasps are limited by their egg supply is very important in understanding their reproductive strategies. Egg reserves are dynamic, with most wasps maturing new eggs throughout their life (synovigeny) and many species resorbing eggs that are not used in oviposition. We investigated the extent to which a parasitoid modulates its egg reserves in the light of its experience in finding hosts. 2. The egg dynamics of the Encyrtid Wasp Leptomastix dactylopii, a solitary parasitoid of mealybugs, were studied in the laboratory. This species is synovigenic and practises egg resorption. 3. We allowed newly emerged wasps to experience one of four environments of increasing value in terms of reproductive opportunities. We proposed that wasps that experienced good quality environments would maintain more mature eggs ready for oviposition. Dissection of wasps subject to different periods of host deprivation after the experimental treatment failed to confirm the hypothesis: egg load was independent of experience. 4. We also proposed that any adjustment of egg supply to make up for eggs oviposited would be effected through a reduction in egg resorption. Instead, we found that the wasp quickly made up for eggs oviposited by increased egg production.
10.2307/2390096|1. The timing of reproductive decisions represents a major life-history decision that all organisms must make. In social Hymenoptera this decision takes the form of when to curtail worker production (equivalent to growth) in favour of male and queen production (reproduction). 2. In bumble-bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae), queens produce one to several broods of pure workers (females) before switching to sexual production. Queens are determined environmentally, via food levels provided to diploid larvae, whereas, as in all Hymenoptera, females suppress fertilization of eggs to produce males. After the decision to begin reproduction is made, mixtures of workers, males and sometimes queens are produced, but the proportion of fertilized eggs decreases over time until only haploid eggs are laid. 3. Here we assess the two hypotheses that have been proposed to explain the onset of haploid egg (male) production in bumble-bee colonies. We generate a list of clear predictions derived from the two hypotheses and test these with data from laboratory and field-reared nests of the bumble-bee Bombus terrestris. 4. We show that the two main hypotheses available, about worker density and about oviposition record by the queen, are insufficient to explain the observed patterns in field and laboratory bumble-bee nests. We suggest the possible alternative that this reproductive decision may be made by workers through selective culling of eggs or larvae rather than by the queen.
10.2307/2389544|Naturally occurring communities of fern gametophytes were sampled for density, size hierarchy, gender distribution and mean size. Correlation matrices were calculated to determine the relationships between these parameters. Maleness in small gametophytes correlated positively with increases in size hierarchies and the presence of female gametophytes, indicating that an `antheridiogen effect' is operating in wild gametophyte communities. We propose a pattern of gametophyte community development within which there is great mortality among small gametophytes. We suggest that response to antheridiogens enhances the reproductive success of small gametophytes by allowing for gender expression which would not occur via self-regulation. Results also indicate self-thinning occurs in gametophyte communities, and that large gametophytes inhibit small gametophytes more greatly than expected given size differences.
3806622|1. Mechanistic models may be able to predict how changes in agricultural practice influence farmland bird populations. A key component of these models is the link between food and competitor densities and the rate at which birds consume food, i.e. the functional response. 2. This paper tests whether the functional response of a farmland bird, the rook Corvus frugilegus, can be predicted from three parameters: searching speed, food detection distance and handling time. It is often difficult to measure the functional response of farmland birds directly, but it may be possible to measure behavioural parameters more quickly. 3. We performed experiments in which rooks fed on a range of artificial food densities in two grass sward heights. Food detection distance was greater in the shorter sward, but sward height did not influence searching speed or handling time. The functional response could be accurately predicted in both sward heights. 4. We show that the functional response of a farmland bird can be predicted from parameters that can be measured more quickly than the alternative of measuring the functional response directly. This implies that the functional responses of other farmland birds may be predicted using a minimum of information.
40963548|1. Scaling relationships linking photosynthesis (A) to leaf traits are important for predicting vegetation patterns and plant-atmosphere carbon fluxes. Here, we investigated the impact of growth temperature on such scaling relationships. 2. We assessed whether changes in growth temperature systematically altered the slope and/or intercepts of loglog plots of A vs leaf mass per unit leaf area (LMA), nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations for 19 contrasting plant species grown hydroponically at four temperatures (7, 14, 21 and 28 C) in controlled environment cabinets. Responses of 21 C-grown pre-existing (PE) leaves experiencing a 10 day growth temperature (7, 14, 21 and 28 C) treatment, and newly-developed (ND) leaves formed at each of the four new growth temperatures, were quantified. Irrespective of the growth temperature treatment, rates of light-saturated photosynthesis (A) were measured at 21 C. 3. Changes in growth temperature altered the scaling between A and leaf traits in pre-existing (PE) leaves, with thermal history accounting for up to 17% and 31% of the variation on a mass and area basis, respectively. However, growth temperature played almost no role in accounting for scatter when comparisons were made of newly-developed (ND) leaves that form at each growth temperature. 4. Photosynthetic nitrogen and phosphorus use efficiency (PNUE and PPUE, respectively) decreased with increasing LMA. No systematic differences in temperature-mediated reductions in PNUE or PPUE of PE leaves were found among species. 5. Overall, these results highlight the importance of leaf development in determining the effects of sustained changes in growth temperature on scaling relationships linking photosynthesis to other leaf traits.
3806558| 1. This study investigated the protective role of ants against phytophagous insects on Urera baccifera (L.) Gaudich. Ants (22 species) visit shrubs of U. baccifera throughout the year and forage especially on leaves, where they harvest pearl bodies, and on fruiting branches, where they collect fleshy fruits. The main leaf herbivores are the butterflies Smyrna blomfildia (Fruhstorfer) and Urbanus esmeraldus (Butler), and the moth Pleuroptya silicalis (Guen). 2. The proportion of vegetative (no flowers or fruits) individuals of U. baccifera occupied by ants greatly surpassed that of neighbouring plant species lacking food rewards, consistent with the hypothesis that pearl bodies act as ant attractants. Ant visitation to vegetative individuals of U. baccifera increased larval mortality of S. blomfildia, suggesting that ants attracted to pearl bodies reduce herbivore survival. Fruits were also demonstrated to play an important role in ant attraction by U. baccifera. Ant visitation to pearl body-producing shrubs of non-myrmecophytic Piper amalago L. with U. baccifera fruits attached was significantly higher than to P. amalago plants with an attached leaf of U. baccifera. 3. Ant-exclusion experiments showed that ants effectively reduce the incidence of lepidopteran larvae on the plants. In both 2003 and 2004, herbivores were more abundant on ant-excluded than on ant-visited shrubs of U. baccifera. Additionally, in both years ant-excluded plants had significantly faster leaf abscission rates compared with ant-visited plants. 4. So far, all ant-plant systems with dual food rewards involve extrafloral nectar as one of the attractants. This study with U. baccifera is the first to report food bodies and fruits as ant attractants in a non-symbiotic ant-plant interaction. This facultative system is also unique in that herbivore deterrence caused by pearl body- and fruit-harvesting ants can also add to leaf longevity. 
826669|1. The contents of newly constructed nests of Painted Turtles, Chrysemys picta (Schneider 1783), were manipulated by reciprocal transplant so that each of several nests received a complement of eggs from each of several females. The eggs were recovered from nests after 8 weeks and allowed to complete their incubation under standard conditions in the laboratory. The design of the experiment enabled us to distinguish between environmental and maternal effects on attributes of hatchlings. 2. Several measures of body size and energy reserve varied among turtles hatching from eggs that incubated in different nests, and certain of these measures varied also among turtles hatching from eggs that incubated in different layers within nests. The effects of nest and layer were substantial. For example, fat-free carcasses of hatchlings from one nest weighed 17% more than those of neonates from a second nest, but fat-free yolks from the former weighed only 53% as much as yolks from the latter. 3. Stepwise linear regression indicated that the size of hatchlings and the hydration and fat content of their carcasses were positively correlated with the net change in mass of eggs (which is an index to net water-exchange) while they incubated in the field. In contrast, both the fat and fat-free components of unused yolk were negatively correlated with change in mass of eggs. Although the statistical procedure is only correlative, the findings accord well with results of laboratory studies documenting a relationship between uptake of water by eggs, metabolism and growth by embryos, and size and condition of hatchlings. 4. Variation among hatchlings representative of different nests accounted for 24% of the statistical variance in mass of dry, fat-free carcasses; 29% of the variance in mass of dry, fat-free yolks; 19% of the variance in mass of storage fat in yolks; and 11% of the variance in mass of storage fat in carcasses. Additional variation was detected between the upper and lower layers of nests. Such environmentally induced variation probably affects survival of neonatal animals in the field.
2656323|1. We tested the hypothesis of Langenheim and Stubblebine that differences in chemical composition between maternal trees and the seedlings under them arise from differential mortality; only seedlings different from the mother survive. Such mortality could explain at least some of the cases where seedlings accumulate under adult conspecifics, contrary to the extreme form of the Janzen-Connell hypothesis. 2. We investigated Nectandra ambigens (Lauraceae), an upper-canopy tree at Los Tuxtlas tropical rain forest, Mexico, whose seedlings survive under the canopy of conspecific trees. We analysed chromatographic profiles of leaf terpenoids of 15 groups, each formed by an adult tree and its surrounding seedlings. 3. We predicted that seedlings chemically similar to the adult would be absent under the tree canopy and that they would be present outside that canopy. We also predicted that younger seedlings would be more similar to the adult than the older ones. 4. Chemical similarity analyses showed that most seedlings were significantly different from their closest adult and thus supported the Langenheim and Stubblebine hypothesis. However, we did not find chemical differentiation among seedlings regarding their age or their position inside or outside the tree canopy.
10.2307/2389507|Aphids offer an excellent test-bed for life-history theory. As individuals of the same clone can exhibit mixed reproductive strategies, the costs and benefits of reproductive decisions can be quantified in genetically identical individuals. This study investigates the relationship between lipid content, the size of the fat body, and reproductive investment in apterous virginoparae of the vetch aphid, Megoura viciae Buckton. In this species an increase in the number of ovarioles from 14 to 20 was associated with an increase in the relative biomass of the gonads, and an increase in the proportion of the total lipid present in the gonads. The total lipid content of adult aphids of the same weight, but of different ovariole number, was equal. Associated with an increase in reproductive investment, there was a directly proportional decrease in the size of the somatic fat body and of the soma, and a decrease in the proportion of the total lipid in the soma.
2390368|1. Recently, fresh attempts have been made to understand the mechanisms structuring species-body size distributions. Of these, the model developed by Brown, Marquet & Taper (1993) (BMT), which uses measures of resource acquisition and conversion to determine an optimal body size (M<sup>*</sup>) for a given assemblage, is potentially the most significant. Here, we examine the novelty of the model and some of its assumptions, and test its empirical predictions. 2. The BMT model is one of a suite of physiological/life-history models examining size at maturity. Such energetic or `physical' approaches to body size evolution have a considerable modern history and continue to enjoy attention in physiological ecology and life-history theory. 3. Although mortality significantly influences life-history evolution and mostly precludes the evolution of a body size that maximizes reproductive power output, it is excluded from the BMT model. Likewise, the model assumes that power and not efficiency is maximized, although there are conditions where this is not likely to be the case. Furthermore, the BMT model assumes that resource acquisition and conversion are physiologically limited, although the importance of physiological limitation in ecology remains unclear. 4. Additional assumptions of the model include coincidence of the optimum body size of an individual and a species, when in many species this is not the case, and coincidence of the most speciose size class in an assemblage and the optimal body size. Similarly, the probable influence of differences in the scaling of various parameters at the intra- and interspecific levels are not addressed, nor are the impacts of discrepancies between phenotypic and genotypic optima. 5. The measures of resource acquisition and conversion used in the BMT model are not only problematic, but also limit the utility of the model. If the scaling constants and exponents of field metabolic rate minus basal metabolic are used as a measure of resource acquisition beyond maintenance needs, and those for intrinsic rate of increase (r<sub>max</sub>) as a measure of resource conversion, the applicability of the model to other taxa can be extended. 6. Using these measures we show that the model continues to provide a reasonable prediction of M<sup><sup></sup></sup>* for the terrestrial mammal assemblages of both North America and Australia. However, when taxonomic inclusiveness is reduced by removing eutherians from the Australian data set and by examining the predictions of the model with regard to diprotodonts only, the model fails to provide reasonable predictions of M<sup>*</sup>. 7. Given problems with the BMT model, but its clear ability to predict the modal body size of at least two terrestrial mammal assemblages, we suggest that there is considerable scope for exploring the relationships between resource acquisition and conversion at the level of the individual and energy partitioning between individuals in multispecies communities.
20142742|1. Given the speed and extent of changes in vegetation as a result of human activity, there is a need to investigate ways in which individual species' impacts on ecosystem processes can be generalized and scaled-up to the community level. 2. We focus on linking community functional parameters (mean of the traits of the plants in the community, weighted using four different methods) with litter chemistry and decomposition, in a chronosequence of currently managed and abandoned semi-natural grasslands in southern Sweden. 3. Changes in plant community composition with age since abandonment were reflected in community functional parameters: as expected, aggregated specific leaf area (SLA) declined, and aggregated leaf dry matter content (LDMC) and leaf carbon: nitrogen ratio (C: N) increased with plot age. 4. Several litter chemistry indices were closely linked with plant traits at the community level; in particular, community aggregated LDMC was correlated with the lignin and fibre content of the community litter. 5. Aggregated LDMC stood out as the trait most closely linked to community litter decomposition. This relationship was consistent across all three incubation periods (by which time up to c. 70% mass loss had occurred) and as strong as that between the best single chemical index of litter quality (lignin: N ratio) and litter mass loss. 6. Mass loss of whole community litter, incubated in its plot of origin, was related to mass loss of the same litter incubated under standard conditions, but not to decomposition of a standard substrate, indicating dominant substrate quality control over decomposition. 7. This study demonstrates the potential of the traits of living plants as a tool to link changes in species composition with ecosystem processes at the community level.
10.2307/2390508|1. Parasites that are transmitted vertically from parent hosts to offspring are expected to be relatively benign, because their fitness depends on successful host reproduction. The effects of two species of vertically transmitted ectoparasite on the reproductive success of swifts (Apus apus L.) were tested. Populations of the Chewing Louse, Dennyus hirundinis (L.) (Phthiraptera: Menoponidae), and the Flightless Louse Fly, Crataerina pallida (Latreille) (Diptera: Hippoboscidae), were experimentally manipulated, effectively converting the natural aggregated frequency distribution of each species into a bimodal distribution of high and low loads. 2. Neither parasite had any effect on nestling growth or fledging success, even though parasite loads were boosted above natural levels and host environmental conditions were poor during part of the study, thus increasing the chances of detecting an effect of the parasites. 3. In contrast to parasite load, year, brood size and hatch date were all significantly related to components of nestling growth. Year and brood size were also significantly related to fledging success. 4. These results are consistent with theoretical models suggesting that vertically transmitted parasites evolve reduced virulence because they depend on host reproduction for dispersal to new hosts.
40407698|1. Ants show complex interactions with plants, both facultative and mutualistic, ranging from grazers through seed predators and dispersers to herders of some herbivores and guards against others. But ants are rarely pollinators, and their visits to flowers may be detrimental to plant fitness. 2. Plants therefore have various strategies to control ant distributions, and restrict them to foliage rather than flowers. These 'filters' may involve physical barriers on or around flowers, or 'decoys and bribes' sited on the foliage (usually extrafloral nectaries - EFNs). Alternatively, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are used as signals to control ant behaviour, attracting ants to leaves and/or deterring them from functional flowers. Some of the past evidence that flowers repel ants by VOCs has been equivocal and we describe the shortcomings of some experimental approaches, which involve behavioural tests in artificial conditions. 3. We review our previous study of myrmecophytic acacias, which used in situ experiments to show that volatiles derived from pollen can specifically and transiently deter ants during dehiscence, the effects being stronger in ant-guarded species and more effective on resident ants, both in African and Neotropical species. In these plants, repellence involves at least some volatiles that are known components of ant alarm pheromones, but are not repellent to beneficial bee visitors. 4. We also prsent new evidence of ant repellence by VOCs in temperate flowers, which is usually pollen-based and active on common European ants. We use these data to indicate that across a wide range of plants there is an apparent trade-off in ant-controlling filter strategies between the use of defensive floral volatiles and the alternatives of decoying EFNs or physical barriers.
41239440|1. Understanding the effect of water deficit on plant respiration and its temperature sensitivity at long time-scales is important for anticipating the shift in ecosystem dynamics that is expected to occur as a result of climate change. 2. We investigated seasonal variations of leaf dark respiration and sensitivity to temperature in the upper and lower canopy of Quercus ilex trees in a forest stand that had been exposed to either 33% throughfall reduction or normal rainfall for the preceding 6 years. 3. For upper and lower canopy leaves, light-saturated photosynthesis and respiration at a reference temperature of 15C (R) had the lowest values in late summer, when both traits were lower in trees subjected to throughfall reduction than in those subject to control conditions. Respiration acclimated to seasonal shifts in temperature, more intensively through summer than winter and in throughfall-exclusion than control trees. Foliar concentration of soluble sugars was positively correlated with R across seasons. 4. As leaf respiration decreased with increasing water deficit, and the relationship between water status and respiration did not differ between trees that had been exposed to 7 years of enhanced drought when compared with controls, we suggest that drier conditions projected for the Mediterranean may attenuate the stimulation of leaf respiratory CO release by global warming in Q. ilex forests.
826704|1. Carotenoid pigments are deposited into egg yolk by female birds, but little is known of the ecological regulation of this process. In particular, the relative importance of pigment acquisition and utilization (i.e. physiological discrimination: differential uptake, transport, deposition or metabolic conversions) is poorly understood. 2. Carotenoids are antioxidants, capable of neutralizing reactive free radicals and thus preventing lipid peroxidation. But animals must ultimately obtain carotenoids in the diet, and metabolic conversion of carotenoids is inefficient and expends energy. It has therefore been suggested that carotenoid supply may be limiting to animals. 3. Prelaying, wild Lesser Black-Backed Gulls (Larus fuscus L.) were given supplementary feed with a cocktail of four carotenoids, or a carotenoid-free (control) supplement. The yolk carotenoid profile and susceptibility to lipid peroxidation were then compared in eggs that they laid. 4. In comparison with controls, there was an increase in the yolk concentrations of seven carotenoids, and also unidentified carotenoids in eggs produced by carotenoid-supplemented females. However, the relative proportions of five classes of carotenoid did not differ significantly, and consequently the percentage profile of yolk carotenoids was positively correlated, between feeding treatments, possibly indicating metabolic transformations and differential transfer of carotenoids from maternal diet to yolk. 5. Moreover, in control eggs relatively few possible correlations between carotenoid concentrations were significantly positive, and some correlations between carotenoid proportions were significantly negative, suggesting physiological discrimination. 6. Egg yolk produced by carotenoid-supplemented females was significantly less susceptible to lipid peroxidation in comparison with controls. 7. These results suggest that yolk enrichment with carotenoids involves physiological discrimination in gulls, highlighting a previously unstudied, potential cost of reproduction.
3599154| 1. Vegetative growth in vascular epiphytes is assumed to be severely limited by intermittent supply of water and nutrients, but experimental evidence for this notion is meagre. The effects of water, nutrient supply and light on growth were studied in an epiphytic bromeliad, Vriesea sanguinolenta Cogn. & Marchal (syn. Werauhia sanguinolenta) in a large forest gap in a lowland forest of Panama, in a full-factorial design. To investigate ontogenetic drift, three plant-size classes (5, 15 and 35 cm leaf length) were included in the experiment. 2. Water supply had the strongest influence on growth, but the magnitude of this effect differed considerably among size classes. Nutrient supply affected growth only in small and intermediate-sized plants. More light (60% of direct irradiation) tended to decrease growth rates compared to 30% irradiation. 3. Small plants showed by far the highest potential to adjust their relative growth rate (RGR) in response to favourable growing conditions. 4. Despite these size-related differences, absolute RGRs were extremely low compared to studies with other plant groups, confirming the notion that vascular epiphytes are inherently slow-growing plants. 
3599012|1. If phenotypes differ in habitat preferences there may be a decrease in intraspecific competition with increasing phenotypic variation, causing heterogeneous populations to perform better than homogeneous ones. Furthermore, if the relative performance of different phenotypes depends on environmental conditions, population heterogeneity may buffer populations against temporal environmental variation. 2. Here these hypotheses are tested using 10 experimental populations of juvenile Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar L.) reared across a range of five different water discharges. Each population consisted of fish of identical parental origins to control for genetic differences among populations, but differed in body size heterogeneity owing to differences in egg size distributions. 3. No effect of population heterogeneity on final body size or dispersal rates was detected. Thus, egg size heterogeneity does not appear to influence the average level of intraspecific competition in Atlantic Salmon. 4. There was a strong positive effect of water discharge on body size, but no effects of phenotypic heterogeneity on variation in final body size among discharge levels. Thus, the relative growth performance of juveniles arising from different egg sizes may not change sufficiently with environmental changes for egg size variation to create a strong buffering effect against year-to-year variation in environmental conditions.
2656484|1. With a mathematical model, we demonstrate that two principle components of biological diversity have antagonistic effects on the probability of ecosystem functioning (i.e. on ecosystem reliability, sensu Naeem 1998). Increasing the number of functionally analogous species in the system is shown to enhance reliability, while increasing the number of functions or processes which these species support (functional diversity) has a negative influence. 2. Probability of functioning was calculated from the likelihood that essential ecosystem functions are lost, which was based on the probability of local extinction of the species that support these functions. 3. A third component of diversity, heterogeneity among extinction probabilities of different species, enhanced probability of ecosystem functioning for species belonging to the same functional group, but only in species-poor systems. In contrast, heterogeneity among species of different functional groups drastically reduced probability of ecosystem functioning and this reduction was more pronounced when more groups were present. 4. The model further predicts an asymptotic relationship between number of functionally analogous species and probability of functioning, rather than a linear or complex one. In case the species are very prone to extinction, saturation occurs at higher species numbers, which indicates there is less species redundancy in vulnerable systems.
40603055|1. Transgenerational effects, genetic or non-genetic, affect population dynamics and the evolution of life-history traits. Besides genetic components, the size of gametes (eggs and seeds), simultaneously a parental and progeny character, can mediate environmental condition experienced by a parent. In both animals and arthropods, mothers are known to reduce their egg mass depending on their malcondition. 2. Progeny may also modify their life history traits to increase their own fitness when constrained by maternal investment, which may eventually nullify transgenerational effects on population dynamics and evolution. Such fitness modification by the progeny under new environmental conditions requires phenotypic plasticity interacting with egg mass. We hypothesize that different selective environments should produce inter-population genetic diversification of the response to maternal investment on each egg, which would be detected as a paternal genotype  environment  previous (i.e. maternal) environment (G  E  preE) interaction in progeny fitness. 3. To evaluate the contribution of maternal non-genetic resource and the genetic component separately, we used an inbred-isofemale-line approach to eliminate the influence of the genetic correlation between egg mass and other life history traits, in the adzuki bean beetle, Callosobruchus chinensis. The females were reared at either high or low densities to generate variability in egg resources. To test the additive or interactive effect of genotype, non-genetic egg resources, and maternal environment on the life history traits of the progeny, they were crossed with males from laboratory and wild strains that had been subjected to different levels of population density. 4. The G  E  preE interaction effect was detected on the correlation structure between egg mass and development time: In the offspring of mothers reared at low density, the negative correlation between egg mass and development time was higher with lab strain fathers, whereas in the offspring of mothers reared at high density, the negative correlation was higher with the wild strain fathers. 5. Our results indicate a genetic difference in the response of development time but not of adult mass to environmental variation in egg mass. Such density-dependent enhancement of maternal effects may destabilize population dynamics and accelerate evolution.
10.2307/2389409|Two hypotheses have been presented to explain the inverse correlation between maximum size of mobile intertidal invertebrates and increasing wave exposure. The differential-mortality hypothesis explains the pattern by selective mortality of the larger individuals with increasing exposure, while the differential-growth hypothesis states that mobile invertebrates are smaller with exposure because individuals have decreased access to food and therefore grow to a smaller size. Experiments were designed to test one aspect of the second hypothesis, whether mobility is reduced with increasing wave exposure. Vertical copper plates were glued to shells of Lottia gigantea (Sowerby 1834), simulating the increased drag of several categories of water speeds. The limpets potentially grazed less substratum with increasing drag forces because they spent less time moving, although the speed of locomotion remained unchanged. Additional studies may determine whether changes in time spent moving yield differences in growth rates and maximal adult size.
2656489|1. In central Siberia Pinus sylvestris forests and bogs are common elements of the landscape and they show different functional behaviour in terms of energy and carbon exchanges. 2. The two ecosystems show a remarkable difference in energy dissipation, with average Bowen ratios of 0.6 and 2.9, respectively. 3. The alternation of bogs and forests with different energy partition at the surface could affect rainfall distribution and the disturbance regimes (lightening and fires) and drive the ecology of such a complex landscape. 4. During summer, water shortage and poor nutrient conditions in the soil heavily affect carbon exchange rates of the regenerating forest (-7.7 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>). Consequently the bog becomes a significant dominant carbon sequestration element of this particular landscape with higher rates of carbon uptake (-104.2 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>).
40407699|1. There are myriad ways in which pollinators and herbivores can interact via the evolutionary and behavioural responses of their host plants. 2. Given that both herbivores and pollinators consume and are dependent upon plant-derived nutrients and secondary metabolites, and utilize plant signals, plant chemistry should be one of the major factors mediating these interactions. 3. Here we build upon a conceptual framework for understanding plant-mediated interactions of pollinators and herbivores. We focus on plant chemistry, in particular plant volatiles and aim to unify hypotheses for plant defence and pollination. We make predictions for the evolutionary outcomes of these interactions by hypothesizing that conflicting selection pressures from herbivores and pollinators arise from the constraints imposed by plant chemistry. 4. We further hypothesize that plants could avoid conflicts between pollinator attraction and herbivore defence through tissue-specific regulation of pollinator reward chemistry, as well as herbivore-induced changes in flower chemistry and morphology. 5. Finally, we test aspects of our predictions in a case study using a wild tornato species, Solanum peruvianum, to illustrate the diversity of tissue-specific and herbivore-induced diffrences in plant chemistry that could influence herbivore and pollinator behaviour, and plant fitness.
10.2307/2389320|Relative growth rates of plant species are often reported to decrease with increasing seed size. Since a general allometric relationship shows that relative growth rate decreases with increasing body size in animals and unicells, the seed size-relative growth rate relationship may be a special case of a more general allometric relationship. In this paper, we analysed the allometry of seed weight and seedling relative growth rate in 204 species, based on seven published data sets, and compared our results to the allometric equation of animals. Seedling relative growth rate scaled significantly to seed weight in only three data sets. When points outside of the 95% confidence intervals of the individual regressions were removed, five out of the seven data sets exhibited significant negative correlations. Slopes varied from -0.158 to +0.08 among data sets but an analysis of covariance showed that all data sets shared a common slope of -0.038. The amount of variance accounted for by seed weight varied from 68 to less than 1%. Plants and animals differed in their size dependence of growth but all plant relative growth rates closely followed the regression equation based on the animal data and all plant estimates fell well within the 95% confidence intervals of the animal regression. Despite the statistical difference in slopes, there was a general concordance of the plant and animal data, indicating a similarity in the allometry of growth rates.
826647| 1. The food consumption of an animal, both at the individual and the population level, is an essential component for assessing the impact of that animal on its ecosystem. As such, measurements of the energy requirements of marine top-predators are extremely valuable as they can be used to estimate these food requirements. 2. The present study used heart rate to estimate the rate of energy expenditure of gentoo penguins during the breeding season. The average daily metabolic rate (ADMR) of penguins when one adult was necessarily present at the nest (incubating eggs or guarding small chicks; IG; 4 76 W kg
3599323|1. In the field of plant-herbivore interactions a major focus of research is the importance of herbivores as selective agents on the evolution of plant resistance. Evidence to support the role of herbivores as selective agents must demonstrate that the intraspecific variation in plant resistance, and the variation in the plant resistive trait, are under genetic control. Predominantly, research in this field has concentrated on plant-insect system, with much less emphasis on plant-mammal interactions. 2. In a common Eucalyptus species, Eucalyptus globulus (Labill.), variation in resistance to a mammalian herbivore, Trichosurus vulpecula (Kerr, 1792), is under genetic control. 3. In this paper, plants of known genetic stock grown in a common-environment field trial were used to investigate the plant characteristic responsible for resistance of E. globulus to T. vulpecula and to determine if there was a genetic basis to variation in the defensive trait. 4. The results demonstrate that a formylated phloroglucional compound, sideroxylonal, is the dominant plant secondary metabolite that determined intake of E. globulus juvenile coppiced foliage by T. vulpecula, and that this metabolite is under significant genetic control. 5. These results are discussed in the context of the possible role T. vulpecula may play as a selective agent on the evolution of resistance in E. globulus.
826602| 1. A canopy N distribution model optimizing photosynthesis was combined with mechanisms for senescence and N resorption to predict canopy leaf area index (LAI) development as a function of canopy nutrient content, N
3806610| 1. The influence of salinity, temperature and physiological development on habitat choice by juvenile salmon is poorly understood. We measured differences in the net energetic cost of habitats that differed in salinity or temperature using behavioural titration of juvenile salmon and correlated these costs with body size and osmoregulatory enzyme activity to quantify how costs change with physiological development. 2. Juvenile salmon showed a strong preference for saline water (27 or 15 vs 0) and for cold water (9 C vs 14 C). It was estimated to be 0.15 W and 0.11 W more costly for salmon to forage in fresh water than in 15 and 27 salt water, respectively, and 0.09 W more costly to forage in warm than in cold water. 3. We expected fish to prefer 15 salt water to fresh water regardless of enzyme activity because they are iso-osmotic with this salt concentration. In contrast, preference for higher salt concentrations should increase with enzyme activity. Consistent with our expectations, enzyme activity was not correlated with preference for 15 salt water, but was positively correlated with preference for 27 salt water. 4. The cost of changing salinity vs changing temperature were very similar, indicating that knowledge of both of these costs are necessary to understand juvenile salmon habitat choice. 
10.2307/2390129|1. The phenomenon of follicular atresia, defined as the death of ovarian follicles prior to ovulation, has seldom been noted in the ecological literature as a major factor in the proximate control of clutch size, but it has been demonstrated that it influences clutch size in many lizard species. 2. Follicular atresia was examined by analysing the difference between the number of vitellogenic follicles recruited at the onset of reproductive activity and the number of in utero embryos in females of the viviparous lizard Sceloporus mucronatus; with female body size factored out, the number of vitellogenic follicles recruited from the germinal beds was not different between populations whereas clutch size was significantly different between the populations. 3. The difference in clutch size is due to varying rates of atresia, with 52% observed in the montane population but only 2% in the lowland population prior to correction for female body size; size corrected values are 54.6% for the montane population and 17.0% for lowland females. 4. These data suggest that maximal clutch size, based on the number of follicles recruited for vitellogenesis, is species specific and determined by body size. 5. Clutch size, however, is determined by the rate of atresia which could be influenced by the milieu of endocrine factors created by proximate (environmental) stimuli.
10.2307/2389927|1. Temperature pairs of x, the coldest and y, the warmest months of the year for N
40863627|1. Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species can damage biomolecules if these lack sufficient antioxidant protection. Maintaining and up-regulating antioxidant defenses and repair of the damaged molecules require resources that could potentially be allocated to other functions, including lifehistory and signal traits. 2. Identifying the physiological mechanisms causing and counteracting oxidative damage may help to understand evolution of oxidative balance systems from molecular to macroevolutionary levels. This review addresses methodological and statistical problems of measuring and interpreting biomarkers of oxidative stress or damage. 3. A major methodological problem is distinguishing between controlled and uncontrolled processes that can lead either to shifts in dynamic balance of redox potential or cause pathological damage. An ultimate solution to this problem requires establishing links between biomarkers of antioxidant defenses and oxidative damage and components of fitness. 4. Biomarkers of redox balance must correspond to strict technical criteria, most importantly to validated measurement technology. Validation criteria include intrinsic qualities such as specificity, sensitivity, assessment of measurement precision, and knowledge of confounding and modifying factors. 5. The complexity of oxidative balance systems requires that assay choice be informed by statistical analyses incorporating context at biochemical, ecological and evolutionary levels. We review proper application of statistical methods, such as principal components analysis and structural equation modelling, that should help to account for these contexts and isolate the variation of interest across multiple biomarkers simultaneously.
20142753|1. When resources are scarce, organisms are faced with critical challenges trying to optimize competing functions. Reproduction and immune function are both resource intensive and important to most species. Most studies have reported a down-regulation of immune function during reproduction. Conversely, it is unclear whether mounting an immune response can affect the reproductive process and few studies have examined competition for resources between these two processes. 2. Here we report evidence for direct competition for resources between the reproductive and immune systems in a vertebrate model system, the tree lizard (Urosaurus ornatus). We manipulated food intake in reproductive female tree lizards, where half of the females were undergoing cutaneous wound healing and the other half were not. We then measured reproductive investment in all animals and wound healing rate in all wounded animals. 3. We found that animals with unlimited access to food sustained both reproduction and immune function whereas animals maintained on a restricted diet were not. Specifically, when food was unlimited, females were able to invest in reproduction and heal their wounds. However, when food was limited, females forced to heal a cutaneous wound had significantly smaller follicles than their non-wounded counterparts. Under extreme food limitation (i.e. no food) both reproductive investment and wound healing were suppressed. 4. These results clearly demonstrate resource competition between the reproductive and immune systems, whereby physiological trade-offs between the two systems only arise when resources are limiting. Furthermore, this type of facultative regulation is adjustable and allows animals to respond to changing environmental conditions.
3599245|1. Spiders may often be subjected to nutritional stress during their development, either because of lack of prey (starvation) or because the prey available is nutritionally insufficient or chemically defended (i.e. deterrent or toxic). The ability of the Wolf Spider Pardosa prativaga (L. Koch) to catch up on growth and development after treatment with different types and intensities of nutritional stress in the initial period of independent life was tested. 2. The stress types (prey) were: (1) starvation; (2) toxicity (the collembolan Folsomia candida Willem); (3) deterrency (the aphid Rhopalosiphum padi L.); (4) nutritional insufficiency (the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster Meigen). Nutrient-enriched D. melanogaster was used as control and was also the food given to the treated spiders after the stress period ended. 3. Though the spiderlings were set back considerably, especially by starvation and toxic and deterrent prey, those that survived achieved the same weight as the control spiders within 3-7 weeks, depending on treatment. The duration of instars after termination of the stress treatment was not affected. Thus, seemingly compensation was accomplished by a burst of supernormal growth initiated shortly after the stress was alleviated. 4. Growth compensation is considered a physiological mechanism that allows spiders an optimal seasonal timing of the life cycle even if their phenology is retarded in its early phases.
3806605|1. Invasive alien plants tend to have a greater specific leaf area and more nutrient-rich tissues than the invaded native vegetation. To test whether these traits differ between introduced and native populations of the same species, we compared 20 European (introduced) and 22 American (native) populations of Solidago gigantea Aiton (Asteraceae) in a common-garden experiment. 2. Five plants per population were grown for 2 years in pots and for one summer outdoors in nutrient-rich soil. We recorded shoot number and biomass, leaf production and senescence, flowering, leaf morphology and nutrient concentrations of leaves and litter. In laboratory assays, we compared litter decomposition and nutrient mineralization. 3. Shoot growth and leaf traits varied three- to 10-fold among the 42 populations. European plants produced, on average, more shoots than American plants, but did not differ in shoot size, leaf traits or litter decomposition. 4. The shoot number and total shoot biomass per plant in the experiment correlated positively with the number of new rhizomes produced by shoots of the same populations at their original field sites. 5. We conclude that introduced S. gigantea populations tend to produce more shoots through clonal growth than native populations. This may increase their ability to compete against the established vegetation in dense stands or at nutrient-poor sites.
40407751|1. Ecologists have identified two types of processes promoting species coexistence: stabilizing mechanisms (niche differentiation and related processes) that increase negative intraspecific interactions relative to negative interspecific interactions, and equalizing mechanisms (neutrality) that minimize the differences in species' demographic parameters. It has been theoretically and empirically shown that the two types of mechanisms can operate simultaneously; however, their relative importance remains unstudied although this is a key question in the synthesis of niche and neutral theories. 2. We experimentally quantified the relative importance of niche and neutral mechanisms in promoting phenotypic diversity in a model microbial system involving different phenotypes of the bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens. Initially isogenic populations of the bacterium can diversify into a series of major and minor classes of phenotypes that can be treated as analogues of species. We estimated the relative population growth rate when rare of 32 phenotypes from six replicate microcosms. Each phenotype was assessed in a re-assembled microcosm in which the relative densities of all phenotypes remained the same except for the focal one which was reduced in frequency. A growth rate advantage when rare was considered evidence of non-neutral processes. 3. Approximately one-third of the phenotypes had a growth rate advantage when rare while the remaining two-thirds showed neutral or near-neutral dynamics. Furthermore, there was overall little evidence that productivity increased with phenotypic diversity. 4. Our results suggest that niche and neutral processes may simultaneously contribute to the maintenance of biodiversity, with the latter playing a more important role in our system, and that the operation of niche mechanisms does not necessarily lead to a positive biodiversity effect on ecosystem properties.
10.2307/2389340|CO<sub>2</sub>-exchange rates were measured in the dark and at high irradiance on the current season's twigs (the leaf-bearing portion of the stem) of 10 desert species with twigs capable of positive net assimilation of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub>, and for 28 species (some from warm desert communities and others from moderate elevation riparian communities bordering the deserts) whose twigs never exhibited positive net assimilation rates. Dark respiration rate of twigs was found to be strongly correlated with leaf size. Some of the causes of this correlation were revealed by harvest data on the current season's shoots of the same 28 species. As leaf size increased, total mass shoot<sup>-1</sup> increased and twig diameter increased. This resulted in a decrease in twig surface volume<sup>-1</sup> and an increase in twig respiration rate on a surface area basis. Regardless of the magnitude of the respiration rate in the dark, however, the rate of CO<sub>2</sub> efflux from twigs which did not achieve positive net photosynthesis was reduced to near zero in the light. This was attributed to photosynthetic recycling of the respired CO<sub>2</sub>. By recycling endogenous CO<sub>2</sub> derived from mitochondrial respiration, the twigs of large-leaved species could achieve rates of twig gross photosynthesis comparable to those of desert species specialized for positive net uptake by the twigs. These observations suggest that scaling relationships between leaf and twig dimensions may have a strong influence on the kind of photosynthetic activity developed in twig tissues. Positive net assimilation of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> by twigs may generally be restricted to species with small leaves, small twig diameters and low rates of endogenous CO<sub>2</sub> production. Since leaf size varies systematically along aridity gradients, some of the observed distribution patterns of species with positive net assimilation in twigs (they are largely restricted to arid and semi-arid environments) may be caused indirectly through allometric relationships between leaves and twigs.
826702|1. Species' body size distributions are right-skewed, symmetric or left-skewed, but right-skewness strongly prevails. 2. Skewness changes with taxonomic level, with a tendency to high right-skewness in classes and diverse skewness in orders within a class. Where the number of lower taxa allows for analysis, skewness coefficients have normal distributions, with the majority of taxa being right-skewed. 3. Skewness changes with geographical scale. For a broad range, distributions in a class are usually right-skewed. For a narrower scale, distributions remain right-skewed or become symmetric or even close to uniform. 4. The prevailing right-skewness of species' body size distributions is explained with macroevolutionary models, the fractal character of the environment, or body size optimization. 5. Macroevolutionary models assume either size-biased speciation and extinction, or the existence of a constraint on small size. Macroevolutionary mechanisms seem insufficient to explain the pattern of species' body size distributions, but they may operate together with other mechanisms. 6. Optimization models assume that directional and then stabilizing selection works after speciation events. There are two kinds of optimization approaches to study species' body size distributions. Under the first approach, it is assumed that a single energetic optimum exists for an entire taxon, and that species are distributed around this optimum. Under the second approach, each species has a separate optimum, and the species' body size distribution reflects the distribution of optimal values. 7. Because not only energetic properties but also mortality are important in determining optimal sizes, only the second approach, that is, seeking the distribution of optimal values, seems appropriate in the context of life-history evolution. This approach predicts diverse shapes of body size distributions, with right-skewness prevailing.
2656538|1. Daphnia magna reproduced at a smaller size (body mass) when exposed to fish-kairomone than D. magna growing up without this cue. 2. The total egg mass for first reproduction was the same in both groups, but the proportion of clutch mass to total body mass was about 11% higher in daphniids exposed to fish-kairomone. This difference was about the same for low and high food concentrations (0.5 or 1.5 mgC l<sup>-</sup>1). 3. Although egg mass was the same, triglyceride (TAG) content of the egg material was significantly lower when daphniids were exposed to fish-kairomones for both food concentrations. 4. The TAG content of the clutch was lowered to the extent that the TAG proportion in the clutch in relation to the somatic mass of the animal was the same for animals treated with fish-kairomone and controls (5% of body mass at first reproduction). 5. The lower TAG content per clutch resulted in a lower quality of the individual egg in daphniids exposed to fish-kairomone. The resulting higher susceptibility to starvation under low food conditions is a substantial cost of the plastic response to fish-kairomones. 6. This cost may set a limit on the plastic response in resource allocation of Daphnia magna exposed to fish-kairomones. However, daphniids living in a system with fish predation are more likely to be eaten by fish than to starve to death.
10.2307/2389892|1. The two-dimensional distribution of foliage density was investigated in a vertical canopy section of forest in West Sumatra, using analysis of variance. 2. No significant continuous upper canopy layer could be found. However, there was significant stratification with a dense foliage layer below 15 m. The structure of the upper canopy (higher than 15 m) had an erect structure rather than being stratified. 3. Two hypotheses were examined to explain the unstratified upper canopy structure: (i) it was due to incomplete growth in height of the trees, leading to an unstratified forest canopy even in mono-specific forest, or (ii) it was caused by a mixture of species with different potential for height growth. The latter hypothesis was supported by the observations on tree growth.
2390425|1. The functional significance of floral traits in Linum pubescens (Linaceae), a Mediterranean annual that is pollinated almost exclusively by the bee-fly Usia bicolor (Bombyliidae), was investigated. The flies feed on both pollen and nectar, and use the flowers as mating rendezvous sites in the afternoon. 2. Choice experiments with model flowers were used to determine the response of U. bicolor to visual cues, such as shape, size, colour and pattern. 3. Bee-flies strongly preferred models with a dissected outline over models with a simple outline. They also preferred pink models over other colours, and larger models over smaller models. 5. Flies landing on models with converging lines (`nectar guides') tended to follow the lines to the point where they meet in the centre of the model, while flies landing on plain models showed undirected behaviour, often moving to the edge of the model. 6. Flies were strongly attracted to flowers of L. pubescens which had a fly glued on to one of the petals, as well as flowers with a dark spot painted onto one of the petals. In addition, models with a dark spot were strongly preferred over plain models during the afternoon when flies exhibit mating behaviour. This evidence suggests that the dark centre of the L. pubescens flower may function as an attractant to mate-seeking bee-flies.
3599144|1. There is much interest in how herbivores interact with plant communities, but the association between foliar traits and the feeding behaviour of invading browsing mammals has not been explored in this context. 2. We investigated whether eight foliar traits predicted the preferences of invasive Red Deer for 21 woody plant species in lowland forest in southern New Zealand. 3. The four models with substantial support for predicting variation in two indices of diet selection all included one or more traits related to foliar fibre (acid detergent fibre; acid detergent cellulose; acid detergent lignin). In all models the coefficients were negative, indicating that as the concentrations of foliar fibre increased, the preference of deer for foliage decreased. 4. Our results thus link the feeding behaviour of Red Deer with previously demonstrated shifts in the composition of New Zealand forests towards understorey species and leaf litter with high concentrations of foliar fibre.
10.2307/2389602|Here we compare and contrast responses of different genotypes of the parthenogenetic cladoceran Daphnia magna Straus to cadmium and 3,4-dichloroaniline, under acute and chronic exposure. Our aims have been to document any differences between genotypes in this important and widely used ecotoxicological test species, and to consider their implications for the relative importance of specific vs general responses to toxicants. Large differences in interclonal responses were observed in acute tolerance to cadmium (range of LC<sub>50</sub>: 0.06 - > 100 p.p.b.). Interclonal variation in chronic stress tolerance was also observed, although in this case differences (though significant) were relatively small (effect concentrations 25-50 p.p.b. for DCA and 0.6-6.0 p.p.b. for cadmium). Deleterious effects on life-history variables and energy allocation followed the same pattern for all clones exposed to both toxicants. We conclude that specific mechanisms dominate differences in acute responses, whereas general mechanisms dominate in chronic responses.
3598992|1. A long leaf life span has been interpreted as an adaptation to low nutrient availability. It is commonly assumed that a long leaf life span permits a longer utilization of nutrients in the leaf biomass and that this contributes to improving nutrient use efficiency. However, a long leaf life span is also associated with other leaf traits that reduce instantaneous productivity, which might reduce the growth rate of the leaf biomass and shorten the functional life of the leaf. 2. We studied the relationships between leaf life span and the retention time of biomass and nutrient pools in several woody species with different leaf life spans. We measured the monthly variations in the total number of leaves per annual shoot, mass per leaf, and N and P contents per leaf. With these data, the leaf life span and the mean residence time (MRT) of leaf biomass and nutrient pools were estimated. 3. The increase in the total number of leaves was fast in all species studied at the start of the growth season. In contrast, in evergreen species mass per leaf and total N and P contents per leaf increased gradually after the first year of life of the leaves, and the maximum mass and nutrient contents per leaf were attained only towards the end of the lifetime of the leaves. 4. Owing to the delay in the development of mass and nutrient pools with respect to leaf number dynamics, in evergreen species leaf life span was longer than the MRT of leaf biomass and nutrient pools because part of the leaf biomass and nutrient pool remained in the crown for a shorter time than the mean duration of the individual leaves. 5. The differences between leaf life span and the MRT of the biomass and nutrients increased with leaf life span. The slow growth of evergreen leaves therefore contributes to reduce the adaptive value of a long leaf life span as a mechanism to increase the duration of the photosynthetic machinery.
10.2307/2390109|1. Despite their short life span, insect herbivores such as grasshoppers can manipulate their gut in response to changes in food quality and body size, as previously documented in mammals and birds. 2. Diet dilution greatly influenced the survival, development, weight gain and the proportional allocation to gut dry weight relative to body dry weight (G/B) of Melanoplus differentialis (Orthoptera: Acrididae). 3. When diet quality increased from 1% N (total nitrogen) to 5% N, M. differentialis survived better, developed faster and gained more weight. However, increased gut size contributed to the ability to compensate for reduced food quality so that M. differentialis was able to survive equally well and develop equally fast on 3% N diets compared with individuals fed on 5% N diets. Full compensation was not attainable on 1% N diets and grasshoppeers suffered significantly lower survival rate, slower development and less weight gain. 4. As body size increased, the relative gut size decreased both intraspecifically in M. differentialis and interspecifically among 29 species of grasshoppers representing a range of body sizes and life styles. Compared with 3-day-old sixth-instar M. differentialis nymphs, 3-day-old adults weighed twice as much but allocated 20% less to their digestive tract. Among species, gut dry weight in relation to body dry weight exhibited a significant quadratic relationship on a log-log scale. 5. Despite larger body sizes, females exhibited a larger gut per unit of body weight than was observed in smaller males. 6. A previously proposed isometric gut-body size relationship was not supported by these results.
3599128|1. Soils are one of the last great frontiers for biodiversity research and are home to an extraordinary range of microbial and animal groups. Biological activities in soils drive many of the key ecosystem processes that govern the global system, especially in the cycling of elements such as carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus. 2. We cannot currently make firm statements about the scale of biodiversity in soils, or about the roles played by soil organisms in the transformations of organic materials that underlie those cycles. The recent UK Soil Biodiversity Programme (SBP) has brought a unique concentration of researchers to bear on a single soil in Scotland, and has generated a large amount of data concerning biodiversity, carbon flux and resilience in the soil ecosystem. 3. One of the key discoveries of the SBP was the extreme diversity of small organisms: researchers in the programme identified over 100 species of bacteria, 350 protozoa, 140 nematodes and 24 distinct types of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Statistical analysis of these results suggests a much greater 'hidden diversity'. In contrast, there was no unusual richness in other organisms, such as higher fungi, mites, collembola and annelids. 4. Stable-isotope
10.2307/2389354|Basal metabolic rate in mammals increases allometrically with body weight, irrespective of the taxonomic level chosen for analysis. Species' deviations from the allometric curve (relative basal metabolic rates) are associated with differences in diet, habitat and taxonomic affinity. When correlations with taxonomy are controlled for, the only consistently significant association that remains is the higher relative basal metabolic rates of vertebrate eaters.
10.2307/2389368|An 80% variation in nuclear DNA amount at constant chromosome number has been found between families of seed progeny derived from established plants of Poa annua L. taken from a single pasture population in North Wales. The 2C DNA amount varied from 2.9pg to 5.2pg. This variation was positively associated with variation in cell size, negatively correlated with variation in seedling growth rate, but was not associated with variation in life-history. We suggest that this variation may enable individuals to exploit different temporal, micro-climatic niches within the grassland habitat.
10.2307/2390229|1. Plasticity in foraging strategies may be an evolutionary response of predators to temporally or spatially variable resources. Although orb-weaver spiders use the web to capture a variety of prey types and sizes, plasticity in web design in response to such variation has rarely been documented. 2. The spider Parawixia bistriata spun two types of webs in response to temporally fluctuating prey availability. Small webs of fine mesh were spun daily at sunset and captured mainly small dipterans of the genus Dorhniphora. Large webs of wide mesh were spun only during diurnal termite swarms. 3. Timing of web-building behaviour of both types of webs was synchronized with the peak of flying activity of specific prey. 4. The mesh size of each web type corresponded to the size of the available prey at the time that the webs were spun. This supports the hypothesis that these spiders maximize efficiency of silk usage by adjusting web mesh size in response to the size of specific prey.
40407697|1. Scientists have been fascinateci by carnivorous plants for centuries and they have thoroughly investigateci how these plants can benefit from insect capture for example through increased growth, earlier flowering, and increased seed production. How prey is actually lured into the traps, however, is less well understood. Trapping prey may be achieved in a random way, for example by camouflaging the traps (hiding them in the surrounding vegetation), so that prey is trapped by accidentai landing on the trap leaves or wind drift, or in the other extreme, trapping may involve mimicry of other attractive resources such as fruits or flowers by using specific visual or olfactory signais to attract a specific prey assemblage. 2. We investigated for the first time volatiles of the trapping leaves of carnivorous plant species by dynamic headspace methods. We present data on the venus flytrap Dionaea muscipula, the sundew Drosera binata, and the North American pitcher plants Sarracenia flava, Sarracenia leucophylla, Sarracenia minor, and Sarracenia purpurea. A large number of compounds and relatively high emission rates were found in three of the North American pitcher plants (S. flava, S. leucophylla, and S. minor) with compounds typically found in flowers or fruits. This suggests together with other features (e.g. colour, nectar production) that these traps are possibly flower or fruit mimics. The leaves of S. purpurea, Dionaea muscipula, and Drosera binata emitted much weaker scents with lower numbers of components, consisting mainly of volatiles typically emitted from green leaves. 3. We discuss whether or not the use of volatiles for attracting prey animais is linked with specific trapping mechanisms and whether carnivorous plants can be grouped into specialized 'olfactory syndromes'.
3599195| 1. Fire is often associated with episodes of air pollution, possibly involving the release of biogenic isoprenoids (isoprene and monoterpenes). The direct and indirect impacts of fire on isoprenoid emission by plants of the Mediterranean vegetation were studied. Leaves of Arbutus unedo, Phillyrea latifolia, Cistus incanus, Cistus mospeliensis, Pistacia lentiscus, Quercus ilex, Quercus suber, Quercus pubescens, Myrtus communis and Pinus halepensis were exposed to direct fire or to the fire-consequent wave of evevated temperature. 2. Half the tested plant species did not emit isoprenoids and the treatments did not induce isoprenoid emission. In contrast, isoprene was emitted by intact leaves of Q. pubescens and M. communis, while monoterpenes were emitted by intact leaves of Q. ilex, Q. suber and P. halepensis. 3. The two treatments rapidly reduced isoprene emission by isoprene-emitting species and monoterpene emission by Quercus spp. This inhibition was associated with photosynthetic inhibition, and recovery was seen in Quercus spp. within days of treatment. Recovery was also associated with the recovery of photosynthesis, suggesting that emitted isoprenoids continue to be formed predominantly from photosynthetic intermediates after a fire episode. 4. In Q. pubescens leaves, however, recovery from the elevated-temperature treatment caused a sustained increase of isoprene emission which was not mirrored by a similar increase in photosynthesis. Whether this represents the induction of alternative metabolic pathways or an increase of the flux of photosynthetic carbon in the isoprene pathway is not known. Isoprene-emitting species in areas surrounding fire may emit a substantially larger hydrocarbon flux for several days after fire. 5. The elevated-temperature treatment induced the emission of -pinene from Myrtus leaves, and the fire treatment stimulated the emission of several monoterpenes from Pinus needles. The emission began to decrease within minutes in Myrtus, while it increased within the first 100 min in Pinus, where it was detectable the day after the event although the flux was smaller than in prestressed needles. 6. Exposure to fire and to the associated elevated temperature may induce bursts of monoterpenes from plants that regularly do not emit these compounds and temporarily increase the load of monoterpenes in the atmosphere by pine species. These emissions may contribute to photochemical reactions involved in smog and ozone formation. 
10.2307/2390038|1. Natural late frosts can have important ecological and economic effects. A device is described which can simulate night-time air frosts at remote, field locations. It is composed of an insulated cloche, vortex tubes and a compressed air generator. Vortex tubes are commercially available devices that split a single compressed air stream into two, one hot and one cold. 2. In a pilot study, five replicate 2 x 2m areas of grassland on a limestone slope in Derbyshire were subjected to a -2.8<sup></sup>C (range \pm 1.1<sup></sup>C) air frost for 3h in early June 1992. 3. Initial subjective observations on the vegetation suggested that the effects were similar to those of natural late frosts observed in previous years. The device is currently being used in long-term, climate change studies at the Unit of Comparative Plant Ecology (UCPE).
41319635|1. Social status can vary considerably among individuals and has significant implications for performance. In addition to a genetic component, social status may be influenced by environmental factors including maternal effects such as prenatal hormone exposure. Maternal effects on traits determining social status have previously been examined in species where mothers provide parental care for relatively few offspring and therefore directly influence postnatal development. However, the generality of conclusions arising from these investigations is unclear because species that employ different reproductive strategies have not been studied. 2. We investigated the hypothesis that egg steroid hormone levels influence the social status of juvenile brown trout (Salmo trutta). We manipulated intra-clutch levels of cortisol and testosterone in eggs from 15 mothers using dilute hormone baths at the time of fertilization and examined their effects on traits that correlate with social status in juveniles [including standard body size, aggression, competitive ability and standard metabolic rate (SMR)]. 3. Hormone treatment did not affect whole-animal or mass-corrected SMR at the critical developmental stage when juveniles switch from reliance on a maternally provisioned yolk sac to independent feeding. However, juveniles from cortisol-treated eggs were smaller at this developmental stage. They were also less aggressive than, and subordinate to, fish from untreated eggs in socially competitive conditions, even after correcting for the observed effect of cortisol on body size. Egg testosterone treatment resulted in a likely pharmacological or toxicological dose with subsequent effects on both body size and behaviour in independently feeding juveniles. 4. Results from this study demonstrate that variation in the amount of cortisol deposited in eggs by spawning females influences juvenile social status and performance. The effects of elevated egg cortisol in fish are similar to the actions of embryonic glucocorticoids reported in other vertebrate taxa with very different reproductive strategies, suggesting a widespread mechanism for the effects of maternal stress on offspring. Possible adaptive aspects of this relationship are discussed.
40205536|1. Many studies have been performed in an attempt to explain physiological, ecological and evolutionary factors behind inter- and intraspecific variation in basal metabolic rate (BMR) and maximum aerobic metabolic rate
2656408|1. We present measurements of CO<sub>2</sub> fluxes over 2 years above and within a young Beech stand in the east of France. This site is part of the Euroflux network set up to monitor fluxes over representative European forests. 2. The net ecosystem carbon (C) exchange was derived from continuous eddy flux measurements. Major components of the total flux (i.e. soil and above-ground biomass respiration and assimilation of leafy branches) were measured independently using chambers. The main C stocks (i.e. root, stem and branch biomass) were also quantified. 3. Daily minima of CO<sub>2</sub> flux were typically around -20 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> during the period of full leaf expansion, while night-time ecosystem respiration varied between 5 and 15 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. The seasonal pattern of net ecosystem assimilation was very close to that of net assimilation at the single branch scale. The seasonal variation of net ecosystem exchange was closely related to leaf expansion and soil water content during the dry year of 1996. 4. Measurements of ecosystem respiration (eddy flux) were corrected for CO<sub>2</sub> storage within the stand. This C flux showed a seasonal pattern, the maximum rates (4-7 g C m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>) occurring in spring and summer, and appeared to be correlated with soil temperature. Temporal variation of soil respiration showed the same pattern, and effects of both temperature and soil drying were found. Annual soil respiration was  70% of ecosystem respiration. Root respiration was 60% of the total below-ground respiration. 5. Annual net C exchange was -218 and -257 g C m<sup>-2</sup> in 1996 and 1997, respectively, corresponding to net C uptake by the forest. These values are much lower than the annual biomass increment (stems and large roots) of the stand: 427 and 471 g C m<sup>-2</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The difference may be explained by a release of CO<sub>2</sub> from the decomposition of woody debris. 6. Ecosystem C loss by respiration was 800-1000 g C m<sup>-2</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>. Gross C gain was 1000-1300 g C m<sup>-2</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>. Ecosystem respiration therefore played a major role in the annual C balance of this forest.
3806592|1. Shelter is of major importance to many animals in providing protection against both the physical environment and potential predators. 2. We hypothesized that animals without shelter suffer metabolic costs associated with a need for increased vigilance and preparedness to escape attacks from predators or competitors. This possibility was tested by comparing the standard metabolic rates of inactive postdigestive juvenile Atlantic salmon, Salmo salar, held either with or without a shelter, which took the form of a semicircular ledge under which the fish could fit comfortably. 3. The ledges were semitransparent (so did not substantially reduce light levels) and provided no protection against the minimal water velocities in the testing arena. Nonetheless, absence of ledge shelter resulted in a 30% higher rate of oxygen consumption. 4. Fish without a ledge shelter typically positioned themselves against vertical walls of the observation arena, which presumably afforded the best available sheltering option, and adopted a significantly darker coloration (indicative of greater stress) than those under ledges. Fish with ledges rested outside and adjacent to rather than beneath the shelter. Therefore, it seems that awareness that a shelter is readily available, rather than the act of sheltering, results in reduced metabolism. 5. We conclude that the presence of appropriate shelter not only reduces the risk of predation but also provides a metabolic benefit to fish that is likely to have implications for growth performance and activity budgets. Standard metabolic rate can be a function of habitat structure.
10.2307/2390034|1. Density-dependent natural selection and age-specific natural selection are important determinants of life-history evolution. A variety of laboratory populations of Drosophila melanogaster have been created to study the effects of these selection mechanisms. 2. Two types of populations have been selected for reproduction early (B) and late (O) in life. These have exhibited changes in life span and resistance to stresses, such as desiccation, starvation, ethanol vapours and flying to exhaustion. 3. Similarly, two types of populations have been selected at high adult and larval densities (K) and low adult and larval densities (r). These have exhibited changes in characters like larval feeding rates, pupation height and minimum food required for successful pupation. 4. To study whether age-specific and density-dependent selection act on the same traits either directly or through indirect effects, such as pleiotropy or linkage, we have examined the B and O populations for the traits that have become differentiated in the r and K populations and vice versa. 5. In general, there is a lack of similar response, except for starvation resistance which is greater in the K populations than the r populations. 6. We have tested, for the first time, longevity in all four types of populations as a function of adult density. The O populations show greater longevity than the B populations at all densities and this difference does not depend on density. In contrast, the K populations are able to resist the decline in longevity caused by increasing density much more effectively than are the r populations. 7. Lastly, a new set of populations, called CU, has been derived from the B populations and is maintained by crowding the larval life stage but raising adults under low densities. The CU populations have evolved increased feeding rates, pupation height and larval viability at high density relative to the B populations. These changes parallel the changes seen in the r and K populations and demonstrate the importance of crowding in the larval stages for much of the evolution seen in the r and K populations.
826740|1. This study examined the indirect impacts of leaf-mining insects, Eriocrania spp. Zeller (Lepidoptera: Eriocraniidae) on a phloem-feeding insect, Euceraphis betulae Koch (Homoptera: Drepanosiphinae). While many insect herbivores affect one another through changes to host plant chemical composition, Eriocrania also has the potential to affect E. betulae through structural modification of a shared leaf. 2. Euceraphis betulae mortality was higher when caged on leaves with Eriocrania leaf-miners. Mortality was not affected by the amount of leaf mined or elevated phenolic compound concentrations in mined leaves, but leaf-miner induced damage to the midrib was strongly correlated with poor aphid survival. In field surveys, E. betulae was significantly less abundant on mined leaves with midrib damage than on mined leaves with just lamina damage, or mine-free leaves. 3. Experiments simulating leaf-miner damage on B. pendula leaves pinpointed midrib damage as being associated with higher E. betulae mortality, whereas lamina damage had no effect on aphid mortality. Disruption of phloem hydraulics is proposed as the mechanism underpinning the negative impacts on the aphid. 4. Eriocrania larvae mining leaves with manually damaged midribs weighed more than those in which the midrib was intact. There was also a trend towards higher nitrogen concentrations in leaves in which Eriocrania had damaged the midrib. There could therefore be a selective advantage to leaf-miners that damage the midrib if severance improves leaf nutritional quality, in addition to rendering the leaves unsuitable to potential competitors.
10.2307/2389695|Investigations were carried out into the importance of green algae and fungi on the feeding activity, growth and reproduction of Collembola. Although the digestive physiology of the epedaphic species, Orchesella cincta (L.) is apparently adapted to phycophagy, mycophagy stimulated growth and fecundity of the animals to a greater extent than algal feeding. The fungal species, Cladosporium cladosporioides (Fres.) de Vries, Mortierella isabellina Oudem. and Penicillium cyclopium Westling, differed in their suitability as food source. Differences in N availability in the food items are suggested as a reason for these differences. The hemiedaphic species Tomocerus minor (Lubbock), which is assumed to be mycophagous, fed and grew well on an algal diet. A mixed diet of fungi and algae promoted both high consumption and assimilation of foods and hence tissue growth efficiency was optimum for a mixed diet.
10.2307/2389424|Lynch's (1980a) optimal-body-size model is designed to explain some major trends in cladoceran life histories; in particular the fact that large and littoral species seem to be bang-bang strategists (they grow first and then reproduce) whereas smaller planktonic species seem to be intermediate strategists (they grow and reproduce simultaneously). Predation is assumed to be an important selective pressure for these trends. Simocephalus vetulus (Muller) does not fit this pattern; being a littoral and relatively large species but an intermediate strategist. As shown by computer simulations, this species would reduce its per capita rate of increase by adopting the strategy predicted by the optimal-body-size model. Two aspects of the model are criticized: (1) the optimization criterion is shown to be incorrect and (2) the prediction of an intermediate strategy is not justified. Structural constraints are suggested to be responsible for the intermediate strategy of S. vetulus. Biotic interactions seem to have little effect on the observed life-history patterns of this species.
2656407|1. We investigated the functional controls on light-dependent refixation of respired CO<sub>2</sub> in photosynthetic bark of Western White Pine (Pinus monticola Dougl. ex D. Don) branches. 2. Gross photosynthesis increased with increasing intensity of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) to > 2000 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> and with increasing bark surface temperature from 15 to > 45 <sup></sup>C. Maximum observed refixation rates were 76  3% (mean  SE) of dark respiration. 3. At a given temperature and irradiance, dark respiration rate was the physiological parameter that correlated most strongly with gross photosynthesis (R = 0.89, P < 0.0001, n = 43). Dark respiration rates varied 20-fold among branches. Over this range, refixation averaged 55  2% of dark respiration at 25 <sup></sup>C and 1000 mol PAR m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. However, refixation was not correlated with internal CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations in illuminated branches; these concentrations remained fairly constant. 4. Specific bark area, bark conductance to water vapour, bark chlorophyll a/b ratio, and bark nitrogen concentration varied markedly with canopy depth in mature trees. 5. Results are summarized in a simple model of refixation driven by light, temperature and dark respiration rate. The model may prove useful in assessing the quantitative significance of refixation in the carbon balance of forest trees.
10.2307/2389938|1. The ability of males to remate repeatedly has a dramatic effect on their lifetime reproductive success. Moreover, nutrients transferred to females during copulation increase a male's investment in reproduction. In this study we examined the effect of male mating history and body size on ejaculate size and quality in two polyandrous butterflies, Pieris napi and Pieris rapae. 2. The interval between first and second matings had a strong effect on the size and protein content of ejaculates. Males mated twice in one day produced second ejaculates corresponding to a third of the size of the first ejaculate, whereas males remated two days later transferred a second ejaculate just as large as that produced in their first mating. Males remating one day after their first mating transferred second ejaculates of intermediate size. In a similar pattern, the absolute amount of protein contained in ejaculates increased as the number of days between matings increased. 3. The relative protein content did not differ between first and second ejaculates when males were remated one, two or three days after their first mating. However, second ejaculates transferred by males mating twice in the same day contained a significantly higher percentage of protein. 4. Male ejaculates are costly to produce as shown by the fact that copulation durations were longer and ejaculates smaller in matings involving recently mated males. 5. Male body size influenced ejaculate size but not protein content of first ejaculates. However, smaller males produced larger ejaculates, relative to their body size, than large males. 6. Males do not refrain from mating until they can produce a full-sized ejaculate. This suggests that males maximize their fitness by mating as often as possible, even in a mating system where male investment in ejaculates has a substantial effect on the number and quality of offspring sired.
3599274| 1. In order to help assess spatial competition for below-ground resources, we quantified the effects of fertilization on root biomass quantity and lateral root distribution of midrotation Pinus taeda trees. Open-top chambers exposed trees to ambient or ambient plus 200 mol mol
2656425|1. In this paper the results are presented of two experiments designed to examine the relationship between sward structure variables and the nature of patch depression experienced by a large grazing herbivore, Bos taurus, grazing from small patches of forage. In experiment 1 the spatial distribution of leaves within patches was varied. In experiment 2 the role of reproductive stems of different lengths as potential intake rate inhibitors was examined. 2. Both experiments were conducted by offering cattle hand-constructed swards of Orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata) leaves attached to plywood boards. Each of three experimental animals was allowed to take 10, 20, 30, 45 or 60 bites from a patch and intake was estimated on the basis of pregrazing and postgrazing dry-matter. All trials were videotaped and the trial length in seconds was determined from playback of the tapes. 3. In both experiments patch depression (reduction in instantaneous intake rate) was due to decreases in bite mass concomitant with patch depletion. Handling time per bite was unaffected by depletion level. In experiment 1, different spatial configurations resulted in markedly different gain functions ranging from linear to sigmoid. In experiment 2, the presence in the sward of long (15 cm) reproductive stems slowed cumulative gains by restricting bite mass and by increasing the per-bite handling time relative to patches with shorter (5 cm) or no stems. 4. The study of patch depression mechanisms now needs to be generalized over a range of herbivore body sizes and feeding styles.
3806572|1. Mechanisms that come into play after mating but prior to fertilization can prevent hybrid formation and thus promote reproductive isolation. Recent research indicates that the evolution of such barriers to gene exchange between incipient forms appears to be common and is essential for speciation. 2. We aimed to test if female Bean Weevils (Callosobruchus maculatus) modulate their reproductive rate and/or remating propensity in response to mating with males with varying degrees of relatedness in a manner that limits the number of 'hybrids' produced. We also tested if remating with a male from a female's own population, following a first mating with a foreign male, would elevate egg production. 3. Females varied their egg-production rate depending on the relatedness of their mates, but this effect was not in the predicted direction. Heterospecific C. analis males actually elicited the strongest reproductive response in females, which resulted in up to 9% higher egg production. Male relatedness did not significantly affect female propensity to remate with a second male. Further, females did not generally show a compensatory increase in reproductive rate following rematings with males from their own population. 4. The mechanisms documented here do not act to limit gene flow and are costly to females, as they suffer reduced life span and egg production late in life following a high reproductive rate early in life. We suggest that sexually antagonistic coevolution within species may have caused the pattern observed.
4540039|1. The role of phenotypic plasticity in evolution has historically been a contentious issue because of debate over whether plasticity shields genotypes from selection or generates novel opportunities for selection to act. Because plasticity encompasses diverse adaptive and non-adaptive responses to environmental variation, no single conceptual framework adequately predicts the diverse roles of plasticity in evolutionary change. 2. Different types of phenotypic plasticity can uniquely contribute to adaptive evolution when populas are faced with new or altered environments. Adaptive plasticity should promote establishment and persistence in a new environment, but depending on how close the plastic response is to the new favoured phenotypic optimum dictates whether directional selection will cause adaptive divergence between populations. Further, non-adaptive plasticity in response to stressful environments can result in a mean phenotypic response being further away from the favoured optimum or alternatively increase the variance around the mean due to the expression of cryptic genetic variation. The expression of cryptic genetic variation can facilitate adaptive evolution if by chance it results in a fitter phenotype. 3. We conclude that adaptive plasticity that places populations close enough to a new phenotypic optimum for directional selection to act is the only plasticity that predictably enhances fitness and is most likely to facilitate adaptive evolution on ecological timescales in new environments. However, this type of plasticity is likely to be the product of past selection on variation that may have been initially non-adaptive. 4. We end with suggestions on how future empirical studies can be designed to better test the importance of different kinds of plasticity to adaptive evolution.
40863573|1. Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis has been shown to enhance some plant traits to which pollinators are known to respond. Moreover, in gynodioecious species pollinators prefer hermaphrodite flowers over female ones, but the role of fungal symbiosis in sex-specific pollinator attraction is unknown. 2. We examined how plant gender dimorphism and AM symbiosis affect floral visitors and reproductive output in the gynodioecious plant Geranium sylvaticum. Floral visitors were monitored in a common garden experiment using mycorrhizal plants inoculated with either Glomus claroideum or Glomus hoi and in non-mycorrhizal condition. 3. We hypothesized that because of the larger flower display and pollen presence in hermaphrodites, (i) hermaphrodites receive more floral visitors than females. However, as females produce higher numbers of seeds than hermaphrodites, we predicted that (ii) effective pollinators visit both sexes equally and that (iii) AM symbiosis, although affecting floral characteristics and insect behaviour in general, should not have sex-specific effects on insects that transport pollen. 4. Our results confirm the hypotheses as hermaphrodites received 1-5 times as many floral visitors than females. However, the most important pollinator group, the bumblebees, did not prefer either sex, which may be important for the maintenance of both sexes in gynodioecious populations. We further corroborated that AM symbiosis, although affecting flower size and the amount of pollen, did not affect bumblebee behaviour, whereas other hymenopterans showed a deterrence for G. hoi inoculated plants. 5. This work reports the impact of AM symbiosis on the behaviour of floral visitors in a sexually dimorphic plant species. Positive interactions between plants, floral visitors and AM have been documented previously. However, potential negative tritrophic interactions between plants, floral visitors and AM may also occur. Our results suggest that plant sex and the mycorrhizal status of the plant also influence floral visitor groups that are unlikely to carry out pollination. This may benefit the plants if these floral visitors carry fungal diseases and consume pollen and nectar without effectively vectoring pollen.
40603051|1. Melanin is a ubiquitous pigment in the animal kingdom and has been reported to increase biological tissue strength. Melanin is responsible for many observed cases of colour polymorphism, or existence of two or more distinct plumage colours in one species (regardless of age, sex, or mass). Researchers have postulated that the relative concentration of melanin pigments deposited in feathers may function to strengthen feathers but colour polymorphic species have been ignored. Here, we investigate whether different morphs of a polymorphic bird species exhibit differential plumage strength. 2. While colour polymorphism is widespread in birds, there is no consensus on the adaptive significance of polymorphism or the maintenance of clinal variation in colour morphs. The eastern screech owl (Megascops asio) is a polymorphic specie^; individuals exhibit rufous, intermediate, or grey coloration that is likely caused by relative amounts or concentration of black or rufous melanin subtype (eumelanin and pheomelanin respectively). This species exhibits clinal variation in morph prevalence; the rufous morph predominates in humid deciduous forests while the grey morph is more common in dry or cold environments. 3. Here, we test the hypothesis that differences in feather strength may select for darker plumage in drier climates. First, we use reflectance spectrometry to objectively verify differences in colour morphs of the eastern screech owl. Second, we measure mechanical variables and morphology of dorsal feather barbs. 4. While reflectance spectrometry objectively separated the three colour morphs, we found no significant differences in the mechanical variables of plumage morphs. These results fail to demonstrate differences in plumage strength among eastern screech owl colour variants. 5. This conclusion rejects the hypothesis that melanin subtype affects the strength of body contour feathers in the eastern screech owl and may not factor in the maintenance of the observed clinal variation.
2656405|1. We compared leaf-level carbon, nitrogen and water use for a deciduous (Larix occidentalis Nutt.) and sympatric evergreen (Pseudotsuga menziesii, Beissn., Franco, or Pinus contorta Engelm.) conifer along a resource availability gradient spanning the natural range of L. occidentalis in western Montana, USA. 2. We hypothesized that leaf photosynthesis (A), respiration (r), specific leaf area (SLA) and foliar nitrogen concentration (N) would be higher for deciduous than sympatric evergreen conifers in mixed stands, and that these interspecies differences would increase from high to low resource availability. We also hypothesized that leaf-level nitrogen and water-use efficiency would be higher for the co-occurring evergreen conifer than L. occidentalis. 3. In general, mass-based photosynthesis (A<sub>m</sub>) was significantly higher for L. occidentalis than co-occurring evergreen conifers in the drier sites, but A<sub>m</sub> was similar for evergreen and deciduous conifers at the mesic site. 4. Mass-based foliar nitrogen concentration (N<sub>m</sub>) was positively correlated to SLA for all species combined across the gradient (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.64), but the relationship was very weak (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.08-0.34) for evergreen and deciduous species separately. Mass-based A<sub>m</sub> and r<sub>m</sub> were poorly correlated to N<sub>m</sub> for all species combined across the gradient (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.28 and 0.04, respectively). 5. For each site-species combination, daily maximum A<sub>m</sub> was negatively correlated to vapour pressure deficit (VPD) (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.36-0.59), but was poorly correlated to twig predawn water potential (R<sup>2</sup> < 0.04). 6. Instantaneous nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE<sub>i</sub>; A<sub>m</sub> divided by N<sub>m</sub>) and water-use efficiency (<sup>13</sup>C) increased significantly (P = 0.05) from high to low resource availability for both evergreen and deciduous conifers, except for NUE<sub>i</sub> in L. occidentalis.
20142806|1. Fruits are among the most antioxidant-rich foods in nature and thus can be important dietary sources for combating oxidative stress in animals and humans. 2. Because fruits are pigmented by important plant antioxidants such as anthocyanins and carotenoids, frugivores may be able to gauge the antioxidant value of a fruit by its colour. However, although the importance of dietary antioxidants and oxidative stress is increasingly being acknowledged in evolutionary ecology, it is unknown whether animals can use visual signals to detect the presence of antioxidants in their food. 3. We studied the colour and pigment content of 60 bird-dispersed fruits and used an avian eye model to assess the ability of birds to visually discriminate carotenoid and anthocyanin contents of fruits. We then tested whether the frugivorous European blackcap (Sylvia atricapilla) preferentially consumes food containing anthocyanins. 4. Fruit colour variation was explained by variation in anthocyanin contents, and birds were capable of discriminating anthocyanin concentrations in fruits based on colour because fruits rich in anthocyanins are black or UV reflecting. However, we found that birds could not use colouration to determine the carotenoid contents of fruits. Ripe fruits contained more anthocyanins than unripe fruits, while there was no difference between ripe and unripe fruits in carotenoid contents. Anthocyanin contents correlated with caloric value in fruits, while there was no such correlation between carotenoids and total energy contents. 5. In food choice experiments, blackcaps selected food containing anthocyanins over food without anthocyanins. 6. In sum, our results indicate that birds actively selected for anthocyanins in their food and that they may use fruit colour as a foraging signal of anthocyanin antioxidant rewards.
10.2307/2389748|Both burst and endurance performance may be crucial determinants of the lifetime fitness of an organism, especially for many amphibians where burst allows for predatory escape and endurance may contribute to migratory ability. However, there are no analyses of the long-term stability of locomotor performance for any amphibian, hindering efforts to extrapolate from single measurements to lifetime performance estimates. We present an analysis of individual repeatability of burst speed and endurance locomotor performance over short (seconds), medium (hours), and long (15 months) time intervals for a large sample of Ambystoma californiense. Burst speed is significantly repeatable over all three time intervals. We found a significant tiring effect for burst speeds when measured only seconds apart; apparently several hours are required for complete physiological recovery. Endurance repeatability reaches or approaches statistical significance when measured over periods of several days, but is not repeatable over 15 months. We postulate that both burst and endurance are ecologically important; our results confirm that single measurements of performance may not provide accurate profiles of lifetime locomotor ability. We also present a literature review of locomotor performance repeatability studies for amphibians and squamate reptiles. This review suggests that (1) repeatabilities for amphibians are generally lower than for squamates, and (2) in all cases, repeatability of locomotor performance declines over time. These results emphasize the necessity of multiple measurements over long time intervals to quantify lifetime performance profiles accurately.
3599312|1. The hydraulic limitation theory proposes that the decline of forest productivity with age is a consequence of the loss of whole-plant and leaf-specific hydraulic conductance with tree height caused by increased friction. Recent theoretical analyses have suggested that tapering (the broadening of xylem vessel diameter from terminal branches to the base of the stem) could compensate completely for the effect of tree height on hydraulic conductance, and thus on tree growth. 2. The data available for testing this hypothesis are limited, but they do not support the implication that whole-tree and leaf-specific hydraulic conductance are generally independent of tree height. Tapering cannot exclude hydraulic limitation as the principle mechanism for the observed decline in growth. 3. Reduction of the leaf-to-sapwood area ratio, decreased leaf water potential, loss of leaf-cell turgor, or osmotic adjustments in taller trees could reduce the effect of increased plant hydraulic resistance on stomatal conductance with height. However, these mechanisms operate with diminishing returns, as they infer increased costs to the tree that will ultimately limit tree growth. To understand the decline in forest growth, the effects of these acclimation mechanisms on carbon uptake and allocation should be considered.
3599147| 1. Hatchlings of the North American Painted Turtle, Chrysemys picta (Schneider 1783) typically spend their first winter of life inside a shallow, terrestrial hibernaculum (the natal nest) where they commonly are exposed for extended periods to ice and cold. Current evidence indicates that turtles withstand such exposure by resisting freezing and becoming supercooled. 2. Supercooled hatchlings held at constant temperatures in the laboratory experience circulatory impairment and stagnant hypoxia, and consequently rely on anaerobic metabolism to meet a portion of their energy needs. As a result, lactate accumulates in bodies of supercooled animals. 3. The first experiment in the current investigation demonstrated that unfrozen hatchlings exposed to subzero temperatures like those recorded in a natural hibernaculum contained elevated quantities of lactic acid (and free glucose). This finding validates the widespread reliance on laboratory studies to gain insights regarding the physiology of animals overwintering in the field. 4. In a second study, hatchling Painted Turtles held for 20 days at -6 C contained nearly twice as much lactate as turtles sampled after 10 days at that temperature. Hatchlings held for 10 days at -6 C and then for another 10 days at -3 C also contained more lactate than turtles sampled after 10 days at -6 C, but not as much as the hatchlings that spent 20 days at -6 C. Thus, animals held for part of the time at the higher subzero temperature still relied on anaerobic metabolism, but not to the same extent as turtles held continuously at the lower temperature. In contrast, hatchlings held for 10 days at -6 C and then for another 10 days at either 0 C or +3 C contained no more lactate than control animals that never were exposed to subzero temperatures. Hatchlings exposed for the second 10 days to either 0 C or +3 C apparently were able to catabolize or otherwise process all the lactate that was accumulated during the first 10 days of their treatment. 5. Free glucose in bodies of hatchlings was elevated in all animals exposed to subzero temperatures, even when the initial exposure was followed by 10 days at temperatures as high as +3 C. This finding has important implications with regard to the substrate that is used to support intermediary metabolism in supercooled turtles as well as to the metabolic pathways that are used to remove accumulated lactate once body temperature of the turtles rises at least to 0 C. 
2390379|1. A number of signalling mechanisms are responsible for triggering plastic morphological and physiological responses of plants to the proximity of neighbours. Among these mechanisms, the phytochrome-mediated control of branching and elongation in response to alterations in red:far-red ratio (R:FR) has been investigated in considerable detail. 2. While the role of phytochrome B in R:FR perception has been well established, and the consequences of neighbour photo-detection on competitive ability are receiving attention, several important issues remain to be addressed regarding the ecology of plant-plant signalling in canopies. In particular, the role of other photoreceptors in neighbour detection and the impact of neighbour detection on population-level attributes, such as size structure and productivity:density relationships are poorly characterized. 3. In the experiments reported here we addressed these questions using wild-type (WT) plants and photomorphogenic mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana that are specifically deficient in phytochrome A, phytochrome B, all phytochromes or the blue-light photoreceptor cryptochrome. Plants were grown in monocultures of different densities (between 300 and 2400 plants m<sup>-2</sup>) from planting to seed set. Full competition among neighbouring plants was allowed both above- and below-ground. 4. WT plants responded to crowding with the predictable increase in elongation growth and by producing more steeply orientated leaves. Similar responses were observed in mutants deficient in phytochrome A or cryptochrome. Mutant plants lacking phytochrome B had an `elongated' phenotype even when grown at low density and, in comparison with the other genotypes, showed markedly reduced morphological responses to crowding. 5. All genotypes having functional phytochrome B had similar biomass production and fruit production, and fruit production per unit area was constant over the range of densities used. Stands of phytochrome-B-deficient plants were as productive as WT canopies at intermediate densities, but had significantly reduced fruit production at low and, more strikingly, also at high densities. Size inequality among neighbours, measured as the coefficient of variation of reproductive output per plant, increased with density in all genotypes, but significantly more in phytochrome-B-deficient stands than in WT crops. 6. Our results suggest that: (1) phytochrome B plays a unique role in neighbour photodetection, while other photoreceptors appear to be less important in this respect; (2) in WT stands, phytochrome-B-mediated neighbour detection leads to inverse rank-dependent morphological adjustments (i.e. greater fractional response in the small plants), which tend to buffer the plant population against size structuring; (3) the strong size-structuring in populations of R:FR `blind' phytochrome-B mutants results in reduced stand fecundity at high densities.
10.2307/2389444|We present two models of growth and reproduction in the mussel Mytilus edulis L. One is a modified version of an existing model developed by Kooijman for general application to ectotherms, the other is a new model specifically formulated for mussels. The models have identical assumptions on energy assimilation and spawning but differ in their a priori assumptions concerning energy partitioning between growth, maintenance and reproduction. Data from three field populations were used: one to estimate model parameters; the others for model testing. Both models were successful in predicting growth and reproduction in the test populations, suggesting that differences between populations can largely be explained by differences in food and seston dynamics. The models yield two contrasting strategies for storing and utilizing assimilate, and with further assumptions yield hypotheses on mortality in fast and slow growing populations.
10.2307/2389842|1. To elucidate the impact of winter climates on supercooling in arthropod species, seasonal patterns of supercooling in a chill-tolerant spider, Achaearanea tepidariorum, were compared, from six populations in different climates (from 26<sup></sup> 12 'N to 43<sup></sup> 03 'N) in Japan. 2. The summer supercooling point (SCP) was stable at around -8<sup></sup>C over the geographical range, while the winter SCP tended to be lower at higher latitudes. This was caused by the proportional increase of spiders with lowered SCPs at the higher latitudes. 3. SCP was closely related to the feeding status of individuals: the northern spiders with low SCP ceased to feed in winter, while the southern spiders with high SCP fed actively throughout the year. 4. Cessation of feeding and SCP depression were components of the diapause syndrome for the cool-temperate spiders, but these components were independent of diapause in the subtropical spiders. 5. These observations indicate that latitudinal variation in winter SCP is the result of genetic differentiation among populations and the connection of SCP depression with diapause may have evolved secondarily as spiders expanded from the subtropical to the temperate zone.
3806618|1. Carotenoid-based ornamentation has often been suggested to signal mate quality, and species with such ornaments have frequently been used in studies of sexual selection. 2. Female Gobiusculus flavescens (Two-Spotted Goby) develop colourful orange bellies during the breeding season. Belly coloration varies among mature females, and previous work has shown that nest-holding males prefer females with more colourful bellies. Because males invest heavily in offspring during incubation, the evolution of this preference can be explained if colourful females provide males with eggs of higher quality. 3. We tested this hypothesis by allowing males to spawn with 'colourful' and 'drab' females and comparing parameters including egg carotenoid concentration, clutch size, hatchability and larval viability between groups. We also investigated relationships between egg carotenoid concentration and clutch quality parameters. 4. Eggs from colourful females had significantly higher concentrations of total carotenoids than drab females, and photographically quantified belly coloration was a good predictor of egg carotenoid concentration. 5. Colourful females produced slightly larger clutches, but female belly coloration was not related to any measure of clutch quality. In addition, there were no significant relationships between egg carotenoids and clutch quality. Females with high levels of egg carotenoids spawned slightly earlier, however, possibly because they were more ready to spawn or because of male mate choice. 6. Our results call into question the generality of a causal link between egg carotenoids and offspring quality.
10.2307/2389567|Most animal and plant species first grow and then switch to reproduction. Some continue to grow after breeding is initiated. Parthenogenetic aphids have a different reproductive strategy. They invest in both somatic and gonadal growth during their larval development. A developmental constraint is suggested to favour the simultaneous commitment to the growth of both soma and gonads in larval life and the telescoping of generations as an effective means of maximizing the rate of increase. This constraint also explains why aphids produce their offspring singly rather than in clutches as by so doing they keep their gonads approximately the same size and so maximize the use of the energy assimilated by the soma.
10.2307/2390208|1. Plant ecophysiological investigations often fail to account for age-specific, tissue-or organ-specific, or life-history-specific effects on overall performance. To address this issue, aspects of gas exchange and water relations of a deciduous and dioecious dwarf willow, Salix arctica, were examined. The degree of physiological variation that occurred as leaves aged was investigated, within and among vegetative and reproductive ramets of a plant's canopy, and between the sexes. 2. Significant differences were observed in rates of photosynthetic carbon assimilation, dark respiration and stomatal conductance, as well as in bulk tissue water relations of leaves at different ages, between reproductive and vegetative ramets within an individual, and between male and female individuals. Developing leaves had lower rates of carbon assimilation (A) and stomatal conductance (g), but higher rates of dark respiration (R<sub>d</sub>), higher levels of total non-structural carbohydrates (TNC), higher levels of foliar nitrogen and greater variation in leaf nitrogen concentration. Compared with mature leaves, developing leaves also displayed greater variation in osmotic, elastic and turgor properties as well as greater sensitivity to both tissue water deficits and increased leaf-to-air vapour pressure differences ( w). 3. Reproductive ramets, those which produced both leaves and catkins, had significantly higher A, g and R<sub>d</sub>, as well as higher levels of TNC, but a lower tolerance to both tissue water deficits and increased  w when compared with vegetative ramets. The enhanced rates of gas exchange in reproductive ramets may have resulted from a greater sink strength produced by the presence of catkins. 4. These results suggest that physiological variation at several different levels of organization can be quite significant. Accounting for such variation is important: (a) if accurate extrapolations of leaf- or shoot-level performance to whole-plant canopies are to be successful, (b) if an adaptive explanation for variation in physiological properties within a canopy in terms of maximizing whole-plant performance is desired, (c) if a detailed understanding of the magnitude of individual-level and population-level variation is desired, and (d) if the goal is to be able to construct a detailed picture of what contributes to whole-plant performance, or (e) to characterize accurately a species' ecophysiological breadth within or across environments that are heterogeneous in both time and space.
2390304|1. Clonally reproducing species are often assumed to lack sufficient genetic variability to evolve specific local adaptations to cope with environmental perturbation and competition from sexual species. Yet, many asexuals are extremely successful judged by abundance and wide range, suggesting high competitive abilities in resource exploitation. 2. In this study, food use and its effects on larval growth in a water frog system consisting of the two parental sexual species, Rana lessonae (Camerano 1882) and Rana ridibunda (Pallas 1771), and three different coexisting hemiclones of their hybrid, Rana esculenta (Linnaeus 1758) were investigated. 3. R. esculenta tadpoles spent 18.6% more time feeding than did tadpoles of either parental species, but feeding time was not affected by interspecific mixture. 4. R. esculenta tadpoles consumed 50.8% more food over the whole test period than did tadpoles of the two parental species. 5. R. esculenta tadpoles exhibited higher growth rates than did tadpoles of either parental species. 6. R. lessonae tadpoles had the highest and R. ridibunda tadpoles the lowest growth efficiencies with the R. esculenta tadpoles ranging between the two parentals. 7. The results obtained indicate that hemiclonal hybridogenetic R. esculenta tadpoles display significant phenotypic variation among coexisting hemiclones as well as outperform tadpoles of the parental sexual species R. lessonae and R. ridibunda. The primary mechanism for success of the hybrid tadpoles is probably behavioural, through increased feeding time and food consumption, and not physiological via growth efficiency.
20142760| 1. The spatial population structure of parasites may have profound effects on both ecological and evolutionary dynamics. Strong gene flow among local populations has been hypothesized to prevent differential performance on local and foreign hosts. 2. We studied the spatial population structure of an obligate pathogen, the oak mildew (Microsphaera alphitoides) on the pedunculate oak (Quercus robur). Patterns of distribution and colonization-extinction dynamics were recorded in a set of 113 trees over 3 years, and in an additional set of 77 trees over 2 years. Colonization of uninfected hosts was examined in a set of 100 experimentally transplanted hosts, and differential performance on local and foreign hosts tested by reciprocal inoculations conducted in the laboratory. 3. Across years, the mildew occupied a high proportion of host trees ( 2/3). Patterns of mildew infection showed either no spatial aggregation (years 2003, 2005), or aggregation at a large spatial scale (up to 400 m: year 2004). High and even incidence of infection reflects efficient dispersal: during a single year, transplanted uninfected host plants were rapidly colonized in all parts of the landscape. 4. Local mildew populations still performed best on their original hosts: in reciprocal inoculations conducted on mature foliage, local mildew populations infected a significantly higher proportion of leaves from their original host tree than from other trees. Yet, even on the local host less than half of the leaves were infected. 5. To account for the observed patterns, two selection processes are invoked. The colonization experiment suggests that mildew spores are spread widely, with selection filtering out the genotypes that cannot infect the focal host. Local mildew populations are subject to further selection events later in the summer, favouring the strains best adapted to phenological changes in the local environment. 6. In conclusion, the patterns observed and processes inferred in M. alphitoides suggest that complex selection pressures may affect local parasite populations, blurring any clear-cut relation between gene flow and performance on local and foreign hosts. 
10.2307/2389481|Earthworms, Eisenia foetida (Savigny), were maintained for 48h in a nitrite-enriched artificial soil. Evidence suggests that animal catalase plays an important role in limiting the bioaccumulation of this toxicant (a widespread compound in the natural habitat of Eisenia). Nitrite oxidation is regarded as a biochemical mechanism: (1) coadapted with other aspects of functional ecology of earthworms; and (2) capable of enriching soils with nitrate, a nitrogen form available for plant metabolism.
3806584|1. Understanding the development of plants' below-ground zone of influence, the region over which a plant acquires soil resources, is essential for understanding and predicting interplant competition. 2. The objective of this experiment was to characterize root system development of four weed species (Abutilon theophrasti Medic., Amaranthus retroflexus L., Chenopodium album L. and Setaria faberi Herm.) when grown in monoculture and in mixture to assess the influence of maize competition on root system volume and shape. 3. Using a herbicide-injection technique, root development was assessed at two field sites with contrasting soil textures. Lateral root growth (LRG) was measured over the growing season at 15, 30 and 60 cm depths. Similarly, vertical root growth (VRG) was assessed when roots reached 15, 30 and 60 cm depths. The technique proved useful for quantifying VRG and LRG over time for all four weed species. From vertical and lateral root system expansion, the volume of soil exploited by the root system (V) was calculated and used as an estimator of the below-ground zone of influence. 4. For A. theophrasti and A. retroflexus, VRG was less influenced than LRG by interspecific competition, and was independent of plant size. In contrast, LRG was strongly related to plant size. Differences in LRG were primarily responsible for the sizeable reductions in below-ground zone of influence for plants of similar ages but of lower above-ground biomass (AGB) due to competition with maize. 5. Above-ground biomass of A. theophrasti and A. retroflexus was exponentially related to below-ground zone of influence with a scaling exponent of 0.71 (
10.2307/2390114|1. Three annual plant species, Abutilon theophrasti, Amaranthus retroflexus and Setaria lutescens were grown together in field plots at two different phosphorus levels and in either fumigated soil, fumigated soil which was subsequently re-inoculated with spores of the mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices or untreated soil containing indigenous mycorrhizal fungi. 2. The response of each plant species to the mycorrhizal treatments differed significantly. The results indicated that mycorrhizal fungi reduced the growth of Amaranthus (non-mycotrophic) and increased the growth of Abutilon (mycotrophic). Mycorrhizal treatment had little effect on the performance of Setaria (mycotrophic). 3. Significantly higher concentrations of phosphorus in mature reproductive parts of both mycotrophic species in treatments where mycorrhizal fungi were present suggest that the mycorrhizal symbiosis could significantly affect the quality of seed and may have long-term effects on the structure of plant communities.
10.2307/2389326|1 The cost of sexual reproduction is demonstrated for ragwort (Senecio jacobaea L.) at two sites. The probability of overwinter survival is inversely related to the allocation of resources to sexual reproduction in the preceding summer. There is a marked similarity between the two sites in the relationship between numbers of flowerheads and rootstock volume. 2 The effect of herbivory on overwinter survival of plants varies with the site and timing of feeding. Different herbivores may either exacerbate the effect of sexual reproduction on survival (e.g. through root feeding), reduce the effect (e.g. through early consumption of flowers) or have no influence on the effect of sexual reproduction on survival (e.g. by consumption of flowers later in the season).
40603103|1. Westoby's [Plant and Soil (1998), 199, 213] Leaf-Height-Seed (LHS) plant strategy scheme quantifies the strategy of a plant based on its location in a three-dimensional space defined by three functional traits: specific leaf area (SLA), height, and seed mass. This scheme is based on aboveground traits and may neglect strategies of belowground resource capture if root functioning is not mirrored in any of the axes. How then do fine roots fit into the LHS scheme? 2. We measured 10 functional traits on 133 plant species in a ponderosa pine forest in northern Arizona, USA. This data set was used to evaluate how well the LHS scheme accounts for the variation in above and belowground traits. 3. The three most important plant strategies were composed of multiple correlated traits, but SLA, seed mass, and height loaded on separate principle components. The first axis reflected the widely observed ' leaf economics spectrum'. Species at the high end of this spectrum had high SLA, high leaf and fine root nitrogen (N) concentration, and low leaf dry matter content. The second axis reflected variation in seed mass and fine root morphology. Plants at the positive end of this spectrum were plants with large seeds and low specific root length (SRL). The third axis reflected variation in height and phenology. Plants at the positive end of this spectrum were tall species that flower late in the growing season. 4. Leaf N concentration was positively correlated with fine root N concentration. SRL was weakly positively correlated with SLA. SRL was not correlated with fine root N concentration. Leaf litter decomposition rate was positively correlated with the leaf economics spectrum and was negatively correlated with the height and phenology spectrum. 5. Leaf traits, seed mass, and height appear to be integrating properties of species that reflect much of the variation in plant function, including root function. Fine root N concentration was positively mirrored by the leaf economics spectrum, and SRL was inversely mirrored by seed mass. The leaf and height axes play a role in controlling leaf litter decomposability, indicating that these strategy axes have important consequences for ecosystem functioning.
20142804|1. Although the ability to detect chemical cues is widespread in many organisms, it is surprising how little is known about the role of chemical communication in avian life histories. Nowadays, growing evidence suggests that birds can use olfaction in several contexts. However, we still do not know the role of bird olfaction in one of the most important determinants of survival, predator detection. 2. Blue tits, Cyanistes caeruleus L., were exposed to chemical cues of: (i) mustelid (predator), (ii) quail (odorous control); or (iii) water (odourless control) inside the nest-box where they were provisioning 8-day-old nestlings. 3. We show that blue tits were able to detect the chemical cues and showed antipredatory behaviours to cope with the risk of predation. Birds delayed their entry to the nest-box, and they perched on the hole of the nest-box and refused to enter more times when they found predator scent than control scents inside the nest-box. In addition, birds decreased the time spent inside the predator-scented nest-box when feeding nestlings. 4. The discovery of the ability of birds to use chemical cues of predators to accurately assess predation may help to understand many aspects of bird life histories that have been neglected until now.
4540077|1. Functional traits contribute to the success of invasive plants. These traits can reflect inherent properties or they can be new adaptations from evolutionary responses to escape from natural enemies of the introduced range. We tested the hypothesis that genetic shifts in morphological and physiological traits have occurred between native and invasive populations of Sapium sebiferum. 2. Sapium sebiferum seedlings were grown in a greenhouse using seed collected from four populations of its introduced range (US) and four from native Chinese populations that are thought to be genetic candidates of the introduced popula. We examined plant biomass production, relative growth rate (RGR), relative stem height growth rate (RHR), root: shoot ratio (RSR), total number of leaves (TLN) and leaf area (TLA), specific leaf area (SLA), leaf area ratio (LAR), net CO
10.2307/2389537|Of the guild of monocarpic perennials that occur on the sand-dunes of Meijendel (The Netherlands), Cynoglossum officinale L. is the first species to flower. An experiment was set up in which four groups of plants were grown under controlled conditions and transferred to the field at regular intervals. Group 1 flowered before the natural population of Cynoglossum officinale, group 2 was in synchrony with the population and groups 3 and 4 flowered later. Plants in group 2 produced, on average, 45% more seeds than plants in groups 1 and 3. Plants in group 4, failed to reproduce due to heavy rabbit attack, absence of pollinators and unfavourable weather conditions (night frost). Bumble-bees (Bombus spp.) approached experimental plants most frequently during the natural flowering period and remained frequent visitors until 15 August. After this date no plants of Cynoglossum officinale were approached. Flowering in Cynoglossum officinale coincides with the most favourable period of seed production.
40863567|1. Current thinking holds that wood density mediates a tradeoff between strength and economy of construction, with higher wood density providing higher strength but at higher cost. 2. Yet the further away wood fibres are from the central axis of the trunk, the more they increase the strength of the trunk; thus, a fat trunk of low-density wood can achieve greater strength at lower construction cost than a thin trunk of high-density wood. 3. What then are the countervailing advantages of high wood density? 4. We hypothesize that high wood density is associated with lower maintenance costs due to lower trunk surface area, as surface area correlates with maintenance respiration. 5. This advantage would be particularly important to long-lived trees and could in part explain why they tend to have high wood density. 6. High wood density has also been associated with lower risk of trunk breakage, xylem implosion and pathogen invasion, but we argue that these relationships are not causal and instead reflect correlated selection on other traits of value to long-lived trees. 7. This revaluation of the costs and benefits of high wood density has important implications for understanding tree life-history evolution, functional diversity, forest carbon stocks and the impacts of global change.
4139349|1. Certain ants have considerable morphological diversity within the workforce, with individuals physically specialized for particular jobs. The ecological conditions that select for this phenomenon are still poorly understood. 2. We use a comparative analysis to address the hypothesis that prey type has selected for greater morphological diversity in the small, monophyletic army ant genus Eciton. These ants are nomadic group-predators and transport loads in the limited space below the body, so bulkier prey types should select for more diverse worker morphology. 3. We show that five Eciton species differ in the presence or absence of a distinct 'submajor caste', the morphological exaggeration of submajors when present, and the allometric scaling of standard workers over a broad size range. Crucially, the presence and morphological exaggeration of submajors is associated with the variety of awkwardly shaped prey types that the species takes, and this caste specializes in prey transport. 4. Our findings support the importance of dietary composition in the evolution of worker morphological diversity in Eciton and demonstrate the utility of our general approach. Future critical tests of this hypothesis are discussed, as well as how our approach can contribute to a broader understanding of the relationship between ecology and the evolution of worker morphological diversity.
10.2307/2390571|1. The influence of seen reserves on seedling growth and phosphorus acquisition of 14 vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) shrub species belonging to the Rosidae and indigenous to the flora of the nutrient-poor soils of the Cape Fynbos. South Africa, was studied in the presence of absence of mycorrhizal inoculum. 2. It is expected that among potentially VAM plants species found in a low-nutrient, high-light environment those with small seed reserves will have a higher dependency on mycorrhizas for seedling establishment than larger-seeded species. 3. Growth of the seedlings when non-mycorrhizal was strongly controlled by seed reserves. Most non-mycorrhizal plants were unable to acquire soil phosphorus unless they processed alternative nutrient-acquiring root modifications. 4. Mycorrhizal responses in terms of mass and phosphorus content of inoculated plants compared to uinioculated plants are negatively correlated with the logarithm of seed mass and phosphorus content. Thus, it is suggested that seed size among the Rosidae in low-nutrient environment is a trade-off between dispersal distances and the ability to establish a competitive presence in the absence of mycorrhizal inoculum, with no single seed size conferring an absolute advantage to VAM plant species. 5. The simultaneous evaluation of cluster roots and large seeds i n low-nutrient environments is proposed as a mechanism allowing for the adoption of the non-mycorrhizal state in some members of the Rosidae.
2390315|1. Effects of larval reserves and nutrients received as adults on fecundity and lifespan in female Danaus plexippus (the Monarch Butterfly) were measured to determine the relative importance of different sources of nutrients for reproduction and somatic maintenance. 2. Egg-laying lifespan was correlated with female size but not with the amount of male-derived nutrients or adult food concentration. 3. Lifetime fecundity was higher when females received a large first spermatophore, but was not affected by female size when lifespan was controlled or by adult food concentration. 4. At the end of their lives, females contained unlaid eggs and retained, on average, 88% of their initial mass. This proportion was unchanged in two years, although mean egg-laying lifespan varied from 22.5 to 28.7 days. 5. Egg mass decreased over the female lifespan, and was correlated with female size. 6. These results suggest that larval reserves are more important for somatic maintenance than adult income, but that the protein-rich nutrients received from males contribute to egg production. This supports theoretical predictions and empirical studies of other Lepidoptera showing that larval reserves are less likely to affect fecundity when the adult income can contribute substantially to egg production.
10.2307/2390160|1. Timing of breeding is one of the most important factors for reproductive success in birds and the nutritional state of the female seems to affect breeding time directly. 2. Protozoan blood parasites consume a variety of host metabolites as well as haemoglobin. If blood parasites affect the nutritional state of females, parasite-free individuals will breed earlier than parasitized individuals. 3. Effect of blood parasites on breeding time of Great Tits (Parus major L.) was studied for a population of tits nesting in boxes on the island of Gotland, Sweden. 4. There was a significant negative relationship between infection of blood parasites and timing of breeding in females but not in males. Females with blood parasites initiated egg-laying and hatched their eggs later than uninfected females, after controlling for effects of female age on these variables. 5. We suggest that parasites may compete for energy with the host resulting in a retarded initiation of laying. 6. Because laying date and hatching date have been demonstrated to affect juvenile survival, and because parasites in the present study have been shown to affect laying and clutch hatching date, parasites consequently may reduce individual fitness of birds in this population of Great Tits.
2656369|1. Wet tropical savannas are characterized by strong environmental constraints-particularly low soil nutrient availability-associated with high plant productivity. Nitrogen recycling, and especially nitrification, is supposed to be a strong determinant of the balance between conservation and loss of nutrients at the ecosystem level. Savanna facies dominated by the grass Hyparrhenia diplandra (Andropogoneae) are known to exhibit low levels of nitrification and thus avoid nitrate losses. 2. By comparing two sites in the Lamto area (Cote d'Ivoire, West Africa) with similar soil physico-chemical characteristics and equally dominated by H. diplandra (80% of the grass cover), it was demonstrated that, within this facies, nitrification is highly heterogeneous, with a 240-fold variation in potential nitrification within a specific site. 3. In order to test whether these differences can be considered as permanent in this ecosystem, nitrate reductase activities were compared on H. diplandra plantlets from the two sites, cultivated under identical conditions in the presence of nitrate. The leaves of plants originating from the high nitrification site were always able to reduce nitrate at a significantly higher rate than those from the low nitrification site. This observation indicates a long-term adaptation of the plants and stable nitrification behaviour. 4. Lamto can thus be considered as a contrasted dual ecosystem relative to its nitrogen cycle. The two sites studied therefore constitute useful models to assess the determinism of nitrification in wet savannas and the role of this process on nitrogen retention in such ecosystems.
40205509|1. In many anuran species, larvae modify their developmental trajectories and behaviour in response to chemical cues that predict predator risk. Recent reviews highlight a dearth of studies on delayed (post-metamorphic) consequences of larval experience. 2. We raised cane toad (Bufo marinus) tadpoles either under control conditions or in the presence of non-lethal predator cues (crushed conspecifics). 3. Exposure to these chemical cues massively reduced size at metamorphosis, as predicted by theory. Parotoid glands were larger relative to body size in post- metamorphic animals from the experimental treatment, suggesting higher investment in chemical defences. 4. Exposure to chemical cues from crushed conspecifics during larval life reduced total bufadienolide content of metamorphs, but increased amounts of one specific bufadienolide (bufalin). 5. Hence, cane toads respond to perceived predation risk in the aquatic environment by metamorphosing at a smaller size and modifying their investment in defensive toxins during post-metamorphic life. 6. Phenotypically flexible responses to larval conditions vary among amphibian taxa, and can involve significant carry-over effects into post-metamorphic life.
10.2307/2390131|1. The flowers of Myosotis colensoi are protogynous. The stigma is accessible for pollination for several hours before pollen is presented. One or two days after a flower opens, scales at the mouth of the corolla tube change colour, signalling the start of a protracted post-pollination phase. Flowers in this phase present neither pollen nor receptive stigmas and they are avoided by the principal visitor - a tachinid fly. 2. Hand pollination of protected stigmas shows that they remain receptive throughout the life of the flower. During favourable weather, however, pollen is deposited on most stigmas before the anthers dehisce. The effective female phase is thus shorter than the nominal period based on either the period of stigma receptivity or the end of the period before pollen presentation. The effective male phase is much longer, requiring as many as 12-14 separate visits to complete. 3. Pollen presentation is staggered because the five anthers dehisce sequentially over several hours. This process extends the period over which pollen is removed. 4. Periods of poor weather alter the presentation schedule and pollen removal and deposition rates, lengthen the effective phase durations and cause a partial temporal overlap in sexual functions. These results are discussed with reference to theories of sexual selection.
826649|1. In grass species that occur in pastures or hay meadows, life spans of roots determine much of the carbon and nutrient loss from the plant in addition to the amounts that are lost by mowing or grazing. We hypothesized that grass species from nutrient-poor habitats had longer root life spans and consequently lost smaller quantities of nutrients through root turnover. 2. In a garden experiment, root life spans and root diameters were measured by repeated observations in minirhizotrons placed in monocultures of Lolium perenne L. and Arrhenatherum elatius L. (characteristic of fertile soils) and Molinia caerulea L. and Nardus stricta L. (preferring nutrient-poor soils). 3. Average root life spans were 14 weeks in L. perenne, 40 weeks in A. elatius, 53 weeks in M. caerulea and 58 weeks in N. stricta. Root life spans of species from fertile habitats were significantly shorter than the root life spans of species from low fertility habitats. 4. In addition, there were significant differences in root diameter among species, root diameter being positively correlated to root life spans. Root diameter decreased during root ageing in all species, while the decline in diameter occurred more slowly in N. stricta than in A. elatius and M. caerulea. 5. An increase in the abundance of plant species adapted to fertile habitats will, because of the greater C and nutrient returns to the soil in root turnover, increase soil fertility. This effect may constitute a positive feedback between changes in plant species composition and nutrient cycling.
10.2307/2389393|This paper addresses the problem of energy partitioning in small and active animals which are characterized by high levels, but low scopes, of aerobic metabolism. Patterns of energy partitioning were obtained by measuring rates of oxygen consumption and of growth in larvae of the cyprinid species Rutilus rutilus (L.) and Chalcalburnus chalcoides mento (Agassiz 1832) fed different rations of Artemia nauplii. Feeding level determined the rate of growth but had no effect on the routine rate of oxygen consumption (<tex-math>$\dot\mathrm V$</tex-math> O<sub>2</sub> routine). In R. rutilus the relationship between <tex-math>$\dot\mathrm V$</tex-math> O<sub>2</sub>-routine and fresh body weight is described by a single logarithmic function for all feeding groups, i.e. y = 1.44 + 0.93x (with y = log nmolO<sub>2</sub>. h<sup>-1</sup> fish<sup>-1</sup> and x = log mg). The maximum routine rates of mass-specific oxygen consumption were even higher in the groups receiving sub-optimal rations than in those fed ad libitum. The larvae of R. rutilus grew faster and were more efficient in converting food into body substance than the larvae of C. chalcoides mento. The mean net efficiency of growth in the groups fed ad libitum was 72.4% fresh wt day<sup>-1</sup> in R. rutilus but only 61.3% fresh wt day<sup>-1</sup> in C. chalcoides mento. An estimate of the cost of protein synthesis suggests that in spontanously swimming fish the energy available over and above the basic requirements is insufficient to support simultaneously high rates of growth and of swimming activity. Moreover, the low metabolic scope of the fish cannot be reconciled with the large amounts of energy required for the fast protein turnover which has been claimed by some authors to occur in the larvae of cyprinids and other families of fish.
40603045|1. Mycorrhizal symbiosis is thought to affect interactions between plants and herbivores by its influence on plant growth, nutrition and the plants defence system. Moreover, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) may enhance the inducibility of resistance responses. Until now, induction of plant resistance has not been considered to be a mechanism affecting the outcome of mycorrhization for plant-herbivore interactions. 2. Here, we test the hypothesis that the resistance of plants against herbivores depends on the induction of plant resistance by previous herbivory and mycorrhization. With a full factorial experiment in a greenhouse, we examined responses in growth of seven herbaceous plant species to AMF and the induction of resistance. To evaluate whether induced resistance is higher in plants with AMF we analyzed the combined effects of AMF and induction on herbivory, using bioassay caterpillars (Spodoptera littoralis). 3. Across all species, mycorrhization increased growth of plants and performance of the bioassay herbivore feeding on them. If, however, we induced resistance by allowing a caterpillar to feed for a short period on the plants, mycorrhization did not increase plant growth and performance of a subsequent herbivore that fed on the plant. This suggests that the increased plant resistance after induction was dependent on the symbioses with AMF. 4. Our results indicate that induction interacts with the allocation of the additional resources provided by mycorrhization towards plant growth and plant resistance. Therefore, mycorrhiza may play an important but hitherto overlooked role in the induction of plant resistance against herbivores.
2390396|1. Two of the principal defences in conifer bark against attack by bark beetles and associated fungi, the flow of preformed resin and the dynamic wound response (DWR), are commonly regarded as separate, sequential responses to attack. In this paper the concentration of three preformed defences (resin, total polyphenols and lignified stone cell masses) was measured at different heights on the stem of Norway and Sitka Spruce to determine their effect on the size of lesions formed during the DWR to inoculation with three facultatively pathogenic fungi (Phacidium coniferarum, Ophiostoma piceae and Cryptosporiopsis sp.) inoculated during the dormant season. 2. There was considerable within-tree variation in concentration of lignin and there was a dose-dependent negative effect of lignin on lesion size. The form of the relationship, however, was influenced by fungal and tree species and for some fungi, also by an individual tree effect. 3. Results suggest that resistance of conifer bark to pests and pathogens depends on an interaction between preformed and induced defences.
40205571|1. In natural grassland ecosystems, root-feeding nematodes and insects are the dominant belowground herbivores. In coastal foredunes, the ectoparasitic nematode Tylenchorhynchus ventralis would be a major root herbivore if not strongly controlled by soil microorganisms. Here, we examined if the suppressive effects of the microbial enemies of T. ventralis act by local interactions such as predation, parasitism or antagonism, or local induction of plant defence, or by non-local interactions, such as systemic effects when microorganisms in one section of the plant roots can affect nematode control in another section of the root system. We show that abundance of T. ventralis in the root zone of the grass Ammophila arenaria is suppressed by local interactions. 2. We compared local vs. non-local control of nematodes by a natural community of soil microorganisms in a split-root experiment, where nematodes and microbes were inoculated to the same, or to opposite root compartments. 3. The split-root experiment revealed that microorganisms affected T. ventralis numbers only when present in the same root compartment. Therefore, the effects of microorganisms on T. ventralis are due to local interactions and not due to induction of a systemic defence mechanism in the plant host. 4. When inoculated together with microorganisms, the nematodes were heavily infected with unknown bacteria and with fungi that resembled the genus Catenaria, suggesting that microorganisms control nematodes through parasitism. However, local defence induction cannot be completely excluded. 5. Besides microbial enemies of nematodes, the root zone of A. arenaria also contains plant pathogens. Root biomass was reduced by nematode infection, but also by the combination of nematodes and microorganisms, most likely because the soil pathogens overwhelmed the effects of nematode control on plant production. 6. We conclude that there may be a trade-off between beneficial effects of soil microorganisms on the plant host due to nematode control vs. pathogenic effects of soil microorganisms on the plant host. We propose that such trade-offs require more attention when studying below-ground multitrophic interactions.
10.2307/2390009|1. In two experiments, we tested the hypothesis that Great Tits (Parus major) adjust their fat reserves in response to feeding conditions. Experiment 1 tested the effect of a change in mean time at which food became available in the morning. Experiment 2 tested the effect of unpredictability in the onset of feeding time. 2. In experiment 1, Great Tits increased their morning mass after the start of feeding was delayed by 3 h and decreased their mass when original conditions were restored. The response to shortened feeding day was more rapid than the response to lengthened day. On shortened feeding days, birds gained mass while eating less, suggesting that they reduced their expenditures. 3. In experiment 2, birds gained more mass per day during the unpredictable than during the constant treatment. 4. The performance of individuals was correlated across the two experiments, suggesting that the birds reacted to the mean and unpredictability in feeding conditions using the same mechanism. This mechanism might involve a more rapid response to worsening than to improving conditions.
10.2307/2389716|The water budget of the lizard Lacerta vivipara Jacquin was studied in one lowland and two montane field populations using tritiated water. In all cases, gravid adult females had lower water fluxes and turnover rates than males and yearlings; in the lowland population there were also differences between adult and yearling gravid females. When weighted for egg mass, gravid yearling females did not show any significant difference in water fluxes with non-gravid yearling females. Water flux rates were positively related to the humidity of the biotope. Negative correlations exist between water flux rates and lizard mass and these are probably related to the decrease of the surface:volume ratio as body size increases. Positive correlations exist between flux differences and growth rates, demonstrating that water needs are related to energetic requirements, especially those concerned with growth and activity.
40205476|1. Linking microbial activity with ecosystem function is a continuing goal among ecologists focusing their efforts below ground in terrestrial ecosystems. 2. Genomic approaches, using DNA and RNA extracted from soil to characterize types of microbes present and genes expressed in soil, are promising, but, the required destructive harvest confounds spatial and temporal information. 3. Microbiosensors offer a gene-based way to examine microbial perception of, and response to, the soil environment non-destructively, with high spatial and temporal resolution. 4. In this mini-review, we explore the promise, challenges and tradeoffs associated with the design and deployment of microbiosensors in soil, as well as the interpretation of information derived from them 'live from the soil grain'. Both the promises and challenges are caused by the facts that: microbiosensors are living organisms with specific traits; they come from a phylogenetically diverse but restricted subsample of enormous soil microbial diversity; they are responsive to internal and external influences on multiple cellular processes (not just promoter induction); and they become part of food chains in non-sterile soils. We examine each of these characteristics, and associated blessings and curses, in the context of using microbiosensors to explore microbial soil ecology.
3806529|1. Clonal integration in plants can improve their ability to cope with habitat heterogeneity. Integration may increase in response to damage, such as herbivore attack, if undamaged ramets support damaged ones. To test this, we studied the effects of apex removal and substantial defoliation on the performance of the clonal perennial herb Linaria vulgaris Mill. in a common-garden growth experiment and a
3599298|1. Most flowering plants display multiple flowers, so that the interaction with pollinators that determines their mating success can vary with both the characteristics of individual flowers and aggregate properties of the entire floral display, especially the number of open flowers (floral display size). These effects are seldom examined in concert and their collective consequences for interspecific differences in reproductive performance have not been considered previously. 2. In this paper, we characterize the relation of pollen removal and seed production to differences in floral and inflorescence characteristics among six species of herbaceous legumes (Fabaceae). 3. Several aspects of reproductive performance varied significantly among species with either plant traits or aspects of pollinator behaviour that depend on plant traits. Pollinator visitation, as measured by the ratio of pollen removal during 24 h to first-visit removal, varied positively with both nectar production per flower and floral display size. Bumblebess visited more flowers per inflorescence on species with large floral displays, with no increase in the proportion of flowers visited. Pollen removal during a flower's first visit varied negatively among species with the mean number of flowers visited by bees per inflorescence. 4. These results indicate that floral and inflorescence traits act together to influence both pollinator energetics, which affects a plant species' attractiveness, and the rate of pollen removal, which should affect pollen export. In contrast, neither pollen removal during 24 h, nor female fecundity varied significantly with floral or display characteristics.
10.2307/2389490|Morphological, physiological, and growth characteristics of western poison oak (Toxicodendron diversilobum (T. & G.)) Greene in a Californian site suggest that the shrub vs vine growth forms are determined by an environmental factor (the presence or absence of physical support), and not by ecotype. In a common garden, clones of shrubs and vines differed as a function of support in 11 variables (stem length, stem taper, internode length, mean and median vessel diameter, vessel lumen area/stem area, Huber value, specific hydraulic conductivity, and three indices of leaf vs stem elongation) but differed as a function of plant origin (shrub or vine) in only one variable (vessel density). In the field, supported (viney) and unsupported (shrubby) parts of the same plants differed significantly for seven variables: stem taper, stem modulus of elasticity in bending, Huber value, specific hydraulic conductivity, vessel lumen area/stem area, and mean and median vessel diameters; differences by plant origin could not be tested. Although much of the variation was due to plasticity, common garden experiments showed that source plants also differed from one another in many of the measured characteristics. Individuals of T. diversilobum will function ecologically as vines if grown with support but as shrubs in the absence of support.
10.2307/2389558|The consequence of the trade-off between trunk growth and crown growth in understorey saplings is examined using a simple growth model. The model is based on published findings of interspecific variation in allometric relationships of saplings of shade-tolerant trees, their physiological parameters, and the light environment under forest canopy in south-east Asian tropical rain forests. All interspecific differences in allometries are described to reflect the difference in the allocation of dry weight between trunk stem and branch stem. In the model, branch-developing saplings have greater above-ground weight, larger trunk diameter, wider crown area and lower leaf area density at the same height than trunk-developing saplings. The model calculates the architecture-specific sapling growth rate, applying a classic canopy photosynthesis model to express crown photosynthesis, taking into account the self-shading within the sapling crown. Results show that the optimal allocation which maximizes sapling height growth rate for the understorey light environment is within the observed range of allocation in saplings of shade-tolerant tree species. It is proposed that fluctuation of the understorey light condition in time and space brings about the allometric variation among coexisting saplings.
40407784|1. Biological nitrogen (N) fixation by symbiotic and free-living organisms is considered the main pathway for N soil enrichment in desert and semi-desert ecosystems. This fact is more noticeable in tropical ecosystems where legume species have a high relative abundance. However, this biological fixation pathway does not guarantee the maintenance of soil N pools, and N conservation pathways are important in understanding controls over soil N cycling. 2. In dryland ecosystems, desert plants can form a 'fertility island' (FI) as soils beneath plants show higher concentrations of N and organic matter. 3. Here we assess how carbon (C) and N may interact to conserve soil N within the FI soil of two legume species (Prosopis laevigata and Parkinsonia praecox), one a known N-fixer and the other believed not to fix N, as well as within adjacent bare ground soil. In a semi-arid tropical ecosystem in central Mexico, we examined spatial patterns in C and N pools and transformation rates, and we investigated seasonal variations in these relationships. 4. Results show that FI soil C and N could be linked to total N storage through net C and N immobilization in microbial biomass and heterotrophic microbial activity. Soil under P. laevigata canopy had greater total N as well as N accumulated in microbial biomass than soil under P. praecox and bare ground soil. Nevertheless, inorganic N and potential net N mineralization rates were similar under soils of both species, although we expected higher inorganic N and N-mineralization values in N-fixer species to explain the greater total N. Higher total N concentrations under P. laevigata probably result from greater inputs of organic C and a higher potential net C mineralization rate in comparison to P. praecox and bare ground soil. 5. Even though N input and output values were not measured, the results highlight the importance of assessing the role of organic C, heterotrophic microbial activity, and N storage in microbial biomass in order to understand controls over N retention in soil N cycling. Thus, soil C-N interactions could be a control factor of N soil conservation in this tropical semi-arid ecosystem.
3599348|1. Resources and intensity of competition encountered during development can have significant consequences for adult fitness, yet their effects are rarely considered simultaneously. Furthermore, it is often assumed that these factors affect adult fitness only indirectly through their effects on body mass. Here, I examined the direct effects of larval host type and intensity of competition on mass at emergence and fecundity in two species of bruchid beetles (Callosobruchus spp.). 2. There was no effect of competition treatments on mass at emergence of C. chinensis females reared in Adzuki or Mung Beans. Controlling for body mass, there was a significant effect of competition treatment on number of eggs laid by C. chinensis females that had been reared on Mung Beans, with those reared with a competitor laying significantly fewer eggs than females that had been reared in the absence of competition. Competition had a highly significant effect on mass at emergence of C. maculatus females reared in Mung Beans. In the absence of a significant effect of competition on mean mass at emergence in Adzuki Beans, females reared with two competitors laid significantly fewer eggs than did females reared with either one or no competitors. 3. For certain combinations of bruchid species and resource type, thus, females laid fewer eggs for a given mass at emergence if they had been subject to competition during their larval phase. These results reveal subtle differences in the responses of closely related species with similar life histories to resources and competition during development, calling into question current generalizations about the direct effects of competition on fitness.
2656466|1. An early inhibition of germination in seeds of Silene gallica and Brassica campestris which were continuously exposed to the light environment under an establishing wheat canopy, was observed in two different experiments. Inhibition occurred c. 15 days after crop emergence, when the canopy leaf area index (LAI) was below one and the red (R):far-red (FR) ratio recorded under the canopy was well above 0.8. 2. This inhibitory effect was either overcome by filtering FR light through a solution of CuSO<sub>4</sub> or could be artificially imposed by simulating the canopy with filters yeilding a R:FR ratio of 0.95 and 0.8. These results show that light subtly enriched with FR was the environmental factor regulating germination below the developing canopy. 3. Exposure to canopy-filtered light pulses of 1 h (presumably sufficient to saturate a low fluence response, LFR) did not inhibit seed germination. Moreover, such treatment promotes germination up to an extent similar to that previously observed in the laboratory after a saturating pulse of R light. Instead, prolonged exposures were required to inhibit germination. These results, together with the relatively high R:FR ratios measured below the canopy in early stages of its establishment, suggest that a high irradiance response (HIR) would be involved in such a regulation. 4. This capacity to detect small environmental light-quality modifications when exposed to high irradiances, would allow the seeds from these species to detect the presence of a canopy in the very early stages of its establishment and to stay in `safe' pre-germination phases when the probability of successful seedling establishment is low.
3806554|1. Fungal leaf endophytes and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi are common constituents of natural grasslands. The simultaneous presence of these two grass plant symbionts is highly probable. 2. We describe the results of a glasshouse experiment investigating the outcome of dual infection of a cool-season grass species, Lolium multiflorum, by the fungal endophyte Neotyphodium occultans and three species of Glomus AM fungi. 3. Mycorrhizal colonization was investigated on monocultures of plants with or without leaf endophytes, and on mixtures of endophyte-infected and uninfected plants. In both scenarios, endophyte-infected plants had lower levels of mycorrhizal colonization, but in the endophyte mixtures the presence of endophyte-infected plants caused an increase in AM colonization in non-endophyte-infected conspecific neighbours. 4. Host-plant biomass, nutrient (nitrogen and phosphorus) accumulation, and competitive ability were increased by the presence of endophytes. AM fungi did not improve host performance or nutrient content (concentration or accumulation) in the presence or absence of the endophyte. 5. Interactions between host plants and AM fungi are mediated by fungal endophyte infection. The implications of such modified interactions for ecosystem dynamics and functioning are considered.
40205486|1. In 1997 West, Brown & Enquist published a theoretical explanation for the long-known empirical observation of 3/4-power scaling of organismal metabolic rates with body mass, using an attractive combination of general physical and physiological principles with evolutionary optimization. This model generated hundreds of studies, exploring its implications for physiology, populations, biodiversity, whole-ecosystem functioning, and even medical, engineering and social sciences. 2. However, the evolutionary optimization part of the model has never been carefully scrutinized. 3. In this article we perform the evolutionary optimization as proposed by the authors rigorously and show that it actually leads to a biologically irrelevant network, i.e. a single vessel. 4. Moreover, we find that by relaxing some assumptions in a realistic way we obtain a feasible network but with isometric scaling of metabolism, which is in conflict with Kleiber's empirical law of an allometric exponent of around 3/4. 5. Hence, we conclude that the West-Brown-Enquist model cannot account for the observed universal metabolic scaling relation. 6. As possible solutions to this paradox, we discuss (weak) body-size dependence of capillary properties (leading to different predictions of intra-and inter-specific metabolic scaling), and expanding the West-Brown-Enquist model to an integrated network model (including body shape and oxygen transport to and from the arterial system). Alternatively, the ultimate explanation for the observed allometric patterns may need to be found outside the framework of flow-limited network theory. 7. We conclude that Kleiber's law is still as theoretically unexplained as ecologically important.
2390414|1. We report changes in photosynthetic capacity of leaves developed in varying photon flux density (PFD), nitrogen supply and CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. We determined the relative effect of these environmental factors on photosynthetic capacity per unit leaf volume as well as the volume of tissue per unit leaf area. We calculated resource-use efficiencies from the photosynthetic capacities and measurements of leaf dry mass, carbohydrates and nitrogen content. 2. There were clear differences between the mechanisms of photosynthetic acclimation to PFD, nitrogen supply and CO<sub>2</sub>. PFD primarily affected volume of tissue per unit area whereas nitrogen supply primarily affected photosynthetic capacity per unit volume. CO<sub>2</sub> concentration affected both of these parameters and interacted strongly with the PFD and nitrogen treatments. 3. Photosynthetic capacity per unit carbon invested in leaves increased in the low PFD, high nitrogen and low CO<sub>2</sub> treatments. Photosynthetic capacity per unit nitrogen was significantly affected only by nitrogen supply. 4. The responses to low PFD and low nitrogen appear to function to increase the efficiency of utilization of the limiting resource. However, the responses to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> in the high PFD and high nitrogen treatments suggest that high CO<sub>2</sub> can result in a situation where growth is not limited by either carbon or nitrogen supply. Limitation of growth at elevated CO<sub>2</sub> appears to result from internal plant factors that limit utilization of carbohydrates at sinks and/or transport of carbohydrates to sinks.
40407777|1. In a seasonal environment, subcutaneous energy reserves of resident animals often increase in winter and decline again in summer reflecting gradual seasonal changes in their fattening strategies. We studied changes in body reserves of wintering great tits in relation to their dominance status under two contrasting temperature regimes to see whether individuals are capable of optimizing their body mass even under extreme environmental conditions. 2. We predicted that dominant individuals will carry a lesser amount of body reserves than subordinate great tits under mild conditions and that the body reserves of the same dominant individuals will increase and exceed the amount of reserves of subordinates under conditions of extremely low ambient temperatures, when ambient temperature dropped down to -37 C. 3. The results confirmed the predictions showing that dominant great tits responded to the rising risk of starvation under low temperatures by increasing their body reserves and this was done at the expense of their safety. 4. Removal experiments revealed that lower body reserves of subordinate flock members are due to the increased intraspecific competition for food under low ambient temperatures. 5. Our results also showed that fattening strategies of great tits may change much quicker than previously considered, reflecting an adaptive role of winter fattening which is sensitive to changes in ambient temperatures.
2390541|1. The adaptive mass-regulation hypothesis suggests that birds should respond to worsening or unpredictable foraging conditions by increasing body mass and energetic reserves. However, previous work on adult European Starlings, Sturnus vulgaris L., has revealed that the response to worsening foraging conditions varies according to the seasonal status of the birds. Photosensitive birds respond to decreased time available to feed by increasing mass, whereas photorefractory birds regulate mass at a fixed level. Juvenile Starlings are in a state of photorefractoriness until puberty. In this paper, we examine whether photorefractory juvenile Starlings respond to worsening foraging conditions by regulating mass at a fixed level, like adults, or whether they increase in mass, in accordance with the adaptive regulation hypothesis. 2. Birds were divided into two treatment groups: control and food deprived. Control birds remained on food ad libitum throughout the experiment. Food-deprived birds had their food removed for 5 h every other day over a 6-week period. The effects of these manipulations on the resulting changes in body mass and fat reserves were examined. 3. Food-deprived birds increased fat reserves and body mass in comparison with controls. However, the response to food availability depended on the initial body mass of the birds. Birds with the lowest initial mass exhibited the largest response to the manipulation. This may be because birds with low energetic reserves are more severely affected by changes in the availability of food. 4. Juvenile photorefractory Starlings show a response to changes in food availability that is unlike the response of photorefractory adults. We suggest that the mechanism of responding to environmental change, in addition to being modulated seasonally, may be age structured. We speculate that the function of this age effect may be related to the low competitive status of juvenile Starlings. This subdominant age-class may be displaced to less favourable feeding or roosting sites; as a result, they may have to respond flexibly to a rapidly changing and unpredictable energetic environment.
10.2307/2389968|1. Physical space provides access to light, soil water and nutrients. In crowded neighbourhoods, these resources are quickly depleted. At the same time, physical space may become less available and increasingly fragmented. The present study examines whether constraining the deployment of leaves and stems through the occupation of above-ground space by neighbouring plants can affect plant growth. The above-ground spatial environment was fragmented by growing seedlings of various growth forms and architectures with glass pipettes in increasing densities. The pipettes provided physical obstruction but no measurable alteration of the light environment, thus decoupling the availability of space from the resources contained therein. 2. Fragmenting the above-ground physical space available to leaves, stems and petioles resulted in altered patterns of biomass allocation and reduced plant growth. 3. The reduction in growth of plants constrained in the deployment of their leaves, stems and petioles was more severe when light availability, as modified by neutral shade-cloth treatments, was reduced. 4. Species that displayed allocational or architectural flexibility in response to the presence of neighbours were better able to tolerate spatially fragmented environments. 5. Flexibility in the deployment of petioles, stems or leaves in response to a fragmented above-ground spatial environment is a potential mechanism by which plants might maximize resource capture in competitive environments.
826723|1. Drought-deciduous leaves are common in habitats with predictable, seasonal drought, and a reduction in transpirational surface area is generally considered an important drought-response strategy. Yet leaf demographic responses to unpredictable drought events that can occur at any time during the growing season have been little studied in ecological systems. 2. We created drought in a natural population of the herbaceous desert perennial Cryptantha flava (A. Nels.) Payson (Boraginaceae) in north-eastern Utah, USA, by installing rainout shelters just before and during the early part of the growing season, from 1 March until mid-June in 1998, and from 1 March until mid-May in 1999. 3. Droughted plants exhibited water stress through lower rates of midday photosynthesis and conductance, and by producing leaves with a smaller surface area and greater specific mass than plants exposed to ambient precipitation. 4. Under drought, leaf life span increased on flowering stalks and vegetative rosettes and new leaf production decreased, reducing leaf turnover and increasing standing leaf crop in droughted plants. 5. A larger number of leaves under drought conditions compensated in area for their smaller size, which means that transpirational surface area was not reduced. 6. The reduction in photosynthetic rate and the increase in leaf life span are consistent with a more general pattern in response to other low resource conditions, paralleling leaf-level responses to shortages of nutrients and light. 7. Plants in the drought and ambient precipitation treatments responded to late-season rainfall with increased leaf production, providing an additional example of developmental plasticity in response to temporal heterogeneity in water availability.
10.2307/2389357|Three barley cultivars, Hordeum vulgare L. CV. Kustaa, Hankkija-673 and Pokko were tested for their anoxia and flooding tolerance to observe whether anoxia tolerance is related to flooding tolerance and whether the cultivars differ in their anoxia and flooding tolerance. Three-day-old seedlings were incubated under anoxia at +5<sup></sup>C for 10-20 days. In addition a tetrazolium chloride test was carried out to identify the site of anoxic or post-anoxic damage. Flooding tolerance of the barley cultivars was investigated by growing plants to maturity (flowering and seed production) under permanently flooded conditions. The flooding tolerance of the cultivars correlated positively with anoxia tolerance, Kustaa being the most and Pokko the least tolerant and productive of the three tested cultivars. Thus at an intraspecific level anoxia tolerance can be related to flooding tolerance. The TTC-test showed that root tissue, and especially root tips, were more susceptible to anoxia than shoot tissue. The roots of the cultivar Kustaa showed longer tolerance of anoxia than the other two cultivars, with the proximal region of the roots surviving the anoxic treatment. In some cases surviving shoots of the variety Kustaa produced new roots at the base of the stem.
2656467|1. Eddy covariance was used to measure the net CO<sub>2</sub> flux of Alaskan moist-tussock and wet-sedge tundra ecosystems between 1 June and 31 August 1995. The sites were located within 2.5 km of each other and, depending on wind speed and thermal stability, the eddy-covariance measurements integrated surface fluxes over 0.8-26.5 ha (mean 3.8 ha) at the moist-tussock site and 0.1-4.2 ha (mean 0.6) at the wet-sedge site. 2. Both sites were net sinks for atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> during the 92-day measurement period but wet-sedge tundra accumulated 1.5 times more CO<sub>2</sub> than moist-tussock tundra. Wet-sedge tundra was a net CO<sub>2</sub> sink of -6.4 mol m<sup>-2</sup> and moist-tussock tundra was a net sink of -4.6 mol m<sup>-2</sup> over the June-August measurement period. 3. Estimates of whole-ecosystem respiration (R) were made using multiple non-linear regression by quantifying the response of measured nocturnal CO<sub>2</sub> efflux (F<sub>n</sub>) to fluctuations in air temperature and water-table depth (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.68). Partial regression analysis revealed that water-table depth explained relatively more of the variance in F<sub>n</sub> (45%) than temperature (11%). R was estimated to be 14.9 mol m<sup>-2</sup> for moist-tussock tundra and 5.4 mol m<sup>-2</sup> for wet-sedge tundra over the 92-day measurement period. The large difference in R was apparently owing to a substantially higher water table in wet-sedge tundra. 4. Estimated rates of gross primary production (GPP), calculated from measured net CO<sub>2</sub> flux and estimated R, were 40% lower for wet-sedge tundra over the 92-day measurement period. Rates of GPP integrated over diel (24 h) periods were substantially larger for moist-tussock tundra ecosystems throughout June and July but during the month of August, total diel rates of GPP for moist-tussock and wet-sedge tundra were comparable. 5. Our results demonstrate that R and GPP of moist-tussock and wet-sedge tundra ecosystems can be reliably estimated from eddy-covariance measurements using functional relationships developed from plot-scale studies. Given the large spatial differences in hydrology, the larger sink observed for wet-sedge tundra was probably the result of relatively lower rates of R.
10.2307/2390030|1. Plant leaf material is difficult for vertebrates to digest. Voles, despite being among the smallest herbivorous mammal species, achieve high digestive efficiencies. The role that coprophagy may play in achieving efficient digestion was examined in three species of British voles using an isotope of ruthenium as an inert marker. The effect of change in diet quality on coprophagy was also considered. 2. There were considerable differences in the recovery time for 95% of the marker to pass through the gut, and in field and water voles a seed diet required three times longer for passage than a plant leaf diet, while bank voles treated both diets similarly. 3. A series of experiments in which animals were killed at different time intervals after eating the marker indicated the passage of food through the gut and demonstrated that isotope levels in the stomach rose due to the reingestion of faecal material. 4. Compartment analysis suggested that gut contents are continually recycled in voles, and that this may account for the long retention time of food and contribute to their high digestive efficiencies.
10.2307/2389829|1. Elaiosomes are lipid-rich appendages on the seeds of some plant species that promote dispersal of the seeds by ants. In this study we investigated the hypothesis that elaiosomes on seeds have converged in composition and attractiveness with the insect prey of ants. 2. The fatty acid compositions of 12 species of elaiosomes were compared to seeds of the same species and to seven orders of insects. The fatty acid compositions of the elaiosomes were more like those of insects than seeds; the levels of palmitic, palmitoleic, stearic and oleic acids in elaiosomes and insects were particularly similar. 3. The response of six ant species to the diglyceride 1,2-diolein was compared. This lipid is purported to be the principal attractant in elaiosomes and a review of the literature revealed that it is also an important component of insect haemolymph. The ant species tested include different amounts of elaiosomes and insect prey in their diets. 4. Response to pith impregnated with 1,2-diolein was greatest in the three species that are the most active elaiosome collectors, Aphaenogaster longiceps, Rhytidoponera metallica and Pheidole sp. 1. These species all include large amounts of insect material in their diets and two of them, Aphaenogaster longiceps and R. metallica, rarely collect any plant material other than elaiosomes. A fourth species, Iridomyrmex `anceps', a scavenger which is an occasional elaiosome collector, was attracted to diolein pith but did not distinguish between it and control pith. The two nectar-collecting species that do not normally collect elaiosomes, Polyrhachis sp. 1 and Camponotus consobrinus, did not respond to diolein. 5. The results of this study are consistent with the hypothesis that the chemical composition and the behavioural releaser in elaiosomes have converged with the invertebrate prey of ants. The attraction of carnivorous and omnivorous ant species may be an important adaptive advantage of elaiosomes.
10.2307/2390133|1. Despite close similarity of shell structure, young juveniles of Triodopsis albolabris are much superior to those of Mesodon normalis in retaining body water and in survival in low humidity. 2. A simple linear regression model was developed to describe the relationship between the dehydration rate and the survival of multiple juveniles. Using this model, interspecific variation of individual water retention was demonstrated. 3. The two species differ in survival and dehydration rate in low humidity largely because of their evolutionary divergence in physiological tolerance of desiccation. 4. Their different adaptation to humidity and temperature has resulted in contrasting patterns of geographical distribution. 5. Juveniles of M. normalis differ in survival and dehydration rate in low humidity depending on their parents, suggesting the existence of genetic variation of desiccation tolerance.
826600|1. We conducted a fertilization-defoliation experiment to investigate postfire flowering in Ehrharta capensis, a cormous grass native to the Cape fynbos. 2. Combined fertilization and defoliation produced a strong flowering response in E. capensis, suggesting that the strong postfire flowering pattern of this species can be explained largely by the effect of fire on soil nutrients and vegetation cover. Flowering was absent in control plants, and sparse in plants receiving single treatments. 3. Comparable treatment dependence of flowering was not observed in two congeneric species that lack specialized storage structures and in which flowering is not apparently fire-dependent. 4. In E. capensis, flowering did not significantly reduce the dry mass of corms persisting from previous years, or the amounts of reserves these contained. We conclude that corm-stored reserves do not contribute substantially to inflorescence production. 5. Flowering E. capensis plants produced significantly larger replacement corms than did nonflowering plants, indicating that sexual reproduction does not occur at a cost to asexual persistence. 6. The lack of a trade-off between sexual and asexual reproduction may explain why E. capensis, and possibly other clonal geophytes, flower only when resource availability is high. Cost-benefit models, which predict a trade-off, do not properly describe resource allocation in these species.
10.2307/2389990|1. Substrate moisture exerts substantial yet variable effects on the physiological ecology of reptilian eggs and embryos. Although previous studies have focused on one species at a time, simultaneous comparative examinations can lend greater insight into the functional significance of this variation by allowing direct quantitative, as opposed to inferred, comparisons. 2. We concurrently incubated eggs of two syntopic, congeneric turtles (Graptemys ouachitensis and G. pseudogeographica) at 29<sup></sup>C on `wet' (-150 kPa) and `dry' (-950 kPa) substrates to assess the effects of substrate moisture on growth and survivorship of embryos. 3. Water potential did not influence embryonic mortality or hatchling abnormalities but small eggs were less likely to hatch than large ones. 4. Eggs of both taxa gained mass, took longer to hatch and produced larger hatchlings when incubated on the wet substrate compared to the dry substrate. These physiological traits were also influenced by clutch and taxon, suggesting possible genetic variation. 5. Eggs of G. ouachitensis gained relatively more mass at -150 kPa, lost relatively less mass at -950 kPa and hatched sooner than did eggs of G. pseudogeographica. Hatchling G. ouachitensis were relatively larger than hatchling G. pseudogeographica and this taxon effect was greater than the influence of the hydric environment. 6. Significant quantitative differences in the physiological responses of the two taxa to substrate moisture support recent taxonomic work suggesting that they are separate species. Detection of and confidence in these differences were only possible because eggs were incubated simultaneously.
10.2307/2389872|1. Gas exchange in leaves of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) was measured in the field over a range of photon fluxes, leaf temperatures and leaf-air vapour pressure differences (VPD). 2. There were no differences in leaflet photosynthesis within one frond, but a reduction depending on frond age. For fronds of the same age, between-tree variation was low. 3. The light saturated rate of net CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation was 20 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> when photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) exceeded 1100 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. Apparent quantum yield averaged 0.051 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>. When leaf temperature increased from 30<sup></sup>C to 38<sup></sup>C, net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake showed no variation as transpiration rate and stomatal conductance increased slightly. A small increase in VPD induced rapid stomatal closure and consequently a reduction in the transpiration rate. A VPD greater than 1.8 kPa was required before photosynthesis was reduced via stomatal closure in the case of plants growing in a soil with adequate water supply.
3599329| 1. One proposed mechanism by which tree species coexist is through partitioning gradients of light availability. We performed a pot experiment in which seedlings of 12 pioneer species were established in 30% light, then transplanted to six light treatments designed to simulate natural gaps ranging from
40863639|1. Anthropogenic environmental changes have the capacity to disrupt natural population dynamics. For amphibians with complex life cycles, it is important to understand how environmental perturbations interact with variation in larval period duration to affect the timing of dispersal and the abiotic conditions under which terrestrial movements occur. 2. Widespread hybridization between California tiger salamanders and introduced tiger salamanders has created a situation in which length of larval development and metamorphic timing varies because of extrinsic variation in abiotic factors such as temperature, and also as a result of individual-specific variation in genomic admixture. 3. We examined how line-cross type (e. g. FI, F2, backcrosses, etc.), morphology and temperature interact to affect the performance of emigrating immature salamanders. We performed endurance trials on a mechanized treadmill to simulate dispersal following metamorphosis. Our study provides insights into the interaction of environmental change and genomic composition on locomotor performance and the spread of the hybrid swarm. 4. We found that temperature had a significant positive impact on endurance, potentially making it an important factor driving dispersal distances in the wild. Line-cross type also affected performance, with Fl hybrids demonstrating the greatest movement capacity. However, we did not observe an interaction between line-cross type and temperature. 5. These results demonstrate that an increase in ambient temperature may enhance the dispersal ability of hybrid individuals and accelerate the spread of the hybrid swarm. An increase in the rate of introgression of non-native tiger salamander aleles into formerly pure native habitats places enhanced importance on the proper management of populations near the boundary of the hybrid swarm and emphasizes the need for management actions that prevent the intentional or accidental translocation of non-native species.
3599054| 1. Birds use increasing photoperiod during spring as the major cue to time gonadal maturation and breeding so that nestlings are growing during peak food (normally invertebrate) abundance. Climate warming will advance invertebrate abundance, so birds relying entirely on photoperiod will breed too late. Can temperature modulate responses to photoperiod? 2. Common Starlings, Sturnus vulgaris, were kept in two indoor aviaries, in which photoperiod tracked natural changes, but temperature was held at either 20 C or 5 C (year 1), or at 18 C or 8 C (year 2). 3. Despite the large differences in temperature (15 C and 10 C), this had no effect on the rate or timing of testicular maturation. 4. However, unexpectedly, testicular regression occurred significantly earlier at the higher temperatures. Post-nuptial moult also started significantly earlier in both males and females. 5. Therefore, the degree to which birds can advance the timing of egg-laying in response to increasing spring temperature may be constrained. At the same time, increasing spring temperature will advance the end of the breeding season (fewer breeding attempts). The reported advances in median egg-laying dates may, in part, be a consequence of this rather than an indication of successful adaptation. Adaptation to climate change may require evolutionary changes in the physiological responses to photoperiod. 
10.2307/2389936|1. Whether food intake is determined by the maximum rate at which animals can collect food, or by the rate at which this food can be processed, will strongly affect the organization of their behaviour. We investigated whether the digestive system imposes a constraint on (1) instantaneous rate of food acquisition, (2) total daily food consumption and (3) sustainable maximum energy expenditure in the Oystercatcher, Haematopus ostralegus. We measured the rate of food processing in captive birds from the cumulative loss of body mass after the consumption of various amounts of mussels, Mytilus edulis. 2. Mass loss associated with the digestion of food can be conveniently described by a three-parameter model. These parameters are: (1) latency time, the time interval that elapses between the ingestion of the first food item and the production of the first faeces (28.3 min), (2) evacuation rate, the rate with which digested food is defecated (0.233 g min<sup>-1</sup>) and (3) absorption coefficient, the proportion of the food (fresh mass) which is not defecated (11.3%). The value of all three parameters was independent of the amount of food consumed. 3. Since the birds absorbed 11.3% of the food, the rate of food processing is slightly higher than the evacuation rate and amounts to 0.263 g min<sup>-1</sup>. 4. Given the energy content of the food (3.58 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> fresh mass) and an assimilation efficiency of 85.4%, the instantaneous rate of energy assimilation is 13.4 W. 5. An 80-g food storage capacity in the oesophagus enables the bird to continue digestion during most of the high-water roosting period. Consequently, the maximum amount of energy that can be assimilated during a 24-h day with two low-water feeding periods amounts to 1067 kJ, which equals 4.25 times the basal metabolic rate. This figure probably reflects the maximum sustained working level. 6. Free-living Oystercatchers collect food much faster than they are able to process it. A digestive bottleneck forces them to interrupt their feeding at regular intervals, even when they attempt to collect the maximum amount of food that can be dealt with by the digestive tract. The main implication of such a digestive bottleneck is that a considerable amount of time becomes available for activities other than feeding. In practice, most of this spare time is spent inactive and we will point out how some evolutionary oddities, such as laziness and individual differences in prey preferences, may have evolved as by-products of a digestive bottleneck.
826564|1. Impaired predator evasion in birds as a cost in different life-history periods has received increasing attention in the last decade. Evasive abilities in birds have been found to be detrimentally affected by migratory fuel load, reproduction and moult. These results suggest that during these periods of their lives birds suffer from increased predation risk due to impaired evasive abilities. 2. Theoretically, moult should have a detrimental effect on flight, and empirical work on starlings has shown impaired escape ability due to moult. However, a recent theoretical investigation found a surprisingly small effect of moult on flight in birds. 3. In this study, 31 Tree Sparrows, a sedentary species with a slow moult, were used to investigate the effect of natural and manipulated moult on escape ability. No effect was found due to natural moult, however, when experimentally increasing moult gap size a strong negative effect was found. 4. With support from empirical and theoretical work, this is the first study to suggest that slow moult may not increase predation risk due to impaired evasive abilities. Compensatory physiological adaptations probably cause this result and may be very important during moult. 5. Predation risk is probably an important factor in the evolution of moult patterns and moult strategies.
3806574|1. Few studies have investigated how free-ranging wild herbivores adjust their food intake rate and nutrient gains during the dry season. Our study focused on the largest extant grazer, the white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum Burchell 1817). Field measurements were made on changes in bite mass, bite rate and nutrient concentrations of food eaten during the dry season. 2. As the dry season progressed, the quality and availability of food resources declined. During this time white rhinos foraged mainly in high-quality short and woodland grasslands. Late in the dry season they also used flushes of green grass in previously burnt Themeda grasslands. 3. Bite mass increased linearly with increasing sward height, while bite rate declined. Intake rate was determined primarily by bite mass and thus tended to increase linearly with sward height. Maximum bite mass and intake rate was obtained in swards >20 cm. 4. White rhinos did not compensate for seasonal declines in food quality by adjusting their food intake rate or diet breadth. We suggest that white rhinos mobilize fat reserves to help meet their nutritional needs during the dry season.
40863583|1. Cryoprotective dehydration is a cold tolerance strategy used by small permeable invertebrates overwintering in frozen habitats. Even though an increasing number of species using this strategy have been described, little is known of the functional genomics of cryoprotective dehydration. 2. Megaphorura arctica is a northern palaearctic springtail (Collembola) which survives extreme low temperatures by cryoprotective dehydration. The massive loss of body water associated with this strategy requires a fine tuned physiological adaptation to both desiccation and cold exposure. 3. We investigated the temporal gene expression profile of six candidate genes, and compared gene expression responses to desiccation and cold separately, as well as both factors combined. 4. The major responses were found in Heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) and Trehalose-6-Phosphate-Synthase (TPS). TPS expression followed water loss closely, while HSP70 was induced after considerable water loss. HSP70 transcript response in M. arctica was induced by desiccation and rehydration, but not by exposure to cold. 5. The data suggest that cold and water loss induce partly different responses and that temporal sampling is important for uncovering the dynamics of gene responses to cryoprotective dehydration.
2390344|1. The identification of easy to use and cheap biomarkers is important as a means of determining whether animals are developing under stressful environmental conditions. Previous studies have indicated that the variance about the mean esterase activity in toxic environments increases in the absence of a significant shift in the mean value, suggesting that variance levels may have potential as a biomarker of toxicant-stressed or otherwise stressful environments. 2. Several field and laboratory populations of the mosquito, Culex pipiens, were examined for esterase activities using a colorimetric assay and levels of polymorphism using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Some of these populations had been exposed to environmental toxicants (organophosphorus (OP) insecticides). 3. The OP-stressed field population had lower levels of polymorphism as indicated by fewer electromorphs than the populations that had not been exposed to OPs. However, the mean level of esterase activity was higher in the OP-stressed populations. 4. Despite having lower genetic variation, the OP-stressed populations showed much higher levels of variation about the mean enzyme activity, at least two orders of magnitude higher, than the unstressed populations. Knowledge of the genetics of OP resistance in these populations confirmed that the increase in variance was not due to the general switching on of genes in response to stress. 5. One field population that had been exposed to heavy metal pollution had similar levels of esterase activity and variation about the mean as the unstressed populations, suggesting that variation only increases in characters directly affected by the environmental pollutant. 6. The probable factors causing the increase in variance and the potential of this type of variation as a biomarker of stressful environments are discussed.
2656433|1. Laboratory experiments have documented substantial temperature effects on the physiological ecology of reptilian eggs, embryos and offspring. However, functional links between important habitat characteristics, nest microenvironments and fitness-related traits of neonates in natural nests have rarely been studied. 2. A field study of 11 Painted Turtle (Chrysemys picta) nests was conducted to quantify the relationships between a habitat characteristic (i.e. vegetational cover around nests at oviposition) and (1) developmental temperature and its effect on offspring sex ratio and (2) hibernation temperature and its effect on offspring survivorship. 3. Vegetational cover was negatively correlated with nest temperatures in July, the period when offspring sex is determined. However, neither vegetational cover nor mean nest temperature predicted nest sex ratios, although correlations among these variables were consistent with causal relationships derived from laboratory studies. 4. Summer vegetational cover was also negatively correlated with measures of winter nest temperatures. Of the three nests exhibiting overwinter mortality, two were surrounded by thick vegetation and all experienced temperatures below - 8 <sup></sup>C. The remaining nests reached temperatures as low as - 6 <sup></sup>C without mortality, indicating that hatchlings in these nests exhibited remarkable supercooling ability. 5. The results suggest that habitat characteristics and nest microenvironments are functionally linked and have fitness consequences for both embryos and offspring, implying that nest-site choice by female turtles could have considerable utility.
3599268| 1. The theory of the evolution of secondary sexual traits through male-male competition is based on the assumption that these traits are reliable cues for an animal's fighting capacity. In this paper, we test whether a secondary sexual trait, dewlap size, is an honest predictor of bite strength in Anolis lizards. Since male anoles will bite one another during territorial fights, bite performance may play an important role in determining the outcome of male-male fights. 2. We measured dewlap size and bite force in a size series of adult males of three Jamaican anoles, i.e. Anolis grahami Gray 1845, A. lineatopus Gray 1840 and A. valencienni Dumril & Bibron 1837. 3. In both A. grahami and A. lineatopus, males with relatively large dewlaps tend to bite relatively harder, while the relationship between relative dewlap size and bite force was clearly non-significant within the twig anole A. valencienni. 4. Our results thus suggest that dewlap size is an indicator of relative bite force in the former two species, but not in the latter. We argue that interspecific variation in territorial behaviour might explain this difference. 
4139339|1. The innate immune response involves the production of highly reactive molecules (reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, ROS and RNS). These toxic compounds can effectively destroy invading pathogens but can also, non-specifically, target host cells. Tissue damage caused by ROS and RNS can be substantial if the inflammatory response is overactive, potentially inducing a so-called immunopathology. 2. In this study, we induced an inflammatory response in Zebra Finches by the way of a LPS injection (lipopolysaccharide of the cell wall of Escherichia coli), using as a control a group of birds injected with saline (phosphate-buffered saline). Body mass was measured both before and 24 h after the procedure. We also took a blood sample 24 h after injection, to measure the resistance of red blood cells to a standardized free radical attack. The experiment was repeated twice with different individuals to ascertain the repeatability of the results. 3. We found that birds injected with LPS lost significantly more body mass during the 24 h that followed, compared with control individuals. Similarly, LPS individuals were more susceptible to oxidative tissue damage, as their red blood cells had a weaker resistance to a free-radical attack than the red blood cells of control birds. 4. This result shows that the inflammatory response with the associated production of cytotoxic compounds can produce side-effects that may potentially result in increased damage to host tissues, therefore representing an immunopathology cost.
2656315|1. Changes in canopy area and canopy age structure of the leguminous shrub Retama sphaerocarpa were estimated non-destructively by monitoring growth and survivorship of cladodes on marked shoots. 2. Gas exchange of cladodes of different age classes was measured by infra-red gas analysis during a period of 18 months. The effects of seasonal and year-to-year variation in the area and age structure of the canopy on daily carbon assimilation were assessed. 3. New canopy area produced by spring growth was highly variable between years and also affected the age structure of canopies because of differential survivorship of older cohorts of cladodes. 4. During the first year (1993), predawn water potential of cladodes and, therefore, their maximum diffusive conductance (0.35-0.45 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) and photosynthetic rate (20-26 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), changed little with the season because the deep-rooted shrubs had access to permanent water sources. Lack of rainfall in the winter of 1993/1994 constrained predawn water potential and rates of gas exchange in the following growing season when daily maxima of A declined continuously and fell to a minimum of 10 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in July 1994. 5. Nitrogen concentration and specific cladode area, but not nitrogen content, were significantly different between annual cohorts. Mainly as a result of secondary diameter increment of cladodes, specific cladode area and nitrogen concentration and therefore photosynthetic rate generally declined with increasing age of cladodes, but the differences in the photosynthetic rate between cohorts were insignificant during the cool season. 6. Variation in canopy area caused variation in daily carbon assimilation by 30-36% within years and by 37-52% between years. Seasonal and between-year variation in the age structure of canopies, however, only accounted for changes in daily carbon assimilation of  2%. Canopy age structure thus appears to be an insignificant variable affecting carbon gain in R. sphaerocarpa.
4540087|1. Strong mutualistic associations are expected to arise between host and microbial symbionts when symbionts lose sexuality, and rely strictly on their host for reproduction via vertical transmission. The Neotyphodium endophyte is a vertically transmitted, asexual symbiont of pooid grasses. In agronomic grasses, Neotyphodium typically interacts mutualistically with its host by increasing drought resistance and other properties. However, the interaction likely depends on host and endophyte genotypic variation, yet little is known how this variation influences host physiological and morphological responses, especially in wild grasses. 2. We used four different Neotyphodium-infected maternal lines of a wild grass, Arizona fescue (Festuca arizonica). Two lines harboured one haplotype and two lines harboured a different haplotype. We experimentally removed the endophyte from some ramets of the four lines. We grew infected (E+) and uninfected (E-) plants in a greenhouse under varying water availability. 3. We examined the effect of endophyte infection, endophyte and host plant maternal genotype, and water availability on traditional growth parameters. We also measured leaf net photosynthesis and dark respiration, leaf conductance to water vapour, leaf water potential, leaf rolling and stomatal density to provide explanations for differences in biomass production and relative growth rates (RGR). 4. Our general findings show that Neotyphodium infection, Neotyphodium haplotype and its interaction with host maternal genotype, and varying water availability influence Arizona fescue physiology, growth and biomass production. Based only on infection status, the direction of interaction between endophyte and host is not mutualistic in terms of host growth. Overall, endophyte haplotype and its interaction with host maternal genotype is the most critical, and consistent factor in influencing host growth and physiological outcomes. Variation due to endophyte haplotype in terms of growth and physiological parameters is often greater than that between infected and uninfected hosts. 5. Endophyte-host interactions are likely to be enormously complex because of the genetic and environmental variation that exists in natural populations. The outcome of these interactions in natural grass-endophyte systems is exceedingly difficult to predict based simply on the presence or absence of the endophyte.
40205563|1. Rapid growth is often associated with several fitness-related benefits. However, in most organisms growth rates are rarely maximized, suggesting that trade-offs limit the benefits of rapid growth. To enable sustained high growth, behavioural modifications incurring costs may be required, and these may be responsible for evolution of sub-maximal growth rates. 2. In a field experiment it was tested whether rapid growth in brown trout is achieved by increasing potentially costly movement activity. Causal relations were obtained by manipulating the growth rate using bovine growth hormone (GH) implants and monitoring movement activity of stream-dwelling brown trout for two months using radiotelemetry. 3. GH-treated trout grew significantly faster than sham-treated trout both in terms of body mass and length. The GH-treated trout also had a significantly larger absolute movement during the experiment, moving about 68% more than the sham-treated trout. There were no GH effects on diel movement or home range between the two treatments. Plasma GH levels were lower in the GH-treated fish, indicating negative feedback inhibition of native GH secretion, and that the bovine GH implant was still functioning at the end of the study. 4. This is the first study to show increased movement activity in GH-enhanced fish in the wild. Because increased movement is expected to lead to increased metabolic costs, the higher movement activity in the GH-treated trout was likely associated with increased foraging activity. The results demonstrate that increased movement activity is associated with rapid growth in brown trout. Such movement activity may be unfavourable under certain ecological conditions or life stages (i.e. high risk of predation or low resource levels), and may thus represent one component of the cost limiting evolution of maximum growth rates.
10.2307/2390049|1. A deterministic ESS model was made to predict optimal degrees of superparasitism, when solitary parasitoids exploit a patch simultaneously or sequentially. 2. Some predictions of this model are: (1) increasing levels of superparasitism and (2) longer patch times (measured as the sum of search times of all females visiting a patch) with increasing numbers of females visiting the patch. (3) More superparasitism and (4) longer patch times were predicted when females visited a patch simultaneously than when the same number of females visited a patch sequentially. e. Experimental tests of this model with the solitary larval Drosophila parasitoid Asobara tabida were in agreement with predictions (1), (2) and (3), but no differences were found between the sums of patch times of females visiting patches simultaneously and those visiting patches sequentially. 4. Thus, superparasitism contributes to the aggregation of parasitoids, by generating longer patch times. 5. It is not only the number of parasitoids that search a habitat which determines the level of superparasitism, but also the way they are distributed over patches.
20142844|1. To understand root dynamics of the native, perennial clonal grass Leymus chinensis in Inner Mongolia steppe, we examined spatial and temporal effects of N addition on root survivorship and longevity traits of L. chinensis by studying responses of survivorship of roots distributed in three soil layers (0-10, 10-20 and 20-30 cm) and born in three seasons (spring, summer and autumn) to N addition with modified rhizotron technique during the growing seasons of 2004-05. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to generate survival functions and to estimate mean root life spans. 2. Roots in the three soil layers displayed similar life spans with mean overall value of 81 days in the control plots. N addition reduced life span of roots in the soil layers of 0-10 cm and 20-30 cm, but it had no effect on life span of roots in the soil layer of 10-20 cm. 3. Roots born in the three seasons differed in their life spans with the life span values of 21-58, 60-153 and 101-151 days for those roots born in spring, summer and autumn, respectively. N addition markedly reduced life span of roots born in summer in the three soil layers with the greatest reduction occurring in roots present in soil layer of 20-30 cm, but it had marginal effect on life span of the spring-born and autumn-born roots. 4. The differential sensitivity of survivorship and longevity of L. chinensis roots occurred in different soil depths and born in different seasons to N addition highlights the importance of spatial and temporal characteristics of roots in response to soil N availability in Inner Mongolia steppe.
10.2307/2389753|Structural carbohydrates in plants are hard to digest by the animals that eat them, and they hamper digestion of the content of the plant cells. The efficiency of digestion by herbivores is, therefore, closely related to both the retention time of the food in the digestive tract and the proportion of cell walls in the food. This study examined food digestion by free-living barnacle geese Branta leucopsis in relation to food quality and retention time. Over the range of short winter days (8 h light) to continuous light in the arctic breeding area the geese increased the food retention time two- to four-fold. Low throughput rates in summer resulted in enhanced digestion of the food. The organic matter digestibility of graminoids, corrected for differences in protein content, was 37% in winter, and 56% in summer. Enhanced digestion allowed the geese to extend their food spectrum by exploiting mosses (bryophytes), which are, at least temporarily, the only plants available in the summer range. The disadvantage of prolonged food retention time is the concurrent decrease of the amount of food that can be processed per time unit. The digestion pattern in the successive periods of the year can be regarded as an adaptation to differences in energy needs, and to differences in the selective force acting on the geese to minimize feeding time.
3599091| 1. Given the allometric scaling of thermoregulatory capacity in birds, and the cold and exposed Arctic environment, it was predicted that Arctic-breeding shorebirds should incur high costs during incubation. Using doubly labelled water (DLW), daily energy expenditure (DEE) during incubation was measured in eight shorebird species weighing between 29 and 142 g at various sites in the Eurasian and Canadian High Arctic. The results are compared with a compilation of similar data for birds at lower latitudes. 2. There was a significant positive correlation between species average DEE and body mass
3599281|1. To understand the life cycle of an organism, it is important to understand the underlying physiological mechanisms of their life histories. We here use the theory of dynamic energy budgets (DEB) to investigate the close relationships between growth, reproduction and respiration in nematodes. 2. Using a set of simplified equations based on DEB theory, we are able to accurately describe life-cycle data from the literature for the free-living bacterivorous nematodes Caenorhabditis elegans, C. briggsae and Acrobeloides nanus, under different temperature or food regimes. 3. Nematodes apparently differ from other animals, as the initial growth is slower than expected. We explain this phenomenon by food limitation in the larvae, which is supported by more detailed physiological studies. 4. Food density and temperature are shown to have predictable effects on the growth curves (temperature affects only growth rate, whereas food density also affects ultimate size), although the reproduction patterns reveal some deviations from model predictions. 5. The presented model integrates the different aspects of the life cycle into a single framework, and can be applied as such to interpret the effects of various stressors.
40205498|1. Ten years ago Gannes et al (1997, Stable isotopes in animal ecology:assumptions, caveats, and a call for laboratory experiments. Ecology, 78,1271-1276,1998) identified four major areas requiring further research in experimental animal isotopic ecology: (i) the dynamics of isotopic incorporation, (ii) mixing models, (iii) the problem of routing, and (iv) trophic discrimination factors. 2. Differences in isotopic incorporation rates among tissues seem to be explained by variation in protein turnover. The application of multi-compartment models to isotopic incorporation data has revealed that different inferences can be derived between these and one-compartment models. 3. A variety of mixing models of varying degrees of complexity and realism are used to find the contribution of isotopic sources to the elements in an organism's tissues. The use of these models demands the use of tissue to diet discrimination factors that are rarely measured experimentally. 4. Mixing models assume that assimilated nutrients are disassembled into their elemental components and that these elements are reassembled into biomolecules. This assumption is unrealistic as macromolecules are routed differentially into tissues. Isotopic routing is an area that isotopic ecologists have neglected in their experimental and modelling research. 5. Isotopic ecologists are just beginning to understand why N biomagnifies along trophic chains, and to explore the factors that determine the degree of N biomagnification. We review the hypotheses that explain why N biomagnifies up trophic chains. 6. The use of compound-specific isotopic analyses is opening new fruitful areas of research at the intersection of nutritional and isotopic ecology.
10.2307/2389613|An investigation of resources allocated to soma versus reproductive reserves in the nymphalid butterfly Polygonia c-album (L.) reveals that longer-lived individuals which hibernate before reproduction allocate more resources to the thorax region as compared to directly-reproducing individuals which allocate more to the abdomen. This is most evident in females that allocate both dry mass and total nitrogen according to this prediction. In males this is true only for dry mass. Interestingly, total body mass affects allocation of resources, with heavier individuals having proportionally heavier abdomens. Furthermore, in females abdomen nitrogen showed a proportion increase with total nitrogen, but not in males where the proportion of total nitrogen allocated to abdomen is the same regardless of total nitrogen content. Total body nitrogen seems to be a less sensitive measure for males than for females when quantifying resources allocated to reproduction versus soma. Our results suggest that the structures of organisms are adjusted to their life expectancies, and, everything else being equal, longer-lived organisms will have less resources for producing offspring than those with shorter lifespans.
10.2307/2390012|1. Asexual species have been described by some to be more broadly tolerant of environmental stresses (i.e. to have general purpose genotypes) and by others to be more responsive to environmental stresses (i.e. to exhibit narrower tolerance distributions to environmental perturbations) in comparison to their sexual relatives. 2. We examined the sublethal response of asexual and sexual gastropod populations of the family Hydrobiidae to cadmium exposure to determine: whether populations rank consistently in mean and variance of growth rate when reared in different environments; whether the variance in growth rate within populations alters in response to stress; and whether growth rates within genetically uniform clones are less variable than growth rates within sexually outcrossed populations. 3. We found that, in addition to reducing mean growth rate in all populations, exposure to cadmium increased the variability in growth rate within populations and altered the ranking of both means and variances among populations. 4. The average intraclonal variability in growth in the parthenogenetic species Potamopyrgus antipodarum was comparable to the average intrapopulation variability in growth within the closely related but sexually reproducing Hydrobia species. Our results indicate that environmental toxicants, such as cadmium, can alter the relative performance of these potentially competing species. 5. Our results are of broad relevance to the examination of phenotype variance and its partitioning between genetic and environmental sources of variation. 6. Non-genetic variation was the most important component of the total phenotypic variance in growth rate within these gastropod populations. 7. In addition, the assumption frequently applied in the development of toxicity test protocols, that uniformity in phenotypic traits (i.e. response to toxicant exposure) is tightly coupled to genotypic uniformity, is not supported by our results.
3599136|1. This study shows the first results obtained concerning the relative importance and effect on the seeds of a particular plant species, Rubia fruticosa Ait. (Rubiaceae), of passage through the digestive tube of the three main groups of vertebrate seed dispersers: native reptiles and birds, and alien mammals. 2. Native birds and reptiles dispersed a high proportion of undamaged seeds of R. fruticosa. 3. In contrast, seeds defecated by the two alien mammals showed significantly greater proportions of damaged seeds. Seed viability was much higher for reptiles and birds than for mammals, which was consistent with germination results. 4. Ingested seeds had a significantly thinner coat than uningested control seeds. Seeds that had passed through native dispersers had a significantly thicker coat than those passed through one of the alien mammals (the squirrel). 5. Considering both quantitative and qualitative components of seed dispersal, we conclude that native reptiles and birds are the most important seed dispersers in this multidisperser system.
40603102|1. Small leaves of species endemic to Mediterranean-type climate areas have been associated with both low rainfall and nutrient availability, but the physiological reasons for this association remain unknown. 2. We postulated that small leaves have thin boundary layers that facilitate transpiration in winter and sensible heat loss in summer. High transpiration rates when water is available may facilitate nutrient acquisition in winter, whereas efficient sensible heat loss reduces the requirement for transpirational leaf cooling in summer. 3. The consequences of varying leaf sizes for water and heat loss in Cape Proteaceae were examined at two scales. At the leaf level, gas exchange and thermoregulatory capacities of 15 Proteaceae species with varying leaf size were assessed under controlled conditions using phylogenetically independent contrasts. At an environmental level, leaf attributes of Proteaceae occurring in the winter-rainfall area of the Cape Floristic Region were correlated with climatic environments derived from distribution data for each species. 4. Leaf temperature was positively correlated with leaf size when wind speed was negligible.However, transpiration decreased significantly with increasing leaf size when measured on individual leaves, detached branches and when expressed on a per stoma basis. 5. From multiple stepwise regression analysis of climatic variables obtained from distribution data, leaf size was negatively correlated with -Pan evaporation, mean annual temperatures and water stress in January. We conclude that leaf size is conservative for survival over relatively rare periods of hot dry conditions with low wind speeds. 6. Narrow leaves enable plants to shed heat through sensible heat loss during summer droughts, without the need for transpirational cooling. Additionally, small leaf dimensions confer a capacity for high transpiration when evaporative demand is low and water is abundant (i.e. winter). This may be a particularly important strategy for driving nutrient mass-flow to the roots of plants that take up most of their nutrients in the wet winter/spring months from nutrient-poor soils.
10.2307/2390267|1. We examined the flexibility of the developmental programme of Song Thrush (Turdus philomelos) nestlings by subjecting them to food restriction, and realimentation between 3-5 and 5-7 days of age, respectively, or overfeeding between 3 and 7 days of age. 2. Food restriction resulted in a marked reduction of body mass and intestinal mass, but not pectoral muscle mass and tarsus length. Refed nestlings were unable to catch up with body mass of overfed young. None of the feeding regimes had much effect on the rate of maturation, measured here by the water content of muscle tissue. 3. Thus, the nestlings were unable to respond actively to changing food availability by slowing the pace of development and subsequent compensatory growth. 4. Body-mass increments levelled off with increasing energy intake, which suggests that overfed nestlings had reached physiological limits with respect to the rate of biomass production. Yet they did not grow faster than nestlings in the wild. 5. Growth of the young under natural conditions is therefore likely to be limited by physiological or anatomical constraints, rather than food availability. This, along with the absence of the mechanisms that would increase the likelihood of surviving through short periods of food shortage, indirectly suggest that at least in some altricial bird species food shortages do not occur frequently enough to select for responses to unpredictability of food resources.
2656428|1. The level of antipredator defence should be proportional to the actual attack probability to minimize the cost of defence and maximize the net benefit. 2. The hypothesis that the induced antipredator morphology of Euplotes octocarinatus is a graded response to the actual risk of predation by Stylonychia mytilus was tested by manipulating the density of both prey and predator populations. 3. The magnitude of the response was graded according to both predator and prey density. A dense prey population may be protective since a prey is more exposed to a predator's attack as a solitary individual. 4. The results suggest that Euplotes is able to `estimate' the real risk of predation and respond appropriately, without mobilizing more resources than needed. 5. Separation of the prey and predator with a nylon net revealed that the response was not induced by a water-transmitted factor but that direct cell-to-cell contacts were important. This finding departs from those of other studies.
40205471|1. Belowground processes, including root production and exudation, microbial activity and community dynamics, and biogeochemical cycling interact to help regulate climate change. Feedbacks associated with these processes, such as warming-enhanced decomposition rates, give rise to major uncertainties in predictions of future climate. 2. Uncertainties associated with these processes are more likely to be reduced if two key challenges can be met: increasing interdisciplinarity among researchers, and measuring belowground ecosystem structure and function at relevant spatial and temporal scales. For instance, recognizing the relationship between belowground primary production and soil respiration enhances modelling of global-scale C cycle temperature responses. At the opposite end of the spectrum, applying genomic techniques at the scale of microns improves mechanistic understanding of root-microbe interactions. 3. Progress has been made in understanding interactions of belowground processes with climate change, although challenges remain. We highlight some of these advances and provide directions for key research needs in this Special Feature of Functional Ecology, which results from a symposium that was convened at the Soil Science Society of America National Meeting in November, 2006.
10.2307/2390259|1. A combination of demographic analysis of leaf growth, age-specific CO<sub>2</sub> gas exchange and microclimate were employed to calculate lifetime sums of net photosynthesis and dark respiration, in order to obtain leaf carbon balances (Q<sub>c</sub>) of altitudinally disjunct Ranunculus and Geum species, as well as two altitudinal populations of Potentilla crantzii. If carbon costs for construction of leaf tissue are included, leaves fixed a lifetime carbon surplus ranging from 0.4 to 2.0 mmol CO<sub>2</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup> independent of altitude, thereby exceeding initial investments by the plant three- to sixfold. 2. The lack of a consistent difference between the Q<sub>c</sub> of high and related low elevation taxa with similar leaf area ratios (LAR) challenges the view that carbon gain impairs growth and persistence of herbaceous perennials in harsh alpine climates to a greater extent than at low elevation. 3. Evidence from a sensitivity analysis of our carbon balance model as well as rank correlations indicate that the primary determinant of a leaf's carbon balance is its longevity. A comparison of leaf carbon balance data from the literature on wild plants of the temperate zone suggests that daily carbon gain on a leaf area basis is higher in herbaceous plants, compared to deciduous woody shrubs, which could explain the predominance of the herbaceous growth form at high altitudes.
10.2307/2389491|In populations of Tulipa systola Stapf. in the Negev Desert of Israel the number of plants appearing above ground during winter fluctuates from year to year. Between 10 and 70% of adult plants and between 40 and 80% of juveniles do not emerge in permanent quadrats in any year. Most of them reappear the following year. There is a significant positive correlation between the proportion of emergents in T. systola populations and the local amount of rainfall until 1 February. Rain after this does not affect emergence. Non-emergence during 1 year reduces the chance of emerging during the following year. In indoor experiments below-ground shoot and root development was initiated at the beginning of winter in response to the drop in soil temperature, regardless of soil moisture. However, further root growth depended on soil moisture. Early shoot development was independent of root development, but full root development was necessary for extension of the shoot to emerge above the soil.
2656535|1. Existing data show that the surface area to volume ratio () of leaves generally decreases along both aridity and altitudinal gradients. That results in the relations:  decreases as it gets drier and hotter, as well as wetter and colder. Thus variations in rainfall and temperature do not explain the gross trends in  in a consistent manner. We hypothesized that  should vary in a regular manner with variations in light, water, nutrients and CO<sub>2</sub>, because recent work has shown regular relationships between  and the carbon, nitrogen and water contents of leaves. 2. To test the hypothesis we used existing measurements of leaves from various eucalypt species along aridity, altitudinal and fertility gradients in south-east Australia. The measurements were converted from a dry mass to a volumetric basis using an empirical leaf model known as the RSBS-model leaf. 3. Variation in leaf composition and morphology generally followed that predicted by the RSBS-model leaf. 4. We found that  increased with site fertility. Analysis of data from the literature showed that increasing the supply rate of nitrogen also results in an increase in . We conclude that increases in site fertility are associated with increases in . 5. Leaf thickness increased (hence  decreased) with light along the aridity and altitudinal gradients, in agreement with theoretical predictions. The increase in light along the aridity gradient is attributed to a decrease in cloud cover, while the increase in light with altitude is due to a decline in the optical thickness of the atmosphere. 6. Along the altitudinal gradient, the soils became increasingly boggy and anoxic with elevation, leading to increased soil acidity and a consequent decline in oxygen and nutrient availability. In contrast, along the aridity gradient decreases in nutrient availability were related to dry soil. 7. Both an excess and shortage of soil water can lead to reductions in the availability of oxygen and/or nutrients. When that relationship was considered, we found that a consistent framework linking  with the availability of light, water, nutrients and CO<sub>2</sub>/O<sub>2</sub> could be established. In that framework, leaf area is controlled jointly by the availability of water and nutrients, while leaf thickness is controlled by the availability of carbon (i.e. light, CO<sub>2</sub>).  is the result of interactions between those two factors. The resulting framework should be useful in the development of models linking vegetation with environmental conditions. 8. A method for extending these results to the modelling of vegetation communities is proposed.
10.2307/2390264|1. This study investigates the metabolic response (a) to the onset of feeding in the early morning, (b) to the different feeding activity patterns of four species of passerines and (c) changes in the diurnal course of the metabolic response to the different requirements of moult and migratory fattening. Six plasma metabolite levels were examined in free-living Erithacus rubecula, Sylvia atricapilla, S. borin and Ficedula hypoleuca. 2. Plasma triglyceride concentration showed a very discriminating response to feeding activity and metabolic requirements, and the following factors were shown to affect the diurnal pattern of plasma triglyceride concentration: (a) moult affected the slope of the diurnal increase in plasma triglyceride concentration; (b) the amount of food ingested (hyperphagia) affected the levels of plasma triglycerides; (c) the diurnal activity pattern (feeding pattern) affected the shape of the diurnal triglyceride pattern. 3. Plasma free fatty-acid and glycerol concentrations showed no or only slight diurnal trends, in accordance with the absence of increased levels in overnight fasted birds. Plasma uric acid levels did not show diurnal trends, despite generally lower levels at the end of the night. 4. Plasma -hydroxy-butyrate levels decreased very quickly in the early morning from the high levels observed in overnight fasted birds. 5. Plasma glucose levels increased during the course of the day only in birds during the migratory period, probably as a response to hyperphagia.
826668|1. This paper describes a study of 23 plant species native to the British Isles, to investigate the relative importance of growth conditions and ecological origin in determining the content and composition of the photosynthetic pigments (chlorophylls and carotenoids) within leaves. 2. The species studied reflected a range of ecological types, from deep shade to full sun. 3. Plants were grown in two light environments: high light (HL), filtered through a clear filter; and low light (LL), filtered through a neutral density filter which reduced total irradiance with enhanced far-red. 4. Plants grown at high irradiance contained more carotenoid per unit chlorophyll and showed a marked increase in xanthophyll cycle pigments relative to other carotenoids. 5. Deep-shade plants were slightly less responsive to changes in growth light conditions than plants native to less shaded locations. Intermediate sun/shade plants were slightly more responsive; however these differences were small compared with the extent of the response of all species to HL vs LL. 6. The main conclusion is that that the light conditions to which the plants are exposed are more important than the genetic predisposition of those plants in determining the pigment content and composition of leaves.
10.2307/2389459|The impact of salt in soil-water and food was investigated on the osmotic and ionic regulation, behaviour, growth and reproduction of the salt-marsh dwelling Hypogastrura viatica (Tullberg). An experimental design was applied in which both factors were considered simultaneously. H. viatica regulated its osmotic concentration at soil-water salinities up to 50% S.W. At higher salinities it was an osmoconformer. Food salinity had no significant effect on the osmotic concentration of the collembolans. Both soil-water and food salinity had an effect on the ionic concentration of the haemolymph. A higher conductivity was measured at higher soilwater and food salinities. Both soil-water and food salinity also had a significant effect on growth and reproduction. At higher salinity the collembolans showed a lower feeding activity and consequently a lower growth and reproduction but the effect of the soil-water salinity was stronger than that of the food salinity. At an increasing salinity of the soil-water H. viatica showed a stronger avoidance of food of high salt concentration.
2390470|1. Temperature- and time-dependent mortalities were studied and modelled in insects exposed in regimes with constant and alternating temperatures. In these experiments, freezing was not a cause of death. 2. Survival rates at a range of constant low temperatures (-5 to + 1 <sup></sup>C) and for different exposure periods (1-14 days) were measured in the summer acclimated springtail Orchesella cincta. 3. Daily interruptions of the cold exposure with short intervals at high temperature reduced mortality or slowed the increase of mortality. This effect was stronger at higher temperature (19 vs 5 and 12 <sup></sup>C) and increased with the duration of the interruption (0.25-2 h). 4. The injury was reversible when the cold exposure was limited to 2 days. 5. Survival in desiccated animals (14% water loss) was reduced. 6. It is suggested that the mortality of summer acclimated springtails is caused by a complex metabolic disorder and membrane changes at low temperatures.
2656528|1. An indirect, physiological method to assess reproductive state in individuals of unknown status is described. The plasma levels of two main yolk precursors, vitellogenin (VTG) and very-low density lipoproteins (VLDL), are focused on as indices of egg production, for the characterization of fecund females. 2. Data for a species where breeding chronology could be directly assessed, at the population level (Cassin's Auklet, Ptychoramphus aleuticus), confirmed the validity of this approach: plasma VTG levels were highest during the defined egg-laying period, and the highest proportion of females were defined as `egg-producing' in this period. 3. Analysis of samples for Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) caught off-nest (i.e. where all individuals were of unknown status), clearly identified a putative egg-laying phase, with a single, protracted laying period (cf. multiple-broodiness). 4. Analysis of body mass confirmed our characterization of `egg-producing' females: birds with elevated plasma VTG were on average 40 g heavier than other females, equivalent to the mass of the single egg (36-41 g). 5. Indirect, physiological assessment of reproductive state provided valuable information on the breeding biology of Marbled Murrelets which would have been difficult to obtain in any other way (e.g. proportion of fecund females, breeding phenology, single vs multiple-clutch breeding pattern). Despite some limitations, this technique should be applicable to any oviparous vertebrate population where essential information on breeding biology cannot be obtained by more traditional methods.
3599141|1. The distinction between semelparity and iteroparity is one of the most fundamental in life-history biology. Despite an abundance of theory proposed to explain the evolution of this dichotomy, few quantitative empirical tests exist. 2. We report here on life-history variation in the perennial herb Arabis fecunda (Brassicaceae), in which differences in the frequency of iteroparity and terminal flowering (facultative semelparity) are expressed among populations. These differences are consistent over time, and a common garden experiment suggested that they may be at least partly genetically based. 3. An analysis of demographic data over a 5-year period from three populations indicated that a simple demographic model of life-history evolution is consistent with life-history variation in this species. Individuals in populations with greater mean adult survival were more likely to express iteroparity than individuals in populations with lower adult survival.
41319615|1. Macrophytes in running waters experience an often dynamic and harsh environment. To avoid breakage, plants have to reduce the experienced drag force. However, by reducing leaf area, photosynthetic production is less. Aquatic plants therefore have to find a balance between reducing drag and maintaining photosynthetic capacity. 2. In the experiments in this study, we assessed to what extent different morphological strategies (emergent vs. submerged) were able to minimize drag while maximizing leaf area. 3. From our measurements, it is clear that with increasing water velocities, emergent plant species have a drag value three to four times higher than submerged species. 4. To test the versatility of leaves, leaves were removed and their effect on drag and bending was investigated. Almost 60% of the drag is contributed by the leaves, and stems bend less when leaves are removed. 5. Because high submerged leaf area increases not only plant drag but also photosynthetic yield, a trade-off between both parameters was investigated in the function of stream velocity. Emerged species had a more favourable trade-off at low stream velocities. However, with increasing stream velocity, submerged species could reduce their drag more in comparison with blunt objects. Within these submerged species, a clear distinction was seen between those (Potamogeton natans) concentrating their leaf area on or just beneath the water surface (Stuckenia pectinata) and those with more or less evenly distributed biomass (Callitriche platycarpa and Ranunculus penicillatus). 6. These results indicate that aquatic plants with an emergent strategy are able to take better advantage of zones with reduced hydraulic forces than submerged plants. Additionally, this plant occurrence will be determined by the relationship between total plant drag and root strength.
3806575|1. We propose that diets of consumers in a food web have various ages, where age is defined as the time elapsed since carbon (C) in the diet was fixed from atmospheric CO
3599131| 1. In heterogeneous environments, the risk of predation and parasitism for phytophagous insects varies among different microhabitats. Adult females can escape natural enemies by depositing their eggs on sites unfavourable for prey-searching predators or parasitoids. Host plant characteristics can determine the availability of such spatial refuges. 2. We assessed the importance of host plant exposure for the predation probability of shield beetle (Cassida rubiginosa Mller) larvae by paper wasps (Polistes dominulus Christ), hypothesizing that prey on exposed (i.e. free-standing) plants are more likely to be found and eaten by predators than prey on hidden (i.e. surrounded by other vegetation) plants. Because larval predation is a major mortality factor in shield beetles, we further hypothesized that the prey would adapt and avoid high-risk plants for oviposition. Finally, we investigated the influence of egg parasitism on the prey's host plant choice. 3. Host plant exposure significantly affected predation probability of Shield Beetles. Larvae on hidden host plants were less likely to be killed by the wasps than larvae on exposed shoots. However, females did not prefer the low predation risk environment of hidden plants for oviposition. The rate of parasitism was equal on exposed and hidden plants, and thus probably does not contribute to the oviposition habitat selection of prey. 4. Our study shows experimentally that characteristics of the first trophic level (i.e. host plant exposure) can affect the foraging success of insect predators. Different reasons, potentially responsible for the apparent non-selective host plant choice in beetle females, are discussed. 
2656356|1. We compared the root systems of seven halophytic species that occur at different elevations on a salt marsh, in order to (i) test the hypothesis that variations in root system architecture reflect adaptation to inundation frequency or nitrogen limitation, and (ii) verify the theoretically predicted relationships between root diameter, link magnitude and root topology. Diameters and lengths of individual laterals were determined along root axes, and branching patterns were quantified by calculating a topological index (TI). 2. Chenopodiaceae (annual dicots) showed that with increasing elevation, the branch density and length of individual first-order laterals tended to increase, so that the relative length of the main axes decreased. Root branching of the Chenopodiaceae at lower elevations was herringbone-like, whereas species from higher elevations had smaller TIs because their branching patterns were more complex. 3. The Gramineae, too, showed a tendency to increased length of individual laterals with increasing elevation. However, TI was not related to elevation, did not indicate a herringbone structure for all species, and was within the same range of that of the Chenopodiaceae. 4. As root topology of the Chenopodiaceae is related to elevation, but that of the grasses is not, topology is not necessarily an important adaptive trait in all plant families that inhabit the salt marsh. Short first- and second-order laterals may represent a more general architectural adaptation to frequent inundation, with longer first-order laterals being favourable to competition for nutrients. 5. Diameters at the root base tended to decrease if root branching was herringbone-like (TI close to 1). Roots of first-order laterals were approximately one-third of the diameter of the main axes; second-order laterals were approximately half the diameter of the first-order laterals. These ratios illustrate the value of using the developmental segment-ordering system in describing roots. The theoretically predicted relationship between root diameter and link magnitude was not present within individual orders of roots, whereas diameter did slowly increase with magnitude when combining different root orders. 6. In the absence of a clear relationship between root diameter and link magnitude, the predicted high carbon costs associated with herringbone root systems disappear, whereas the advantage of minimized inter-root competition remains. Consequently, herringbone root systems will be most efficient in terms of nutrients gained per carbon invested. However, dichotomous root systems offer a greater potential for exploring the soil, which contributes to the potential competitiveness of plants growing in nutrient limited habitats.
10.2307/2389501|Adult American toads, Bufo americanus americanus Holbrook, may be exposed to conditions that result in considerable variation in both body temperature and hydration state during their daily activity periods. We measured the interactive effects of body temperature and hydration state on locomotor performance of toads. Performance, measured as distance moved in 10 min of forced locomotion, decreased at all body temperatures as animals were dehydrated. The magnitude of this decrease was affected by temperature. Similarly, the effects of temperature on performance were influenced by the hydration state of the toad. Fully hydrated and slightly dehydrated animals travelled farthest at high test temperatures, whereas more dehydrated animals moved farthest at intermediate temperatures. Body temperature and hydration state showed statistically significant interaction and individual toads varied in their tolerance of those parameters. Thus, the relative performance capacities of individual toads under natural conditions cannot be predicted from laboratory measurements at a single combination of body temperature and hydration.
10.2307/2390002|1. A total of 17 temperate C<sub>3</sub> grass and herb species were grown for 5 weeks at three mole fraction treatments of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> (350, 525 and 700  mol mol<sup>-1</sup>). Leaf stable carbon isotope compositions (<sup>13</sup>C) were determined to record long-term exchange responses together with instantaneous gas exchange measurements. The isotopic composition of the atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> (<sup>13</sup> C<sub>a</sub>) integrated over the course of the CO<sub>2</sub> treatments was recorded biologically using the C<sub>4</sub> species Zea mays. 2. We found that increases in the mole fraction of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> above current levels resulted in a sustained increase in instantaneous (photosynthesis, A/conductance, g<sub>s</sub>) leaf water-use efficiency (IWUE), as calculated from carbon isotope-derived p<sub>i</sub>/p<sub>a</sub> ratios. Grass species showed a marked decline in the magnitude of WUE increase as the CO<sub>2</sub> mole fraction was increased from 525 to 700  mol mol<sup>-1</sup>, a response which was absent in herb species. 3. Isotopic derivation of the ratio of intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> mole fraction (p<sub>i</sub>) to that in the surrounding atmosphere (p<sub>a</sub>), considered as a set point of leaf metabolism, showed no significant (P=0.06) changes in response to increases in the mole fraction of CO<sub>2</sub>, for herb and grass species. Measurements of p<sub>i</sub>/p<sub>a</sub> determined from measurements of leaf gas exchange differed significantly (P<0.01) from those derived from stable isotope ratios. These differences are attributed to contrasting stomatal behaviour between herb and grass species. 4. Leaf intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> mole fraction and previously reported above-ground biomass responses to CO<sub>2</sub> increases for the same species were positively correlated (P<0.05). This suggests that as atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> levels continue to rise species showing sustained higher rates of leaf photosynthesis, may be translated into increased productivity depending on soil water and nutrient status.
10.2307/2389517|1. In the pipefish Syngnathus typhle sex roles are reversed, as females compete for access to males. In this species males provide all brood care (i.e. are `pregnant') and female reproductive rate exceeds the reproductive rate of males. Consequently females are limited by access to mates and male reproductive success is limited by male brooding ability and/or mate quality. Thus, phenomena like brood reduction and a trade-off between number and weight of newborn may be expected in males. 2. In this paper I demonstrate the following in males of S. typhle: (a) the initial weight of the egg (received from the female) positively influenced the weight of newborn; (b) in the male's brood pouch, number of newborn frequently is less than number of eggs initially received (brood reduction), and the extent of this decrease in brood size positively influenced the weight of newborn; (c) a trade-off between number and weight of newborn was demonstrated in males from field samples and in large experimental males (independent of brood reduction), but not in small males that presumably allocated resources to several other demands (condition, growth, etc.); (d) paternal length, per se, did not affect the weight of newborn. 3. The results indicate that in S. typhle, male reproductive success is limited by their own brooding ability and influenced by the egg size received (indirectly quality of mate), which may be expected in a situation of sex-role reversal.
2390534|1. Quantitative genetic analysis of variation in host-use ability was performed in an extremely polyphagous species - the Gypsy Moth. Various life-history traits were investigated by applying a split-family two-environment experimental design, where 30 full-sibling families were reared on oak and Locust Tree leaves. 2. Feeding on Locust Tree leaves decreased preadult viability, prolonged development time, decreased pupal mass both in males and females, and decreased reproductive effort in females. 3. The majority of broad-sense heritabilities did not change across host plants. 4. Significant expression of genetic variation in diet breadth was observed for development time and pupal mass both in males and females, but not for female reproductive effort traits. The heritabilities of plasticities were, on average, lower than heritabilities of the traits themselves. 5. The majority of genetic correlations between the host plants were significantly positive. The only trade-off was found between reciprocal value of reproductive index and the average mass of a fertilized egg within oak. This means that selection for the decrease in relative reproductive investment (under starvation during gradation) will be followed by laying larger eggs. Given that the Gypsy Moth has a cyclic population dynamics, this negative genetic correlation could have a role in maintaining genetic variability in this species.
3599098| 1. To assess the effectiveness of extrafloral nectaries (EFN) as a defensive mechanism of plants it is vital to use a multiple interactions approach and assess the contribution of all visiting species and their interactions. 2. The effect of EFN-visiting ants (Camponotus planatus, C. abdominalis, Conomyrma sp., Crematogaster brevispinosa, Forelius sp., Pseudomyrmex sp.) and wasps (Polistes instabilis, Polybia occidentalis) on the reproductive success (estimated as the number of reproductive structures) of Turnera ulmifolia (Turneraceae) was experimentally evaluated. Herbivory effects were tested using Euptoieta hegesia larvae (caterpillars), which is the main herbivore of this plant. The study was done in a coastal sand dune scrub in Veracruz, Mxico. 3. Wasps and ants were selectively excluded using a two-factor design (Wasps, Ants) block design, both factors with two levels (absent, present). The response variables were an index of herbivory per branch and the number of buds, flowers, ripe and unripe fruit per plant, and the seed/fruit ratio per branch. 4. After a week of placing the larvae on experimental plants, they were significantly more frequent on plants where wasps and ants had been experimentally excluded. 5. Wasp presence was associated significantly with greater numbers of buds, flowers, ripe fruit and seeds. When acting separately, wasps and ants exerted a positive effect in decreasing herbivory levels and increasing the number of unripe fruit; when acting together, however, their effect was not additive. 6. This is the first demonstration of a positive effect on the plant by wasps associated with EFN. The ecological implication of this finding is that the function of EFN and the ultimate effects on a plant will probably depend on the array of organisms visiting its EFN. 
3599266| 1. The ability of photosynthetic organisms to adjust their light climate has high adaptive significance because irradiance can vary spatially by orders of magnitude. Using a plating (foliaceous) coral species (Turbinaria mesenterina), we tested the hypothesis that plasticity of colony geometry optimizes internal irradiance distributions. 2. We developed a two-dimensional model to predict the internal irradiance distribution of a foliaceous colony as a function of its geometry. Field tests showed that the model explained 85% of the variation in irradiance within colonies of T. mesenterina with minimal bias. 3. Colony plate angle, plate spacing and range of tissue distributions into the colony were exponential functions of water depth. In shallow water plates tended to be nearly vertical, narrowly spaced, and had living tissue only near the growing edge of the plate. In deep water plates grew more horizontally, were more widely spaced, and had living tissue extending well into the colony interior. This pattern of phenotypic plasticity effectively evens out differences in within-colony irradiances. 4. We compared within-colony irradiance distributions across light habitats (depth), based on the observed variation in colony geometry with water depth. Despite fourfold differences in environmental irradiance, within-colony irradiances had a common mode of 100-200 mol m
40603118|1. Species potentially competing for the same resource are considered to be able to co-exist if they occupy different niches. In an apparent example of this, Adlie, Chinstrap and Gentoo penguins all feed predominantly on krill Euphausea superba at certain sites of sympatry in Antarctica and are proposed to exploit different niche hyper-volumes via differential area and depth utilization. 2. Patterns of foraging for 49 of these penguins breeding in sympatry were assessed using deadreckoning loggers to examine foraging niche overlap. 3. Area use overlaps were 0.29 for Adlie  Chinstrap, 0.44 for Adlie  Gentoo, and 0.40 for Chinstrap  Adlie and depth use overlaps were 069 for Adlie  Chinstrap, 0-48 for Adlie  Gentoo, and 0-52 for Chinstrap  Gentoo Penguins. 4. Foraging efficiency was greatest for Adlie Penguins diving near surface waters (0-15 m) while Chinstraps were most efficient at medium depths (15-60 m) and Gentoo Penguins most efficient at deeper depths (> 60 m). There appear to be physiological reasons for this. Penguins primarily exploited those depths where they were most efficient. 5. The overlap for foraging periods was 0.47 for Adlie  Chinstrap, 0.26 for Adlie  Gentoo, and 0.40 for Chinstrap  Gentoo Penguins. Chinstraps foraged primarily at night, Gentoos during the morning and Adlies in the afternoon. Temporal differences in foraging may result in the three species exploiting krill at those depths where it is best adapted to pursue it, this being mediated by the diel vertical migration of krill. 6. Integration of all measured parameters together gives minimal overlap between species with total overlaps of 009 for Adlie  Chinstrap, 005 for Adlie  Gentoo, and 008 for Chinstrap  Gentoo Penguins so it appears that these penguins conform to conventional theory in avoiding competition in areas of sympatry. However, a model incorporating prey movement between hyper-volumes indicates that penguins may still compete, even in the virtual absence of hypervolume overlap. 7. This study shows that Pygoscelid penguin do indeed exploit different hypervolumes in areas of sympatry but that such exploitation of different niches by sympatric species feeding on a common resource does not necessarily result in reduced competition if the mobility of prey is high.
40407768|1. In Polar Regions, the extent and dynamics of sea-ice are changing. This affects the ocean productivity which consecutively impacts plankton communities and polar top predators like penguins. Yet, the underlying behavioural and physiological mechanisms remain poorly understood. 2. Here we monitored the ecophysiological responses of Adlie penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae) pairs during two seasons of contrasting timing of sea-ice retreat. Beside classical breeding parameters like foraging trip duration, body mass and reproductive success, we also investigated food-related stress (via plasma corticosterone concentration), nutritional state (via metabolite levels) and the use of penguins' habitat (via blood isotopie values). 3. Body mass and reproductive success remained unchanged but foraging trips were shorter when sea-ice retreated earlier. Constant plasma corticosterone concentrations indicated that none of the feeding conditions resulted in a food-related stress. However metabolite levels were lower when sea-ice retreated early, suggesting that the foraging performance and the quality/quantity of food differed. Indeed isotopie ratios indicated that coastal prey like fish contributed more to the penguins' diet when sea-ice retreated prematurely. 4. The early sea-ice retreat was related to higher chlorophyll concentrations, known to favour krill recruitment. Paradoxically, this was not associated to a higher krill contribution in the penguins' diet. We propose that a shift in the phytoplankton quality (rather than quantity), affecting krill recruitment, forced penguins to switch to more available prey like coastal fish. 5. In some Antarctic regions, sea-ice is retreating earlier and earlier. In the present study, even though the timing of sea-ice retreat and the consecutive ocean productivity differed drastically between the 2 years, Adlie penguins were not severely affected because they were able to adjust their at-sea behaviour and thus maintained their body condition and reproductive success unchanged. 6. This suggests that the timing of sea-ice retreat does not represent an important threat to populations of Adlie penguins at least as long as alternative resources are still available and other environmental parameters like winter sea-ice extent are not dramatically altered.
3599343|1. Conditional handicap models of sexual selection predict that ornamentation should be positively associated with an individual's ability to withstand challenges to their health. 2. We assessed whether levels of carotenoid ornamentation were related to the probability of adult male Common Redpolls, Carduelis flammea, dying in a salmonellosis epidemic by comparing the ornamentation of surviving adult male redpolls to those found dead. Hosts suffering from salmonellosis shed bacteria in faeces, and new individuals are typically infected when they ingest faeces-contaminated food. 3. The proportion of adult males in the sample of dead birds was significantly higher than in the sample of living birds. 4. Among adult males, probability of survival was significantly predicted by the expression of their carotenoid signals: brightly ornamented adult males were more likely to die in the epidemic. 5. A probable hypothesis for these results is that if carotenoid ornamentation in redpolls functions as a status badge of dominance, bright males would have had priority access to highly preferred, and contaminated, food patches.
40963564|1. Body condition is a major concept in ecology addressed in countless studies, and a variety of non-destructive methods are used to estimate the condition of individuals based on the relationship between body mass M and measures of length L. There is currently no consensus about the most appropriate condition index (CI) method, and various traditions have been established within subdisciplines in which ecologists tend to apply that method used previously by their peers. 2. Here, we present a reappraisal of six conventional CI methods: Fulton's index (K = M/L), Qutelet's index (BMI = M/L), Relative condition (K n , computed as the observed individual mass divided by the predicted mass M i * = a L i b where a and b are determined by ordinary least squares (OLS) regression of M against L), Relative mass (W r , where a and b above are determined from a reference population), the Residual index (R i , the residuals from an OLS regression of M against L) and ANCOVA. We compare the performance of these methods with that of the Scaled mass index, a novel method which was previously shown to perform better than R i as a predictor of fat and other body components [J. Peig & A.J. Green (2009) Oikos, 118, 1883]. 3. To be reliable, a CI method must successfully account for the changing relationship between M and L as body size changes and growth occurs (i.e. for the scaling relationship between M and L). Using data from three species of small mammals we show that, unlike the Scaled mass index, all six conventional methods fail to do this, and as a result they consistently lead to significant differences in CIs between age classes and sex that are a mere consequence of changes in body size. The Scaled mass index was also particularly successful at detecting changes in CI resulting from high levels of contaminants.
10.2307/2390149|1. The distribution of light interception, foliar nitrogen and leaf mass between three community layers (tree, herbaceous and moss layers) were investigated along productivity gradient in a west-Estonian wooded meadow. 2. A two-resource model is applicable to describe the vertical structure of a multilayer community. Upper layers have better access to light compared to lower layers of the canopy, whereas lower layers have higher nitrogen-use efficiency and/or better ability to acquire nitrogen. 3. The amount of foliar nitrogen per unit of intercepted light is highest in the herbaceous layer if compared to the tree and moss layers but mosses have the highest nitrogen-use-efficiency (assessed from the dry mass:nitrogen ratio). 4. The growth of the herbaceous layer in communities along the productivity gradient is co-limited by light and nitrogen but growth of the moss layer is limited only by light availability.
3806563|1. Measurements of phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-induced tissue swelling are arguably the most popular surrogates for immunocompetence in wild birds. It is largely unresolved, however, whether the basic assumption underlying these measures is valid, particularly whether more swelling represents a 'better' or 'stronger' cell-mediated immune response. 2. In this study we took a first step towards such validation by characterizing immune cell infiltration over time into the wing-webs (patagia) of PHA-challenged House Sparrows (Passer domesticus). Relative to saline-injected wing-webs, PHA-injected wing-webs displayed intensive infiltration of many immune cell types, including basophils, eosinophils, heterophils, lymphocytes, macrophages and thrombocytes. The abundance of most of these cell types changed over the course of the swelling response (6-48 h post-injection). Peak infiltration time varied depending on cell type. At several time points, significant correlations between the numbers of some cell types (particularly heterophils) and the degree of swelling were detected. 3. Together, these data indicate that PHA-induced swelling is related to heightened immune cell activity in House Sparrows, but also that the PHA swelling response in this species is dynamic and involves both innate and adaptive components of the immune system. We thus caution against interpreting larger swellings as 'greater cell-mediated immunocompetence', given the complex nature of this immune response.
40407740|1. The carbon and nitrogen isotope composition of plants are known to be affected by environmental factors, especially water availability. While C of C plants is generally assumed to be much less responsive to environmental variables than that of C plants, it is unclear whether the response of N differs between the two photosynthetic pathways. 2. Focussing on differences in the response of members of the C and C photosynthetic pathways to climate variables, we examined the foliar C and N of grasses collected from natural vegetation in a wide range of climatic zones throughout Australia. 3. An index of water availability was clearly related to foliar C and N of both C and C grasses. There was a negative relationship between water availability and C of C grasses (r = 021), similar to that documented extensively in other C plants. An opposite, positive relationship was found between water availability and C in C grasses (r = 017), an effect that has been reported only infrequently. Accounting for differences in C between the different C types (NADP-ME, PCK, NAD-ME and Aristida) resulted in a substantial increase in the fit of the model relating C to water availability (R = 048). 4. There was a negative relationship between water availability and N (r = 040), that was similar in both C and C grasses, but temperature had no effect on N. This provides strong support for the theory that water availability is the dominant factor determining soil and plant N via its effect on the 'openness' of the nitrogen cycle. 5. We also found significant differences in N between the different C types, with the highest values for PCK, followed by NADP-ME and NAD-ME, and the lowest values for Aristida. The difference in N between PCK and Aristida was large, at 5.1. 6. The importance of water availability as a predictor of C in both C and C grasses suggests that variation in water availability should be considered when estimating C grass abundance based on C measurements (e.g. in herbivore diets or as a contributor to biospheric carbon sinks).
10.2307/2389605|Leachates from tributyltin (TBT) based antifouling paints have been shown to induce the superimposition of male characters on females (imposex) in the dogwhelk, Nucella lapillus (L.) (Gibbs & Bryan, 1986; Bryan et al., 1987). Imposex is widespread in Britain. Contamination is localized close to source in most of the country, with the exception of the south coast where boating activity is intense. Investigation of paired shores along an uncontaminated and contaminated wave exposure gradient on the Isle of Man showed natural changes that occur in population structure and the decline in abundance due to TBT contamination. The community consequences of a TBT-induced decline in thaid predation and importance of the whelk as an indicator of TBT are discussed.
10.2307/2389288|1. We describe a new technique for rapidly measuring the heat or cold resistance of many small insects. We heat (or cool) insects in a temperature-controlled column and measure the temperature at which they are knocked down. 2. An artificial selection experiment on heat resistance demonstrates that knock-down temperatures respond rapidly to selection. After only four generations of selection, the experimental and control lines differed significantly in both knock-down temperature and physiological heat tolerance, as measured by per cent survival of a heat shock. 3. Potential applications (acclimation, ageing, selection) and technical problems (body size, humidity, statistical considerations) are evaluated.
20142748|1. Variations in water tension in a transpiring tree cause elastic changes in stem diameter. To better understand the dynamics of these variations, stem diameter changes and sap flow rates were monitored simultaneously in trees from two Scots pine chronosequences in Scotland. 2. Tree below-ground hydraulic conductance (
10.2307/2389432|We describe a simple interface for measuring velocity and acceleration in cursorial animals with a portable racetrack. Our system is based on a serial interface and connects to any personal computer. A unique feature of our design is that the software uses the same serial port for two purposes: (1) to transmit the racetrack data to the computer; and (2) to use the incoming data stream as a timer in place of a separate real-time clock. This aspect of the design reduces the cost of the device and increases its portability. Our design is described for an 8 bit personal computer but will work with almost any computer with a serial port. We also discuss variations of the system for increasing the maximum number of photocell stations on the racetrack.
10.2307/2389442|The ability of fur seal pups to cope with diverse climatic conditions on land was investigated by constructing a thermal budget based on published physiological studies. The model was applied to northern fur seals (Callorhinus ursinus L.) breeding on the Pribilof Islands, Alaska and on San Miguel Island, California; also to the Galapagos fur seal pup (Arctocephalus galapagoensis Heller) on the Galapagos Islands. The combinations of environmental extremes that pups can withstand during the first week of life were identified. The study concluded that a healthy, average-sized pup on the Pribilofs could have tolerated any combination of air temperature, wind speed and level of humidity recorded since the mid 1950s, but that pups with low birth weights could have succumbed during periods of cold, wet and windy weather. On San Miguel Island, the model predicts high mortalities of large pups during hot, dry weather, which suggests strong selection pressures towards the survival of smaller animals. The model further suggests that the success of the Galapagos fur seal at the equator is related to its small body size and behavioural attributes, such as seeking shade and periodically wetting its fur.
41319592|1. In plants with specialized pollination, functionally important floral traits are expected to be under strong selection for accuracy. This may, however, conflict with a general tendency for sizerelated traits to covary. Previous studies have addressed this fundamental conflict by analysing natural variation across samples of structures, but here we compare the effects of experimentally induced environmental differences on variation in serially homologous pollination and vegetative traits. 2. We examined the effects of experimental variation in nutrient availability and total daily irradiance on two pairs of serially homologous traits in two populations of Dalechampia scandens: (i) The length of the floral bract blade and the length of the leaf blade, and (ii) the length of stipules associated with bracts and leaves. The first pair contrasts a floral trait that is likely to experience canalizing selection (bract blade) with a homologous vegetative trait that does not experience canalizing selection (leaf blade). The second contrasts homologous floral and vegetative traits that are likely to experience similar selective pressures. We also examined variational properties of two blossom traits that interact directly with pollinators: the area of the resin gland and the length of the styles. 3. Variation in the bract blades was decoupled from variation in the vegetative traits and followed the variational patterns of the two blossom traits that are functional in pollination. Stipules associated with bracts and leaves were affected similarly by the experimental treatments in a pattern characteristic of vegetative traits. 4. These results are consistent with the Berg hypothesis of decoupling and canalization of specialized floral structures and support the idea that the variability can evolve in response to selection on variation.
40863575|1. Iridescent colour signals are directional but, like diffusely reflected colours, vary within and among species in ways that may be adaptations to specific types of receivers in specific light environments. 2. The hindwings of pipevine swallowtail butterflies exhibit brilliant blue and iridescent colour patches on the ventral surface in both sexes and on the dorsal wing surface in males. Evidence suggests that the ventral iridescent blue is a component of the warning coloration of this distasteful species, while the dorsal blue iridescent wing area is a sexual signal.-Given differences in the function and ecological context of signal production, we analysed reflectance spectra from the iridescent blue areas of both field-caught and laboratory-reared animals to test several predictions about the iridescent colour patches on these wing surfaces. 3. The ventral blue patches in the warning coloration of males and females should be most visible early and late in the day, due to wing orientation relative to sun angle. We therefore predicted that these iridescent colour patches would be brighter and of longer wavelengths than the male dorsal blue patch displayed during midday courtships. The prediction about reflectance intensity was supported but the prediction about hue was not. 4. We predicted that the sexually selected dorsal hindwing iridescence of males would be more variable among individuals and condition dependent than the naturally selected ventral iridescent colour patches. To assess variation and condition dependence, laboratory-reared and fieldcaptured individuals were compared. The prediction about variation was not supported, but only the dorsal wing surfaces showed evidence of being condition dependent. 5. We investigated whether development of dorsal and ventral blue iridescence was coupled by determining correlations in colour properties between the wing surfaces. Our finding of positive correlations indicated a potential developmental constraint in the evolution of colour differences between the two wing surfaces. 6. Results of this study suggest that some properties of iridescent coloration on the hindwing of the pipevine swallowtail (especially intensity) may have been fine-tuned by evolution in response to prevailing ambient light conditions and viewing perspectives that differ among types of signal receivers.
2656553|1. Relative growth rate (RGR), proportional dry-mass content of leaf and stem tissues, and biomass-allocation pattern were assessed under controlled conditions for 22 populations of Dactylis glomerata s.l. from contrasting latitudes and altitudes in Europe, Israel and Kazakstan. Furthermore, width and thickness of leaves were measured in garden-grown mature plants. 2. All these parameters varied significantly among the populations. RGR correlated negatively with dry-mass content of leaves and stems, but not with biomass-allocation parameters, leaf thickness or leaf width. We argue that the close association of RGR with variation in dry-mass content among species and genetically distinct populations is a result of the larger volume of tissue, and correspondingly larger leaf area and longer root system, that a plant with a low tissue density can build per unit dry mass. 3. Leaf tissue dry-mass content decreased and RGR increased with increasing latitude and elevation of the originating site, indicating that a high growth rate may be an advantage in habitats with a short growing season. This contrasts with earlier findings of a negative correlation between inherent RGR and altitude.
10.2307/2389574|1 Considerable variability exists in the size of ova produced by different female Bombina orientalis Boulenger in a field population in Korea. Both the mean and variance among females changed significantly between 1986 and 1987. These data, when viewed in conjunction with laboratory studies that demonstrate that the size of ova produced is very sensitive to environmental variation, strongly suggest that mean ovum size varies between breedings of individual females and is therefore a plastic feature of this population. 2 Differences in ovum size did not affect developmental time to the hatching stage, but there were large effects associated with micro-climatic temperature variation both within and between years. In 1987 the embryos in some breeding pools hatched in 2.5 days while others, in different pools, hatched in 8.0 days. 3 Ovum size significantly influenced size at the hatching stage with larger hatchlings developing from larger eggs. In general, hatching size is negatively related to temperature, but the relationship is complex; higher temperature increased the growth rate to this stage, but simultaneously truncated development time which reduces size. Hatching size is also negatively related to temperature fluctuations as a result of truncation of development time. 4 The effects of ovum size were found to have positive effects on larval size for several weeks beyond the hatching stage when larvae are most susceptible to predation.
3599215| 1. Recent discussions of metabolic scaling laws focus on the model of West, Brown & Enquist (WBE). The core assumptions of the WBE model are the size-invariance of terminal units at which energy is consumed by living matter and the size-invariance of the rate of energy supply to these units. Both assumptions are direct consequences of the biochemical universality of living matter. However, the second assumption contradicts the central prediction of the WBE model that mass-specific metabolic rate q should decrease with body mass with a scaling exponent  = -, thus making the model logically inconsistent. 2. Examination of evidence interpreted by WBE and colleagues in favour of a universal  = - across 15 and more orders of magnitude range in body mass reveals that this value resulted from methodological errors in data assortment and analysis. 3. Instead, the available evidence is shown to be consistent with the existence of a size-independent mean value of mass-specific metabolic rate common to most taxa. Plotted together, q-values of non-growing unicells, insects and mammals in the basal state yield   0. Estimated field metabolic rates of bacteria and vertebrates are also size-independent. 4. Standard mass-specific metabolic rates of most unicells, insects and mammals studied are confined between 1 and 10 W kg
10.2307/2389923|1. We used grass shields to manipulate the visibility of a large, brightly coloured, orb web-spinning spider. The shields hid spiders from prey approaching from one direction but spider visibility was enhanced, owing to the great contrast between the spider and the shield background, for prey approaching from the opposite direction. Open rings were positioned in front of spiders designated as controls. 2. Early in the rainy season, prey capture was slightly but significantly higher at webs where the visibility of one side of the spider was enhanced (or hidden). Later in the rainy season when insect abundance dropped, more pollinating insects were attracted by the spider's ultraviolet (UV)-reflecting, dorsal surface than the spider's brown and yellow venter. 3. These data suggest that the coloured and patterned body surfaces of Argiope argentata affect the rate and types of prey spiders capture. The importance of the colour patterns, however, varies with the abundance and type of insects in the area in which the spider is foraging.
40205564|1. If a species is translocated outside its native range, some of its traits (evolved to match conditions in the ancestral range) likely will be maladaptive. Identifying ways in which the invader are poorly suited to its new range might provide novel opportunities for biocontrol. 2. The spread of cane toads (Bufo marinus, native to central and South America) through tropical Australia has created major ecological problems. Although many native predators cannot deal with the toxins of the invasive toads, 'meat ants' (Iridomyrmex reburrus) kill and consume many metamorph toads. Might this be a mismatch between the invader and its newly invaded range, whereby the morphology, locomotor ability and/or behaviour of cane toads renders them vulnerable to a predator that poses little danger to native anurans? 3. To explore this possibility, we measured habitat use and activity patterns in meat ants, metamorph cane toads and metamorphs of seven native frog species (Litoria bicolor, L. caerulea, L. dahlii, L. nasuta, L. rothii, Limnodynastes convexiusculus, Opisthodon ornatus) in standardized enclosures in the laboratory. 4. Unlike the frogs, (1) toads selected open microhabitats and were active diurnally, thus increasing encounter rates with meat ants; (2) toads failed to detect and evade approaching ants; (3) toads exhibited poor locomotor ability (short slow hops, reflecting their small size and short limbs); and (4) toads frequently relied on an ineffective defence mechanism (crypsis) when attacked. 5. In combination, these traits rendered cane toad metamorphs far more susceptible to predation by meat ants than were any of the native frogs tested. That vulnerability presumably reflects lack of coevolution between cane toads and Australian ants. 6. The inability of invasive toads to escape predatory native ants might be exploited to reduce cane toad numbers, by manipulating ant densities and/or locations during periods of toad metamorph emergence.
2390337|1. The relationship between plant morphology and the senses used by dispersal agents to find fruit was examined. `Flagellichory' (fruit borne on pendulous structures), a costly morphology associated with dispersal by bats, is focused on. 2. Using Gurania spinulosa, a flagellichorous vine, and its major dispersal agent, Phyllostomus hastatus, the hypothesis was tested that flagellichory increases the conspicuousness of fruit to bats that use echolocation to find fruit. 3. The responses of wild-caught P. hastatus to various fruiting branch morphologies and fruit odour were recorded. Phyllostomus hastatus used echolocation rather than olfaction to detect fruit, and consistently chose fruit displayed on pendulous leafless branches, ignoring fruit held among leaves on horizontal branches. 4. By comparing echolocation signals with the distance between fruiting branches of G. spinulosa and surrounding vegetation, it was shown that pendulous fruiting branches present clear, clutter-free targets that can be detected by echolocating bats. This is the first demonstration of neotropical frugivorous bats using echolocation to find fruit.
40603065|1. Litter quality is an important ecosystem factor, which may affect undergrowth species richness via decomposition and organic layers directly, but also via longer-term changes in soil pH and moisture. The impact of beech trees with low-degradable and hornbeam trees with highdegradable litter on biodiversity and soil characteristics was studied in ancient forests on decalcified marl, a parent material sensitive to changes in pH and clay content, and characteristic of large parts of western Europe. 2. Vegetation analysis clearly separated beech and hornbeam plots, and showed that species richness was consistently lower under beech. Low species richness under beech was associated with low pH, high mass of the organic layer and low soil moisture, which were all interrelated. 3. Development of the organic layer was affected by, not only litter quality, but also by pH levels and soil moisture. Under hornbeam, older organic matter increased from almost zero to 1 kg m in drier and more acid soil. Under beech tree litter decay was generally slow, but slowed further in acid soils, where older organic matter amounted to 4 kg m . 4. Soil moisture and pH levels were strongly related, possibly due to long-term soil development. Under hornbeam, which is more palatable to soil organisms, moisture, bulk density, clay content and pH were high. Acidification and clay eluviation may be counteracted by earthworms, which bring base cations and clay particles back to the surface, and stimulate erosion, so that the impermeable, clay-rich subsoil remains close to the surface. Soils remain base-rich and moist, which further stimulates litter decay and species richness. 5. The unpalatable beech showed low pH and clay content, and high porosity, air-filled pore space and depth to the impermeable subsoil. Acidification and clay eluviation may proceed uninhibited, because earthworm activity is low, and erosion limited by protective litter covers. This may lead to drier and more acid soils, which reduce litter decay and species richness even further. 6. Trees with low and high litter quality may thus act as an ecosystem engineer, and not only affect ecosystem functioning via mass of the organic layer, but also via longer-term changes in soil characteristics, which in turn affect species richness of the understorey.
40205511|1. Tissue fatty acid signatures (FAS) can complement traditional methods of studying seabird diets. Although plasma lipid FAS are known to indicate dietary changes qualitatively, here we test whether they can be used to determine the proportions of different dietary items in a quantitative manner. 2. Captive herring gulls (Larus argentatus) were fed North Atlantic plaice Pleuronectes platessa (demersal species made available to wild seabirds by fisheries) and herring Clupea harengus (pelagic fish often found naturally in their diet) with different mixing ratios (0%, 10%, 20% and 50% herring). 3. Major fatty acids did not indicate diet, but several minor components in plasma, for example, 14:0,18:3n-3,18 :4n-3 and C20-22 monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA), showed good correlations with diet composition. Different fatty acids were incorporated from diet into plasma lipids with different calibration coefficients. 4. Together with dose-dependent but inefficient (low calibration coefficient) transfer of 22 : ln-11 (a major fatty acid of herring) to the plasma FAS of the gulls, the percentages of potential chain shortening products of 22 : ln-11, that is, 20 : ln-11, 18 : ln-11 and 16 : ln-11 increased with increasing proportion of herring in the diet. Notably, the dietary supply of these fatty acids itself did not change. Thus the metabolic products of certain dietary fatty acids can reflect the amount of their dietary precursors in a quantitative way. 5. Despite the fact that many major fatty acids in FAS of seabird plasma are greatly modified by endogenous metabolism, several minor components of FAS (in this experiment 14 : 0, branched chain 17 : 0, 18 : ln-7, 18 : 3n-3, 18 : 4n-3, C20-22 MUFA with their chain shortening products, and 22:4n-6) that can be accurately and reliably quantified by gas chromatography, vary proportionally to diet composition, allowing their use for monitoring temporal and spatial differences in seabird diet.
10.2307/2389617|The relative growth rate (RGR) of both Deschampsia flexuosa (L.) Trin. and Festuca ovina L. increased with photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) across the range 4-32 mol m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>. The responses of both species were similar at all PAR levels and neither showed a saturation of RGR at the highest PAR. Unit leaf rate increased and leaf length ratio decreased with increasing PAR. There was distinct ontogenetic drift in RGR at the highest PAR level and none at the lowest, confirming that the change in RGR was to plant size rather than to time. The differences in natural distribution of the shade-tolerant D. flexuosa and the shade-avoiding F. ovina could not be accounted for by their RGR responses to changes in PAR. The results suggested that the morphological responses of D. flexuosa to variation in PAR in the field may have been underestimated in earlier work.
4139341|1. Organisms facing variation in food quality maintain elemental composition within limited bounds. Such stoichiometric homeostasis has often been considered a species-specific parameter, but stoichiometry can also vary intraally across life stages, sexes and sizes. In colonial organisms with overlapping generations, stoichiometric variation among stages could lead to flexibility in colony-level elemental composition due to changes in internal demography. 2. We examine how the balance of energy (sucrose) and nutrients (prey) affects growth rate and carbon:nitrogen:phosphorus (C:N:P) homeostasis in a eusocial insect, the pavement ant Tetramorium caespitum. 3. Colony growth depended heavily on prey availability. However, sucrose scarcity led to higher worker mortality and production of smaller workers, suggesting sucrose availability will affect colony-level performance in a competitive environment. 4. In contrast, C:N:P stoichiometry of larvae, pupae, and workers varied mostly with sucrose availability. Biomass P content within life stages was lower in colonies receiving less access to sucrose. We suggest this difference arose primarily from shifts in individual ant mass coupled with negative P-body mass relationships. 5. Life stages differed considerably in elemental composition, and resource conditions affected colony stage structure. Nevertheless, variation in colony-level stoichiometry primarily reflected compositional differences within stages rather than shifts in internal demography.
10.2307/2390126|1. The cladoceran Daphnia serves as an example of an iteroparous organism, with overlapping generations, that is capable of substantial adult growth. The life history of Daphnia was modelled as the consequence of a series of decisions about allocation of energetic resources to growth and reproduction. 2. We used numerical methods to find resource allocation patterns that maximized fitness of Daphnia in a temporally variable environment. Temporal variation was modelled as alternating active and dormant seasons; length of the active season was uniformly distributed. Fitness was measured by the geometric mean of resting eggs produced at the end of the active season. We examined effects of mean and range of the active season on the optimal life history; we also examined effects of increasing (invertebrate predation), constant (non-selective) and decreasing (fish) size-specific survival rates. For comparison, we found resource allocation patterns that maximized fitness in a constant environment, where fitness was measured by the intrinsic rate of increase r. 3. Life histories optimized for seasonal environments generally showed earlier maturity and greater adult growth than those optimized for constant environments. Adult growth occurred with non-selective predation, and even with fish predation, conditions under which it does not occur in the optimal life histories for constant environments. 4. Greatest size at maturity and adult growth occurred in life histories optimized to invertebrate predation in seasonal environments. Smallest size at maturity and least adult growth occurred in life histories optimized to fish predation. 5. In the optimal life histories, size at maturity generally increased with mean length of the active season. Adult growth reached a maximum for mean seasons of length equal to about one-half to one life span of Daphnia. 6. Increasing the variation in season length decreased adult growth in the optimal life history, but had little effect on size at maturity. 7. We expect that life histories are adapted to the long-term average of season length and its variation. If the animals can detect the type of predator, selection could favour phenotypic variation in resource allocation.
10.2307/2389521|1. We tested the assumption that superparasitism by solitary species of parasitoid wasps has no fitness consequences for the surviving larva. Using Aphidius ervi and its aphid host, Acyrthosiphon pisum, as an experimental system, we compared adult dry mass and development time from oviposition to adult eclosion between male wasps that developed in single- and in superparasitized aphids. 2. Parasitoids gained 14% more dry mass (with no increase in development time) in superparasitized hosts. It is suggested that superparasitized aphids have higher growth potential for the surviving parasitoid larva because they ingest more food than single-parasitized and unparasitized aphids, in that order. 3. The results are relevant to models of superparasitism as an adaptive strategy.
40407775|1. There is a growing appreciation that male fighting ability is influenced by multiple traits. In particular, studies of male combat have identified a variety of performance capacities that predict victory in conflicts between conspecifics in several animal species. However, while multiple aspects of male fighting ability are often examined with a single study, the interactions among traits are rarely considered. 2. We conducted fight trials between size-matched males in the black field cricket, Teleogryllus commodus, with the aim of testing how two whole-organism performance traits, jumping ability and bite force, together with weight at eclosion, interact to determine combat outcomes. We then examined the relationships between these traits and the outcome of a fight using: a univariate framework, where we examined the difference between winners and losers for each trait separately; and, a multivariate framework known as response surface analysis, where we examined how the interactions among traits predict the outcome of a fight. 3. We show that males that won fights tended to exert significantly more force when biting, but were neither better jumpers nor heavier at eclosion than their rivals. However, when we examined the effects of these three traits while statistically controlling for one another in a multiple regression, we showed that overall fighting ability depends not only on contributions of individual traits to contest resolution but also on the interactions among traits and their relationship to the capabilities of rival males. We found that the probability of winning was highest for a male with the greatest positive difference from his rival in the combination of bite force, jump power and weight at eclosion. 4. These findings highlight how studying multiple performance capabilities in isolation from each other may obscure the importance of some variables. Our multivariate analyses revealed that the interactions between multiple dimensions of performance are important in male combat. We discuss the broader implications of these findings, including the potential role of whole-organism performance in determining male quality.
2390383|1. The swimming speed of two forms, an extreme and a typical, within the cladoceran subgenus Eubosmina were examined using a three-dimensional video-technique. The extreme form has a very high carapax and extremely long antennule, features probably involved in predator defence. 2. It was found that the extreme form swam almost 40% slower than the typical form. 3. Calculations show that the extreme form had to work at least 12% harder to swim at the same speed, or if it used the same amount of energy to swim, the extreme form would swim 6% slower. Increased drag, because of its distinguishing carapax and antennule, is thus the most likely explanation for the slower swimming speed of the extreme form, assuming it selects the same power output. 4. Swimming speed can be correlated to food intake either by the frequency of hits to edible food particles or by the time to swim from a poor food patch to a good one. So the reduced speed is probably a great cost for the extreme form.
3599339| 1. Juvenile pike (Esox lucius), a cannibalistic fish species, aggregates within habitat patches. The advantages to cannibals of aggregating in the absence of other predators and food constraints are not immediately obvious. In this study we explore the basis for this grouping by observing how spatial distributions of juvenile pike are mediated by the presence of conspecifics. 2. Solitary pike preferred shallow-water (017 m depth) habitats. When fish density was increased, the average time spent in alternative deep-water habitat (033 m) increased, consistent with a despotic type of distribution and suggesting that interference was occurring. 3. In pairs of fish, one pike, nominally the dominant individual, showed a habitat use similar to that of single fish. The second individual mostly occupied deep water, again consistent with a despotic distribution and apparently mediated by intimidation interference. However, dominant pike did on occasion enter deep water, at which times the subordinate pike remained with the dominant fish, appearing to aggregate in the pool. 4. We propose that habitat-specific risk could explain aggregations of pike in deep water. Although remaining in close proximity to dominant individuals in deep water would seemingly put subordinate fish at great risk, the alternative of moving to shallow water may increase risk still further by reducing the capacity to perceive and/or evade attacks. 
10.2307/2390564|1. The relative cost of intraspecific exploitation competition is determined for the larvae of two species of bruchid beetle, with different larval competition strategies, by allowing two larvae to share host beans one after the other. 2. On the larger host (Vigna unguiculata, black-eyed bean, also known as cowpea) there is no difference between the cost of exploitation competition for Callosobruchus analis and C. maculatus. 3. On the smaller host (V. radiata, mung bean) C. analis seems to suffer a higher cost of exploitation competition than C. maculatus. 4. The experimental results are interpreted using a game theory model of larval competition. 5. The results suggest that a differing cost of exploitation competition is not the selective force maintaining the different larval competition strategies of laboratory populations of the two species now, although it may have been responsible for the origin of the different strategies in the past.
2390471|1. Seeds from artificial selection lines were exposed to different maternal and ambient conditions, simulating sunlight and vegetation shade. 2. Lines selected for longer leaves also produced larger seeds, indicating a positive genetic correlation between leaf length and seed size. 3. Light conditions during maturation had no large effect on seed size. 4. Seed germination was reduced by a low ratio of red to far-red light (R/FR ratio) in the ambient environment. 5. Seeds maturated under simulated vegetation shade germinated less readily and were more inhibited by a low ambient R/FR ratio than seeds maturated under full sunlight or R/FR-neutral shade. Thus, low R/FR-ratios in the maternal and ambient environment operated synergistically. 6. Large genotypic variation in the germination responses to both maternal and ambient light conditions was found among and within selection lines, indicating that such responses might have the potential to evolve in response to natural selection. 7. Artificial selection for leaf length had affected seed germination characteristics but correlated responses and thus genetic correlations largely depended on light conditions in the selective environment. Selection for longer leaves under a low R/FR ratio increased seed dormancy and plasticity of germination in response to the R/FR ratio. However, in the opposite selective environment selection for longer leaves reduced seed dormancy and plasticity to the R/FR ratio. It is argued that leaf length and seed germination characteristics are somehow linked by shared physiological mechanisms, which may facilitate concerted changes in shade avoidance responses.
2656471|1. In this paper, a theoretical framework for the analysis of growth is described. Growth is equated with change in volume (V) and the growth rate is given by the equation; dV/dt = (dm/dt)(1/)-(d/dt)(m/<sup>2</sup>) where m is the mass and  the density. The volume is inclusive of internal air spaces. 2. The second term of the growth equation (see above) can be ignored if density is constant over time. Data for humans (and presumably other large animals) show that while composition changes over time, the density is approximately constant at about that of water. In that case, the growth rate can be estimated from measures of the rate of change of mass. However, the density of plants is variable (c. 0.4-1.2 g cm<sup>-3</sup>) and measures of mass and density are necessary to analyse plant growth. 3. To use the theory as the basis of plant growth models, it is necessary to develop simple methods for estimating the surface area of roots, stems and leaves assuming that the mass and volume are known. A literature review found that the surface area to volume ratios of leaves and roots generally increase with the mass concentration of water. Theoretical arguments are used to predict that in woody stems, the situation should be reversed such that the surface area to volume ratio increases with the mass concentration of dry matter. Those relationships should be very useful in the development of plant growth models. 4. Measures of plant dry mass and estimates of the rate of change in dry mass are shown to be very difficult to interpret because of differences in the mass concentration of dry matter between individuals and over time. 5. It is concluded that measures of mass and density will be necessary before plant growth analysis can achieve its full potential. A framework for extending the theory to include the forces necessary for growth to occur is described.
826609| 1. To investigate reproductive costs associated specifically with incubation for a single-sex intermittent incubator, clutches of the Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica Linnaeus) were manipulated in successive trios, involving reduced (n - 2), control (n) and enlarged (n + 2) clutch sizes (n is the natural clutch). All manipulated clutches were within the natural range. 2. Manipulations were made shortly after clutch completion and reversed immediately prior to hatching, so the costs of incubation were examined in isolation while the demands of egg-laying and nestling rearing were maintained at natural levels. 3. The efficiency of incubation was dependent on clutch size: the period from laying to hatch was shortest for those incubating reduced (R), and longest for birds incubating enlarged (E) clutches (R: 148  01 days, n = 28; control (C): 153  03, n = 24; E: 156  02 days, n = 28). Also, hatching success was higher amongst R (92%) than either C (85%) or E (81%) clutches. 4. There was no evidence of an incubation cost due to clutch size in terms of parental body condition, provisioning of nestlings, or in the time interval before a second clutch. 5. No difference was found in female nest attendance behaviour or in the decline in egg density (which could reflect water loss) according to our clutch manipulations, indicating that other factors probably underlie the effects observed. 6. It was shown that the number of eggs being incubated affects components of fitness in Barn Swallows, independently of laying and chick-rearing costs. Intraseasonal costs of incubation included prolonged egg development and reduced hatching success among larger clutches but did not affect nestling growth or interclutch intervals. We suggest that an inability to maintain optimal temperature for egg development is likely to underlie the observed responses to clutch size manipulations. 
3806555|1. The effect of floral display size (number of open flowers per plant) on subsequent plant choice by bumble bees, Bombus hypocrita sapporensis (Cockerell), was investigated using artificial inflorescences with blue or yellow flowers representing different 'species'. 2. Bees flew to an inflorescence of the same colour (constant flight) more often after visiting a large inflorescence. This response occurred when the nectar volume per flower was constant (larger inflorescence offered more nectar), and when nectar volume per inflorescence was constant (nectar volume per flower varied with display size). These results indicate that bees did not exhibit higher constancy after visiting larger inflorescences because they extracted more nectar than from smaller ones. 3. Bees spent more time during visits to large vs small inflorescences. Possibly information about the last-visited inflorescence fades from short-term memory during longer visits, which strengthens colour constancy. 4. Selection on floral display size is thought to balance the attraction benefits of large displays with the cost of geitonogamy. However, in habitats with several competing plant species, selection for colour constancy may provide a further reason for selection to favour large floral displays.
2390417|1. Dynamic energy budget (DEB) models describing the allocation of assimilate to the competing processes of growth, reproduction and maintenance in individual organisms have been applied to a variety of species with some success. There are two contrasting model formulations based on dynamic allocation rules that have been widely used (net production and net assimilation formulations). However, the predictions of these two classes of DEB models are not easily distinguished on the basis of simple growth and fecundity data. 2. It is shown that different assumptions incorporated in the rules determining allocation to growth and reproduction in two classes of commonly applied DEB models predict qualitatively distinct patterns for an easily measured variable, cumulative reproduction by the time an individual reaches an arbitrary size. 3. A comparison with experimental data from Daphnia pulex reveals that, in their simplest form, neither model predicts the observed qualitative pattern of reproduction, despite the fact that both formulations capture basic growth features. 4. An examination of more elaborate versions of the two models, in which the allocation rules are modified to account for brief periods of starvation experienced in the laboratory cultures, reveals that a version of the net production model can predict the qualitative pattern seen for cumulative eggs as a function of mass in D. pulex. The analysis leads to new predictions which can be easily tested with further laboratory experiments.
2390450|1. To test whether differences in response to drought can help to explain the differing distributions of Briza media and Koeleria macrantha, changes in their leaf growth and water relations during soil drying were measured. After droughting, plants were rewatered and recovery recorded. 2. Leaf growth of the two species showed a similar sensitivity to drought with respect to duration of soil drying and soil moisture content. 3. In both species tiller base relative water content (RWC) was maintained at similar levels to controls until soil moisture content had fallen to less than 9%. This may aid survival in habitats subject to periodic droughting by preventing damage to the meristems. 4. Briza media did not respond to re-watering. However, plants of K. macrantha re-grew after periods of over 20 days of drought, when tiller base RWCs had fallen as low as 13%. This ability to resurrect may explain the occurrence of K. macrantha in xeric calcicolous grasslands subject to episodes of severe droughting, from which B. media is absent.
10.2307/2390188|1. Field studies were conducted to determine the effects of burial in sand on net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake, water potential and leaf morphology of two grasses, the C<sub>3</sub>, Ammophila breviligulata and the C<sub>4</sub>, Calamovilfa longifolia. 2. Buried plants of both species exhibited higher net photosynthetic rates than controls. However, the increase in net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake was much greater in A. breviligulata than in C. longifolia. 3. At the same burial depth, C. longifolia usually maintained a greater net photosynthetic rate than A. breviligulata. 4. Sand accretion did not influence the water potential of leaves but resulted in a slight increase (not significant) in leaf thickness of A. breviligulata but a significant increase in leaf thickness of C. longifolia. 5. A significant increase was also recorded in the number of bundle sheath cells of C. longifolia in response to sand accretion.
3599267|1. We examined how the performance of three grass species, inserted as invaders in the gaps of synthesized communities, was affected by percentage light transmittance in these gaps and by the species richness and productivity of the surrounding neighbour plants. We also investigated whether these influences changed through time. 2. In both the first and the second season following invader establishment, realized growth (invader leaf length) was positively related to percentage light transmittance (which was the best predictor for invasibility), and negatively related to neighbour biomass, in all species examined. The richness-invasibility relationship became significant only in year 2, when increasing neighbourhood richness enhanced complementarity (demonstrated by means of
10.2307/2389496|The relationship between individual resource use and fitness is fundamental to an understanding of population dynamics. It has been demonstrated that, in theory, reproductive thresholds (i.e. a minimum size, expressed in terms of resource use, required for reproduction) have destabilizing effects on population dynamics (Lomnicki, 1988). We review the published size-fecundity schedules and demonstrate a fundamental difference between plants and animals. Most animal schedules have large, significant thresholds for reproduction, but few plant species exhibit size-fecundity relationships that have negative intercepts. This leads to the prediction that plant populations will generally have stable dynamics whereas animal populations will display the full repertoire of dynamical behaviour.
3599256| 1. The pattern of responses of adult trees of Mountain Birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii) to an outbreak of a folivorous insect (Epirrita autumnata) causing 90% defoliation was studied over 8 years in a subarctic area in northern Sweden. 2. Tree recovery was monitored in terms of the numbers, area, mass and nitrogen content of leaves, the numbers of leaf-carrying long and short shoots, and the widths of annual tree rings in stems. 3. The most prominent characteristic of defoliated trees was a threefold increase in the proportion of long shoots 1 year after defoliation. These shoots subsequently produced many new leaf-carrying short shoots, resulting in shoot populations 50% larger than those of control trees. Thereafter the most strongly defoliated trees showed decreasing leaf area. 4. Defoliated trees produced more female catkins but fewer male catkins than control trees. 5. Released apical dominance did not result in any overcompensation in terms of growth or leaf area production. However, it presumably increased the rate of recovery from herbivory. For the most strongly defoliated trees, the benefits from increased production of long shoots was not sustainable. 
3598972|1. Birds with large eyes can achieve a greater pupil diameter and/or focal length, and hence, all other things being equal, greater visual sensitivity and resolution than birds with small eyes. Thus eye size is predicted to reflect adaptations to ecology. 2. We tested three predictions about the relationships between eye size, foraging method (from wholly visual to tactile techniques) and the daily pattern of foraging activity (diurnal/nocturnal) in shorebirds, using phylogenetic comparative methods. 3. We found that shorebirds that forage at night were more likely to have large eyes, but species using vision to detect their prey did not have larger eyes than species that detect their prey by touch. We also found no evidence that nocturnal foragers are more likely than diurnal foragers to use tactile rather than visual cues to detect their prey. 4. These results indicate that evolutionary changes toward nocturnal habits are associated with increases in eye size, and thus with increases in aspects of visual capacity, but that foraging mode may not be the prime selective force in this taxon.
2390442|1. The effect of variation in floral morphology and display on the level of outcrossing was investigated in a Rocky Mountain population of the self-compatible, protandrous, perennial herb, Aquilegia caerulea. ANOVA revealed substantial variation among 36 plants in floral traits including herkogamy (CV = 35%), protandry (23%), pollen production (12%), flower size (8%), the daily number of flowers in male phase (58%) and autofertility, seed production in the absence of pollinators (192%). 2. Whether this floral variation affected the outcrossing rates of individual plants was assessed using both a categorical analysis, in which outcrossing rates were estimated separately for groups of plants that differed with respect to floral features, and a correlation analysis involving outcrossing rates estimated for individual plants from large progeny arrays (n  40). Both analyses indicated significant positive correlations between the outcrossing rate and herkogamy (r = + 0.71) and protandry (+ 0.54), negative correlations with the number of flowers in male phase during each day of female phase (- 0.42) and autofertility (- 0.36), but no correlation with flower size or pollen production. 3. Partial correlation indicated that both herkogamy and dichogamy, although weakly intercorrelated, were positively correlated with the outcrossing rate and that these effects were only partly mediated by their negative correlation with autofertility. 4. The extent to which floral features and the outcrossing rate covaried across the flowering sequence within plants was also examined in this study. As expected for a plant with strong protandry and sequential blooming, the number of flowers in male phase decreased strongly with flowering sequence position. However, categorical analysis did not support the prediction that the first flowers to open on an inflorescence outcrossed at a lower rate than later-opening flowers. 5. These results suggest that self-fertilization in A. caerulea is the result of all three major modes: autonomous and facilitated autogamy as well as geitonogamy. Although the geitonogamous component of selfing cannot be selected for directly, autogamy may be selected if it provides reproductive assurance.
3599299|1. Embiids are a unique group of web-spinning insects, which construct silk domiciles. In sunny habitats, silk may provide a shady refuge, or exacerbate exposure to high temperatures. Here we present the first description of the thermal biology of embiids, focusing on Notoligotoma hardyi from Magnetic Island, Australia. 2. We recorded natural colony positions and temperature of silk domiciles relative to incident radiation, and manipulated locations of domiciles on sunny (north-facing) and shady (south-facing) rock faces to test whether silk dampens thermal exposure. We also compared responses to laboratory heat stress in N. hardyi with two other embiids: Australembia incompta (Magnetic Island) and Antipaluria urichi (rainforest). 3. Temperatures of air
3806573|1. The Neotropical spider Cupiennius salei Keyserling (Ctenidae) selects prey in a manner consistent with the amount of venom available in its venom glands. It distinguishes the venom sensitivity of different prey species, and uses its venom economically (according to the venom-optimization hypothesis). 2. A prey-choice experiment was performed to test whether spiders use olfactory cues to detect prey and select prey items that are appropriate for their amount of available venom. 3. The spider could choose between two similar prey dummies made of agar. We added the odour of two prey species, either by adding minced insects to an agar block or by offering it on filter paper which had previously been exposed to the living prey. Cupiennius salei spiders had either full or emptied venom glands. 4. Two insects of distinctive venom sensitivity, but high acceptance, were tested: a sensitive cricket and a less sensitive cockroach. 5. Using video surveillance, we found an attraction effect of prey odour in the prey-capture behaviour of C salei. Spiders preferred agar pieces with minced insects or insect odour on filter paper over non-smelling items. Reaction frequency and attack rates were equal for spiders with full venom glands if they had to choose between cricket and cockroach odour. When the venom glands were empty, however, C salei significantly preferred the venom-sensitive cricket over the venom-insensitive cockroach. 6. We showed for the first time that C salei uses its olfactory sense to detect prey items, and distinguishes between prey species with low and high sensitivity to spider venom. This study supports the venom-optimization hypothesis.
4139348|1. We examined if the lobster Nephrops norvegicus exhibits active brood care and if oxygen shortage modifies such behaviour. Furthermore, adult caring behaviour was related to embryonic tolerance and cardiac response of developing embryos. 2. Brood care behaviour was measured as irrigation (pleopod activity) in ovigerous and non-ovigerous females when exposed to normoxia and acute hypoxia. Survival and heart rate was analysed in embryos when exposed to acute and chronic progressive hypoxia. 3. Females carrying eggs in late developmental stages exhibited brood irrigation in normoxic conditions (>90% oxygen saturation) and the behaviour was also initiated in females with early eggs when exposed to hypoxia (30% oxygen saturation). 4. Both early and late embryos survived acute exposure to 5-95% oxygen saturation Early embryos also survived chronic progressive exposure down to 5% oxygen saturation, while late embryos displayed premature hatching (<16% oxygen saturation) and decreased survival rate (<7% oxygen saturation). Late embryos exhibited a linear bradycardia when exposed to <30% oxygen saturation Heartbeat pausing (intermittence) was frequent at high oxygen concentrations, whereas double heartbeats mainly occurred at <20% oxygen saturation.
3599289|1. Ecologists have long sought to derive assembly rules of ecological communities from the fundamental processes of population dynamics, but this goal has remained elusive. Neutral theory has reinvigorated the search by showing that patterns of relative species abundance closely resembling those actually observed arise under the assumption that, to a first approximation, all species are demographically identical on a per capita basis. 2. Here a neutral model is proposed to incorporate all four fundamental processes of population dynamics: birth, death, immigration and emigration. This symmetric model demonstrates that patterns of relative species abundance are fully derivable from these basic processes of population dynamics. 3. The theory derived extends the concept of community by showing that a continuum exists between large-scale ('metacommunity') and small-scale ('local community') processes, eliminating the artificial distinction between the two made by the current neutral theory and by the theory of island biogeography. 4. The population-based species-abundance model describes very well the observed patterns of relative species abundance of tropical trees, breeding birds in the USA, aphids at Rothamsted, UK, and estuarine fishes in the north-east USA. 5. The study also notes that while species assemblages may be well described by the neutral processes of population dynamics, the inference of mechanisms from pattern fitting is not warranted because one-to-one relationships between generating mechanisms and community patterns usually do not exist, either in the neutral realm or in the niche world.
10.2307/2389855|1. Adults of the emergent macrophytes Scirpus lacustris ssp. lacustris (S.l. lacustris), S. lacustris ssp. tabernaemontani (S.l. tabernaemontani) and S. maritimus occur along a gradient in water depth from deep to shallow water. This study examined whether seedlings of these taxa respond differently to changing hydrological conditions. 2. Seedlings of both S. lacustris subspecies showed the highest relative growth rate (RGR) under terrestrial growth conditions, whereas S. maritimus did so under submerged growth conditions. In all three taxa, shading reduced the mean RGR of terrestrial seedlings more strongly than that of submerged ones. 3. Scirpus maritimus and S.l. tabernaemontani maintained an erect growth form under water, whereas S.l. lacustris produced numerous long, floating leaves. 4. Under terrestrial growth conditions the specific leaf area (SLA) did not differ between taxa. Under submerged growth conditions the SLA differed as follows: S.l. lacustris > S.l. tabernae montani > S. maritimus. Irrespective of taxon and water level, the SLA was increased by shading. 5. Growth of all three taxa was reduced considerably after seedlings were transferred from terrestrial to submerged growth conditions. This effect was stronger with increasing age of seedlings. When transferred the other way round, seedlings of S.l. tabernaemontani and S. maritimus adapted quickly to the terrestrial growth conditions, whereas the thin leaves of S.l. lacustris partly dried out. 6. It was concluded that although seedling establishment of all three Scirpus taxa will be most successful under terrestrial conditions, subsequent fluctuating water levels may act as a strong selective force. This may determine the distribution of Scirpus taxa along a gradient in water depth during seedling establishment.
20142849|1. Energetic trade-offs are those compromises that appear when the energy budget of an individual's life history closely matches or exceeds the net available energy in the environment in a given moment. In these situations, two or more functions can compete and organisms face physiological decisions in order to survive and reproduce. 2. In insects, one of the most costly investments is flight capacity, which increases dispersal capacity but is energetically expensive. Adult sand crickets (Gryllus firmus) can vary drastically in this capacity, being macropterous or micropterous depending on whether they exhibit flight-capable wings. However, this binary phenotype has a continuous subjacent determinant in the macropterous morph which is the mass of the muscles that power flight, the dorso-longitudinal muscles (DLM). 3. Using respirometric measurements, we studied a potential trade-off between body parts, the mass of the DLM and energy metabolism (including both maximum and average metabolism). By recording the metabolic rate of c. 180 crickets and then dissecting and weighing their body parts, we took advantage of the correlational structure to infer associations between energetic and morphological variables. We found that the residual mass of the DLM shows a quadratic relationship with residual resting and average metabolism: at low DLM mass there is a negative relationship, which becomes positive at higher DLM mass. 4. We suggest that this pattern of covariance is a consequence of the negative correlation between DLM mass and gonad mass, and the relative contribution of functional vs. non-functional DLM. Then, by using energetics and a combination of multivariate and correlational statistics we were able to show how two important life-history functions (i.e. Dispersal and fecundity) compete for the same resources in an insect species.
826566|1. To test whether plant-soil C fluxes in natural grassland increase under elevated atmospheric CO
10.2307/2390020|1. Genetic variation, plasticity and genotype x environment interaction have been studied in four populations of Arabidopsis thaliana exposed to a set of treatments including one `optimal' and three `stressful' conditions. 2. We found strong phenotypic plasticity for all nine traits measured, highly significant genetic variation among populations for all traits except for two of those directly related to reproductive fitness and genetic variation for the plasticity of phenological, vegetative, early size and one fitness-related character. 3. Flowering time and life span formed a distinct covariance set clearly separating the populations into late, intermediate and early flowering (an ecologically important aspect of A. thaliana phenology). Uni- and multivariate analyses of variance revealed that more within-treatment genetic variance for traits tended to be expressed under `stressful' conditions than in the `optimal' treatment. 4. However, we suggest that the frequency of occurrence of the environments might be more important than their `stressfulness' in determining genetic and phenotypic changes. Comparison of the components of phenotypic variance measured in a series of unordered treatments with those components measured under several ordered treatments (from a parallel study) revealed that the amount of genetic variation for plasticity tends to be higher in the set of unordered treatments.
40205504|1. Marine herbivorous fishes are considered to be of critical importance in determining the biological structure of shallow reef environments, and by implication have key roles in carbon flux in reef ecosystems. Despite this, the nutritional processes that underpin these critical ecological roles have received comparatively little attention. 2. Here we give an overview of recent progress in the nutritional ecology of marine herbivorous fishes, and then examine two recent paradigms that we consider important in the development of the field: (i) the role of temperature in latitudinal gradients of diversity and abundance, and (ii) the impact of these fishes on coral reefs. Our aim is to illustrate how an integrative nutritional ecology approach can enrich insights gained from studies of fish herbivory, and to emphasize the distinctive differences between herbivory in marine and terrestrial systems. 3. We argue that much of the work on trophic biology in marine herbivorous fishes has focused on the ecological impacts of fishes on reefs, the deterrent properties of marine algae, and the morphological and mechanical aspects of ingestion. This has come at the expense of two of the elements necessary for an integrative understanding of feeding ecology, that is, food composition and the physiological processes involved in nutrient extraction and utilization. Together, these factors have hindered the development of the nutritional framework for analysing food resources, feeding patterns and evolutionary trends that has proved successful for terrestrial vertebrate herbivores. 4. The reef grazing and algal secondary metabolite paradigms, while both extremely productive, have failed to develop the clear predictive framework for diet choice required in broader contexts such as reef management and understanding the evolution of herbivory. The lack of a focus on nutritional factors has led to premature conclusions on the influence of temperature on algal digestion, both at the level of digestive processes and the biogeography of marine faunas. 5. Some marine herbivorous fishes appear to be bending the 'rules' of hindgut fermentation, especially with respect to temperature and fermentation substrates, and so the study of nutritional ecology in these animals has potential to generate novel insights for the field of vertebrate nutrition in general.
4540101| 1. For air-breathing animals in aquatic environments, foraging behaviours are often constrained by physiological capability. The development of oxygen stores and the rate at which these stores are used determine juvenile diving and foraging potential. 2. We examined the ontogeny of dive physiology in the threatened Australian sea lion Neophoca cinerea. Australian sea lions exploit benthic habitats; adult females demonstrate high field metabolic rates (FMR), maximize time spent near the benthos, and regularly exceed their calculated aerobic dive limit (cADL). Given larger animals have disproportionately greater diving capabilities; we wanted to determine the extent physiological development constrained diving and foraging in young sea lions. 3. Ten different mother/pup pairs were measured at three developmental stages (6, 15 and 23 months) at Seal Bay Conservation Park, Kangaroo Island, South Australia. Hematocrit (Hct), haemoglobin (Hb) and plasma volume were analyzed to calculate blood 0 stores and myoglobin was measured to determine muscle 0. Additionally, FMR's for nine of the juveniles were derived from doubly-labelled water measurements. 4. Australian sea lions have the slowest documented 0 store development among diving mammals. Although weaning typically occurs by 17-6 months, 23-month juveniles had only developed 68% of adult blood 0. Muscle 0 was the slowest to develop and was 60% of adult values at 23 months. 5. We divided available 02 stores (37-11  1-49 mL 0 kg) by at-sea FMR (1578  129 mL 0 min kg) to determine a cADL of 233  024 min for juvenile Australian sea lions. Like adults, young sea lions regularly exceeded cADL's with 678  28% of dives over theoretical limits and a mean dive duration to cADL ratio of 123  010. 6. Both dive depth and duration appear impacted by the slow development of oxygen stores. For species that operate close to, or indeed above their estimated physiological maximum, the capacity to increase dive depth, duration or foraging effort would be limited. Due to reduced access to benthic habitat and restricted behavioural options, young benthic foragers, such as Australian sea lions, would be particularly vulnerable to resource limitation. 
826710|1. Movements of hedgehogs, Erinaceus europaeus L., were analysed in relation to roads by recording their nocturnal foraging trajectories in urban areas adjacent to major road systems. Four male and four female hedgehogs at each of two sites were each tracked over five replicate trajectories of more than 3 h, using radio-telemetry and direct observation. 2. Frequency of road crossings and use of habitat were compared to simulated random trajectories. For each observed trajectory, 100 trajectories were simulated with the same distribution of speeds as observed, but with random direction. 3. Observed trajectories had lower rates of crossing large but not small roads than simulated, indicating that hedgehogs treat large roads as barriers during nightly foraging activities. Most hedgehogs were never observed to cross roads, whereas almost all simulated trajectories did cross both large and small roads. 4. Crossing behaviour differed by site, but not by sex. 5. Roads and road verges had the lowest rank in a habitat preference analysis at both sites, while playing fields, gardens and urban areas were preferred habitats. These results are discussed in relation to the regional scale preference for urban areas, and the attraction to road verges while dispersing, shown by hedgehogs.
3806553|1. Demographic rates such as growth and survival may interact directly as a result of allocation constraints, or indirectly through their relationship with structural characteristics. 2. We explored the relationship between growth and survival in a range of rosette-forming species across different habitats, and investigated possible mechanistic explanations for the patterns we found. 3. Results indicated a negative association between growth and survival in small plants across species in different habitats. There was no relationship for large plants. 4. Relative growth rate (RGR) was positively correlated to specific leaf area (SLA), but unrelated to the percentage biomass allocated to roots. This argues against the hypothesized role of allocation to root mass in mediating the growth-survival trade-off. 5. The pattern of biomass partitioning was compared with the predictions of Enquist & Niklas (2002a) Global allocation rules for patterns of biomass partitioning in seed plants. Science 295, 1517-1520. In agreement with their predictions, the overall relationship between above- and below-ground biomass was isometric. However, after accounting for species-specific effects it was found that allocation to roots varied widely between species and was size-dependent, suggesting that the conventional statistical analysis (double-log regression) may be insensitive to biologically important sources of variation.
10.2307/2389336|Seasonal patterns of seedling emergence and seed dispersal as well as their spatial patterns were measured for several dozen component species of a species-rich moist tall grassland community in warm temperate Japan. Although extremely high spatial heterogeneity of seedling emergence was observed for most of the species, which would have resulted from both the spatial heterogeneities of seed rain and `safe-site' distribution, the seasonal pattern of seedling emergence was less varied within a species over space and between years. Yearly seedling emergence in the community started when the accumulated daily air temperature (on a base temperature of 5<sup></sup>C) reached around 30 degree days (K d) and the spring flush of emergence began when daily mean temperatures of warmer days rose above 10<sup></sup>C. Emergence seasons in the community were concentrated in spring and early summer. Autumn emergence was recorded for only one species. Mean seed weight significantly and linearly depended on the mean date of emergence of yearly recorded seedlings for individual species, i.e. the greater the seed mass of the species, the later the seedling emergence season was. Upright annuals had a significantly earlier mean date of emergence than perennials and annual lianas. Since seed dispersal time varied greatly from species to species, ranging from mid-spring to early winter, there was a great variety of relative timings of seed dispersal and seedling emergence among the co-occurring species in the community.
2390376|1. The enzyme catalase was investigated as a sensitive marker of light stress in Retama raetam stems and Atriplex halimus leaves. While the activity of catalase was readily photoinactivated in vitro when crude extracts from these tissues were exposed to a photon flux of 500 mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>01</sup> photosynthetic active radiation (PAR), no apparent losses of the extractable catalase activities were observed when tissues were harvested from desert plants at noon when light levels were as high as 2200 mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup> PAR. 2. When stems of R. raetam or leaves of A. halimus were exposed to natural daylight of 1000 mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>01</sup> PAR in the presence of cycloheximide (CHI), in order to prevent the new synthesis of catalase, or at a temperature of 42-44<sup></sup>C, only minor losses of catalase activity occurred in stems of R. raetam, but a marked apparent photoinactivation of catalase was observed in leaves of A. halimus. 3. Similarly, stronger declines of the ratio F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>, indicating more severe photoinhibition of photosystem II (PSII), were observed in A. halimus, compared with R. raetam. 4. For R. raetam, activities of some antioxidative enzymes and the carotenoid contents were higher in plants growing in the desert than in plants collected from non-desert location. 5. During the daily increase of light and temperature the antioxidants ascorbate and glutathione became more oxidized and violaxanthin was converted to zeaxanthin in R. raetam stems, while these antioxidants became more reduced and zeaxanthin was not notably accumulated in A. halimus leaves. 6. The results suggest that the desert plants R. raetam and A. halimus apply different strategies of protection against light-stress damage. In the stems of R. raetam antioxidative protection appears to play the major role, while A. halimus appears to avoid light damage in the field by the mutual shading of leaves and reflection of light at the leaf surface.
10.2307/2389322|To account for observed patterns of emergence in the warm temperate grasslands of Japan the seed germination of several dozen species was tested following various types of thermal pre-treatment. An enormous variety of responses was observed among the species, especially in the capacity for immediate germination and the responses to moist storage with chilling. The extent of chilling requirement for the breakage of primary dormancy was largely correlated with the timing of seed dispersal, spring-summer dispersers tending to have a larger chilling requirement. On the other hand, the seedling emergence phenology of the species was closely related to the temperature dependency of the germination of non-dormant seeds.
40407716|1. Stem vascular system strongly influences structure and functioning of leaves, life-history, and distribution of plants. Xylem structure and hydraulic conductivity of branches, leaf functional traits, and growth rates in 17 dipterocarp species in a mature plantation stand were examined to explore the functional relationships between these traits. 2. Maximum hydraulic conductivity on the bases of both sapwood and leaf area $(k_L )$ were positively correlated with midday leaf water potential in the rainy season, stomatal conductance, area-based maximum photosynthetic rate, photosynthetic N (PNUE) and P use efficiencies (PPUE), and mean height and diameter growth rates. Moreover, $k_L $ was positively correlated with mesophyll thickness and mass-based maximum photosynthetic rate. These results revealed the mechanistic linkage between stem hydraulics and leaf photosynthesis through nutrient use efficiency and mesophyll development of leaves. 3. A detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) using 37 traits showed that the traits related to stem hydraulics and leaf carbon gain were loaded on the first axis whereas traits related to light harvesting were loaded on the second axis, indicating that light harvesting is a distinct ecological axis for tropical canopy plants. The DCA also revealed a trade-off between photosynthetic water use efficiency and hydraulic conductivity along with PNUE and PPUE. 4. The congeneric species were scattered fairly close together on the DCA diagram, indicating that the linkages between stem hydraulics, leaf functional traits, and plant growth rates are phylogenetically conserved. 5. These results suggest that stem hydraulics mediates leaf water status, carbon gain, nutrient use efficiencies, and growth rates across the dipterocarp species. The wide variation in functional traits and growth rates among these dipterocarp species along with the trade-offs mentioned above provide a possible explanation for their co-existence in tropical forest communities.
40407765|1. The carbon source for reproduction in plants may differ between flowering and fruiting stages. To clarify how spring ephemerals use current photosynthetic products for reproduction, the allocation patterns of photosynthate at flowering and fruiting and the effects of resource limitation on reproductive performance in Corydalis ambigua were assessed. 2. A C tracing experiment revealed that about 20% of the current photosynthetic carbon was used for reproduction at both flowering and fruiting. The proportion of C allocated to fruits was constant irrespective of the light level. In contrast, C translocation to tubers increased at fruiting, and this trend was accelerated when plants were shaded. 3. Defoliation treatment significantly reduced nectar production and tuber mass, while seed production was not affected. Therefore, when carbon assimilation was limited, carbon was preferentially allocated to current reproduction (seeds) rather than to pollinator attraction (nectar) or storage (tuber). 4. If seed production is partly supported by carbohydrate reserved in the old tissue of tubers, nectar and seed production may not compete strongly for carbon sources. In contrast to the ability of high seed production, the susceptibility of nectar production to current photosynthesis indicates that seed production of this species is basically limited by pollen capture. 5. Therefore, temporal separation of resource pool for reproduction may mitigate the joint limitation of seed production between pollinator attraction and resource availability. Temporal variation of the sink-source balance of storage organ is crucial to understand the cost of reproduction in perennial plants.
10.2307/2390266|1. To evaluate how differences in juvenile and subadult growth influence egg size and fecundity, we investigated wild and hatchery reared Atlantic Salmon smolts originating from the River Imsa population. The smolts were individually tagged and released into a Norwegian river. Specific growth rate of hatchery reared juveniles in fresh water averaged 1.38 times higher than that of wild conspecifics. Specific growth rate at sea of the subadults, on the other hand, was 1.14 times higher for wild than hatchery reared fish. 2. Mean egg weight increased with adult body weight. On average, eggs of wild fish were 1.12 times heavier than those of hatchery reared fish of corresponding sea ages. 3. Somatic fish weight (total fish weight less egg weight) explained 27% of the variance in egg weight in wild, 40% in hatchery reared salmon and 30% for the combined sample. Moreover, juvenile growth rate in fresh water as a second independent variable, significantly improved the explanatory power (r<sup>2</sup>=0.43 for wild, 0.46 for hatchery salmon and 0.48 for the combined sample). Neither growth rate at sea nor length increment as juveniles in fresh water (smolt length) added significantly to the explanatory power. 4. Fecundity increased with somatic weight in both wild (r<sup>2</sup>=0.81) and hatchery reared fish (r<sup>2</sup>=0.74), with hatchery fish having about 30% more eggs for a given body size than wild females. By adding specific growth rate in fresh water as a second independent variable, 76% of the variance in fecundity of hatchery fish was explained. In wild fish, the addition of egg weight as the second independent variable increased the coefficient of determination of the regression model to 0.88. Use of length increment at sea and smolt length as independent variables did not improve the explanatory power. 5. Total ovary weight increased with somatic weight (r<sup>2</sup>=0.83) and the pattern was similar for wild and hatchery reared fish. Neither growth rate in fresh water nor at sea increased the explanatory power of the regression model.
2390338|1. Mixed diets are common in vertebrates, and may be explained by several hypotheses including the availability and nutrient composition of different types of food, the presence of toxins, associative effects in digestion or non-nutritional factors such as foraging efficiency or predation. This study investigated diet mixing in the omnivorous tortoise Kinixys spekii, which consumes fungi, vascular plants and invertebrates in the field. Tortoises feeding ad libitum on these three diets had a higher intake of digestible energy from fungi than from leaves or millipedes (69, 42 and 31 kJ kg<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> respectively). 2. Tortoises offered pairwise combinations of foods chose mostly that giving the highest rate of digestible energy intake; 73:27 fungi:leaves, 92:8 fungi:millipedes, and 91:9 leaves:millipedes, by wet mass. Nevertheless, some of the food giving a lower energy intake was eaten. 3. Tortoises feeding ad libitum on a mixed diet (90:10 leaves:millipedes by wet mass) had similar food intake rates and gut retention times to those feeding on leaves. The digestibility of energy was lower for the mixed diet than for diets of leaves or millipedes; a significant negative associative effect. 4. The rate of intake of dry mass did not differ between the three pure diets, the selected diets, or the mixed diet, though this was about 50% higher at 30 <sup></sup>C than outdoors, and represents a limitation due to digestion or appetite. Intake of other foods decreased the intake of dry mass of the preferred food, fungi, by an equal amount. 5. The three foods had similar levels of protein as a proportion of dry mass, partly because of the high ash content of millipedes. The digestibility of protein was higher in millipedes, but the rate of intake of total and of digestible protein was in the same rank order as that of energy (fungi > leaves > millipedes). Although the quantity of protein provided no nutritional explanation for inclusion of lower energy foods in the diet, the quality of protein may differ between food types. 6. Herbivorous tortoises are known to face limitations from calcium and sodium balance. Fungi had a lower level of calcium and a lower ratio of sodium:potassium than leaves; millipedes had values higher than leaves. Foods that are non-optimal in terms of energy are probably included in the diet for micronutrients such as minerals or essential amino acids.
20142782|1. Sperm competition is an important attribute of many mating systems. Examining the genetic and environmental factors influencing male sperm competition success is essential in order to understand variation in reproductive success. 2. In the scorpionfly Panorpa cognata, male success in sperm competition is influenced by the number of sperm transferred during copulation. This will be determined by copulation duration and the sperm transfer rate of males. Sperm transfer rate is a trait which shows considerable phenotypic variance. 3. Here, I use a full-sib split-brood design in order to investigate both to what extent this trait is heritable and the influence of larval food availability on male sperm transfer rate. 4. The results demonstrate considerable genetic variance underlying the phenotypic expression of sperm transfer rate. Heritability estimates were slightly larger, but not significantly so, for offspring reared at low food availability. 5. In contrast, there was no straightforward evidence that larval food availability had an effect on the sperm transfer rate of males. However, a significant family  treatment interaction provided evidence of a genotype  environment effect on male sperm competitive ability. These results demonstrate different reaction norms for sperm transfer rate in response to larval treatment for individuals with different genetic background.
10.2307/2390568|1. The role of light quality and quantity on steady-state photosynthetic characteristics, efficiency of lightfleck utilization (LFUE) and growth was evaluated in seedlings of tropical rain-forest trees. 2. The pioneer species, Cecropia obtusifolia and Heliocarpus appendiculatus, and the shade tolerant species, Rheedia edulis, were grown in a greenhouse under contrasting red/far-red (R/FR) ratios characteristic of the open and the shaded forest understorey but with the same low photosynthetically active radiation (PAR). Additionally plants were grown in a high PAR environment with a R/FR characteristic of the open. 3. The pioneer species responded strongly to R/FR in terms of greater height growth and a shift in allocation to stem growth over leaf growth in low R/FR (simulated shade) as compared to high R/FR (open). Light quality, however, had no significant effect on steady-state photosynthetic characteristics or LFUE for any species. 4. Increased light quantity, by contrast, caused photosynthetic acclimation leading to higher photosynthetic capacities. The pioneer species showed a larger capacity for photosynthetic acclimation to light environment than the shade species. LFUE was also affected by light quantity, with the low-light grown plants showing higher LFUE than the high-light grown plants. 5. Results provide evidence that light quality does not play an important role in modulating steady-state and dynamic photosynthetic characteristics during acclimation to shade, even in species that exhibit morphogenetic responses to light quality.
10.2307/2389794|The adjustment of photosynthetic rates to fluctuating and constant light was investigated in Hormosira banksii (Turn.) Dene., Carpophyllum maschalocarpum, (Turn.) Grev. and Ecklonia radiata (C. Ag.) J. Ag. by monitoring either CO<sub>2</sub> exchange in emergent material with an infrared gas analyser (IRGA) or O<sub>2</sub> exchange in submersed material with an O<sub>2</sub> electrode. Using the IRGA, mean photosynthetic rates (P) in fluctuating light showed several kinetic patterns taking 2-4 h to become fully adjusted after pretreatments of low light or darkness. In continuous low light the adjustment period was similar but the pattern was less complex. The time for P to reach a steady value in fluctuating light can be substantially reduced by a 30 min pretreatment of the material in the higher light. Errors due to O<sub>2</sub> storage in the bladders of Hormosira precluded study of the adjustment in immersed material of this species. In Ecklonia monitoring with an O<sub>2</sub> electrode and microcomputer revealed adjustment periods of P to fluctuating light of at least 30-40 min. Classical induction contributes to the adjustments of P to fluctuating light but other processes such as post-illumination CO<sub>2</sub> fixation and photoadaptive responses appear to play an important role. These long-term changes in photosynthesis complicate studies of photosynthesis-irradiance responses. Capacity of these macroalgae to adjust photosynthetic performance may be significant for carbon gain in dynamic light.
4540105|1. Classical theory predicts that colonizing ability should increase with fecundity. Additionally, it has recently been shown that successful establishment of birds was correlated with relative brain size, which was suggested as possibly universal among vertebrates. 2. I conducted a comparative study of establishment success in global fish introductions, controlling for regional geographic differences, to test these hypothesized correlates. 3. In 133 introductions of 17 fish species, establishment success was negatively associated with fecundity while there was no evidence for an effect of relative brain size. In analysis of partially overlapping data, there was no evidence of a correlation between relative brain size and establishment rate across 39 species. 4. One explanation for the negative association with fecundity is that parental investment might be more important to establishment than fecundity. In 126 introductions of 14 species, reproductive behaviours associated with parental investment were significantly associated with establishment success. These results suggest that the correlation between brain size and establishment success is not universal.
2656413|1. Morphological features (i.e. snout-vent length, SVL, mass and limb parameters), locomotor performance (sprint speed, climbing speed, manoeuvrability and endurance) and microhabitat use were measured in three lacertid lizard species. Additionally, microhabitat preference was tested in the laboratory with species kept apart and in combination with each other to assess mutual interference. 2. It was predicted that each species possesses morphological adaptations that allow it to excel in those performance measures relevant in its particular microhabitat. 3. The three species differed in microhabitat use. Lacerta bedriagae was mostly seen on boulders, while Podarcis sicula occurred among vegetation. Podarcis tiliguerta seemed more general in its microhabitat use. The results from the microhabitat preference in the laboratory corresponded well to these field observations. 4. Besides differing in SVL, the three species differed in limb length and diameter, and body mass (all relative to SVL). L. bedriagae has long forelimbs, short hindlimbs and a high body mass, while P. sicula has short forelimbs, long hindlimbs and a low body mass. P. tiliguerta is morphologically intermediate. 5. The differences found in morphology translated partially into performance differences. Only climbing speed and endurance differed among species. L. bedriagae excelled in both cases. Considering its microhabitat use, this seemed adaptive. 6. Unexpectedly, the interference experiments suggested that L. bedriagae is the least competitive of the three species.
4540052|1. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is the most widely used standard measurement of the cost of living. Despite the acknowledged phenotypic flexibility of BMR, little is known about the patterns of variation in wild animal populations. 2. We studied the sources of variation in BMR of great tit Parus major (L.) among individuals from two wild populations: Oulu (northern Finland) and Lund (southern Sweden) during six consecutive years. 3. By means of a multivariate approach, we found year, locality, date, previous week average minimum temperature, age, body mass, and the interaction between locality and year were the factors retained in the final model, together explaining 71-1% of the total variation in BMR. 4. Birds from Oulu (n = 168) had a higher BMR than Lund birds (n = 156), and their BMR varied more between years than that of Lund birds. The two populations reacted in the same way to the other sources of variation examined. 5. Great tits from both populations showed a positive relationship between BMR and body mass and a negative relationship between BMR and date, previous week average minimum temperature and age. 6. This study highlights the need to standardize BMR measurements when testing predictions about metabolic rates from individuals of wild populations.
41239456|1. Phenotypic plasticity in defensive traits has been proven to be effective in ecosystems with frequently changing predator regimes. However, if a single dominant predator exerts predation pressure on each ontogenetic stage, prey should adapt by developing defensive traits for each life stage within a cost-benefit framework. This may require a change of defensive mechanisms between juvenile and adult life stages. 2. In this study, we examined the morphological defences of the cladoceran Daphnia magna Strauss induced by the tadpole shrimp Triops cancriformis Bosc. We tested for the induction of morphological defences by directly exposing daphnids to the predator and conducted a life span experiment to determine if the expression of the induced morphological defences varies throughout the life span of D. magna. In addition, we studied the adaptive value, i.e. the effectiveness, of the Trtops-induced morphological defences in D. magna by conducting predation trials. 3. We found that, in D. magna, the expression of an array of inducible morphological defences, which act synergistically to provide effective protection, changes during the daphnids lifetime in response to the tadpole shrimp T. cancriformis. This gradual switch in the protective function of single traits between juvenile and adult stages represents a novel functionality and complexity of inducible defences. Both direct contact with the predator and chemical cues (kairomones) released by T. cancriformis induce an increased body length, body width and an elongation of the tail spine in D. magna. This study is the first to show that kairomones released by a predator can induce 'bulkiness' as a defensive mechanism in Daphnia. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the Triops-induced morphological defences (i.e. an elongated tail spine and increased bulkiness) by conducting predation trials. 4. Our study provides rare evidence for morphological defences in D. magna, and in addition shows that prey species gradually switch between plastic traits to maintain effective defences throughout their entire lifetime. Hence, our results help to shed light on the mechanisms governing phenotypic plasticity within natural populations.
10.2307/2389988|1. The vertical distribution of plant tissues and the grazing responses of goats to five grass species differing in their physical and structural properties were analysed, with the aim of establishing how these affected the loss of tissue from the plant and the gains to herbivores. 2. The grass species varied more widely in canopy structure than their tissues vary in mechanical characteristics. Fine-leaved grasses had higher tiller numbers than broad-leaved species and this largely determines the higher forces and energy required to graze them. 3. A lower proportion of plant tissue was removed in each bite taken from those grasses which demanded higher bite forces during defoliation. 4. It is calculated that the great majority of energy expenditure during grazing is in chewing the ingested vegetation, rather than in removing plant tissue from the sward. Energy gain exceeded predicted energy use during grazing to any depth in the sward and could not therefore explain why animals remove plant tissue only from the surface layer. 5. Large animals severed herbage closer to the ground surface than small animals and thus were apparently less constrained by the physical properties of the vegetation. 6. The balance between marginal energy intake rate and the additional force required for defoliation at greater depth offers an explanation for the extent of defoliation. The existence of a limit to the force an animal can apply is not a likely explanation for the determination of bite depth.
3599145|1. Photoperiod is an important seasonal cue for temperate seasonal breeders. In birds, increasing photoperiod typically stimulates reproductive maturation, while also triggering gonad regression through photorefractoriness at a later date. Curiously, many tropical birds show photoperiodic reproductive responses, even though day-length changes in their natural habitat are minimal. 2. Spotted Antbirds (Hylophylax n. naevioides) from a near-equatorial rainforest in Panama are highly sensitive to small photoperiodic changes at the onset of reproduction. We therefore tested whether these tropical birds use photoperiod as the primary signal for seasonal processes, as do most temperate birds, and terminate reproduction through photorefractoriness. 3. Male and female Spotted Antbirds captured during postbreeding moult significantly increased gonad sizes when exposed to a photoperiod of 22 h. Furthermore, males exposed to a naturalistic 1-h increase in photoperiod (to 13 h) also grew their gonads, suggesting that these birds retain photosensitivity at a time of year when most temperate birds are unable to grow their gonads. Hatch-year birds in all groups showed reproductive development indicating their capability to breed. Unlike in many temperate-zone birds, the moult of adult birds was not inhibited by gonad development. 4. The lack of photorefractoriness allows Spotted Antbirds to flexibly adjust the end of breeding to environmental conditions. Our findings support the view that photoperiodic mechanisms are evolutionary plastic and match the ecology of a particular species.
40407761|1. In community and population ecology, there is a chronic gap between the classic Eltonian ecology describing patterns in abundance and body mass across species and ecosystems and the more process oriented foraging ecology addressing interactions and quantitative population dynamics. However, this dichotomy is arbitrary, because body mass also determines most species traits affecting foraging interactions and population dynamics. 2. In this review, allometric (body-mass dependent) scaling of handling times and attack rates are documented, whereas body-mass effects on Hill exponents (varying between hyperbolic type II and sigmoid type III functional responses) and predator interference coefficients are lacking. This review describes how these allometric relationships define a biological plausible parameter space for population dynamic models. 3. Consistent with the classic Eltonian description, species co-existence in consumer-resource models and tri-trophic food chains is restricted to intermediate consumer-resource body-mass ratios. Allometric population dynamic models allow understanding the processes of energy limitation and unstable dynamics leading to this restriction. Complex food webs are stabilized by high predator-prey body-mass ratios, which are consistent with those found in natural ecosystems. These high body-mass ratios yield positive diversity-stability and complexity-stability relationships thus supporting the classic picture of ecosystem stability. 4. Allometric-trophic network models, based on body mass and trophic information from ecosystems, bridge the gap between Eltonian community patterns and process-oriented foraging ecology and provide a new means to describe the dynamics and functioning of natural ecosystems.
10.2307/2389604|Normal and pollution-enhanced oxyradical (O<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>, H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>, OH)<sup>*</sup> production in molluscs have been reviewed and discussed. Additionally, data are presented on the antioxidant enzyme responses and lipid peroxidation effects in digestive gland of Mytilus edulis L. exposed to 50 p.p.b. benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) or 1 p.p.m. of the model redox cycling compound menadione. Digestive gland microsomes support NADPH- and NADH-dependent oxyradical generation and the rates of production are increased by redox cycling compounds (menadione, nitrofurantoin, paraquat). Antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase, NAD(P)H-DT-diaphorase) and free radical scavengers (glutathione, vitamins A, C and E, -carotene) are present in molluscan tissues. Potential sources of pollutant-enhanced oxyradical generation include uptake of redox cycling xenobiotics, elevation of cytochrome P-450 and cytochrome P-450 reductase, and biotransformation of BaP and other polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) to redox cycling quinones. Transient increases in antioxidant enzymes occur with exposure of bivalves to paraquat, BaP or menadione. Increases in lipid peroxidation also occur or are indicated. Future studies should concentrate on demonstrating oxyradical production in vivo and examining the link between oxidative damage and animal fitness.
20142889| 1. Ecosystem respiration varies substantially at short temporal intervals and identifying the role of coupled temperature- and precipitation-induced changes has been an ongoing challenge. To address this challenge we applied a metabolic ecological theory to identify pulses in ecosystem respiration following rain events. Using this metabolic framework, precipitation-induced pulses were described as a reduction in metabolic activation energy after individual precipitation events. 2. We used this approach to estimate the responses of 237 individual events recorded over 2 years at four eddy-covariance sites in southern AZ, USA. The sites varied in both community type (woody and grass dominated) and landscape position (riparian and upland). We used a nonlinear inversion procedure to identify both the parameters for the pre-event temperature sensitivity and the predicted response of the temperature sensitivity to precipitation. By examining multiple events we evaluated the consistency of pulses between sites and discriminated between hypotheses regarding landscape position, event distributions, and pre-event ecosystem metabolism rates. 3. Over the 5-day post-event period across all sites the mean precipitation effect was attributed to 61 g CO m of carbon release, which represented a 21% increase in respiration over the pre-event steady state trajectory of carbon loss. Differences in vegetation community were associated with differences in the integrated magnitude of pulse responses, while differences in topographic position were associated with the initial peak pulse rate. In conjuction with the differences between sites, the individual total pulse response was positively related to the drying time interval and metabolic rates prior to the event. The quantitative theory presented provides an approach for understanding ecosystem pulse dynamics and helps characterized the dependence of ecosystem metabolism on both temperature and precipitation. 
3599360|1. Root-system architecture, and plastic variation in architecture and physiological function, influence the capacity of plants to acquire nutrients from non-uniform soil. Previous theoretical analyses of the relationship between root architecture and nutrient acquisition have largely assumed uniform soils and unresponsive root systems. We extend these studies by considering non-uniform nutrient supply and plasticity in root growth and uptake physiology. 2. Using modelling, we investigated the growth and nitrate uptake of two extreme theoretical architectural types: dichotomous (highly branched) and herringbone (sparsely branched). Root systems with plastic or non-plastic root-growth and nitrate-uptake responses, supplied with non-uniform distributions of soil nitrate, were simulated. 3. The simulated herringbone root system had a higher nitrate-uptake efficiency (NUE, nitrate-N m
3599255| 1. The ratio of leaf to sapwood area generally decreases with tree size, presumably to moderate hydraulic costs of tree height. This study assessed consequences of tree size and leaf area on water flux in Quercus garryana Dougl. ex. Hook (Oregon White Oak), a species in which leaf to sapwood area ratio increases with tree size. We tested hypotheses that Q. garryana individuals of greater size and leaf area show reduced leaf-specific hydraulic conductance (K
10.2307/2389971|1. Environmentally induced variation in plant defences may partially account for variation in herbivory rates among plants. 2. Some herbivores alter the microenvironment within a host to promote favourable changes in plant tissues. Caterpillars from the families Pyralidae and Ctenuchidae form a roll of leaves around an expanding bud which reduces light availability by 95%. 3. In the neotropical shrub, Psychotria horizontalis, shading by the roll of leaves decreased the toughness of the expanding leaves by 31% and leaf tannin concentration by 15%, while having no effect on two measures of nutritional quality, nitrogen concentration and water content. Moreover, herbivores preferred leaves that had grown within a leaf roll over control leaves (P<0.001). 4. This behavioural mechanism may allow the herbivore to disable an otherwise well-defended plant.
20142810|1. One of the primary axes of life-history variation involves the proportion of embryonic development for which the offspring is retained within its parent's body; understanding trade-offs associated with prolonging that period thus is a critical challenge for evolutionary ecology. 2. Prior to oviposition, most oviparous squamate reptiles retain developing eggs in utero for about one-third of embryogenesis; the strong conservatism in this trait is a major puzzle in reptilian reproduction. To clarify fitness consequences of this prolonged uterine retention, we need to experimentally modify the trait and examine the effects of our manipulation. 3. We used transdermal application of corticosterone to induce gravid scincid lizards (Bassiana duperreyi) to lay their eggs 'prematurely', with relatively undeveloped embryos. Corticosterone application induced females to oviposit sooner (mean of 5.41  0.51 days post-treatment) at earlier embryonic developmental stage (27  0.21) than did controls (13.2  1.22 days; embryonic stage 30.4  0.16). 4. Corticosterone levels in the egg yolk were unaffected by maternal treatment, so effects of earlier oviposition should not be confounded by endocrine disruption of embryogenesis. Nonetheless, early oviposition reduced hatchling fitness. Hatching success was lower, incubation periods post-laying were increased, and neonates from eggs laid at earlier embryonic stages were smaller and slower. 5. These results suggest that retention of developing eggs in utero by oviparous squamates enhances maternal fitness, and does so via modifications to offspring phenotypes rather than (for example) due to accelerated developmental rates of eggs in utero compared to in the nest. 6. More generally, our data support optimality models that interpret interspecific variation in the duration of maternal-offspring contact in terms of the selective forces that result from earlier vs. later termination of that maternal investment.
10.2307/2390001|1. Size-related differences in digestive capabilities are thought to account for patterns of diet selection, social structure and habitat use by small- and large-bodied herbivores. We examined food processing behaviours that could compensate for digestive constraints resulting from the relative scaling of metabolic requirements and gut capacity with body mass. 2. We observed feeding, chewing and ruminating behaviours of sexually size-dimorphic Nubian ibex fed diets chopped to a short (1-2 cm), medium (8 cm), or long (25 cm) length. These diets differed in the amount of oral processing needed for particle size reduction, bolus formation and swallowing. 3. Food particle size did not affect intake rate (g/min) but chewing investment (chews/g) of both sexes was 30% less for the shortest hay. 4. Rumination activity of both sexes approximated the maximum sustainable level of almost 10 h/day for all diets. Chewing rates (chews/min) during rumination did not differ between males and females. 5. Chewing investment of females was 40% greater than that of males while feeding and more than 50% greater while ruminating. Size-related differences in molar occlusal surface area (15%) were much too small to account for sex-related variation in chewing investment. 6. Our results support the hypothesis that females enhanced digestion rates relative to those of larger-bodied males through increased oral processing.
41239288|1. As organisms expand their range towards northern latitudes they will encounter selective factors like harsh winter conditions. The ability to cope with and adapt to harsh winters may depend on the variability and evolutionary potential of relevant traits. 2. One adaptation in insects is winter diapause. It is characterized by changes in physiology, behaviour or in both. Physiological changes include lowered metabolic rate that enhances survival by saving limited energy reserves during overwintering. Active behavioural changes like burrowing into the soil allow individuals to escape harsh conditions. 3. We examined variation in overwintering body mass, resting metabolic rate (CO production) and diapause behaviour (burrowing into the soil), and their effects on overwintering success in the adult Colorado potato beetles (Leptinotarsa decemlineata). We conducted a full-sib/half-sib rearing experiment to estimate the evolutionary potential (heritability) of these traits. 4. High overwintering body mass and low metabolic rate were phenotypically associated with high diapause propensity (i.e. burrowing), which was linked to high overwintering survival. We found that once beetles had entered the soil, only large body mass of males was associated with high overwintering survival. However, the heritability estimates in all traits examined were low. 5. Our results show that winter conditions impose selection on diapause behaviour, which was linked to lower metabolic rate and larger body mass. If range expansion to higher latitudes requires adaptive genetic changes in diapause behaviour, metabolism, or body mass, the insufficient genetic variation in these traits suggest that the Colorado potato beetle's future potential to respond to selection due to harsher winters could be limited and thus, its range expansion could be hindered. Both physiological and behavioural adaptations are important to consider when assessing range expansion potential.
40205532|1. On thermally stressful rocky shores, small, slow-moving ectotherms such as limpets exhibit morphological characteristics such as high-spired and heavily ridged shells which may reduce the likelihood of reaching stressful or lethal body temperatures. 2. The effects of shell height and shell surface area on predicted limpet body temperatures were tested with a previously developed heat budget model. The model was parameterized with morphological data from three species (Lottia gigantea, Patella vulgata and Siphonaria gigas), which differ dramatically in their morphology and in the body temperatures they are likely to reach in the field. 3. Limpet models and standard cones with higher height : length ratios lost heat to convection more readily than models with lower spired shells. 4. Heavily ridged shells lost heat to convection more readily than smoother shells, but this effect was only pronounced at high wind velocities. 5. When the heat budget model parameters were applied to a real environmental data set, the model predicts that maximum body temperatures and cumulative thermal stress vary among species. These differences are related primarily to the height : length ratio of the shell, and to a lesser extent to the presence of ridges. 6. These results suggest that some intra- and interspecific variation in limpet morphology may be phenotypic or evolutionary responses to variation in environmental temperatures. Our findings are supported by observed patterns of limpet morphological variation across natural thermal gradients.
4540082|1. Despite considerable recent interest in plasma and yolk testosterone (T) in female birds, relatively little is known about environmental regulation of female T, individual variation in female T or the relationship between plasma and yolk T. 2. In breeding females of a wild population of dark-eyed junco (Junco hyemalis), we assessed variation in the responsiveness of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis to a challenge with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) by measuring circulating T before and 30 min after a standardized injection of GnRH. We asked whether response to challenge varied seasonally or with stage of reproduction and whether it was repeatable within individuals or related to T deposited in eggs. 3. Initial and post-challenge levels of T were measured using enzyme immunoassay. In a subset of these females, luteinising hormone (LH) was measured using radioimmunoassay (RIA). In addition, eggs were collected from nests of 15 females that had received a GnRH challenge, and yolk T was measured using RIA. 4. During most of the breeding season, plasma T did not increase in response to GnRH. GnRH consistently caused increases in plasma T only during the 7 days before oviposition, when females were rapidly depositing yolk in eggs but had not yet begun to lay them. Among a small subset of females we found a positive correlation between the magnitude of this increase in plasma T in response to GnRH during egg development and the amount of T deposited in the yolk of eggs collected at a later time. 5. These results suggest that ovarian response to GnRH-induced increases in LH is greatest when females are actively depositing yolk into eggs. Factors that stimulate the release of GnRH during egg formation may result in higher levels of plasma T which could influence adult female behaviour. Further, because plasma T was correlated with later yolk T, factors that stimulate GnRH release may also lead to higher levels of yolk T potentially influencing offspring development or behaviour.
40205544|1. Local adaptation is a major factor shaping a species' range. Studies on adaptation to local abiotic conditions are numerous, but adaptation to neighbour conditions has been almost neglected, and these two have rarely been separated experimentally. We hypothesized that adaptation to abiotic stress (e.g. fast development, drought resistance) dominates at the stressful end of the gradient, while adaptation to competition (e.g. large plant size) is more common at the benign end of the distribution range. 2. We conducted a reciprocal sowing experiment coupled with a removal experiment in the field for two winter annual grass species Bromus fasciculatus C. Presl. and Brachypodium distachyon (Beauv. from Mediterranean and arid populations in Jordan. The two species were also grown under standard conditions for evaluating whether traits indicative of competitive ability and tolerance to stress are more common for either of the ecotypes. 3. Adaptation to abiotic stress could not be tested because our experiment was performed in a favourable year where water was not limiting in either of the sites. Competition was intense in both sites for the two populations of each species but competitive exclusion was observed only in the Mediterranean site. Mediterranean populations produced consistently more biomass and exhibited later onset of flowering than arid populations, both in the field and under standard conditions. 4. Mediterranean populations also showed better competitive response ability however stress tolerance was no different to that of arid populations. 5. This study indicates that competition and length of the growing season are major selective constraints at the two extremes of the ecological range along aridity gradients. We suggest that drought stress increases in importance during dry years and studies on local adaptation along climatic gradients may help predict the effect of global change on future species' distributions.
20142836| 1. The invasion of grasslands by woody species is often associated with changes in environmental conditions, but few studies have addressed the impact of climate change on the competitive interactions between tree seedlings and herbaceous vegetation. We examined patterns of growth and morphology in Fraxinus excelsior seedlings germinating in the presence or absence of grass competition (Dactylis glomerata) at either low (380 p.p.m.) or high (645 p.p.m.) atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO), and at two levels of nitrogen (N) nutrition. 2. Elevated CO had a positive effect on Fraxinus dry mass irrespective of N treatment, but the magnitude of growth response was small. In contrast, Dactylis dry mass showed a significant CO  N interaction: no apparent response to elevated CO in the low N treatment compared with a 25% dry mass increase in the high N, high CO treatment. 3. Dactylis and Fraxinus showed greater responses to N compared with CO in terms of dry mass, morphology and biomass allocation. The direction of Fraxinus responses to N varied depending on the trait examined and the grass competition treatment. 4. Both the competitive intensity (
4540108|1. In generalist nectar-feeding insects such as butterflies, body size and proboscis length show an allometric relationship. Butterflies that deviate from this relationship and have disproportionately long proboscides can access nectar from deep flowers, which is inaccessible to species of similar or larger body size but with shorter proboscides. 2. Despite this selective advantage, few species possess disproportionately long proboscides for their body size, which indicates that there may be developmental, functional or other ecological constraints on very long proboscides. I hypothesized that species with disproportionately long proboscides had a functional cost in terms of higher handling time (amount of time spent per flower); therefore, they were at a competitive disadvantage compared to butterflies that had shorter proboscides and lower handling times. 3. I tested this hypothesis using Costa Rican butterflies. I measured body length, proboscis length and handling time on Lantana and Wedelia, two nectar plants with generalist pollination systems which attract large numbers of nectar-feeding butterfly species. 4. There was a strong positive relationship between 'relative proboscis length' (proboscis length in relation to body size) and handling time per flower on both nectar plants. Species with greater relative proboscis length had up to three times longer handling time per flower. Thus, butterflies with relatively long proboscides should harvest less nectar per unit time from the same flower than butterflies with normal proboscides. 5. Reduced foraging efficiency in the face of competition from other nectarivores may thus be a functional constraint that limits the evolution of disproportionately long proboscides in generalist nectar-feeding butterflies.
40407742|1. Phylogenetic signal  the similarity in trait values among phylogenetically related species  is pervasive for most types of traits in most organisms. Traits can often be categorized a priori into groups based on the level of biological organization, functional relations, developmental origins, or genetic underpinnings. Traits within such groups are often expected to be correlated and hence show similar levels of phylogenetic signal. 2. We developed multivariate statistical methods to test for phylogenetic signal in groups of traits while also incorporating estimates of trait measurement error (including within-species variation) that can obscure phylogenetic signal. Simultaneously, these methods produce estimates of correlations between traits that are corrected for phylogenetic relationships among species. 3. We applied these methods to data for 13 morphological and physiological traits gathered in a common-garden study of nine species of Manglietia (Magnoliaceae). The 13 traits fell into four groups: three traits involved photosynthesis [maximum net photosynthesis $(A_{\max } )$ , light saturation point (LSP), light compensation point]; three described leaf morphology (thickness of leaves, palisade tissue, sponge tissue); four related to plant growth (basal stem diameter, crown volume, leaf area, relative growth rate); and three measured thermal tolerance [critical temperature $T_{ch} $ , peak temperature $(A_{\max } )$ , temperature of half-inactivation (T]. We also constructed a molecular phylogeny for these species from 219 AFLP markers via maximum likelihood estimation under the assumption of sequential binary changes in DNA sequences. 4. Of the 13 traits, only two photosynthesis traits ( $(A_{\max } )$ and LSP) exhibited statistically detectable phylogenetic signal (P < 005) when analysed separately, whether using previously published univariate tests or our new univariate tests that incorporate measurement error. In contrast, multivariate analyses of the four trait groups, estimating simultaneously the phylogenetic signal for all traits and the correlations between traits, revealed a statistically significant phylogenetic signal for two of the four groups (photosynthesis and plant growth), comprising seven traits in total. 5. Our results demonstrate that even when the number of species in a comparative study is small, resulting in low power for univariate tests, phylogenetic signal can nonetheless be detected with multivariate tests that incorporate measurement error. Furthermore, our simulations show that the joint estimation of phylogenetic signal and trait correlations can lead to better (less biased and more precise) estimates of both.
10.2307/2389986|1. Male bushcrickets feed their mates with a spermatophylax, attached to the sperm-containing ampulla of the spermatophore and transferred at copulation. The spermatophylax of Requena verticalis appears to function as a male parental investment because its consumption by the female increases the number and fitness of offspring sired by the nurturant male. 2. Here I show that males adjust their investment in components of the spermatophore in relation to their remating interval. Males increased both the size of the ampulla and the spermatophylax meal when remating interval was increased. However, there was a disproportionate increase in ampulla weight, and thus ejaculate size. 3. Because the spermatophore incurs a significant cost or reproduction, I argue that variation in spermatophore size represents a trade-off between the number of matings a male can perform and the magnitude of their investment in each female. Thus males provide small spermatophores when their potential mating rate is high but invest parentally in fewer females when mating potential is low. 4. The disproportionate increase in ejaculate size with increased spermatophylax feeding may represent a mechanism of paternity assurance when paternal investment is high.
4139372|1. Stable isotope data are widely used to track the origins and transformations of materials in food webs. Reliable interpretation of these data requires knowledge of the factors influencing isotopic fractionation between diet and consumer. For practical reasons, isotopic fractionation is often assumed to be constant but, in reality, a range of factors may affect fractionation. 2. To investigate effects of temperature and feeding rate on fractionation of carbon and nitrogen stable isotopes in a marine predator, we reared European sea bass Dicentrarchus labrax on identical diets at 11 and
40205554|1. Germination and seedling performance may set the limits for plant distributions, particularly in stressful habitats. Stressful conditions at these early stages may be avoided by opportunistic germination and growth, or may be tolerated. Many epiphytic plants are frequently exposed to severe drought. Adult epiphytes endure such dry periods in various ways, but little is known about strategies employed during germination and early life. 2. Epiphyte seedlings could show either opportunistic fast growth to quickly attain the benefits of being larger or inherently slow growth and early drought tolerance. Here we address the question: which of these strategies characterizes the early life stages of the epiphytic bromeliad Tillandsiaflexuosa, a species typical for dry tropical habitats? 3. We studied growth and drought tolerance of germinating seeds, of the emerging seedlings and of 2-month-old seedlings under controlled conditions. Additionally, we studied drought hardening in 6-month-old seedlings. 4. Germination of T.flexuosa was reduced by intermittent dry periods. However, compared to the congeneric T.fasciculata, which typically occurs in wetter habitats, the depression of germination by drought was small. Seedling growth was fastest at intermediate moisture levels: both prolonged drought and continuous moisture depressed growth. Prolonged drought had a less negative effect on droughthardened seedlings than on previously well-watered seedlings. After a 3-week drought treatment the previously well-watered seedlings had lost their growth advantage entirely. Had drought continued, they would have probably been starved, indicated by the low level of their non-structural carbohydrate pool. 5. Tillandsia flexuosa employs a stress-tolerance strategy both during germination and during the seedling stage. In its epiphytic habitat this strategy is clearly adaptive, considering the predictable briefness of moisture availability throughout the year and the low competition pressure that allows the very slow growth typically seen in adults and seedlings. These conditions characterize not only the dry-forest habitat of T. flexuosa, but all exposed epiphytic growing sites, so we expect this early stress-tolerance to be common among epiphytes in general. Still, a lower stress tolerance in species from wetter habitats may at least partly explain why T. flexuosa shares its dry-forest habitat with so few other vascular epiphytes.
10.2307/2390105|1. A cost-benefit model of the grazing behaviour of large generalist herbivores on temperate grassland swards is presented. We consider the energetic benefits in terms of the net energy retention curve, and the energetic costs due to the increased search time that may accompany a more selective diet. 2. Parameters are fitted and solutions generated for the case of sheep grazing temperature pastures comprising ryegrass and clover. 3. The model provides a hypothesis that, in many swards, the upper limit on total daily intake may be the result of a behavioural adaptation rather than any physiological or morphological constraint. The model also helps to clarify the concepts of diet preference and optimal diets among grazing herbivores.
3599295| 1. Heritable clinal patterns for stress resistance traits have been described in a number of invertebrate species but patterns are usually characterized on populations reared under constant conditions. Here we examined the impact of simulated seasonal variation in temperature/photoperiod as well as constant conditions on stress resistance in eight Drosophila melanogaster populations from eastern Australia across a latitude range of 27 degrees. 2. Desiccation resistance was relatively higher under summer compared with winter/constant conditions, but this trait and starvation resistance did not exhibit clinal variation. Winter conditions increased cold resistance as measured by chill coma recovery time, and decreased heat resistance as measured by time to knock down in a vial. 3. Clinal patterns were evident for the thermal resistance traits regardless of conditions, and involved increased heat resistance and decreased cold resistance in tropical populations. Latitudinal patterns were steeper for cold resistance than for heat resistance. 4. To compare the relative impact of plastic vs genetic changes along the cline, differences in trait means were expressed relative to differences between populations from cline ends. For cold and heat resistance, differences between environmental conditions were approximately 15 greater than the heritable differences. 
3599116|1. The capacity to perform photosynthesis, given appropriate environmental conditions, is reflected by measurements of the maximum quantum yield of photosystem II (F
10.2307/2389615|The quantitative economic analysis of the process of nectar collection by honey-bee workers (Apis mellifera L.) (Schmid-Hempel, Kacelnik & Houston, 1985) suggests that the dependence of energetic expenditure during slow manoeuvring flight on the size of the nectar load sets an important physiological constraint to foraging strategies of individuals. In this study, we have now measured rate of oxygen consumption over a range of body masses for single workers of the honey-bee. Body mass was experimentally varied by feeding different amounts of sugar solution to the individuals. Measurements were obtained for bees in free forward flight at 0.5 m s<sup>-1</sup> in a wind tunnel and at an ambient temperature of 32<sup></sup>C. The wind tunnel was part of a differential, constant-pressure, variable-volume respirometer that allowed measurements of partial pressure of oxygen with a precision of 5-10 ppm. Using this system observations on nine different individuals (each tested at a range of body masses) were possible. Rate of oxygen consumption (VO<sub>2</sub>, in ml h<sup>-1</sup>) for pooled individuals increased with body mass as VO<sub>2</sub> = 0.514 m<sup>0.629</sup>, where m = body mass in mg. A significant positive correlation was found for seven out of the nine bees, with significant variation among individuals. Further measurements were made for hovering bees (three individuals) with VO<sub>2</sub> = 0.417 m<sup>0.648</sup>. Oxygen consumption in motionless and walking bees was quite variable. With these results, an increase in metabolic expenditure as a function of load (i.e. body mass) carried is demonstrated for the first time for the honey-bee. The findings support the interpretation of honey-bee foraging strategy given by Schmid-Hempel, Kacelnik & Houston (1985) and quantify an important physiological constraint for ecologically important behaviours.
3599003| 1. We used an environmentally driven, process-based model to investigate the relative benefits of deciduous and evergreen leaves, in terms of net annual canopy carbon uptake, for a canopy of two tree species with contrasting leaf habit: deciduous Fuchsia [Fuchsia excorticata (J. R. Forst. and G. Forst) L. f.]; and annual-evergreen Wineberry (Aristotelia serrata J. R. Forst. and G. Forst, W. R. B. Oliv.). 2. Parameters for the model were derived from a year of measurements at a field site with a maximum leaf area index (L) of
2656349|1. For animals that have access to a predator-free refuge, the daily timing of feeding activity should reflect temporal variation in both the risk of predation while foraging and the rate of food intake: the preferred period of activity should be that which minimizes the predation risk per unit of food obtained. 2. However, several species of freshwater fish show flexibility in the daily pattern of feeding activity. European Minnows Phoxinus phoxinus L. prefer to feed at night at low temperatures, spending the majority of the day hiding in refuges. Since their feeding efficiency is lower at night, this behaviour is thought to minimize exposure to diurnal predators. The fish become increasingly active in the day as the temperature increases, possibly because their food requirements cannot be met by only feeding at night. 3. Here, it is tested experimentally whether nutritional state can affect the daily activity schedule, by manipulating the energy reserves of over-wintering minnows and recording their relative night- and daytime use of refuges. 4. Well-nourished fish were often observed hiding in refuges, especially during the day. As their energetic reserves decreased, they were more likely to be seen out of the refuges both by day and by night. However, the change in activity was greater by day, so that the fish became increasingly diurnal as their nutritional reserves declined. This effect was independent of temperature. 5. The results support the hypothesis that the fish attempt to minimize their exposure to diurnal predators, but must balance this against the need to increase their level of daytime foraging activity when in energy deficit.
40863579|1. We propose a new model that uses an organism's change in mass to estimate isotope incorporation rates. Our model is a re-parameterization of a widely used one-compartment-first-order kinetic model that estimates the rate of isotopie incorporation as a function of time. If animals are growing exponentially and fractional growth rates are measured, the time model allows partitioning the contribution of growth and catabolic turnover to isotopie incorporation. The model can be extended to include more than one-compartment. 2. Our model makes the same assumptions but uses mass change as an independent variable. It estimates the ratio of the contribution of catabolic turnover to growth. 3. To test the model, we fed juvenile Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) at three different rations and measured their change in mass and tissue   C isotopie composition for 128 days. 4. Fish grew exponentially and fractional growth rates differed significantly between rations. The contribution of catabolism (tissue replacement) to isotopie incorporation was 2-6 to 5 times higher than growth (tissue addition) in liver. In muscle tissue, the contribution of catabolism and growth were roughly equivalent for all rations. 5. When we used the parameters of the mass model to re-parameterize the time model we found a relatively good fit (r = 08  01, mean  SD) to the isotopie incorporation data. 6. The mass model estimated a smaller, and more biologically realistic range of   values than did the time model which suggests that it might yield better results when isotopie incorporation experiments are not carried on long enough to yield estimates of the asymptotic isotopie value of an animal's tissues after a diet shift. 7. Rather than being alternatives, the time and mass models are complementary in that they allow us to see the same phenomenon from different perspectives.
10.2307/2390247|1. Accurate estimates of female-to-male cost ratios are essential for testing theories about kin selection and worker control over sexual investments in ants. However, obtaining such estimates has proved to be notoriously difficult. 2. Comparative data on dry weight, energy content and respiration in ant sexuals were analysed across species, to explore biases following from the use of different female-to-male cost ratios. 3. Two groups of ants, those with claustral and independent colony foundation (without the help of workers; usually species with single-queen colonies) and those with non-claustral, dependent colony foundation (with the help of workers; generally species with multiple-queen colonies), showed consistent differences in weight and energetic cost ratios, with only a relatively small range of overlap. 4. The fat accumulation in females, relative to males, during maturation was a clear power function of sexual weight dimorphism when analysed across all ant species, but more like a constant fraction when ant species with independent and dependent colony founding were analysed separately. 5. Female-to-male respiration ratios were always lower than female-to-male dry weight ratios. The adult respiration ratio was a power function of adult sexual weight dimorphism but the pupal respiration ratio was found to be a constant fraction of the pupal dry weight ratio across ant species of both categories. 6. The across-species trends confirmed earlier species-specific findings. Cost ratios expressed as adult female-to-male dry weight ratios underestimate the relative energy content but overestimate the cost of respiration of females, relative to males. 7. A complete female-to-male cost ratio could be obtained for the Argentine ant. Iridomyrmex humilis, and a similar estimate was available for Lasius niger from a previous study. These estimates plus the less complete data for three other ant species agreed reasonably well with an earlier proposed 0.7 power-conversion factor, both for ants with independent and dependent colony founding.
826661|1. Previous work has shown that wing wear increases mortality rate in bumblebees. Two proximate explanations have been suggested to account for this: increased energy flight costs and increased predation risk due to reduced manoeuvrability. 2. Wing wear was mimicked by experimentally clipping the forewing distal trailing edge, causing a 10% wing area reduction. Experimental and sham control bumblebees were induced to hover in a flight respirometry chamber for measuring metabolic rate of hovering. Simultaneous video and sound recordings were taken for wingbeat kinematic data required for an aerodynamic analysis. 3. In the experimental group with reduced wing area we measured increased wingbeat frequency, lift coefficient and induced power, but a reduced profile power. The mechanical power output, assuming perfect elastic storage in the flight system, remained largely unchanged after the wing-trimming treatment. 4. Metabolic flight costs (CO
10.2307/2390145|1. In total, pregnant Polar Bears that enter maternity dens in late summer/autumn may fast for up to 8 months in addition to meeting the nutritional demands of gestation and lactation. We quantified the nutritional costs of this prolonged `reproductive fast' and examined the effect of variation in maternal body condition on reproductive success. 2. Prior to entering dens, pregnant females were obese, containing as much as 1 kg of fat/kg of lean body mass (LBM). Among bears, LBM increased with body fat mass. This accumulation of LBM may be necessary in order to transport the large fat stores required for fasting, and may also provide a pool of protein essential for reproduction. 3. While fasting, bears lost 43% of body mass. Of the total energy expended on maintenance and reproduction, 93% was drawn from fat stores. This dependency upon fat conforms to the pattern of nutrient metabolism seen among other species adapted to prolonged fasting. Maternal metabolic rate was less than the predicted resting metabolic rate which illustrates the effectiveness of denning as an energy-conserving strategy. 4. Body fat was critically important for reproductive success. In particular, offspring body weight was very strongly related to the size of maternal fat stores before denning. Fatter bears produced heavier cubs which would be more likely to survive. 5. Among bears, pre-denning body condition was positively associated with age. Within the observed range (4-21 years), age-specific reproductive success should thus be highest among older bears. Such an effect could arise if: (1) the body condition of individual bears tends to improve with age and experience or (2) animals of poorer quality and condition die at a younger age.
40603048|1. Many prey organisms show adaptive trait shifts in response to prdation. These responses are often studied under benign conditions, yet energy stress may be expected to interfere with optimal shifts in trait values. 2. We exposed the water flea Daphnia magna to fish prdation and food stress and quantified both life history responses as well as physiological responses (metabolic rate, stress proteins, energy storage and immune function) to explore the architecture of defence strategies in the face of the combined Stressors and the occurrence of trade-offs associated with energy constraints. 3. All traits studied showed either an overall or clone-dependent response to food stress. The chronic response to prdation risk was less strong for the measured physiological traits than for life history traits, and stronger under food stress than under benign conditions for age at maturity, intrinsic population growth rate and offspring performance (measured as juvenile growth). Immune function (measured as phenoloxidase activity) was lower under prdation risk but only at high food, probably because minimum levels were maintained at low food. 4. Overall, food stress induced stronger adaptive predator-induced responses, whereas more energy was invested in reproduction under benign conditions at the cost of being less defended. Our results suggest that food stress may increase the capacity to cope with prdation risk and underscore the importance of integrating responses to different Stressors and traits, and show how responses towards one Stressor can have consequences for the susceptibility to other Stressors.
41239368|1. Predation risk is known to influence behaviour and development, especially in breeding animals. Mothers may be selected to transfer information about the intensity of such risk to their offspring through maternal effects and thus influence their development. 2. Here, we test for this maternal effect via manipulation of perceived prdation risk by exposing great tit females before and during ovulation to stuffed models and sounds of either a predator bird (sparrowhawk-Accipiter nisus) or of a non-predatory control (song thrush-Turdus philomelos) in their environment. Offspring of exposed mothers were then raised by foster parents subjected to no treatment in order to separate maternal effects from effects during post-hatching parental care. 3. Nestlings of mothers under increased predator density were smaller than those of control mothers yet showed higher growth rates of the wings. Additionally, first-year recruits from the predator treatment had longer wings at maturity. 4. This maternal effect may be a passive consequence of higher circulating stress hormone levels in mothers. The accelerated wing growth during the nestling stage may be a result of compensatory growth. 5. Alternatively, the accelerated wing growth, coupled with the longer wings at maturity, suggest that the maternal response to the environmental risk may be adaptive since lower weight and bigger wings are a selective advantage for predator evasion. In this case the maternal effect probably influences the distribution of resources to different growth functions in offspring. 6. We show for the first time through an environmental rather than a direct hormonal manipulation, that predation risk may elicit adaptive maternal effects in birds.
10.2307/2389900|1. In this study we examined how temperature, a major determinant of energy budgets and thus the biological success of ectothermal animals, affects growth and feeding rate of a teleost fish species. 2. Feeding experiments with piscivorous brown trout from the Norwegian River L% rdalselva were performed in the laboratory at water temperatures from 8 to 18
3599094| 1. West et al. (2001) describe a general model of ontogenetic growth in which growth represents the surplus of energy acquisition over maintenance energy requirement, which themselves are allometric (power) functions of body mass with exponents  and 1, respectively. Furthermore, the intercept of the maintenance requirement decreases with the - power of adult mass. 2. These relationships determine the sigmoid shape of the postnatal growth curve and the  allometric slope of time to complete growth as a function of adult mass. 3. West et al.'s growth function is a particular form of the generalized Ptter growth model
2656355|1. The spectrum between species with low leaf mass per area (LMA), short-lived leaves and high photosynthetic rate to those with high LMA, long-lived leaves and low photosynthetic rate is one of the major spectra of variation between plant species, and is of particular relevance to the `carbon-gain strategy' of plants. 2. In this study the relationship between physical properties of leaves and their lifespan was quantified for 17 sclerophyllous species from a nutrient-poor woodland in eastern Australia. Fracture properties of leaves (force of fracture, tissue toughness) and other leaf traits [LMA, thickness, dry-matter content (DMC), leaf area] were measured for each species and evaluated as predictors of leaf lifespan in cross-species and phylogenetic analyses, and for intercorrelation with one another. 3. The LMA, mean force of fracture, leaf thickness and leaf area each explained approximately 30-40% of variation in leaf lifespan. Leaf toughness explained 25% of variation in leaf lifespan, and DMC 12%. Leaf toughness and DMC were correlated with each other, but not with leaf thickness. Leaf thickness and toughness were related closely to LMA, while DMC and LMA were only marginally correlated. 4. Nutrients can be withdrawn prior to leaf death and redeployed elsewhere in the canopy when leaf death is initiated by a plant. However, when control is external to the plant these nutrients are lost. There may be advantages to increasing defence to give a high likelihood that the plant has control over the timing of leaf death.
3806539|1. Sex allocation theory predicts that parents may manipulate the sex ratio of their offspring in response to parental fitness or possible future fitness gains. In birds, family-level brood sex-ratio variation has been related to the external environment, the social environment, parental quality, and the timing of breeding. 2. In this study of sex ratios in overwintering Oystercatchers, Haematopus ostralegus, in the British Isles, I show that neither the female bias in juvenile birds nor the change in sex ratio with age can be explained by differential migration. I also show that adult females have lower survival rates than males. 3. If one sex is less numerous than the other, it is likely to have greater opportunities for breeding success. The results presented here indicate that Oystercatchers may adjust the sex ratio of their offspring in order to produce more of the rarer sex. This is the first evidence that birds may manipulate the sex ratio of their young in response to large-scale population processes.
2390448|1. Indeterminacy in growth of colonial organisms, such as corals, is commonly attributed to their modular construction which frees the colony from the allometric constraints that limit the size of single modules. However, as a colony grows, there may be a decrease in resource availability to interior modules because of active depletion and/or passive deflection by modules on the exterior. The effects of `self-shading' on resource capture in modular animals are modelled using a simple allometric growth function. 2. The model assumes that resource capture by a module scales as an exponent () of colony size (i.e. number of modules). Data taken from the literature indicate that model values of  for light and prey capture range from - 0.80 to - 1.16 for branching and encrusting corals. Module-specific rates of resource use (i.e. metabolism) are less affected by colony size. Therefore, as a colony grows, net resource state eventually reaches zero, making further growth unsustainable or determinate. 3. The model also predicts an inverse relationship between module size and colony size such as that observed in Caribbean corals. This negative correlation results from the additive effects of module size and colony size on the degree of self-shading. 4. Resource capture is affected by growth form and flow regime, and the interaction between them can account for some of the morphological variation in corals and other colonial suspension feeders.
10.2307/2389710|The importance of coevolution in shaping communities is not clear. Experiments with shells marked with a paint which fades in the sun show that the land snail Cepaea hortensis (Mull.) is more exposed to daylight than is Cepaea nemoralis (L.), but that there is no change in this behaviour when snails are placed in mixed or single species populations and no evidence of an interspecific interaction that might be a precursor of coevolution and character displacement for this niche dimension. C. hortensis on the Marlborough Downs has invaded many C. nemoralis colonies and replaced others during the past 25 years, a range expansion that may reflect the competition between the two that has been observed in the laboratory. If the lack of interaction for the niche dimension studied here is typical, the relative abundance of C. hortensis and C. nemoralis may reflect a balance between invasion and extinction rather than coevolution.
2656329|1. Exercise capacity ultimately constrains behaviour, and therefore may influence social interactions. The hypothesis was tested that individual differences in maximal rates of oxygen consumption (<tex-math>$\dot V_{O_2 \max}$</tex-math>)- a primary determinant of sustainable exercise capacity - affect dominance hierarchies in experimental all-female flocks of the highly social Red Jungle Fowl (Gallus gallus). It was also examined whether social rank could in turn influence <tex-math>$\dot V_{O_2 \max}$</tex-math> (which is quite plastic in most vertebrates), and whether these relationships were influenced by a common and relatively benign parasite, the intestinal nematode Ascaridia galli. 2. Substantial between-individual variation was found in <tex-math>$\dot V_{O_2 \max}$</tex-math> that was significantly repeatable over time, but there was no indication that <tex-math>$\dot V_{O_2 \max}$</tex-math> was affected by A. galli infection. Stable social hierarchies were quickly established in 26 of 28 experimental flocks (each contained three females previously isolated from each other). Infection status affected social rank, but there was no consistent pattern between rank and infection. 3. No indication was found that individual differences in <tex-math>$\dot V_{O_2 \max}$</tex-math> either predicted the social rank in newly formed flocks, or were affected by social status in established flocks.
3599246|1. Vertebrates are important seed dispersers for many plants, particularly those inhabiting naturally fragmented habitats such as lakes and wetlands. Such dispersal often takes place through the transport of ingested seeds (endozoochory). 2. Endozoochorous passage of seeds is likely to vary among both disperser and dispersed species. We hypothesized that seed retention time and survival of gut passage varies among disperser species (here Anas ducks) and is influenced by intraspecific differences in seed size. 3. Wigeongrass (Ruppia maritima) seeds were ingested by five duck species; Teal, Wigeon, Shoveler, Pintail and Mallard. Defecated seeds were recovered and germinated. 4. Total retrieval and germination of seeds, patterns of retrieval over time and seed weight before and after gut passage did not differ among duck species. Hence interspecific differences among Anas ducks and intraspecific differences in seed weight do not affect seed retention time or the response of seeds to gut passage. 5. Germination of retrieved seeds was influenced by the retention time in the gut, with seeds voided earlier more likely to germinate than those voided later. 6. The probability of dispersal at different retention times by any given duck was low. However, when considering the thousands of ducks moving among wetlands, the dispersal probabilities of seeds become significant. 7. Estimation of seed dispersal distance as a function of retention time suggested higher dispersal probabilities for seeds voided earlier. Based on average flight speeds ranging from 10 to 70 km h
40205516|1. Many internally-fertilizing animals produce seminal fluid which is transferred along with sperm during mating. Seminal fluid typically contains a diverse range of chemicals that coordinate sperm storage, moderate sperm motility, provide advantages in sexual selection and influence female physiology. 2. Seminal fluid is well-studied in Drosophila melanogaster, a species in which it has been suggested to 'incapacitate' the sperm of rival males (e. g. by killing them) and thereby provide an advantage in sperm competition. This hypothesis has been tested several times over many years, but different studies have yielded conflicting conclusions. Here, I use fluorescent staining to directly measure the effects of D. melanogaster seminal fluid on the survival of sperm from the same male or from a rival. The results suggest that seminal fluid improves sperm survival, even if the sperm are from a different male. This study therefore provides strong evidence that seminal fluid does not kill rival sperm, and instead can actually protect them. This study also tested whether chemicals in the female reproductive tract harm sperm as in another Drosophila species, but found no evidence of this. 3. These findings suggest that residual seminal fluid inside females could benefit the sperm of subsequent mates, affecting the outcome of sperm competition and influencing the evolution of ejaculates and mating systems.
2390485|1. An air-injection method was used to study loss of water transport capacity caused by xylem cavitation in roots and branches of Pinus edulis (Colorado Pinyon) and Juniperus osteosperma (Utah Juniper). These two species characterize the Pinyon-Juniper communities of the high deserts of the western United States. Juniperus osteosperma can grow in drier sites than P. edulis and is considered the more drought tolerant. 2. Juniperus osteosperma was more resistant to xylem cavitation than P. edulis in both branches and roots. Within a species, branches were more resistant to cavitation than roots for P. edulis but no difference was seen between the two organs for J. osteosperma. There was also no difference between juveniles and adults in J. osteosperma; this comparison was not made for P. edulis. 3. Tracheid diameter was positively correlated with xylem cavitation pressure across roots and stems of both species. This relation suggests a trade-off between xylem conductance and resistance to xylem cavitation in these species. 4. During summer drought. P. edulis maintained higher predawn xylem pressures and showed much greater stomatal restriction of transpiration, consistent with its greater vulnerability to cavitation, than J. osteosperma. 5. These results suggest that the relative drought tolerance of P. edulis and J. osteosperma results in part from difference in their vulnerability to xylem cavitation.
3599317|1. In a microcosm experiment we examined the effects of individual species of microarthropods, and variations in microarthropod diversity of up to eight species, on soil microbial properties and the short-term partitioning of a dual-labelled organic nitrogen source
10.2307/2390214|1. We measured the closing force of the major claw of live fiddler crabs (Uca pugnax), using a flexible beam equipped with strain gauges and connected to a Wheatstone bridge and computer. 2. Crabs usually produced a series of rhythmic contractions. Maximum closing force of an individual was related approximately linearly to claw length. 3. Closing force scaled as predicted from the force expected from dimensions used to calculate muscle cross-sectional area and mechanical advantage. This suggests that the major claw, which is an extreme case of sexual selection, is fully functional as a closing device, rather than losing the closing force function, which might be expected if it was used primarily as a display to signal body size to other males or females.
20142880|1. Carotenoids are fat-soluble pigments that stimulate the immune system and can act as antioxidants. Carotenoids are thus expected to buffer the effects of environmental stressors on health. As carotenoids are a limited resource, the ability of an individual to use and metabolize carotenoids is assumed to influence its stress-resistance. Accordingly, it has been found that nestlings hatched from eggs with increased carotenoid concentration, show an enhanced ability to use carotenoids and a lower susceptibility of tissues to lipid peroxidation. 2. We tested the prediction that nestling great tits (Parus major), hatched from eggs laid by carotenoid-supplemented mothers, cope better with a transient stressor encountered after hatching. We supplemented half of the breeders with carotenoids during egg production (C+), used the other half as a control (C-), and cross-fostered the eggs between nests after clutch completion. Three days after hatching, we applied a stressor in two-third of the nests either by increasing brood size, or by infesting nests with hen fleas (Ceratophyllus gallinae) during five consecutive days. A third group was kept as a control. We then assessed the responses of C+ and C- nestlings to each stressor by measuring mass gain, body condition, plumage coloration, humoral immune response and fever response to a lipopolysaccharide injection. 3. In control nests, C+ and C- nestlings showed similar body condition but C+ nestlings had a higher increase in body temperature and tended to have a higher wing web swelling in response to lipopolysaccharide injection. Under stress, however, there were no differences in overall condition between C+ and C- nestlings. The two stressors led to different responses: when sibling competition was increased, C- nestlings favoured immune development, whereas C+ nestlings favoured mass gain and body condition, while under parasite exposure C+ and C- nestlings seemed to invest in immune development and body growth similarly. 4. Our results support the hypothesis that carotenoid-induced maternal effects provide developmental benefits under natural conditions without additional stressors. Additionally, we show that the response to sudden environmental changes depends on the environment during the initial phases of development, which thus shape phenotype and individual variation.
2390381|1. The land crab Gecarcinus lateralis is a significant predator of the abundant Bahamian land snails of the genus Cerion. The crabs typically `scissor' the cylindrical shells in half or break the lip and peel back the shell to reach the animal which withdraws two or three whorls into the shell. Scars on shells of live adults at 73 sites in the Bahamas and Florida Keys show that about 8% (range: 0-44%) of the snails have survived attacks of this type. 2. An artificial crab claw was used to investigate the compressive force required to break Cerion shells of different morphotypes. Defining shell strength as the ability to withstand compressive forces, 10 morphotypes were found that exhibited mean relative strengths of between 30 and 300 newtons. Feeding trials with one adult crab showed that snails whose shells could withstand compressive forces of > 95 N were safe from this individual predator. 3. Multiple linear regression analyses showed that both shell size (length and width) and shell wall thickness were the ultimate determinants of shell strength. Ribs strengthen the shell by contributing to wall thickness and also by increasing overall shell width. The thickened adult shell lip and collabral ribs provide effective protection from attack by peeling.
3599162|1. Environmental variation experienced in the parental and grandparental generation can affect progeny phenotype, performance and response to selection. Here the effects of parental and grandparental exposure to a non-lethal cold shock are considered in Drosophila serrata Malloch. Development time, viability and early age productivity were measured in flies originating from border and central locations in the distribution of this species that had been held under two separate laboratory maintenance schedules. 2. Cross-generation effects were detected for several traits. Development time usually decreased following maternal and/or grandmaternal cold exposure. Parental cold exposure negatively influenced viability while grandparental effects on viability were negligible. Early female productivity showed opposing responses depending on generation; maternal cold exposure increased progeny productivity while grandmaternal exposure decreased it. Male parental and grandparental exposure to cold shock decreased male productivity, although this pattern may have been partly confounded by size effects. 3. Population effects, reflecting geographical origin, were limited to development time, while selective background effects were demonstrated for most traits. The influence these factors had on the expression of cross-generation effects was negligible, given interactions with treatment were not evident. These responses suggest that environmental variation experienced in preceding generations can influence progeny phenotype in a manner that is complex and difficult to predict.
10.2307/2390116|1. We examined the effect of differential energy input on age at first reproduction in an oviparous snake, Elaphe guttata, to address two questions: (i) Does changing energy input in neonates result in changes in size or age at maturity, or are these traits fixed? and (ii) How do the resulting differences in age or size at reproduction (if any) translate into long-term effects on fecundity? 2. We found that individuals on a low-energy diet grew more slowly, matured at a later age, and had smaller clutch sizes than did females on a high-energy diet. However, not all individuals on the high-energy diet matured at the same time. Thirty per cent of these latter individuals matured at 20 months of age at a relatively small body size, whereas the remainder matured at 32 months of age and at a larger body size. 3. In terms of lifetime reproductive potential, early-breeding individuals maintain a higher cumulative reproductive output until 58 months of age; after that point, delayed breeding individuals have a higher cumulative potential.
10.2307/2389758|<sup>15</sup>N-labelled mineral nitrogen was used to monitor nitrogen translocation within Agropyron dasystachyum, a native grass from the Canadian Mixed Prairie, grown in solution culture under greenhouse conditions. Over 50% of nitrogen used for new leaf and tiller growth was derived from internal retranslocation in plants grown with a low external nitrogen supply (nitrogen stress). This value was reduced to 11% in plants with an abundant supply of external nitrogen. Nitrogen stress increased crown and root biomass, reduced tiller biomass but had only a small negative effect on leaf biomass, relative to plants given an adequate nitrogen supply. About 40% of the nitrogen stored during a pretreatment period was translocated to new leaves and tillers in both high and low nitrogen treatments. The proportion moving to new tillers was less in plants grown under nitrogen stress. In the high nitrogen treatment, 12% of the pretreatment pool of nitrogen leaked into the solution around the roots. Plants with a low nitrogen supply retained this nitrogen in the roots, either by reduced leakage or effective scavenging.
3806532| 1. Active time budgets of flying ectotherms depend on body temperature. Knowledge of flight ability and performance is currently heavily biased towards the range of temperatures favourable for voluntary flight activity. Flight under suboptimal temperature conditions may also be important, however, in terms of fitness. 2. Here we study the ability of organisms to fly at body temperatures colder than those at which flight is initiated voluntarily, and the duration of such flights. Laboratory-reared Pararge aegeria (L.) butterflies that originated from woodland and agricultural landscape were tested at five temperatures (range: 10-21 C) in a common-garden set-up. 3. We predict that males are able to fly at lower temperatures than females as males have lower wing loading (i.e. body mass/wing area). Since woodland is on average cooler than agricultural landscape we also predict that flight ability at low temperature is better developed in woodland individuals. 4. Individuals showed an ability to fly at all tested temperatures and flights were longer with increasing temperature. Males flew for longer than females. There was no difference in flight duration between sexes at the lowest temperature, but an increasing difference with increasing temperature. We showed that woodland butterflies flew for longer and had higher wing loading than agricultural landscape butterflies. 5. Our results shed new light on the thermal ecology of flight at suboptimal temperatures and are discussed from both proximate and ultimate points of view. 
40603113|1. Resting metabolic rate (RMR) varies considerably among and within species. Two central questions in physiological ecology are whether values of RMR are repeatable and whether an association exists between RMR and fitness. 2. First, we investigated the repeatability of RMR in food hoarding, juvenile, North American red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus Erxleben). Second, we explored links between RMR and survival. A low RMR may enhance survival if it reduces winter expenditure costs and/or allows more energy to be allocated towards autumn food hoarding. Alternately, a high RMR may enhance survival if it enables juveniles to hoard more food by increasing the throughput of energy available for investment in hoarding activities. 3. Resting metabolic rate adjusted for body mass, was repeatable in both males and females (r = 0-77) over a short-term (mean 24-3 days) but only among females (r = 0-72) over a longterm interval (mean 192 days). 4. Heavier juveniles and those with a lower RMR relative to their body mass were more likely to survive over-winter. Multiple selection models found significant selection for a decreased RMR (' = -0-56  0-16) and increased mass (' = 0-69  0-17). Survivors also tended to have more food stored within their hoard. 5. A low RMR relative to body mass and large body mass may have allowed individuals to minimize the expenditure costs related to a larger body mass, while maximizing thermal inertia.
3599152|1. Inbreeding can negatively affect various fitness components. Here we examine how immune response and body size of a social insect are affected by inbreeding, sex and ploidy. 2. In the bumble-bee, Bombus terrestris (L.), the offspring of colonies resulting from brother-sister matings were compared with that of outbred colonies. Immune response was measured as the degree of encapsulation of a novel antigen, body size as the length of the radial cell in the forewings. 3. Inbreeding affected neither immune response nor body size in either workers or haploid males under laboratory conditions. However, fitness characteristics varied significantly among maternal families and colonies. The lack of detectable inbreeding depression for two fitness components might help explain why B. terrestris is a good colonizer in nature. 4. In addition, sex and ploidy strongly affected the fitness components studied: diploid males had a significantly lower immune response than haploid males, who in turn had a significantly lower immune response than workers of the same colony. The body size of diploid males was intermediate between the body size of workers and haploid males.
10.2307/2389885|1. For gape-limited predators such as snakes, maximum ingestible prey size is likely to influence the encounter rate of potential prey items and therefore presumably foraging success and fitness. In this study an attempt is made to measure the adaptive significance of head size variation in the adder Vipera berus. 2. We examined the effect of individual variation in snake head length on swallowing performance, i.e. maximum ingestible prey mass, by providing captive snakes with different-sized prey and recording success and failure at swallowing. It was found that maximum ingested prey mass increased with snake snout-vent and head length. More importantly, when controlling for snout-vent length differences using multiple regression, ingestible prey mass increased with relative head length. 3. To test whether variation in head size and swallowing performance had any ecological relevance we examined the relationship between relative head length and relative body mass in a natural population of male adders. Relative body mass reflects the amount of stored energy and influences the probability of survival in snakes. It was found that for a given body length, body mass increased with relative head length. 4. Our results indicate that relative head size influences fitness of adders by affecting maximum ingestible prey size relative to snake body size and hence presumably the energy budget. 5. We discuss the existence of an optimal relative head size, and propose that differences in relative head size between snake species, populations and sexes result from differential selection on snakes utilizing different prey size frequency distributions.
20142837|1. A number of biodiversity experiments have shown that plant diversity plays a significant role for ecosystem functioning. However, diversity effects on processes involving multi-trophic interactions such as litter decomposition are rather rare. In these experiments, plant diversity is usually categorized into taxonomic units or functional groups. Continuous measures of functional diversity that are based on measurable traits, in contrast, may be a more flexible way to analyse the functional significance of biodiversity. 2. Litter decomposition is a key process in ecosystem biogeochemistry. To understand the consequences of altered biodiversity for ecosystem functioning, it is thus crucial to quantify any potential diversity effects on decomposition processes. 3. I performed several complementary decomposition trials within the BIODiversity and Ecological Processes in Terrestrial Herbaceous ecosystems (BIODEPTH) experiment, which established a gradient of plant species richness and number of functional groups. I hypothesized that decomposition rates increase with increasing plant diversity due to non-additive litter mixing effects and more favourable microenvironmental conditions. 4. Decomposition rates of both standard materials and community-specific litter increased with the number of functional groups and with a continuous measure of functional diversity. Species richness, in contrast, had no or rather small positive effects on decomposition. Presence of nitrogen-fixing legumes strongly enhanced decomposition, via effects on both litter quality and on the decomposition microenvironment. 5. The predominance of functional diversity rather than of species richness effects suggests that profound knowledge on functional attributes of plant species is the key to understand and to predict biodiversity-decomposition relationships.
2390426|1. We investigated the phenology of the male and female sexual functions in flowers of Oil-seed Rape (Brassica napus) that were exposed to pollinators in an experimental garden. The female `residual sex function' (RSF) of flowers was measured by hand-pollinating with genetically marked pollen in order to determine the proportion of ovules that remained available for fertilization by incoming pollen. Male RSF was measured by estimating the proportion of pollen grains that remained in dehiscing anthers. 2. Following flower opening, an average flower's male and female sexual functions each required for completion c. 13 h of exposure to pollinators. One hour after opening, c. 50% of a flower's ovules were unavailable to incoming pollen whereas only c. 10% of pollen was removed. Therefore, a flower's sexual function was predominantly female for the first hour and predominantly male thereafter. 3. We found a fairly close correspondence between the proportion of the stigma covered with pollen and the depletion of female RSF. 4. On average, floral senescence occurred after c. 14.5 h of exposure to pollinators. Our observations are fairly consistent with a simple, economic model of optimal senescence time because the flowers remained open for approximately the same length of time as was necessary for the completion of their sexual functions. 5. A flower's senescence was hastened when pollen was removed from the anthers, but not when pollen was deposited on the stigma. 6. When flowers were either left undisturbed or hand-pollinated, senescence occurred after c. 24 h. Pollen removal caused senescence after c. 13 h, which also approximated the longevity of flowers in the experimental garden. Apparently, pollen removal governed floral longevity under field conditions.
10.2307/2390177|1. Vesicular-arbuscular (VA) mycorrhizae increased relative growth rates (RGR) of the shade-tolerant tropical tree species Beilschmiedia pendula at both ambient and doubled CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations. 2. RGR was correlated with the net assimilation rate (NAR) of plants. Within this general correlation, in plants with similar RGR, NAR was decreased in VA-mycorrhizal plants compared with non-mycorrhizal plants. As RGR is the product of NAR and the leaf area ratio (LAR, the ratio of leaf area to plant mass), increases in RGR in VA-mycorrhizal plants were the results of increased LAR. Thus, VA-mycorrhizae increased growth rates of B. pendula by altering the morphology of the seedlings. 3. Under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> the amount of fungus within roots increased in VA-mycorrhizal plants compared with those grown under ambient CO<sub>2</sub> and this was associated with a greater post-inoculation depression in leaf growth. Post-inoculation depressions in leaf growth and the lower NAR (in plants with similar RGR) of VA-mycorrhizal plants indicate there is increased carbon transfer to soils under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>.
10.2307/2389735|The effects of two light regimes, `sun' and `shade', on the gas exchange of four tropical tree species from Mexico were evaluated. Photosynthetic and stomatal responses to light and humidity were studied using a controlled environment cabinet and an infra-red gas analyser. A non-linear model was fitted to the photosynthetic responses and the physiological parameters found were used to compare treatments and species. Species from the secondary forest displayed higher maximal values of photosynthesis than those species normally found in primary forests. These species were also more sensitive to shade, i.e. maximal rates of photosynthesis were reduced to a greater extent when plants were grown in `shade'. Plants grown under `sun' conditions displayed enhanced dark respiration, higher values of photosynthesis and their rate of photosynthesis continued to increase above a photon flux density of 400 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. When plants were raised in `sun' conditions, their leaves contained more nitrogen (on a leaf area basis) and this was associated with an increased mesophyll conductance. The species differed from each other much more in their growth than in their rates of photosynthesis and it is concluded that assimilate distribution may be more diagnostic of the ecological status of a species than its rate of assimilate production per area of leaf.
826640|1. Aspects of female 'offspring size vs number' strategies were studied in the viviparous Common Lizard, Lacerta vivipara Jacquin, by surgical yolk extraction from ovarian follicles and ovulated eggs in the oviduct ('allometric engineering'). 2. This method has previously been applied exclusively to oviparous lizards but here it is applied to a viviparous taxon. 3. There was a strong negative relationship between the amount of yolk removed and the size of offspring at birth, and yolk-removed young were smaller and in poorer condition at birth than their control counterparts from within the same litters. 4. In yolk-removed young physiological performance was positively correlated with body mass. 5. Maternal resource provisioning thus influences offspring physiological performance, which suggests ongoing selection on female optimization of the offspring size-number trade-off.
2390367|1. Reproduction and parasite defence are assumed to be costly activities for hosts, and therefore trade-offs might exist between reproduction and parasite defence. 2. Brood sizes were manipulated in a population of Great Tits (Parus major L.) to assess trade-offs between reproduction and parasite defence. Blood samples were taken from males and females during the late nestling phase, and parasite prevalence was compared among parents raising enlarged, reduced and control broods. 3. A higher prevalence of protozoan blood parasites dominated by Haemoproteus majoris was found among parents with enlarged broods, as compared with parents with control and reduced broods, respectively. Brood size manipulation did not affect parasite prevalence between the sexes or between age classes differently. 4. Mean parasite intensity (number of parasites per microscope field) among adult birds only infected with H. majoris was higher for parents with experimentally enlarged broods than controls and reduced broods, respectively. 5. These results support the hypothesis of a trade-off between parasite defence and reproduction.
826652|1. Previous studies on the combined effects of light and nutrient supply on the growth rates of plants have involved adding nutrients to soils to levels rarely (or never) met by the plants in nature. As a better test of the likely response of plants to root competition for nutrients, we grew for 1 year seedlings of six species of Australian rainforest tree on forest topsoil undiluted and on soil diluted 50/50, 25/75 and 5/95 with coarse sand. Seedlings were grown in tall tubes in 6 and 9% daylight, equivalent to gap-edge and gap-centre conditions. 2. The six species varied in their light requirements for establishment and onward growth. 3. One species grew significantly and markedly more quickly on soil diluted 50/50 with sand (Elaeocarpus grandis). Improved aeration is the most likely explanation. 4. The extent of inhibition by soil dilution correlated positively with the absolute amount of new dry mass accreted in one year, whether the larger accretion resulted from a combination of high relative growth rate (RGR) and small embryo size, or moderate RGR and larger embryo size. 5. Soil dilution generally reduced leaf mass fraction and leaf area ratio, but had no significant effect on specific leaf area. 6. In all species the overall concentration of nitrogen in the whole plant declined with soil dilution; in the four species tested, N concentration in leaves declined, and it is likely that the reduction in growth arose partly from a reduced unit leaf rate. Most species showed increases in the concentrations of P, K, Ca and Mg with soil dilution, or no change, but in Diploglottis bracteata the concentrations of Ca and Mg, especially in the older leaves, declined markedly with soil dilution, and one of these cations could have been limiting growth. 7. Extrapolation of the results to the field suggests that in single-treefall gaps the fastest growing species will the most inhibited by root competition. 8. The soil-dilution technique is likely to be more appropriate than nutrient addition as an indicator of sensitivity to root competition on a given soil.
3599140|1. Optimal biomass allocation models predicted that an increase in specific absorption rate (SAR: nitrogen absorption rate per unit root dry weight) increases the optimal leaf N concentration (LNC) which maximizes whole-plant growth rates. From this prediction, we hypothesized that inherent differences in the N absorption ability of roots, which is represented by differences in SAR, causes interspecific differences in LNC and photosynthetic capacity
40863646|1. Protozoa and nematodes are important microfauna predators in soil and compete for the same food resource, bacteria. Therefore, inhibition of competitors may enhance food acquisition and fitness of individual predator species. 2. We investigated chemical based interference between the nematode Caenorhcibditis elegcins and the amoeba Aecinthcimoebci castellana in a bacteria-free gnotobiotic system. 3. Exoproducts of amoebae exhibited marked nematostatic activity, and repelled the worms. However, nematodes were able to reduce the activity of proteases and glycosidases, two enzymes playing an important role in the toxicity of A. castellana. Exoproducts of nematodes also detrimentally affected amoebae by reducing growth and increasing encystation. 4. The results indicate that both protozoa and nematodes can inhibit each other, and that nematodes are also able to counteract the attack by protist competitors. Non-trophic interactions appear thus as a new factor affecting the structure of predator communities in soil.
2656415|1. If swimming speed is correlated to fitness (e.g. by affecting food intake or the chance to evade predators) or considerable energy is expended in swimming, zooplankton wearing protruding structures (as predator defence) that significantly increase drag resistance must pay a cost for the better protection against predators that these traits imply. 2. In an experiment with plastic models, the drag and energy consumption of swimming in two species of Eubosmina were examined. Eubosmina longispina has a typical Bosmina morphology with a low carapace and short antennule, whereas E. coregoni gibbera has a very high carapax and long antennule. 3. At 5 <sup></sup>C, E. c. gibbera had 32-45% higher drag than E. longispina. At 20 <sup></sup>C, the difference is 20-45%. 4. A mathematical model of swimming predicts that these differences in drag should result in 18-20 (at 5 <sup></sup>C) or 14-16 (at 20 <sup></sup>C) percentage lower speed for E. c. gibbera than for E. longispina if they use the same amount of energy in swimming. 5. The relative difference in drag or swimming speed between the two species was highest at low Reynolds number (i.e. low speed or low temperature). These results show that hydrodynamic costs of extreme morphology may increase with decreasing temperature. 6. The increased cost of morphological antipredator defence at low temperatures may be enlightening with regard to the role of temperature in the induction of cyclomorphic traits in zooplankton. This may be one explanation for why extreme forms of E. c. gibbera and some Daphnia are only found in the summer when water temperature is high.
826681| 1. The physical conditions experienced by reptile embryos inside natural nests can influence the size, shape and behaviour of the resultant hatchlings. Although most reptiles are tropical, the effects of incubation temperatures on offspring phenotypes have received little attention in tropical species. 2. The consequences of differences in thermal variance during incubation on offspring were studied in a tropical natricine snake (the Keelback Tropidonophis mairii), which lays eggs in soil cracks of varying depths. Some 253 eggs from 19 clutches were incubated under two thermal regimes with identical mean temperatures (25.6C), but temperatures in the 'variable' treatment fluctuated more (21.8-29.6C) than those in the 'constant' temperature treatment (25.2-26.5C). These thermal regimes were similar to those of shallow (20 cm deep) and deep (40 cm deep) soil cracks, respectively, and represent thermal conditions inside natural nests and potential nest sites. 3. Incubation temperatures affected body size, shape and antipredator behaviour of hatchling snakes. Snakes from constant temperature incubation were longer and thinner than snakes from high variance incubation. Clutch effects influenced all offspring traits, with significant interactions between clutch of origin and incubation treatment for body size, but not swimming speed or behaviour. 4. There was a significant interaction between incubation treatment and offspring sex on neonate swimming speed. Incubation under cycling thermal regimes significantly increased swimming speeds of females, but had little effect on males. Such sex differences in phenotypic responses of hatchling snakes support a major assumption of the Charnov-Bull hypothesis for the evolution of temperature-dependent sex determination. 
20142823|1. Classical evolutionary theory states that senescence should arise as a consequence of the declining force of selection late in life. Although the quantitative genetic predictions of hypotheses derived from this theory have been extensively tested in laboratory studies of invertebrate systems, relatively little is known about the genetics of ageing in the wild. 2. Data from long-term ecological studies is increasingly allowing quantitative genetic approaches to be used in studies of senescence in free-living populations of vertebrates. We review work to date and argue that the patterns are broadly consistent with theoretical predictions, although there is also a clear need for more empirical work. 3. We argue that further advances in this field of research might be facilitated by increased use of reaction norm models, and a decreased emphasis on attempting to discriminate between mutation accumulation and antagonistic pleiotropy models of senescence. We also suggest a framework for the better integration of environmental and genetic effects on ageing. 4. Finally, we discuss some of the difficulties in applying quantitative genetic models to studies of senescence outside the laboratory. In particular we highlight the problems that viability selection can cause for an accurate estimation of parameters used in the prediction of age-trajectory evolution.
41239228|1. Root herbivores and pathogens interfere with basic below-ground plant function, and can thereby affect plant fitness and spatial and temporal patterns in natural plant communities. However, there has been little development of concepts and theories on below-ground plant defence, a deficit that is in contrast to the abundance of theorizing for above-ground plant parts. 2. A review of the past 10 years of research on below-ground plant-herbivore interactions has revealed that, similar to above-ground tissues, root defences can be expressed constitutively or induced upon herbivore attack, and can be classified into direct and indirect traits, tolerance, and escape. Indeed, it has been shown that roots tolerate herbivory by outgrowing or re-growing lost tissues, or resist it by producing secondary metabolites that are toxic to herbivores or attract natural enemies of herbivores. 3. We propose that, similar to above-ground plant-herbivore theories, the partition of abiotic and biotic factors over ecological succession can serve as the basis for predicting investment in defence strategies below-ground. 4. Investigation of herbivore pressure and root responses along primary and secondary successional gradients suggests that: (i) roots are often fast growing, thinner and softer in early compared to later succession, (ii) Insect and nematode herbivore pressure increases until midsuccession and later decreases, (iii) Mycorrhizal abundance increases with succession, and the composition of fungal species changes through succession, often shifting from arbuscular mycorrhizae to ecto-mycorrhizae. 5. Based on these findings, and on classical (above-ground) plant defence theory, we suggest the following set of testable hypotheses for below-ground plant defence: (i) During succession, early plants invest most of their resources in growth and less in defences (associated with a general lack of herbivores and pathogens, and with limited availability of resources in the system), therefore relying more on re-growth (tolerance) strategies, (ii) During mid-succession, a buildup of herbivore pressure facilitates replacement by plant species that exhibit greater direct and indirect defence strategies, (iii) Constitutive and inducible levels of defences may trade-off, and early successional plants should rely more on induction of defences after herbivore attack, whereas late successional plants will increasingly rely on constitutively produced levels of physical and chemical defence, (iv) Successional changes in microbial associations have consequences for root defence by improving plant nutrition and defence expression as well as directly competing for root space; however, toxic or impenetrable root defences may also limit association with root symbionts, and so may constrain the expression of root defence.
4139390|1. Secondary compounds such as phenolics, usually present in floral nectar, may act in combination with sugar components to influence the evolution of pollination mutualism. 2. Previous work on the significance of secondary compounds in nectar considers honey bee responses to those compounds alone, but neglects sugar. Our experiments demonstrated that phenolic sugar syrups were attractants to free-flying Asian Apis cerana Fab. when sugar concentrations were 15-35%, but were deterrents below or above this range. 3. Synergism between nectar phenolics and sugar may thus provide a novel mechanism for plants to encourage pollinating bees and reduce energy investment in nectar, operating as exaptations by co-opting defence mechanisms against herbivores.
3599064|1. Planktonic organisms are exposed to harmful ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Pigmentation offers protection but at the same time increases visibility, and therefore vulnerability, to visually orienting predators such as fish. As an adaptation against fish predation, zooplankton should be transparent, though this would leave them less protected against UV radiation. Thus both adaptations would appear to be mutually exclusive. However, phenotypic plasticity in pigmentation could allow flexible adaptation to both environmental situations. 2. We tested the hypothesis that Daphnia should be able to change their level of pigmentation in response to fish kairomone and/or UV radiation using four species of Daphnia. 3. Daphnia hyalina Leydig increased pigmentation under UV radiation and D. pulex Leydig reduced pigmentation in the fish kairomone treatment. Both species live in habitats with variable UV and fish impact. 4. Daphnia cucullata Sars and D. middendorffiana Fischer showed no reaction, probably because of their extreme adaptations: D. middendorffiana is strongly pigmented and seems to be adapted to high UV-B impact and an absence of fish in its arctic habitat. In contrast, D. cucullata has evolved in coexistence with fish. It can afford being nearly transparent because it lives in eutrophic lakes where UV-B is not relevant. 5. Our data on four species suggest that plasticity in pigmentation might be common in Daphnia adapted to environments with contrasting or variable selection pressures.
10.2307/2389640|A simple open system is described for in situ measurements of the gas exchange of small trees. A large assimilation chamber, composed of a fixed rigid base and of a frame of aluminium covered with polypropylene film, is supplied with external air by a turbine. As the flow rate is high, no air conditioning is needed. An anemometer, composed of a propeller and of an optical detector, was especially designed to measure large air flows. With this system working on a young chestnut tree bearing 4-5 m<sup>2</sup> of leaves, the input-output differential CO<sub>2</sub> concentration reaches 20 v.p.m. under high irradiances. In these conditions, the temperature increase does not exceed 4<sup></sup>C and the error on tree photosynthesis is less than 15%.
41239443|1. A warming climate has been linked to shifts in plant distribution and growth. The relationship between climate and growth is used to infer past climate conditions within dendrochronological studies. However, browsing may interact with climate to determine growth, yet the impact of large herbivores on tree-ring growth series is largely unknown. 2. Here, we disentangle the interactions between climate and herbivory in determining plant growth at the upper distribution limit of mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii). 3. Stem discs of 206 birch were sampled within an altitudinal tree line ecotone in southern Norway, after 9 years of experimental browsing at three sheep densities (unbrowsed, low and high with 0, 25 and 80 sheep km). Annual radial growth was measured using digital microscopy and related to summer temperatures, altitude and sheep density. 4. Radial growth was negatively related to altitude and related to summer temperature in a nonlinear fashion, increasing from low temperatures and saturating and decreasing at high temperatures. However, the variation between browsing treatments overrode the influence of interannual temperature in determining growth. Increasing sheep densities limited radial growth and interacted with both temperature and altitude. The temperature of peak radial growth increased at higher densities of sheep, and growth was less limited by altitude at low sheep density. 5. This demonstrates that browsing interacts with temperature to determine the growth of mountain birch at the upper distribution limit and that the variation in growth linked to sheep density was greater than that linked to the 50-year range of interannual temperatures. The ability of browsing to affect radial growth has important implications for the use of dendrochronology to infer past climatic conditions, where samples are taken from regions that have undergone past land-use change.
10.2307/2390269|1. Several studies of altricial passerines (`income breeders') have shown that females lay smaller eggs when they experience low temperatures during egg formation. This is usually explained in terms of a `physiological trade-off': birds having to divert more of their finite resources to maintenance and away from reproduction in cold weather, although little is known about the proximate mechanism(s) underlying this phenomenon. 2. We investigated the relationship between egg size and ambient temperature during the egg formation period in the Lesser Snow Goose (Anser caerulescens caerulescens), a precocial, `capital-breeding' species, using 10 years of data derived from a long-term population study of this species at La Perouse Bay, Man., Canada. 3. Egg size was negatively correlated with ambient temperature in the Snow Goose, i.e. females laid larger eggs when temperatures were lower during egg formation, contrasting markedly with the positive correlation reported in altricial, income-breeders. 4. The effect of temperature on egg size was most marked for last-laid eggs within a clutch (b=-0.675 g <sup></sup> C<sup>-1</sup>), and for temperatures during the last half of the rapid yolk development (RYD) period (rather than for the whole or the middle of the RYD period), as predicted by an exponential growth curve for yolk development. 5. The relationship between egg mass and temperature was time- and laying-sequence specific: for first and middle eggs the correlation was positive early in the period of RYD and negative closer to ovulation. For last-laid eggs the correlation between egg mass and temperature was negative throughout the 10 day RYD period. 6. We suggest that the different relationship between egg size and temperature in the Snow Goose, compared to passerine species, may reflect different contributions of exogenous vs endogenous reserves, and different opportunities to increase energy availability through dietary intake. 7. Although statistically significant, temperature has only a small effect on egg size in the Lesser Snow Goose: the average range of temperatures encountered would only lead to a 3-5% difference in mean egg mass. This is consistent with high heritability of egg size.
10.2307/2389463|In Drosophila mojavensis (Patterson & Crow) the opportunity for cuckoldry is great due to female remating, storage of sperm and the transfer of a material donation from the ejaculate. Using a radioisotope and a genetic marker, it was possible to show that not only do first males provide an ejaculate benefit to progeny sired by subsequent males but that the first male's progeny also receive material from the second male.
2656310|1. Although a female preference for pairing with brightly plumaged males has been reported in many species, the reasons for this choice are not fully understood. 2. Parasites have been proposed as playing an important role in shaping these preferences because, by pairing with brightly coloured individuals, females can obtain parasite-free and/or more healthy mates. 3. In this paper one of the predictions of this hypothesis is tested, namely a higher health level in brightly coloured individuals, by analysing the relationships among blood parasites, leucocyte levels and plumage brightness in the Cirl Bunting, Emberiza cirlus. 4. Two species of blood parasites were detected. Whereas a lower body condition was detected in individuals infected by Leucocytozoon cambournaci, no such differences were associated with Plasmodium relictum infections. Infected individuals showed higher total leucocyte counts than non-infected individuals. 5. Colour intensity of carotenoid derived colorations was negatively correlated to the relative proportion of lymphocytes and positively correlated to the relative presence of heterophils. Furthermore, the size of yellow feathered areas was positively correlated with the absolute number of leucocytes and the relative presence of heterophils. Only some of these relationships were found for non-carotenoid derived traits. 6. These results suggest that male plumage yellow coloration in the Cirl Bunting is a reliable indicator of health status and supports the hypothesis that females obtain more parasite-free mates if they pair with brightly coloured individuals.
3599133|1. Sex-biased mortality in adult vertebrates is often attributed to lower immunocompetence and higher parasite susceptibility of males. Although sex-specific mortality has also been reported during growth, the importance of sex-specific immunocompetence and parasite susceptibility in explaining male-biased mortality remains ambiguous in growing individuals because of potentially confounding sources of mortality such as sexual dimorphism. 2. Here, we investigated sex-specific susceptibility to the blood-sucking louse fly Crataerina melbae and sex differences in cell-mediated immunity in a bird species that is sexually monomorphic both in size and plumage coloration at the nestling stage, the Alpine Swift, Apus melba. 3. For this purpose, we manipulated ectoparasite loads by adding or removing flies to randomly chosen nests in two years, and injected nestlings with mitogenic phytohae-magglutinin (PHA) in another year. 4. There were no significant differences between male and female offspring in immune response towards PHA, parasite load, and parasite-induced decrease in growth rate. Secondary sex ratios were however biased toward males in parasitized broods, and this was explained by a greater mortality of females in parasitized than deparasitized broods. 5. Our findings are in contrast to the widely accepted hypothesis that males suffer a greater cost of parasitism. We discuss alternative hypotheses accounting for female-specific mortality.
10.2307/2389832|1. Abutilon theophrasti (Malvaceae) plants orient their leaves in a downward folded position at night but display them more horizontally during the light period. 2. The absence of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal infection of Abutilon resulted in an alteration in the range of leaf movement. Mycorrhizal plants held their leaves nearly horizontal during the middle portion of the day. Uninfected plants, however, reoriented their leaves less during the night/day transition and held them several degrees below horizontal during midday. 3. This modification of leaf angle caused by the absence of mycorrhizal infection was associated with lower leaf P concentration, lower stomatal conductance and higher leaf temperature.
10.2307/2390017|1. Compensatory responses after damage were studied in two closely related annual hemiparasites of the genus Melampyrum. We followed the growth and the seed set of individuals subjected to clipping of the main stem, defoliation and removal of flowers and unripe fruits. 2. Defoliation resulted in decreased seed set and growth. Despite the hemiparasitic life-style of the species, the leaves are thus important, either for photosynthesis or because transpiration makes possible the acquisition of resources from a host. 3. There was a trade-off between early and late season reproduction: when all the flowers or unripe fruits were removed in early season, the plants enhanced their seed production in late season, compensating totally (in Melampyrum pratense) or partially (in Melampyrum sylvaticum) for the loss of the seeds from early season flowers and fruits. This compensation was mainly brought about through changes in the abortion regimes of reproductive structures, not through regrowth. Thus, flower production substantially outstripped the ability of the plants to provision all their seeds. 4. After main stem clipping the branches produced more fruits and seeds per flower in M. sylvaticum and fewer in M. pratense than the branches of the control plants. The timing of the damage determined the compensation mechanism in M. sylvaticum: plants compensated by regrowth (increased flower number) after main stem clipping in May and by reducing seed abortion after main step clipping in June. 5. A large part of the findings can be accounted for in terms of resource allocation and the timing of the damage. The different responses to main step clipping, however, suggest that differences in the architecture of the species are also important in compensatory responses.
40407778|1. Harsh environmental conditions experienced during development can reduce the performance of the same individuals in adulthood. However, the 'predictive adaptive response' hypothesis postulates that if individuals adapt their phenotype during development to the environments where they are likely to live in the future, individuals exposed to harsh conditions in early life perform better when encountering the same harsh conditions in adulthood compared to those never exposed to these conditions before. 2. Using the common vole (Microtus arvalis) as study organism, we tested how exposure to flea parasitism during the juvenile stage affects the physiology (haematocrit, resistance to oxidative stress, resting metabolism, spleen mass, and testosterone), morphology (body mass, testis mass) and motor performance (open field activity and swimming speed) of the same individuals when infested with fleas in adulthood. According to the 'predictive adaptive response' hypothesis, we predicted that voles parasitized at the adult stage would perform better if they had already been parasitized with fleas at the juvenile stage. 3. We found that voles exposed to fleas in adulthood had a higher metabolic rate if already exposed to fleas when juvenile, compared to voles free of fleas when juvenile and voles free of fleas in adulthood. Independently of juvenile parasitism, adult parasitism impaired adult haematocrit and motor performances. Independently of adult parasitism, juvenile parasitism slowed down crawling speed in adult female voles. 4. Our results suggest that juvenile parasitism has long-term effects that do not protect from the detrimental effects of adult parasitism. On the contrary, experiencing parasitism in early-life incurs additional costs upon adult parasitism measured in terms of higher energy expenditure, rather than inducing an adaptive shift in the developmental trajectory. 5. Hence, our study provides experimental evidence for long term costs of parasitism. We found no support for a predictive adaptive response in this host-parasite system.
10.2307/2389408|Plants from two populations of the C<sub>4</sub> grass Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) Beauv. from Quebec (QUE) and Mississippi (MISS), were acclimated under controlled conditions at 28/22<sup></sup>C, 21/15<sup></sup>C and 14/8<sup></sup>C (day/night). The apparent energy of activation (E<sub>a</sub>), Michaelis-Menten constant (K<sub>m</sub> for malate), V<sub>max</sub>, V<sub>max</sub>/K<sub>m</sub> ratios and specific activity of NADP<sup>+</sup>-malic enzyme (E.C. 1.1.1.40) were investigated. Electrophoresis disclosed one molecular form for the enzyme with a molecular weight of 280,000 daltons and similar electrophoretic mobility for the two populations. E<sub>a</sub> values obtained for NADP<sup>+</sup>-ME from QUE plants acclimated to 14/8<sup></sup>C were significantly lower than those of MISS plants in the 15-30<sup></sup>C assay temperatures but, no such differences were found under higher acclimatory conditions. K<sub>m</sub> values decreased as a function of assay temperature and, except for 40<sup></sup>C assays, there were no significant differences between populations or between thermoperiods for this parameter. V<sub>max</sub> values and V<sub>max</sub>/K<sub>m</sub> ratios were higher for the enzyme of plants of both populations grown at 14/8<sup></sup>C and significantly higher in QUE plants as compared to MISS plants acclimated to 14/8<sup></sup>C. NADP<sup>+</sup>-ME activities were significantly higher in QUE plants as compared to MISS plants acclimated to 28/22<sup></sup>C or 21/15<sup></sup>C but not at 14/8<sup></sup>C. For both populations, enzyme activities were significantly reduced at 14/8<sup></sup>C as compared to those measured at higher thermoperiods. The modifications in kinetic properties of NADP<sup>+</sup>-ME among the two Echinochloa populations do not explain the chilling sensitivity of this chloroplastic enzyme in MISS plants and suggest that the cause might be associated to chloroplast disfunction.
3599030|1. We investigated whether increases in cell wall peroxidases link the benefits of induced resistance and the potential ecological costs of reduced leaf expansion. 2. Rumex obtusifolius is a host plant of the chrysomelid beetle Gastrophysa viridula. The effect of feeding by G. viridula on plant physiology and activity of cell wall-bound peroxidase activity in the plant was measured under controlled conditions. 3. Gastrophysa viridula were applied to fully expanded leaf 4, and expansion of leaf 8 was measured over 22 days. Removal of leaf tissue by the herbivore delayed subsequent leaf emergence in treated plants and temporarily reduced the expansion rate of leaf 8, beginning 5 days after treatment. This reduction continued for 4 days when compared with non-treated plants, and reduced final leaf area by approximately 37%. 4. Final epidermal cell areas in leaf 8 were reduced by approximately 13%, while epidermal cell numbers remained unchanged. 5. Cell wall-bound peroxidase activity was measured in leaf 8 over a 7-day period following attack. Activity increased within 24 h following the start of treatment and peaked at day 3. 6. We postulate a herbivore-induced systemic mechanism linking reductions in cell expansion and subsequent leaf growth rates as a result of an increase in cell wall-bound peroxidase activity. 7. Herbivore grazing commonly reduces subsequent host growth, and the assumption has been that this is largely due to the consequences of leaf area lost to grazing. This study suggests that reduced growth, and the associated ecological costs result from induced resistance, and are the consequence of a more subtle direct physiological effect in constraining leaf expansion.
10.2307/2389700|We studied the developmental changes in density, hair length, hair diameter and depth of fur in nestling wood rats (Neotoma floridana Thomas) between birth and weaning. Hair density increased by a factor of 1.5 while basal hair diameter increased and, later, decreased. We used a mechanistic model of heat exchange in fibrous media to estimate the effects of changes in these fur characteristics on heat flux. Heat flux calculated from the model differed from measurements made on a heat flux plate by  10%. Despite large developmental changes in individual morphological properties of the fur, insulation per unit depth was nearly constant with age and differed only slightly from values previously determined for cotton rats. For environments characterized by dry air and low wind speeds, acquisition of insulation during development in these rodents is primarily the result of increased fur depth, not changes in insulation quality.
2656473|1. Stable isotope ratios of carbon (<sup>13</sup>C) and nitrogen (<sup>15</sup>N) were determined in seven species of wild-caught Drosophila (see Patterson & Stone 1952) and their natural hosts in order to assess if any relationships existed between isotope signatures of the flies and their hosts. The species included the cosmopolitan D. hydei, D. arizonae, D. simulans and D. pseudoobscura collected from rotting fruit (commercial melons), and the cactophilic D. nigrospiracula, D. mojavensis and D. pachea collected from their specific host plants (Saguaro, Organpipe and Senita Cactus, respectively). 2. Isotope signatures were clearly different among the natural hosts, with fruit and each species of cactus segregating into a non-overlapping pattern on plots of <sup>13</sup>C vs <sup>15</sup>N. 3. Wild-caught Drosophila exhibited interspecific differences in isotope signatures that reflected the patterns observed for their natural hosts. For most species, values for <sup>15</sup>N were 3.0-5.0 per mil higher in the flies, in agreement with the expected <sup>15</sup>N enrichment with increased trophic level. 4. For D. nigrospiracula, changing food resources from the natural host (Saguaro) to a laboratory diet of yeast for only 24 h resulted in a shift in stable isotope signatures toward the values of the new resource. 5. The results suggest that stable isotope analysis can be a valuable tool in studies of resource ecology and feeding habitats in Drosophila, and is sensitive enough to detect recent feeding history.
10.2307/2390570|1. Many submerged aquatic macrophytes posses inducible biochemical or biophysical mechanisms that can enhance the internal inorganic carbon concentration above that which can be achieved by diffusive uptake of CO<sub>2</sub> coupled with C-3 photosynthesis. 2. The Possible interaction between nitrogen economy and use of a carbon concentrating mechanism was studied in Elodea canadensis, which has a mechanism based on bicarbonate usage. The nitrogen content of the plants was varied from  800 to  3500 mol N g<sup>-1</sup> DOW by growing them in hydroponic cultures at a range of inorganic nitrogen concentrations. 3. The relative growth are increased with increasing tissue-N from 0.020 day<sup>-1</sup> at 800 mol N g<sup>-1</sup> DW to 0.045 day<sup>-1</sup> at 1600 mol N g<sup>-1</sup> DW. The photosynthetic performance of the plants was also affected by tissue-N. The photosynthetic capacity increased from 172 to 465 mol CO<sub>2</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> DW h<sup>-1</sup> and the HCO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake capacity from 63 to 310 mol Cg<sup>-1</sup> DWh<sup>-1</sup> with increasing tissue-N. The CO<sub>2</sub> conductance, a measure of CO<sub>2</sub> affinity, increased four times and the bicarbonate conductance 10 times. 4. High nitrogen concentrations are required in Elodea to maintain an efficient carbon-assimilation apparatus and an efficient carbon-concentrating mechanism. 5. The interdependence of nitrogen-use efficiency for photosynthesis (PNUE) and nitrogen content was dependent on the inorganic carbon concentration at which PNUE was measured. PNUE measured at saturating inorganic carbon concentrations declined with increasing tissue-N, presumably as a result of increased allocation of nitrogen into non-photosynthetic pools at high tissue-N. In contrast, PNUE increased with increasing tissue-N when measured at sub-saturating inorganic carbon concentrations. 6. The total Rubisco activity was positively correlated with tissue-N in Elodea and was substantially higher than the photosynthetic capacity indicating that Rubisco may not play a primary role in regulating the photosynthetic capacity of Elodea. Rather, it may have a role in regulating photosynthesis at low inorganic carbon concentrations, as suggested by the observed linear relationship between CO<sub>2</sub> conductance and Rubisco.
10.2307/2389987|1. I experimentally tested the hypothesis that parasite-induced gigantism in molluscs may be a host adaptation by increasing a host's probability of outliving an infection. 2. I exposed juvenile pulmonate snails from two populations of the hermaphrodite Lymnaea peregra to infections with the trematode Diplostomum phoxini. Only one of the two snail populations studied is naturally in contact with this parasite (P<sup>+</sup>) and the other is not (P<sup>-</sup>). 3. Diplostomum phoxini induced gigantism only in P<sup>+</sup> snails. Furthermore, P<sup>+</sup> snails showed a lower parasite-induced mortality compared to P<sup>-</sup> snails but infected P<sup>+</sup> snails did not lay eggs before they died. 4. These results are in agreement with three out of four predictions derived from the hypothesis of gigantism as a host adaptation. The fourth prediction, that some P<sup>+</sup> snails should survive long enough to outlive the infection and reproduce, was not met. 5. My results do not directly support the idea that parasite-induced gigantism is of adaptive value for L. peregra but suggest that gigantism is unlikely to be purely a parasite adaptation. This study cannot exclude the alternative hypothesis that gigantism is a non-adaptive side-effect of infection.
10.2307/2389404|The influence of enhanced ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B, 280-320 nm) on competitive balance in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and wild oat (Avena fatua L.) was examined in the field for each of 6 yr using replacement series experiments. The relative competitive status of wheat increased significantly under UV-B enhancement in two of the years, when precipitation was relatively high, and over all years when data from all years were combined. Shifts in competitive balance occurred in response to UV-B enhancement despite no significant changes in total shoot biomass in either monocultures or mixtures. Associated with shifts in competitive balance under UV-B treatment in the field and in a glasshouse competition experiment were similar, differential effects of UV-B on species growth form: leaf insertion heights and leaf blade lengths were reduced to a greater extent in wild oat than in wheat in mixtures exposed to enhanced UV-B. These changes in individual plant morphology were related to shifts in foliage height distribution in mixed canopies with wheat overtopping wild oat to a greater degree under UV-B treatment. The results suggest that enhanced UV-B may alter competitive balance in these species indirectly by altering plant morphology which may then influence competition for light.
826603|1. Evidence for reproductive senescence in invertebrate natural populations is scant probably because most groups are short-lived or because they lack natural markers of age. 2. Lycosa tarantula (L.) (the Mediterranean Tarantula) (Araneae, Lycosidae) is a slowly ageing burrowing wolf spider, in which females can reproduce for two consecutive seasons. Females in their first reproductive season (1Y) can easily be distinguished from females in their second reproductive season (2Y) because the lack of pilosity in the latter. 3. The diet of 1Y and 2Y females was supplemented and their reproductive performance was compared with that of control, non-food supplemented females. The predictions were that senescent 2Y females would show a worse reproductive performance than 1Y females, and that they would not be able to improve their performance relative to 1Y after food supplementation. 4. The predictions were met. Older females gained less mass, laid smaller egg sacs, produced fewer spiderlings and, if food supplemented, invested a smaller fraction of their mass in egg sacs. Although 2Y females foraged less actively than younger females, 2Y did not improve their performance relative to 1Y following food supplementation. This pattern of changes provides evidence for reproductive senescence in a natural spider population.
41319591|1. The diversity-productivity debate has so far been focused above-ground, despite that belowground production can account for approximately half of total annual net primary production, mostly from fine roots. 2. Here, we investigate the fine root productivity of mature, fire-origin stands of Populus tremuloides - Picea spp. - Abies balsamea (mixed-species stands) and relatively pure P. tremuloides (single-species stands) in two regions of North American boreal forest to better understand the link between plant diversity and below-ground productivity in forest ecosystems. We hypothesized that: (i) mixed-species stands have higher fine root productivity compared with single-species stands and (ii) this difference may be the result of greater soil space filling by the fine roots due to the contrasting rooting traits of the component species in the mixed-species stands. 3. We found that fine root productivity, measured by annual production and total biomass, was higher in mixed-than single-species stands. We also found that mixed-species stands had lower and higher horizontal and vertical fine root biomass heterogeneity, respectively, indicating that soil space is more fully occupied by fine roots in the mixed- than single-species stands. 4. In all, our study supports that below-ground niche differentiation may be a key driver of higher fine root productivity in mixed stands of species with contrasting rooting traits than single-species stands by facilitating greater soil space filling of fine roots and soil resource exploitation.
10.2307/2389327|A new quantum sensor for measuring photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) was designed using a gallium arsenide photodiode. This sensor is cheap and effectively measures radiation between 400 and 700 nm without any filter, which allows both high output level and easy manufacturing. A comparison with two other commercially available quantum sensors (Li-Cor and Macam sensors) was made. The sensor described here was less sensitive than the two others both in the blue and far-red parts of the spectrum. Its maximum sensitivity is near 600 nm. However it was shown, under natural light and several artificial light sources, that the results given by the three sensors were very similar. Nevertheless some problems could arise with monochromatic light sources such as sodium lamps whose spectrum is mainly composed of radiation between 570 and 620 nm. This study also shows that gallium arsenide sensors are suitable for PAR measurements under canopies.
20142774|1. Fever and sickness behaviour are immune defences that most organisms engage to control bacterial and viral infections. Although generally beneficial, these defences can be energetically expensive, which may lead to variation within and among species. Here, we asked whether fever and sickness behaviour differ among five species of mice in the genus, Peromyscus. 2. This comparison was motivated by our previous discovery of extensive, but systematic, immunological variation among many of these same rodent species. Some species were adept at controlling gram-negative bacteria whereas others were proficient at generating antibodies; no species was strongly capable of both. Such discrete variation suggested a continuum of immune defence strategies. We therefore predicted that variation in fever and sickness behaviour would mirror variation in bacterial killing capacity, as these defences are mediated by some of the same molecular pathways. 3. To test this hypothesis, we characterized responses to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a component of gram-negative bacteria that activates febrile responses without causing infection. Peromyscus species that showed little sickness behaviour post-LPS engaged fever; species that engaged sickness behaviour, however, either did not mount fevers or became hypothermic post-LPS. As predicted, species that were adept at killing bacteria in vitro mounted the largest fevers; species that were not as proficient at killing bacteria did not engage fever. 4. These results further indicate a continuum of immunological strategies among Peromyscus species, which we expect applies to other taxa. We propose a few possible reasons for why species occupy specific points along an immune continuum; life-history orientation appears the most viable alternative at present.
4139340|1. Two immunological tactics, a constitutive response that is always present, and an induced response that is only employed after an invader has been recognized, have evolved in animals as a defence against parasites. 2. The energy requirements, body mass change and blood parameters of flea-parasitized and nonparasitized gerbils (Gerbillus andersoni) were measured and compared with published data for a close relative (Gerbillus dasyurus). G. andersoni possesses a constitutive immune response that could require additional maintenance costs, whereas G. dasyurus develops an immune response only after being attacked by fleas. We therefore predicted that G. andersoni has higher energy requirements than G. dasyurus when both species are parasite-free. However, we also predicted that the immunological 'readiness' of G. andersoni makes it less susceptible to flea infestation than G. dasyurus. 3. Energy requirements for maintenance were estimated by offering different levels of metabolizable energy to parasitized and nonparasitized animals and measuring changes in their body mass. At the end of the experiment, blood samples were taken from all rodents and haematological and biochemical analyses were done. 4. Adjusted energy requirements per unit body mass of nonparasitized G. andersoni were higher than those reported for G. dasyurus. Also, there was no difference between energy requirements, body mass change and blood parameters of parasitized and nonparasitized G. andersoni in contrast to the pronounced differences found for parasitized and nonparasitized G. dasyurus. However, parasitized G. andersoni did not have lower energy requirements than parasitized G. dasyurus as predicted from the second prediction. 5. The results illustrate the energy costs and benefits related to each immunological strategy and suggest that parasites can cause other nonenergetic costs to their hosts. The two strategies are most likely a reflection of interspecific differences in probability of flea attacks.
2656427|1. Maternal adult diet and body size influence the fecundity of a female and possibly the quality and the performance of her offspring via egg size or egg quality. In laboratory experiments, negative effects in the offspring generation have often been obscured by optimal rearing conditions. 2. To estimate these effects in the Yellow Dung Fly, Scathophaga stercoraria, how maternal body size and adult nutritional status affected her fecundity, longevity and egg size were first investigated. 3. Second, it was investigated how female age and adult nutritional experience, mediated through the effects of egg size or egg quality, influenced the performance of offspring at different larval densities. 4. Maternal size was less important than maternal adult feeding in increasing reproductive output. Without food restriction, large females had larger clutch sizes and higher oviposition rates, whereas under food restriction this advantage was reversed in favour of small females. 5. Offspring from mothers reared under nutritional stress experienced reduced fitness in terms of egg mortality and survival to adult emergence. If the offspring from low-quality eggs survived, the transmitted maternal food deficiency only affected adult male body size under stressful larval environments. 6. Smaller egg sizes due to maternal age only slightly affected the performance of the offspring under all larval conditions.
2656468|1. Field-grown Cucurbita texana was used in a study to determine if stress ethylene from damaged leaves promotes changes in sex expression. 2. Internal ethylene concentrations were experimentally enhanced by inserting an ethylene-filled syringe into the hollow chamber of an internode seven nodes from the growing tip of a branch. Branches enhanced with ethylene produced significantly more pistillate buds than control branches and experienced greater bud abortion later in floral development. 3. The timing and magnitude of Diabrotica beetle leaf damage was simulated using a paper-hole puncher (15% removed from all leaves). Simulated herbivory was applied to new growth every 3 days throughout the growing season. 4. Endogenous ethylene concentrations recovered from the internode adjacent to the growing tip were significantly greater in damaged plants than undamaged plants 1 day after damage to new growth during the second and third week of the experiment, and 2 days after damage during the fourth and fifth week. By the sixth week, no significant differences were evident. 5. Damaged plants produced fewer pistillate buds than undamaged plants, indicating that stress ethylene from simulated herbivory does not induce femaleness. A second messenger that suppresses pistillate bud production may be produced during damage.
3599051|1. In many crustaceans, female reproduction represents a time of increased metabolic demand. Palaemonetes pugio are typically hypoxia tolerant; but the energetic demands of reproduction may compromise their ability to tolerate hypoxic conditions. Given the correlation between cardiac output and metabolic demand, we used cardiac output (CO) to measure differences in metabolic demand in the life-history stages of P. pugeo. 2. We hypothesized that (1) the cost of egg production would result in an increased CO for gravid females compared with non-gravid females; (2) those females that were both ovigerous and gravid would have an additional metabolic demand due to brooding behaviour (pleopod fanning) and hence an even greater CO; and (3) hypoxia tolerance would decrease with increasing reproductive demand. To test these hypotheses, we compared cardiac output across three reproductive states and at decreasing water oxygen tensions. 3. Ovigerous females had significantly greater pleopod fanning frequency than non-ovigerous females at all oxygen tensions. Additionally, ovigerous/gravid females had significantly higher cardiac output at all oxygen tensions than gravid only or non-gravid females. 4. Changes in cardiac output indicate that females became more sensitive to environmental oxygen tension with increasing reproductive demand. Non-gravid females were able to maintain cardiac output down to 15 mm
3599181| 1. The often complex architecture of coral reefs forms a diversity of light microhabitats. Analogous to patterns in forest plants, light variation may drive strategies for efficient light utilization and metabolism in corals. 2. We investigated the spatial distribution of light regimes in a spur-and-groove reef environment and examine the photophysiology of the coral Montipora monasteriata (Forskl 1775), a species with a wide habitat distribution. Specifically, we examined the variation in tissue and skeletal thickness, and photosynthetic and metabolic responses among contrasting light microhabitats. 3. Daily irradiances reaching corals in caves and under overhangs were 1-5 and 30-40% of those in open habitats at similar depth (3-5 m), respectively. Daily rates of net photosynthesis of corals in cave habitats approximated zero, suggesting more than two orders of magnitude variation in scope for growth across habitats. 4. Three mechanisms of photoadaptation or acclimation were observed in cave and overhang habitats: (1) a 20-50% thinner tissue layer and 40-60% thinner skeletal plates, maximizing light interception per unit mass; (2) a two- to threefold higher photosynthetic efficiency per unit biomass; and (3) low rates of dark respiration. 5. Specimens from open and cave habitats displayed a high capacity to acclimate to downshifts or upshifts in irradiance, respectively. However, specimens in caves displayed limited acclimation to further irradiance reduction, indicating that these live near their irradiance limit. 6. Analogous to patterns for some plant species in forest gaps, the morphological plasticity and physiological flexibility of M. monasteriata enable it to occupy light habitats that vary by more than two orders of magnitude. 
10.2307/2389465|1 Our mathematical model for growth of a deciduous tree seedling predicted that the yield of the stem-root system at the end of the growing season (the resource for growth the following year) would be maximized by an instantaneous switch from simultaneous leaf and stem-root production (with as much leaf production as possible) to the production of stems and roots only prior to the end of the growing season. 2 Seedlings of wild mulberry tree (Morus bombycis Koidz.) emerged in late June and shed their leaves in early November. Both the leaf and stem-root system grew until mid-September and thereafter only the stem-root system served as the sink of the current photosynthate. We could not determine if the seedlings allocated as much photosynthate as possible for leaf production during the period of both leaf and stem-root growth. However, the timing of cessation of leaf expansion approximated to the optimal one for maximizing the final yield of the stem-root system. 3 To test the effect of early cessation of leaf expansion on the final yield of the stem-root system experimentally, the vegetative apex of the seedling was removed in mid-August and late August. In agreement with the model, this treatment decreased the yield. 4 To test the effect of late cessation of leaf expansion, the seedlings were treated with gibberellin (GA). Although the GA treatment did not delay the cessation or change the final yield of the stem-root system, it caused stem elongation in autumn. This elongated stem showed the effects of winter injury and there was a decrease in the leaf mass that developed at the early stage of the next growing season. These findings suggest that if leaf expansion continues to the end of the growing season, a large part of the immature stem produced with leaf expansion will die during winter. Thus, later cessation of leaf production would lead not only a decrease in stem-root yield at the end of the growing season but also winter injury of the stem, resulting in much less resource for growth the following year.
41239227|1. Although secondary metabolites are recognized as fundamental to the defence of plants against insect and mammalian herbivores, their relative importance compared to other potential defensive plant traits (e.g. physical resistance, gross morphology, life-history, primary chemistry and physiology) are not well understood. 2. We conducted a meta-analysis to answer the question: What types of genetically variable plant traits most strongly predict resistance against herbivores? We performed a comprehensive literature search and obtained 499 separate measurements of the strength of covariation (measured as genetic correlations) between plant traits and herbivore susceptibility  these were extracted from 72 studies involving 19 plant families. 3. Surprisingly, we found no overall association between the concentrations of secondary metabolites and herbivore susceptibility  plant traits other than secondary metabolites most strongly predicted herbivore susceptibility. Specifically, genetic variation in life-history traits (e.g. flowering time, growth rate) consistently exhibited the strongest genetic correlations with susceptibility. Genetic variation in gross morphological traits (e.g. no. branches, plant size) and physical resistance traits (e.g. latex, trichomes) were also frequently correlated with variation in herbivore susceptibility, but these relationships depended on attributes of the herbivores (e.g. feeding guild) and plants (e.g. longevity). 4. These results call into question the conventional wisdom that secondary metabolites are the most important anti-herbivore defence of plants. We propose the hypothesis that herbivores select most strongly on genetic variation in life-history, morphological and physical resistance traits, but the greater pleiotropic effects of genes controlling these traits impose strong constraints on their evolution. Meanwhile, secondary metabolites could have evolved to be important defensive mechanisms not because they have the largest effect on herbivores, but because the constraints on their evolution are the weakest.
10.2307/2389338|In recent literature the relative importance of interspecific differences in shoot/root allocation patterns and differences in growth rate have been discussed, especially with regard to the mechanisms of succession. We studied growth, leaf area and shoot/root ratio under controlled conditions at various combinations of light and nutrient supply of five species from a grassland successional series. This series was initiated by stopping the application of fertilizers to agricultural grassland but continuing hay-making. Species from the later successional stages (lower nutrient availability, higher level of light at the soil surface) had a higher shoot/root ratio at most treatments, contrary to the predictions of the resource ratio hypothesis. However, a three-way interaction was also found, and thus the combination of light and nutrient level determined whether or not a correspondence between successional position and the sequence of species in shoot/root ratio was found. Some possible explanations are discussed for these results with regard to the mechanisms of succession.
4540041| 1. Sexual selection has been studied intensively, and is often strong in natural populations. Theoretical models, comparative studies and laboratory selection experiments all suggest that evolution driven by sexual selection should be rapid and common. 2. However, there are relatively few documented cases of the contemporary evolution of secondary sexual traits in natural populations. Moreover, the causes are not always due to sexual selection, but often due to altered natural selection regimes, or an altered balance between natural and sexual selection. 3. Here we discuss recent empirical studies that have demonstrated the contemporary evolution of secondary sexual traits in natural populations. Our examples include both continuous traits and discrete polymorphisms. Taxa in which the contemporary (rapid) evolution of secondary sexual traits have been demonstrated include fish, insects, mammals, reptiles and birds. The evolutionary rates of these changes range from 0005 to 0570 haldanes (arithmetic mean = 014; geometric mean = 0095; median = 012). 4. The relative rarity of examples could be explained by different genetic architectures of sexually selected traits compared with naturally selected traits, or by sexual selection regimes not being sustained in the long term. These factors could potentially slow down evolutionary rates of secondary sexual traits and make the detection of the contemporary evolution empirically more difficult. 5. Promising and underutilized approaches to sexual selection research include reciprocal transplant experiments and estimation of sexual isolation between conspecific populations. 
10.2307/2389979|1. Interspecific comparisons suggest that lizard life history and morphology coevolve and that reproductive output may be constrained by morphology. However, the interplay between morphology and life-history characteristics remains poorly investigated in intraspecific comparisons. We studied variation in body shape (relative interlimb length) and reproductive life-history characteristics along a latitudinal gradient of populations of Lampropholis delicata, a small oviparous Australian scincid lizard, to examine whether reproductive expenditure is correlated with body shape. 2. Our analyses revealed considerable geographic variation in mean body size, body shape and reproductive life history. The variation in reproductive traits (i.e. clutch size, egg size, clutch volume and relative clutch volume) was not a simple consequence of variation in body size among populations. Mean clutch size and mean egg size were equally variable among populations. 3. Latitude accounted for approximately 30% of the variance in life-history phenotypes among populations, presumably mediated by differences in climate. Overall, lizards in southern populations tended to mature at a smaller size, have larger interlimb lengths as adults and produce clutches with more and larger eggs, as compared to lizards in northern populations. 4. Our results suggest a trade-off between the number and the size of offspring within but not among populations. Lizards in southern populations were able to produce larger eggs, without a concomitant reduction in clutch size, because adults were larger in absolute terms, and they had larger abdominal volumes relative to body size. 5. Relative interlimb length accounted for 71% of the variance in relative clutch volume among populations. This positive correlation between body shape and relative clutch volume may have arisen because: (1) body shape constrains reproductive expenditure below optimal levels or (2) body shape has itself evolved to allow optimal levels of reproductive expenditure, as determined by life-history trade-offs.
3598990|1. Mathematical models suggest that 'costs of reproduction' (decrements in an organism's probable future reproductive output due to investing in current reproduction) are major determinants of life-history evolution. 2. Pregnancy decreases locomotor performance in many taxa, and could render reproducing females more vulnerable to predators. To evaluate the importance of this 'cost of reproduction', however, we need to know the magnitude of performance decrement induced by reproduction relative to that induced by other factors in the animal's biology. 3. Studies on adult female skinks (Lampropholis guichenoti) confirm that pregnancy significantly impairs maternal locomotion, but also show that factors such as a moderate decrease in body temperature, a large meal or loss of the tail reduced locomotor speeds even more than did pregnancy. Thus, reproductive state probably causes only a minor proportion of the total temporal variation in a female skink's locomotor ability. 4. In such a system, even a large effect of pregnancy on running speeds may not impose a significant selective pressure on reproductive investment. 5. Climate and foraging modes may affect the degree to which locomotor speeds are influenced by pregnancy vs. other factors, offering a potential explanation for the lower overall reproductive investment per clutch in tropical vs. temperate-zone reptiles, and in lizards vs. snakes.
2390347|1. This paper investigates spatial habitat variation in flower visitation by avian pollinators (mainly Hummingbirds) and nectar robbers to Fuchsia magellanica at the southern limit of its range, Tierra del Fuego, and their effects on plant reproductive success. 2. The plant-pollination mutualism appears to be disrupted as Hummingbirds (Sephanoides galeritus) are rare at this high latitude and the frequencies of a nectar-robbing bird (Phrygilus patagonicus) are high, especially in open areas where F. magellanica is most abundant. 3. Nectar robbery by P. patagonicus reduced fruit set about 20%, mainly because this fringillid can damage the ovary when piercing a flower. This bird was more abundant in open areas than inside the forest and, as expected, flower piercing was also more frequent in the former habitat. 4. Spatial variation was also found in the frequency of flower visitation by Hummingbirds; these birds foraged chiefly in the forest presumably because of the greater probability of finding intact (non-robbed) flowers there. This suggests that cross-pollinations in this self-compatible plant are more likely to occur in the forest. Nectar robbers therefore may influence not only the quantity of seeds produced but also, indirectly, their quality. 5. Fuchsia magellanica is polymorphic in flower colour. Robbery was significantly lower in the pale than in the normal (red) morph, although fruit set was similar between morphs.
3599238|1. Although evolutionary and ecological consequences of body size changes are relatively well understood, the proximate mechanisms of body size alteration at a cellular level are often surprisingly neglected, especially in vertebrates. The question of whether larger animals are made from larger cells is rarely tested in an explicit phylogenetic framework, i.e. among closely related species with known phylogeny. 2. Here we explore the relationship between erythrocyte and body size in a small gecko family (Eublepharidae) exhibiting large body size variation. 3. We found positive interspecific correlation of cell and body size. Assuming that size of other cell types changed in a similar way to red blood cell size, we can conclude than c. 15-20% of body size change in this group could be attributed to cell size variation. 4. As larger cells are generally more frugal than smaller cells, we hypothesise that a macro-evolutionary trade-off exists between body complexity and energetic efficiency. 5. We believe that knowing how particular animal lineages have solved this trade-off during body size evolution will help us explain much of the variation in ecophysiological traits among clades as well as within them.
10.2307/2389449|A technique for radioactively labelling the pollinia (pollen packages) of milkweeds (Asclepiadaceae) is described. Label was incorporated by placing potted stems of Asclepias curassavica L. into a chamber into which <sup>14</sup>CO<sub>2</sub> was introduced. Based on scintillation counts, detectable levels of label were found in pollinia of all flowers that opened from 1 to 19 days after incorporation; the highest levels occurred from days 9 to 13 post-incorporation. Nectar was also found to have label. This method has much potential for tracking the dispersal of milkweed pollinia. A field application is described in Pleasants (1991).
10.2307/2389295|Water relations of seedlings of Gmelina arborea Roxb. were evaluated for 5 weeks after inoculation with an ectomycorrhiza. The treatments include mycorrhizal control (MC), mycorrhizal droughted (MD) and non-mycorrhizal droughted (NMD) plants. Stomatal closure and reduction in leaf turgor of MD plants occurred after two-thirds of the available soil moisture had been extracted whereas in NMD plants stomata closed linearly with reduction in extracted soil water. In the second experiment, osmoregulation, P concentration in xylem sap and leaf were found to be higher in MD plants than in NMD plants after they had been subjected to two or three periods of soil drying. Osmoregulation in MD and NMD plants correlated with the ratio of leaf dry weight to turgid weight. After the first droughting cycle, seedlings began to wilt at lower xylem pressure potentials but with more negative values in MD plants when compared with NMD plants. The enhanced drought tolerance of MD plants was attributed to maintenance of water potential gradient for water absorption by osmotic adjustment, and the increased growth parameters due to P nutrition.
10.2307/2389629|Recent studies have demonstrated that the sizes of plant parts are allometrically related. In this study we investigated the relationship between leaf and inflorescence mass in 35 species and one interspecific hybrid in the morphologically and developmentally plastic genus Protea (Proteaceae). We show that the basic relationship is biomechanically based and identify four ways in which species have escaped this constraint: firstly, species with terminal inflorescences which delay the flowering of their inflorescence for a year after initiation have a high ratio of inflorescence to leaf mass; secondly, species with pendulous terminal inflorescences which have a similarly high ratio; and thirdly, species which have axillary inflorescences and thus escape the biomechanical constraint of supporting the mass of an inflorescence at the end of a branch. Fourthly, species with a prostrate habit have a low ratio of leaf to inflorescence mass, whether or not they belong to groups with terminal or axillary inflorescences. The allometric approach provides an objective method for identifying exceptions and how they may have arisen, and for formulating testable hypotheses about the adaptive value of traits.
10.2307/2389614|Individual adaptive responses to environmental variability include both reversible changes in behaviour or physiological state and irreversible developmental choices. The more that nutritional quality varies within its lifespan, the more a feeding animal should respond with reversible compensation rather than developmental specialization. Such adaptive responses were expected of larvae of the salvinia moth, Samea multiplicalis Guenee, which may experience large changes in food plant quality during development. Final instar larvae fed at higher rates on Salvinia molesta Mitchell plants of low nitrogen content (N%) than on plants of high N%. This compensation for reduced dietary quality was incomplete, as those larvae feeding on low N% plants had lower N ingestion rates, lower efficiencies of use of dietary N, and slower growth. Larvae on both high and low dietary N% fed preferentially on tips and young leaves. Larvae on low dietary N% assimilated biomass with the same efficiency but lost relatively more of the assimilate to respiration than did larvae on high dietary N%. These results suggest that larvae of herbivorous insects maintain homeostasis of body N% when feeding on diets with increasing carbohydrate to N ratio, by increasing respiration to eliminate excess carbohydrates. The minimum body N% observed for S. multiplicalis was about 8.8%. Larvae on low dietary N% were no better at growing on and utilizing low N% plants during the final instar, than were larvae that had been reared on high dietary N% for the first two instars, and were then switched to low N% plants. Larvae on high dietary N% grew more rapidly, and utilized N more efficiently during final instar than larvae that were reared on low dietary N% for the first or the first two instars, and were then switched to high N% plants. The larvae switched from low to high N% plants assimilated dietary biomass more efficiently, possibly through compensatory gut enlargement, but lost relatively more of the assimilate to respiration, and so maintained much the same final body size and body N content. These results suggest that N utilization efficiencies are impaired by poor diet early in development. For the salvinia moth, rates and efficiencies of food utilization and growth apart from ingestion and respiration rates, represent not tactical variables, but constraints in the evolution of adaptive compensation for dietary variability.
10.2307/2389523|1. Effects of herbivory on radial growth of mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa) were investigated in defoliation experiments in a subarctic environment in northern Sweden. The effects of foliage loss on the rate of photosynthesis and the annual radial increment were assessed to test whether compensation had occurred. 2. Fifty per cent defoliation had no significant effect on ring width. In trees defoliated 100%, rings formed during the treatment year and each of the following 3 years were only 15-25% as wide as the corresponding rings in control trees. Remaining foliage on 50%-defoliated trees had a maximum area-based photosynthetic rate 35% higher than that of control trees, whereas the photosynthetic rate of regrowth foliage on 100%-defoliated trees was not significantly different from that of control trees. 3. Leaf nitrogen concentration and whole-tree leaf area showed normal values 2 years after defoliation. 4. The daily CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation in mid-August of 50%-defoliated trees was estimated to be 67% that of undefoliated trees. The fact that ring widths of these trees were similar to those of control trees suggests that the reduction in photosynthesis was compensated for by stored carbohydrates or by a re-allocation of carbon, or both.
10.2307/2390579|1. Specific leaf area is a variable implicated in a number of functional aspects of plant ecology, including gas exchange, relative growth rate and palatability. 2. Six leaf attributes (water content, lamina thickness, protruding vein thickness, dry weight, lamina area and specific leaf area) were determined on a collection of 572 leaves. The data set was derived from 194 individual plants, 34 species, 32 genera, 18 families and both classes of angiosperms. All species except one (a shrub) were herbaceous. All species were from sunny habitats. 3. Structured relationships between these six variables were obtained. These relationships consisted of path analyses, multiple regressions and major axis (allometric) regressions. 4. There was an interspecific allometric trend for leaf dry weight to increase more rapidly than leaf surface area, resulting in larger leaves having a lower specific leaf area. This trend did not exist at an intraspecific level. 5. Path analysis showed that the most important direct effect on specific leaf area was the water content of the leaf. Increasing water content resulted in a larger specific leaf area. The direct effect of lamina thickness was to decrease specific leaf area but lamina thickness itself was affected by leaf water content. 6. These effects on specific leaf area were mediated through variation in leaf dry weight. Leaf surface area appeared to be independent of the other five variables. 7. These results help to explain two unresolved general patterns in plant comparative ecology: (1) why net photosynthetic rate is not positively correlated with maximum relative growth rates and (2) why there is a negative correlation between maximum relative growth rate and seed size.
10.2307/2389765|The possibility of functional relationships between energetics and life-history characteristics has been of considerable interest to evolutionary ecologists. Among species of mammals, life-history variables generally are not correlated with mass-independent basal metabolic rate, with the possible exceptions of maximal intrinsic rate of increase, litter size and reproductive effort during lactation. Whether this is generally true at the level of variation among individuals within a population (individual variation) is unclear. Therefore, we tested whether basal or maximal metabolic rates of random-bred female mice (Mus domesticus) were correlated with the size of their litters, litter mass, or mean offspring mass. The effects of variation in maternal mass, maternal age, experimental block and duration of fasting (for basal metabolic rate) were removed by calculating residuals from multiple regression equations. Basal and maximal metabolic rate were not significantly correlated with any of the life-history variables we studied. Thus, our results are generally consistent with those from interspecific comparisons of mammals: little evidence suggests necessary associations between metabolic rates and life history.
10.2307/2390098|1. Investigations of tropical soil seed banks have reported large differences in apparent seed densities based on seedling emergence from soil set out under gap conditions. To examine to what extent these differences might reflect different methodologies rather than actual differences in seed density, soil samples of different depths were laid out in germination trays. 2. There was a marked effect of soil depth on total seedling emergence. Germination trays containing soil layers of \geq 10 mm markedly underestimated total seed density. Relative abundance of species in the samples did not alter with depth. Almost all seedling emergence occurred within the first 6 weeks for all soil depths. 3. It is recommended that future tropical soil seed-bank investigations should spread soil to \leq 5 mm. This should not restrict the sample sizes used in seed-bank investigations as rapid germination from shallow soils allows rapid turnover of samples.
41239373|1. Abiotic stress and interactions with neighbours are major selective forces but their relative importance for local adaptation has rarely been separated. Plant community theory predicts increasing importance of competition with decreasing stress. We experimentally separated the role of neighbours and drought stress for local adaptation of two annual plant species. We predicted that neighbours amplify patterns of local adaptation with adaptation to competition prevailing in benign habitats. 2. During one growing season, we combined reciprocal transplants with neighbour removals along a gradient of more than an eightfold increase in annual rainfall using populations from sites representative of Arid, Semi-arid, Mediterranean and Mesic Mediterranean ecosystems. We evaluated statistical interactions between origin and planting site with and without neighbours and quantified plant-plant interaction importance. 3. An extreme drought (<63% of the average annual rainfall at the arid sites) reduced the probability of detecting neighbour effects. There was weak but non-significant evidence for local adaptation and for the amplification of adaptation patterns with neighbours for populations from wetter sites of the two species. Our results together with previous findings in similar gradients suggest that detecting local adaptation to neighbours in unpredictable environments depends on the climatic conditions of the study season. 4. We coupled a central concept from plant community ecology with an evolutionary approach to separate the role of abiotic vs. biotic factors for local adaptation. This permits quantifying the importance of interactions with neighbours and we advocate its use in future studies of local adaptation, which should be conducted over several years.
2656404|1. About 10 years after establishment, plantations of Western Redcedar (Thuja plicata Donn ex D. Don) on northern Vancouver Island, British Columbia become nutrient deficient and chlorotic, grow slowly, and are susceptible to invasion by the ericaceous shrub Salal (Gaultheria shallon Pursh.). 2. To test the hypothesis that <sup>15</sup>N can be related to site histories (site disturbance, soil N dynamics and plant development), we measured soil and foliar <sup>15</sup>N in the summer of 1992 in 3-year-old (nutrient-sufficient) and 10-year-old (nutrient-deficient) plantations and in old-growth stands. The foliar and soil <sup>15</sup>N values of the plantations and old-growth forests were different and closely reflected site histories. Salal invasion and nutrient deficiency interacted to depress the growth of Redcedar in 10-year-old plantations. 3. Site preparation destroyed the top soil organic layers (fresh and decaying litter) and forced Salal (ccto- and cricoid mycorrhizal) into the humus layer, where it was in direct competition with Redcedar, thereby disadvantaging arbuscular mycorrhizal/non-mycorrhizal Redcedar in its nutrient acquisition during a period when N and P are severely limited. 4. There was a large seasonal range of foliar <sup>15</sup>N (5.5 and 4.3???? for 10-year-old Redcedar and Salal, respectively), and there was no relationship between foliar <sup>15</sup>N and measured rooting depth, demonstrating that rooting depths cannot be used to explain foliar <sup>15</sup>N variation among coexisting woody taxa. 5. Foliar and soil <sup>15</sup>N declined with site age and with a presumed change from `open' to `closed' N cycling; the <sup>15</sup>N-depleting effects of mycorrhizal N transformations contributed to the observed <sup>15</sup>N decline.
3598965|1. Understanding an animal's ecology requires knowledge of how individual variation in behaviour and physiology interact with each other and with the environment that an animal experiences. 2. Environmental variation affects behaviour, but whether individual variation in physiological performance also affects behaviour is poorly known. 3. We studied a high-altitude population of Deer Mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) inhabiting an environment cold enough that above-ground activity (behaviour) may be limited by the thermogenic capacity (maximal rate of oxygen consumption
10.2307/2389709|Phenotypic models of selection are used to predict the ESS (evolutionarily stable strategy) allocation to pollen, seeds and pollination mechanisms (corolla, etc.) as a function of the frequency of self-fertilization in plants with different modes of self-fertilization. The results show that: (1) As autogamous self-fertilization increases, the ESS allocation to seeds increases and the allocations to pollen and pollination mechanisms simultaneously decrease. (2) Whether or not there is any allocation to pollination mechanisms with 100% selfing depends on whether self-pollination requires the activity of pollinators or occurs autonomously. (3) The best measure of the importance of self-fertilization is the proportion of adults derived from selfing. (4) If any autogamy occurs, the allocations to pollen and seeds are not equivalent to those to male and female functions. (5) Self-fertilization is not a special case of local mate competition. (6) Geitonogamous self-fertilization requires the same structures as outcrossing and has little effect on allocations. The models can explain the allocation patterns and high fruit set commonly associated with self-fertilization and they suggest further types of data that should be collected.
2656409|1. Diversity effects on canopy structure and the use of space and light were investigated in experimental grassland communities of one, two, four, eight or 32 species and of one, two or three functional groups (grasses, legumes and non-leguminous forbs) in north-western Switzerland. 2. Plant species and functional group richness improved the establishment of grassland assemblages and increased mean vegetation cover from 64% in monocultures to 100% in 32-species mixtures. 3. Above-ground biomass and leaf area index increased linearly with the logarithm of plant species number in all 3 years of the experiment. The most species-rich communities produced 143% more biomass than the mean of all monocultures and 25% more biomass than the most productive monoculture in the third year of the experiment. 4. Plant light absorbance per unit ground area increased by 44% with diversity (32-species mixtures compared with monocultures) for two reasons. (i) The lack of species complementarity in terms of success of seedling establishment and plant size in vegetation with low species diversity increased the gap area in the canopy, and consequently more light reached bare ground. (ii) Diverse ecosystems absorbed more light within their closed canopies (+20%) than did less diverse ecosystems, because of better three-dimensional space filling and greater biomass density due to complementarity in plant architecture, particularly between grasses and dicots. 5. The overall canopy height was increased by 46% and the centre of gravity of the canopy was raised by up to 10 cm over the range of experimental diversity treatments from one to 32 species. 6. These results cannot be explained solely by a higher likelihood of the inclusion of more productive dominant species in the more diverse communities (sampling effect), which suggests that biomass production may be determined by the most productive species present in a community. For all important canopy characteristics of multi-species communities, we show that with increasing diversity, mixtures perform better than the best monoculture. This is a strong indication that part of the positive effect of diversity on biomass production is driven by complementary resource use.
3598981|1. Specialised nectar-feeding birds tend to prefer sucrose over glucose-fructose mixtures or to be indifferent when tested at concentrations close to 584 mmol L
3599210|1. Eggs of precocial bird clutches hatch more synchronously than they are laid. The widely accepted hypothesis to explain hatching synchrony has been that vocalizations from earlier laid embryos accelerate development of later laid embryos. The relationship between position in the laying sequence (hereafter PILS) and time to hatching was investigated in Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans L.; hereafter brant). Factors associated with variation in incubation duration were also examined. 2. Experimental clutches comprising eggs laid on the same day from the same PILS were assembled to eliminate the effects of earlier laid eggs on those laid later. This experiment allowed us to examine developmental time in clutches without the effects of interactions between eggs laid earlier in the sequence and those laid later. In a separate experiment, clutches were manipulated so that the full complement of laying sequences was maintained in each clutch, but each egg originated from a different female. This experiment allowed us to separate the influences of genetic-maternal effects from the influence of nest environment and incubation behaviour. Developmental time was also monitored in a set of clutches that were unmanipulated. 3. Metabolic rates of eggs from each PILS were measured at mid-incubation and the day before hatch for both experimental and control nests. By measuring metabolic rates, it was possible to examine changes in metabolic rates of embryos as hatch approaches, which may be another mechanism to synchronize hatch. 4. No difference was detected in incubation period between control and manipulated clutches. There was a steady decline in incubation period from first to last laid eggs independent of the clutch type. Fifth laid eggs required >3 days less to hatch than those laid first. These data suggest that sounds produced by brood mates and/or female incubation patterns are not the principal mechanisms for hatching synchrony. Both genetic and host mothers influenced overall developmental time, indicating that genetic-maternal effects and incubation behaviour and nest environment also influenced developmental time. 5. Embryonic metabolic rate was negatively correlated with number of days before hatch, but there was not a positive relationship between PILS and metabolic rate. Our findings show that embryonic metabolic rate may affect development more than vocalizations between brood members in synchronizing hatch.
10.2307/2389687|The involvement of chemicals in interactions between individual organisms has been recognized for many years. The current terminology of these so-called semiochemicals developed over a 25 year period and the definition of each category was proposed in a specific context. As a result, the definitions of the various categories are heterogeneous. The present definition of semiochemicals (Nordlund & Lewis, 1976) includes toxins and nutrients. We distinguish between (a) toxins and nutrients, which are themselves to the benefit or detriment to the interacting organisms and (b) information conveying chemicals (infochemicals). Through the response they elicit these latter chemicals are to the benefit or detriment of the receiving organism. Toxins and nutrients may also convey information. If so, we propose to refer to these chemicals as toxin or nutrient when poisonous or nutritious aspects are considered and as infochemical when their role as information carrier is considered. Semiochemical terminology according to Nordlund & Lewis (1976) is based to a large extent on the origin of the compounds in specific interactions. Only those interactions are regarded where one of the interactants is the producer or emitter of the chemical. However, if an infochemical plays a role in the interaction between two individuals, it is by no means certain that either of the two is the actual producer or emitter. The producer or emitter may be a different organism from the same or even from another trophic level but is clearly associated to at least one of the interactants. Arguments are given to eliminate the origin criterion from the terminology and to use the cost-benefit criterion as the sole determinant of infochemical subdivisions.
826721|1. We evaluated the potential for three species of deciduous-forest herbs to exploit seasonal periods of direct irradiance. In particular, we investigated the importance of photosynthetic acclimation as a mechanism for shade-tolerant herbs to utilize direct light reaching the forest floor before canopy expansion in the spring and after canopy leaf drop in the autumn. 2. We measured the photosynthetic and growth characteristics of three co-occurring herbs of a northern hardwood forest: the spring ephemeral Allium tricoccum Ait., the summer-green Viola pubescens Ait., and the semi-evergreen Tiarella cordifolia L. 3. Leaf CO
40603106|1. The Amazon region may experience increasing moisture limitation over this century. Leaf dark respiration (R) is a key component of the Amazon rain forest carbon (C) cycle, but relatively little is known about its sensitivity to drought. 2. Here, we present measurements of R standardized to 25  C and leaf morphology from different canopy heights over 5 years at a rain forest subject to a large-scale through-fall reduction (TFR) experiment, and nearby, unmodified Control forest, at the Caxiuan reserve in the eastern Amazon. 3. In all five post-treatment measurement campaigns, mean R at 25 C was elevated in the TFR forest compared to the Control forest experiencing normal rainfall. After 5 years of the TFR treatment, R per unit leaf area and mass had increased by 65% and 42%, respectively, relative to pre-treatment means. In contrast, leaf area index (L) in the TFR forest was consistently lower than the Control, falling by 23% compared to the pre-treatment mean, largely because of a decline in specific leaf area (S). 4. The consistent and significant effects of the TFR treatment on R, L and S suggest that severe drought events in the Amazon, of the kind that may occur more frequently in future, could cause a substantial increase in canopy carbon dioxide emissions from this ecosystem to the atmosphere.
2390301|1. Multiple breeding (raising more than one batch of young per breeding season) is a common life-history tactic that has received very little attention. A simple static optimization model was developed, applicable to iteroparous animals with parental care, that predicts: (1) when an animal should be a multiple breeder, (2) the optimal interval between successive clutches, and (3) when a clutch should be deserted. 2. More specifically, it was predicted that (I) animals should invest less in a clutch when it is followed by another clutch in the same season, and (II) as a consequence the contribution of the first clutch to the parents' fitness will be reduced. 3. These predictions were tested experimentally in a population of Great Tits (Parus M. major L.). The experiment consisted of the removal of second clutches. When second clutches were removed, parents tended their first brood fledglings for a longer period than undisturbed control pairs, in agreement with the first prediction. Removal of second clutches did not affect fledgling survival, but recruits enjoyed higher reproductive success in their first year of breeding when the second clutch of their parents had been removed, in agreement with the second prediction. 4. It is concluded that a trade-off exists between successive reproductive attempts, which will affect the optimal rate of reproductive attempts.
2656423|1. Photoprotective strategies were investigated in 10 epiphytic bromeliad species in Trinidad with contrasting preferences for the light environment, according to exposure groups categorized by C.S. Pittendrigh in 1948 (viz. Exposure, Sun and Shade-Tolerant). 2. Chlorophyll a/b ratios were relatively consistent under both high and low light, despite large differences in total chlorophyll content. 3. Diurnal patterns of photosynthesis were examined in three C<sub>3</sub> species. Carboxylation limitation was ubiquitous and despite some evidence for the operation of alternative electron sinks, utilization of photon energy was minimal. 4. Irrespective of exposure group and photosynthetic pathway (C<sub>3</sub> or CAM), all species exhibited a very high capacity for thermal dissipation of excess excitation. 5. Non-photochemical quenching of chlorophyll fluorescence in leaves of Exposure and Sun Group species was largely rapidly relaxing, indicative of a photoprotective down-regulation of photosynthesis. In contrast more slowly relaxing quenching (qI) was the major component in the Shade-Tolerant Group, suggesting a greater probability of photodamage for species within this group. 6. C.S. Pittendrigh supported the view that many bromeliads low in the canopy were shade-tolerant, suggesting that the epiphytic ancestor originated in exposed, open regions. Our fluorescence quenching data support this assertion.
2390551|1. We expect tree species that regenerate primarily by sprouting to produce fewer seedlings than co-occurring species that regenerate mainly from seedlings, because of the trade-off between allocating resources either to ensuring vegetative reproduction (e.g. protective bark/latent buds) or to sexual reproduction (e.g. seeds). 2. Furthermore, resprouting species, because of their multi-stemmed nature, should be at a relative disadvantage, and therefore relatively infrequent, in tall forests. This is because a resprouting individual allocates resources to a number of basal branches/stems and buds rather than maximizing vertical extension of a single leader, as is the case in a seeder. Also, many tall stems arising from the same multi-stemmed base, as is the case in resprouters, will be relatively poorly supported in comparison to the single stem of a reseeder. 3. To test these two ideas we surveyed a number of plots in a range of South African forests and thicket communities. We noted the numbers of seedlings and resprouts for each species and determined a mean for each site. 4. Short forests and thickets were dominated by multi-stemmed species and there was an almost total absence of seedlings. In contrast, tall forests were dominated by single-stemmed reseeding species and were accompanied by seedlings.
10.2307/2390512|1. Models of tree function and forest ecosystem carbon budgets often assume that potential global changes in temperature and/or other factors may alter tissue nitrogen (N) and dark respiration rates (R<sub>d</sub>). However, little is known of patterns of co-variation in tissue N and R<sub>d</sub> among intraspecific populations originating along climatic gradients, and of whether an N-based model of R<sub>d</sub> can like these two variables. To address these issues, we studied N and R<sub>d</sub> in fully expanded needles of 10-year-old trees of 14 Scots Pine (Pinus sylvestris) populations of wide-ranging origin (43<sup></sup> to 60<sup></sup>N), grown under common garden conditions. 2. For 11 lowland populations (elevation <200 m) from the continguous part of the species range (48<sup></sup> to 60<sup></sup>N) grown at a field site in Kornik, western Poland (52<sup></sup>N), there were greater needle %N in populations from increasing latitude of origin or decreasing mean annual temperature <latex>$(r \geq 0.93, P < 0.01)$</latex>. Similar %N and latitude of origin correlations were observed in another year at this site and in retrospective analyses of published data for diferent sets of Scots Pine populations grown in common gardens at 48<sup></sup>, 52<sup></sup>C and 62<sup></sup>N latitudes. Needle R<sub>d</sub> rates of the 11 lowland populations growing at Kornik and measured at a common temperature (20<sup></sup>C) were greater, by as much as 50%, for more northerly than southerly populations. Mean R<sub>d</sub> rates were positively correlated to latitude of origin and to mean annual temperature (<latex>$P < 0.05, r = 0.7$</latex> to 0.8). R<sub>d</sub> and needle %N wre positively correlated (<latex>$P < 0.01, r = 0.75$</latex>), with one relationship fitting all data. Across the entire range from 1.15. to 1.55 needle %N, R<sub>d</sub> increased from 4.5 to 6.9 nmol g<sup>-1</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>. 3. Mean needle %N and R<sub>d</sub> values for two montane southern populations (43<sup></sup> and 44<sup></sup>N, elevation  885m) growing in the same common garden at Kornik were consistent with the relationships between mean annual temperature, needle %N and R<sub>d</sub> observed for the more northerly populations but did not fit the latitudinal patterns. This suggests that temperature and/or associated climate variables are likely the driving force for observed genetic variation in Scots Pine needle %N and R<sub>d</sub> across latitudinal and altitudinal gradients. 4. Results of these common garden studies support the idea of a general relationship between needle dark respiration and N concentration, and indicate that there is intraspecific genetic variation in physiology that is selected by climate that persists in a comoon environment, resulting in higher needle %N and respiration in plants originating from colder habitats. Such patterns need to be better understood and quantified, and merit consideration in modelling of current and potential global change effects on plant function and global carbon cycles.
2390524|1. A dose-dependent decrease in male fertility occurs in the Indian Meal Moth, Plodia interpunctella, when sub-lethally infected with granulovirus during the larval stage. 2. Here, the causes for this decline are investigated by examining eupyrene and apyrene sperm numbers and sizes produced by males across four levels of viral challenge. 3. The results could not explain how reduced male fertility is caused in this host-pathogen interaction. While a reduction in both eupyrene and apyrene sperm numbers from all virus-treated males was found, this was not significant and neither was there a difference in sperm lengths across the four treatments. There were also no differences in the variances of sperm numbers or lengths between the doses, and no associations between sperm numbers or lengths and body size were found. 4. A significant correlation between eupyrene and apyrene numbers was found, but this was independent of dose. Significant between-male variance in apyrene sperm lengths was found, indicating that individual males differ in the range of apyrene sperm sizes they produce. 5. It is suggested that further intracellular and behavioural study is needed to identify the causes of the granulovirus-induced reduction in fertility of P. interpunctella.
2390449|1. Growth, density and <sup>13</sup> C of wood and leaf area were measured in two adjacent stands of 6 year-old Eucalyptus globulus growing in the 600-700 mm year<sup>-1</sup> rainfall region of south-western Australia. Study sites were identical except for differences in the availability of water owing to physical properties of soil profiles and location of sites within the landscape. 2. Abundance of <sup>13</sup>C (expressed as <sup>13</sup> C) in wood of trees growing on the drought-prone site (- 24.8<???>  1.4) was greater than in other trees (-25.8<???>  1.2, P < 0.001) throughout the 6 years and, with further development, the <sup>13</sup> C signatures of wood may become useful indices of drought-susceptibility in plantations within a few years of establishment. The seasonal pattern of <sup>13</sup> C of wood appeared to reflect seasonal variation in water availability and duration of cambial activity. 3. Basic density of wood of trees growing on the more drought-prone site (496  14.0 kg m<sup>-3</sup>) was reduced compared to other trees (554  5.3 kg m<sup>-3</sup>, P < 0.001). <sup>13</sup> C of wood across boundaries of growth-rings suggested that drought stopped cambial activity resulting in less production of late wood and less dense wood. 4. The stand growing on the drought-prone site had reduced growth, wood yield and leaf area but identical specific leaf area. Annual growth was correlated with the previous season's rainfall. Together, these results suggested that within the same evaporative climate, drought reduces growth primarily by reducing leaf area and that there is a lag between onset of drought and reduced productivity.
3599259| 1. Paterns of resource allocation in different times of the year can provide insights into the effects of simultaneous environmental constraints on reproduction and survival of desert birds. Field metabolic rate (FMR), water influx rate (WIR) and patterns of time allocation of Hoopoe Larks (Alaemon alaudipes Desfontaines) were investigated during spring, when larks were rearing offspring, and during summer, presumably the harshest time for desert birds, in the Arbian Desert. 2. FMR was 45% below allometric predictions in spring (183 times basal metabolic rate, BMR) and 58% below predictions in summer (137 times BMR). WIR was 37% lower than predicted during the nestling period and 55% lower than predicted during summer. 3. Activity patterns during spring and summer were bimodal, with birds foraging in the early morning and late afternoon and resting in the shade or attending the nest during midday. Foraging time was similar in spring (320% of total daytime) and summer (336% of total daytime), despite higher energy and water intakes for parents and offspring in spring, suggesting that food availability was higher in spring. The non-foraging time was entirely spent resting in summer, while in spring half of this time was allocated to caring for offspring and the other half to resting in the shade. Hoopoe Larks fed their offspring 55 times per day and shaded their chicks about 5 h per day to protect them from solar radiation. 4. High
2390547|1. Echinochloa polystachya forms extensive monotypic stands on the lower levels of the Amazon floodplains. During its annual growth cycle c. 100 t (dry mass) ha<sup>-1</sup> of biomass is formed as the floodplain is being submerged (December-September) and a phase of death and decomposition occurs when the water has retreated (October-November). This study examines the mineral nutrient dynamics of this plant and its potential significance to the nutrient status of the floodplain. 2. Echinochloa polystachya was sampled monthly from a study site in the central Amazon. N, P and K contents for different plant organs were determined and net uptake calculated from concurrent measurements of dry matter production and turnover. 3. Leaf N, P and K contents were c. 20, 1.7 and 19 g kg<sup>-1</sup>, values typical of nutrient-replete stands of C<sub>4</sub> plants. Stem concentrations were c. 12% of those of the leaves. Net N and P uptake followed the rise in the river level, whilst K appeared independent of water level. 4. The vegetation accumulated 377, 51 and 1136 kg ha<sup>-2</sup> of N, P and K, respectively, during the growth phase. Over a possible 5000 km<sup>2</sup> of these stands in the Varzea, this represents a massive sequestration of nutrients in the flood phase and a high release during the following low-water period. It is suggested that the E. polystachya stands could have a role in maintaining the nutrient status of the Amazon floodplain.
10.2307/2389307|The lipid composition of cellular and extracellular products of actively growing marine algae Platymonas viridis Rouch and Nephrochloris salina Rouch cultures has been studied. High content of the triacylglycerols was shown to be characteristic of the N. salina cells. Polar lipids and sterols were found in P. viridis cells in great amounts. The lipid compounds have been found at all stages of the culture development. Polar lipids, sterols, free fatty acids, triacylglycerols, esters of sterols and hydrocarbons were observed in the extracellular lipids. The compositional differences between lipids from two cultures of marine algae as well as between the cell and the medium are reported.
40603120|1. The responses of small ruminants to changing food availability may vary from a broadening of the diet with declining availability, as predicted by optimality theory, to the maintenance of a restricted, selected diet, as predicted by the body-size constraint hypothesis. 2. We test these conflicting predictions by assessing the dietary responses of the Cape grysbok Raphcerus melanotis, a near-endemic to the Cape Floristic region, South Africa, to changes in the availability of a key forage species (i. e. Australian Acacia sp.). We predicted that the removal of alien Acacias would cause a broadening of the diet, and the consumption of previously avoided species, despite the selectivity imposed by their small body size. We used faecal analyses to describe grysbok diet and assessed diet quality through faecal quality analyses. 3. Results show that grysbok are highly selective browsers, able to change their diet and dietary preferences in response to changes in food availability. Animals included additional species in the diet in the absence of alien Acacias, altered their principal dietary items, broadened foraging strategies to include grass and some previously avoided species became preferred in the absence of Acacias. These dietary changes were effective in maintaining dietary protein intake, and caused a reduction in fibre intake in the absence of Acacias. 4. The data do not support the body size constraint hypothesis which is thought to impose a limit on the ability of small ruminants to select additional dietary species. 5. These data represent the first quantification of extensive grazing (up to 51% of the diet) by a species considered a browser. These findings support the prediction of optimality theory, whereby animals faced with a loss of important food items broaden their diet to include previously avoided species.
3599075| 1. We tested the effects of elevated concentrations of atmospheric CO
3599070|1. Eggshell thickness, egg size, clutch size and egg hatchability of Pied Flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca Pallas) are markedly depressed and nestlings show delayed ossification of their leg and wing bones near the copper smelter in Harjavalta, SW Finland. Both defects suggest problems in calcium availability or metabolism. However, another species, the Great Tit (Parus major L.), lays relatively normal eggs and clutches even in the most polluted areas. The Ca content of nestling faeces was measured to estimate between-species differences in Ca availability. 2. Parus major nestlings showed four times higher Ca contents in their faeces than F. hypoleuca nestlings, suggesting differential abilities to acquire Ca between the two species. 3. The availability of Ca-rich food items was estimated by counting spilled snail shells in the nests of F. hypoleuca postfledging. Snail shells were frequently found except at nests closest to the factory where the amount of exchangeable Ca in organic soil is low and ground layer vegetation is scanty. 4. The number of snail shells in F. hypoleuca nests correlated positively with the Ca concentration of nestling faeces. Furthermore, snail shell numbers and Ca concentration in faeces were positively associated with breeding success. 5. There was a significant interaction between Ca and Cu levels of faeces, so that the negative effect of Cu on the number of fledglings was stronger when the Ca level was low, i.e. F. hypoleuca demonstrated poor breeding success especially at territories high in heavy metals and low in snail shells. Our results show that heavy metals have detrimental effects on F. hypoleuca nestlings especially when Ca availability is poor.
41319578|1. Current studies indicate that estimates of thermal tolerance limits in ectotherms depend on the experimental protocol used, with slower and presumably more ecologically relevant rates of warming negatively affecting the upper thermal limits (CT max ). Recent empirical evidence also gives credence to earlier speculations suggesting that estimates of heritability could drop with slower heating rates. 2. Using published data from the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, we show that empirical patterns can be explained if flies' physical condition decreases with experimental time in thermal tolerance assays. This problem could even overshadow potential benefits of thermal acclimation, also suggesting that a drop in CT max with slower heating rates does not necessarily rule out beneficial acclimatory responses. 3. Numerical results from a simple illustrative model show that no clear conclusions can be obtained on how the phenotypic variance in CT max will be affected with different rates of thermal change. Conversely, the genetic variance and estimated heritabilities are expected to drop with slower heating rates, hence ramping rates in experiments aiming to study the evolutionary potential of thermal tolerance to respond to global warming should be as fast as possible (within the range in which measurement accuracy and physical condition are not affected). 4. Measurements under ecologically realistic warming rates should also consider the impact of other physiological and behavioural strategies that might partly compensate the negative effects of slow heating rates. However, there are situations in which slow heating rates closely mimic natural conditions, as those encountered by some aquatic ectotherms. These heating rates may be an issue of major concern in these species, given its negative impact on CT max and its adaptive potential.
10.2307/2390147|1. To test whether differences in water relations were responsible for differences in species distributions across a landscape, we investigated patterns of water use (water potential, transpiration) of Protea susannae (associated with deep soil) and Protea compacta (associated with shallow soil) in the field (mature plants) and in the laboratory (seedlings). 2. Adults of P. susannae had more extensive root systems and less conservative water use than those of P. compacta, suggesting greater access to water. However, no substantial differences in water potential or transpiration were found, for either species, between plants in deep and shallow soils. 3. Germination, seedling growth and water relations were compared under controlled-environment conditions. Protea compacta seedlings were much larger with greater root depth and transpiration rate (per plant). The consequence of this was a drying out of the soil profile leading to greater dependence on the water table. Protea susannae seedlings were initially conservative in water use but, after 30 weeks, had a similar rate of transpiration (per plant) to P. compacta seedlings, despite a much smaller leaf area. 4. Both species were found to experience switches in water-use strategy between seedling and adult stages: from conservative to water spending in P. susannae and from water spending to conservative in P. compacta. These switches, together with differences in water relations, particularly at the seedling stage, suggest that habitat specialization could play a critical role in determining these species distributions.
10.2307/2390051|1. To elucidate the climatic adaptation of the house spider, Achaearanea tepidariorum, the photoperiodic response regulating diapause and the overwintering stage were compared between the `temperate' Hirosaki and the `subtropical' Okinawa strains. 2. Both strains could enter diapause in the nymphal and imaginal stages and photoperiod was a primary factor inducing it. In each strain, the critical photoperiod for diapause induction did not differ between nymphal and imaginal stages. There was, however, about 3h difference in the critical photoperiod between the two strains. It was longer in the temperate strain than in the subtropical strain. 3. The nymphal diapausing stadia also differed geographically; it was highly variable in the temperate strain, but was fixed at the final nymphal instar in the subtropical strain. In spite of the local difference in the diapausing stadia, all nymphal stadia and adults were found during winter in the field at both Hirosaki and Okinawa. 4. These observations suggest that the adaptive significance of diapause in the subtropical strain is to control the timing of reproduction, rather than to enhance the winter survival of the diapausing individual itself.
2390542|1. Seedlings of eight Acer species grown under two light treatments simulating forest gap edge (photosynthetic photon flux density, PPFD = 30  mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>; R:FR=0.6) and gap centre (PPFD = 400  mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>; R:FR = 1.1) were studied to explore the effect of growth irradiance on transient- and steady-state photosynthesis. 2. The increase in maximum photosynthetic rate (A<sub>max</sub>) from gap edge- to gap centre-grown seedlings ranged between 20% in Acer saccharum and 138% in Acer ginnala. A<sub>max</sub> differed significantly among species (2.3 to 12.3 <tex-math>$\m$</tex-math>u mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>) but assimilation rates under dim light (30  mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>) were more similar (0.6 to 1.4  mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>). 3. Significant differences among species in stomatal conductance indicate that species of high photosynthetic performance maintain higher dim light conductance and show a much greater excursion in stomatal opening under saturating light. 4. Lightfleck response based on actual photosynthetic rates was more rapid in gap centre- vs gap edge-grown plants but the latter demonstrated more rapid rates of photosynthetic induction (PI). 5. We suggest that the estimation of photosynthetic induction state is prone to an inverse relationship with maximum photosynthetic rate (A<sub>max</sub>) and so may not be directly related to efficiency in sunfleck response. Conversely, higher A<sub>max</sub> can result in low PI but is also associated with higher transient rates of assimilation during a lightfleck and, therefore, be equally relevant as induction properties. 6. It appears that leaves with characters such as greater specific leaf mass and area-based leaf N, even within the same irradiance treatment, may confer a carboxylation advantage to sunfleck utilization not reflected in PI. However, whether the total carbon return on such a leaf is better assessed by PI or transient photosynthetic rate remains to be determined.
3599302| 1. The survival and retention of seeds was studied by feeding known quantities of seeds of 25 species to four captive Fallow Deer (Dama dama L.). To test for ecological correlates, plant species were selected to represent large variation in seed size, seed shape, seed longevity and habitat fertility. 2. Seeds of 24 out of 25 fed plant species survived ingestion and defecation by Fallow Deer. Seed survival ranged between 0.5 and 42% of germinable seeds fed. Time to recover 50% of all seeds defecated by Fallow Deer in faeces averaged 25 h, and ranged from 13 to 38 h. 3. Seed survival was negatively related to seed mass (R = 0.65) and variance of unit seed dimensions (R = -0.56), and positively related to seed longevity (R = 0.40), but not related to habitat fertility. Log
40603117|1. Knowledge of how pathogens activate different components of the immune system to combat infections in the wild is a first step towards building a more global picture of the role that immunocompetence plays in host-parasite evolution and host life history. Ecological immunology is currently situated in this first step due, in part, to the scarcity of simple techniques to reliably evaluate immunocompetence in the field. In fact, controversy remains as to whether parasites act as immuno-stimulators promoting immune responses or as immune-depressors via immune resource depletion. 2. In this study we manipulated parasite infection (Caryospora, Protozoa, Apicomplexa) and vaccinated captive Eurasian kestrels {Falco tinnunculus) to study potential immunological responses in different components of the immune system: circulating lymphocyte lineages (CD4, CD5 and COS), counts of total lymphocytes and white blood cells (WBC) and plasma immunoglobulins (-1, -2, -1, -2 and ) 3. We also evaluated the efficacy of the PHA-assay, a common test used in ecological immunology, to gain information about T-cell-mediated immune response. 4. Experimentally infected and vaccinated (inoculated with attenuated parasites) birds showed drastic increases in CD4 and CD5 lymphocyte lineages, but not in CD8s, nor in total counts of lymphocytes or WBCs and no significant variation was observed in plasma globulins and in inflammatory reaction to PHA as a consequence of infection. PHA assay values were not correlated with initial (before vaccination) or final (after vaccination) values or with the response (final -initial) of T-lymphocyte lineages. 5. Individuals with initially lower numbers of CD4 showed higher numbers (higher immune response) after vaccination. In the case of CD5s, initial and final numbers were positively correlated. 6. This study shows that parasites clearly provoke immune activity stimulation through proliferation of T-lymphocytes (CD4 and CD 5) and also reveals that other commonly used measurements, considered to be related to T-cell-mediated immunity, such as single-time-point measurements (total lymphocyte and WBC counts) or PHA assays, have a questionable capacity to provide information about immunological capacity to combat pathogens.
2656394|1. Arabian Babblers (Turdoides squamiceps Cretzsch.; mean adult body mass = 72.5 g) inhabit extreme deserts of Israel. They consume invertebrates and fruits and, at least at our study site, do not drink. It was hypothesized that babblers (1) in general, use relatively less energy and water than other birds of its body mass; and (2) consume a more water-rich diet (mainly fruits) in summer and more energy-rich diet (mainly invertebrates) in winter. Doubly labelled water was used to determine seasonal field metabolic rate (FMR) and water influx rate (WIR) and to estimate dietary selection in free-living Arabian Babblers. 2. Babblers in winter weighed significantly more than in summer, and males weighed more than females in both seasons. Tritiated water (TOH) space, as a proportion of body mass, was higher in males than in females in summer but no difference between sexes was found in winter. Males in summer had a higher TOH space, proportionally, than males in winter but there was no difference between seasons in females. Mass-specific WIR did not differ between sexes in any season and averaged 0.475 ml g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> in winter which was significantly higher than the 0.283 ml g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> in summer. 3. The mean daily energy expenditure of the babblers did not differ either between seasons or between sexes within seasons and averaged 1.61 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> in winter and 1.68 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> in summer. It was calculated that each babbler consumed an average of 5.09 g dry matter invertebrates and 1.83 g dry matter fruits in summer (for a 68.2-g bird; mean adult body mass in summer) and 3.49 g dry matter invertebrates and 6.61 g dry matter fruits in winter (for a 76.9-g bird; mean adult body mass in winter). 4. When compared with other avian species, FMR and WIR of babblers were lower than bird species in general, but were similar to those of other desert birds. It was calculated that proportional dietary intake, on a dry matter basis, included 0.79 insects and 0.21 fruits in summer and 0.35 insects and 0.65 fruits in winter. Therefore, the babblers consumed a relatively energy-rich diet in summer and water-rich diet in winter which refuted our hypothesis. Most of the metabolizable energy was provided by invertebrates in both seasons; invertebrates provided more water in summer but fruits provided more in winter.
3806603|1. The effects of global change on below-ground processes of the nitrogen (N) cycle have repercussions for plant communities, productivity and trace gas effluxes. However, the interacting effects of different components of global change on nitrification or denitrification have rarely been studied in situ. 2. We measured responses of nitrifying enzyme activity (NEA) and denitrifying enzyme activity (DEA) to over 4 years of exposure to several components of global change and their interaction (increased atmospheric CO
10.2307/2389797|Species differences in branching architecture and allometry were analysed for co-occurring forest floor saplings of 10 species of shade-tolerant evergreen broad-leaved tree, representative of primary warm-temperate rain forests in southern Japan, from the viewpoints of assimilative efficiency and significance for regeneration. Considerable diversity was found in the architecture of branching and in the leaf size of saplings. The differences in branching and leaf size were related to differences in allometric relationships between various properties of the saplings. It was hypothesized that this architectural and allometric diversity is related to the alternative of `choosing' either the pattern of assimilate allocation, which is adaptive in competition when there is an early improvement in light conditions, or the allocation pattern which is favourable for surviving long periods under persistently dark conditions. Measurements of sapling growth in closed stands and in gaps supported the hypothesis.
40603122|1. Mothers must balance the fecundity costs of increasing propagule size with the fitness benefits of increased propagule performance, and the propagule size-performance relationship is crucial for determining this trade-off. 2. While many studies have examined the propagule size-performance relationship in individual life-history stages, very few have examined the relationship between propagule size and performance across multiple life-history stages despite the ubiquity of complex life cycles. 3. We examined the consistency of the propagule size-performance relationship across several life-history stages in the marine invertebrate Microcosmus squamiger (Ascidiacea). 4. Propagule size had effects in some life-history stages and not others: larger propagules hatched sooner as larvae and grew more as juveniles in the field. On the other hand, propagule size had no effect on cell cleavage rates, larval swimming time or post-metamorphic survival in the field. 5. The effects of propagule size on juvenile size were persistent -juveniles that came from larger propagules were still larger than juveniles that came from smaller propagules after 11 weeks in the field. 6. We found no evidence of conflicting selection pressures on propagule size among life-history stages. Rather, in this species at least, the selection on propagule size at both the larval and juvenile stage appeared to favour the production of larger propagules. Nevertheless, the slope of the relationship between propagule size and performance was highly variable among life-history stages. 7. The effects of propagule size across multiple life-history stages are determined by the strength of selection pressures, which can be highly variable in organisms with complex life-cycles.
40407762|1. Given that food web structure potentially affects species coexistence and ecosystem functioning, exploration of the patterns and determinants of the resource-consumer interactions, the building blocks of food webs, should be of particular importance for successful maintenance of biodiversity and ecosystem services. 2. Ecological theory has demonstrated that rapid 'adaptation' via learning potentially alters the strength of trophic interaction, and thus, population dynamics. Increasing evidence suggests that learning improves foraging and anti-predator defence behaviours in diverse animal taxa and that cognitive ability is related to population establishment or persistence. However, only a few empirical studies have evaluated the community-level consequences of learning, probably owing to the difficulty in detecting learning-mediated changes at levels higher than the individual and in evaluating the learning ability of individual species. 3. Comparative studies, mostly conducted to identify selection pressures in brain evolution, suggest that brain size is an aggregate proxy for an organism's learning ability. Therefore, I propose a framework to analyse resource-consumer relationships based on information about the brain size of individual species, which will allow investigation into the effects of learning on food webs. 4. Evidence shows that brain size is related to trophic interactions. Earlier comparative analyses have revealed that diet is correlated with brain size in primates, mammals and insects. My analysis of 623 prey-predator pairs comprising 277 fish species indicates that a larger-brained predator tends to prey on a larger-brained prey; that relative brain size of prey is, on average, larger than that of the predator; and that our understanding of prey-predator pairs is improved by information about brain size. 5. A number of questions remain unanswered. Studies on how brain size is related to trophic interactions are limited to a few animal taxa. The factors leading to brain-related patterns in trophic interactions remain to be addressed. Brain-related patterns with respect to higher level biological organizations, such as whole food webs or chains, and inter-community comparison remain unexplored. Further studies are needed to confirm the general applicability of the hypotheses that relate brain size to trophic interactions and to evaluate the role of learning in shaping biological communities.
3806538|1. The importance of behavioural vs physiological adaptations in the evolution of host associations by herbivorous insects is largely unknown. 2. We compared sister species of beetles, one of which, Ophraella slobodkini, feeds on the lineage's ancestral host, Ambrosia artemisiifolia, while O. notulata has shifted to a novel host, Iva frutescens. Assuming O. slobodkini represents the features of the Ambrosia-feeding ancestor, we asked if behavioural and physiological barriers to utilizing Iva existed and if adaptation to these barriers occurred. We also tested for trade-offs between use of novel and ancestral hosts by O. notulata. 3. We found evidence that the ancestor of O. notulata would have been deterred from feeding on Iva and suffered lower conversion efficiency. 4. Ophraella notulata appears to have adapted behaviourally by increasing consumption of Iva, but we did not detect a significant increase in its physiological capacity to use Iva. Additionally, the switch to Iva by O. notulata did not reduce its physiological capacity to use the ancestral host, Ambrosia. 5. Our results suggest that novel host associations may arise from behavioural adaptations, with physiological adaptations a secondary result of behavioural changes. We discuss implications for hypotheses of host shifts and the evolution of specialization.
3599065|1. Trophic polymorphism is a common phenomenon in many species. Trade-offs in foraging efficiency on different resources are thought to be a primary cause of such polymorphism. 2. To test for a trade-off in foraging efficiency perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) were used from a population that differs in morphology between the littoral and pelagic habitat of a lake. Indoor aquarium experiments were performed with three different prey types in two different environments. It was predicted that the morphology of the individual would affect foraging efficiency in the different environments and on the different prey types through search and attack behaviour. 3. Overall the foraging efficiency of perch was found to be related to individual morphology. A connection was also found between individual morphology and search and attack behaviour. Search behaviour but not attack behaviour was affected by the structure in the aquaria. Furthermore our results show that there are relations between search behaviour and detection rates and between attack behaviour and attack success. 4. Our results give a mechanistic explanation for the differences in foraging efficiency between littoral and pelagic perch. These differences are probably driven by a functional trade-off between foraging performance and general body form.
20142831| 1. Understanding the ecological forces that are responsible for the evolution and coexistence of closely related sympatric species is a major interest in evolutionary ecology. In a freshwater system context, flocks or pairs of sympatrically occurring fishes are commonly studied to identify causes and mechanisms of ecological divergence and speciation. 2. Whereas habitat and diet segregation along the pelagic-benthic axis is frequent in many species pairs in temperate freshwaters, two pelagic planktivores coexist in the post-glacial Lake Stechlin, Germany (common vendace, Coregonus albula and the endemic Fontane cisco, C. fontanae). Accordingly, disruptive selection on traits not related to feeding may have contributed to divergence. Since both species differ slightly in their vertical distribution, species-specific physiological adaptations related to temperature are likely. 3. We investigated standard and active metabolic rates (AMR) over the range of environmental temperature, which both species experience naturally (4-15 C). Eighty-four specimens of 7-22 cm length were exposed to five relative flow velocities between 05 and 20 body lengths per second (BL s) in swim tunnel respirometers. 4. Fontane cisco showed a reduced standard metabolic rate (SMR) compared to vendace over the entire temperature range. Further, activity metabolism was associated with lower energetic costs in Fontane cisco at 4 C, but higher costs than in vendace at 8 C and 15 C. Total metabolic costs when swimming at 2 BL s were higher for vendace at &lt 8 C, but higher for Fontane cisco if temperature exceeds 8 C. 5. The results indicate that species-specific physiological adaptations contribute to ecological divergence, thus preventing competitive exclusion between the pelagic coregonids of Lake Stechlin. The existence of a vertical gradient in water temperature was probably a crucial factor for the evolution of both competing temperature-related physiological strategies. 
40205473|1. In the conventional view of soil carbon (C) cycling, mycorrhizal fungi are primarily considered vectors for plant C input to soils. However, there is accumulating evidence that mycorrhizal fungi may also contribute to the direct loss of soil C by acting as decomposers, that is by producing extracellular lytic enzymes and metabolizing soil C. 2. Most of the evidence that mycorrhizal fungi can act as decomposers comes from studies of ericoid and ectomycorrhizal fungi, although there is increasing experimental evidence for a role of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in soil C decomposition. Decomposition by mycorrhizal fungi implies that soil C balance is subjected to the ecological factors that affect both plant and fungal symbionts; this interaction has important consequences for how soil C stocks respond to global change. 3. In this synthesis, we propose a new model of soil C cycling, including decomposition of soil C by mycorrhizal fungi, and we evaluate how this new integrative model alters our predictions of soil C feedbacks to global change. We present three hypothetical mechanisms by which mycorrhizal fungi may metabolize significant quantities of soil C. The first hypothesis ('Plan B' hypothesis) is that mycorrhizal fungi metabolize soil C as an alternate C source when supplies of photosynthate from the host plant are low. Our second hypothesis ('Coincidental Decomposer' hypothesis) is that mycorrhizal fungi decompose soil C as a consequence of mining soil for organic nutrients. The third hypothesis ('Priming Effects' hypothesis) is that mycorrhizal fungi decompose soil C when allocation of plant photosynthate to mycorrhizal roots is high, such that plant C 'primes' the growth and activity of mycorrhizal fungi. 4. Further empirical tests of these hypotheses will clarify the role of mycorrhizal fungi in soil C balance and improve our understanding of soil C responses to global change.
2656502|1. Dune Larks (Mirafra erythroclamys) are the only avian species that has evolved the capability of surviving in the Namib Sand Sea, one of the driest regions in the world. Their field metabolic rate (FMR) and water flux, as measured by doubly labelled water, during the breeding and non-breeding season are reported here. 2. FMR is relatively constant over the annual cycle, which conforms to the `reallocation hypothesis'. With data pooled for both seasons, males expended energy at a rate of 97.5  20.4 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> (1 SD) and females at 87.5  13.0 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>. The data supported the hypothesis that Dune Larks do not possess a reduced FMR, a result attributable to their elevated basal metabolism. In a previous laboratory investigation, Dune Larks had a low rate of evaporative water loss despite their elevated basal metabolic rate (BMR). The present study demonstrated that this low evaporative water loss translates into a low water influx in the field. 3. The FMR of Dune Lark females equalled 88.1  6.9 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> during incubation, and 88.5  9.9 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> when they were feeding 8-10-day-old nestlings. These data do not support the idea that the incubation period is a time of low energy demand. 4. Dune Larks had a relatively constant water influx throughout the year. For sexes combined, mass-adjusted values of water influx averaged 0.59 ml H<sub>2</sub>O/(day mass<sup>0.682</sup>). 5. Calculations showed that neonates received 10 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> whereas towards the end of the nestling period, chicks were fed 75 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>, the maximum gross energy intake for nestlings. During chick rearing, males increased the amount of food that they found by 57.7%, females by 64.3%, late in the nestling period. 6. Dune Larks foraged in the morning and late afternoon, but were constrained by their environment to seek shade at midday during the breeding season. 7. Metabolic water production plays a significant role in the water economy of Dune Larks. Assuming a mixed diet, 47% of their water intake comes from the oxidation of food stuffs.
2390380|1. It has recently been demonstrated that the species of host plant used by males during larval development may significantly affect the reproductive success of both sexes in a polygophagous tortricid, Choristoneura rosaceana (Delisle & Bouchard 1995). In the present study, using the Spruce Budworm, C. fumiferana, the hypothesis was tested that in oligophagous species, similar effects would result from within-species variability in foliage quality. 2. It was demonstrated that male larval diet (young and old Balsam Fir foliage (YF vs OF) or artificial diet (AD) significantly influences the reproductive success of both sexes of C. fumiferana. 3. Male body size and spermatophore size were positively correlated, with AD > YF > OF; however, male fed on YF had better mating success than those on OF and AD, indicating that size may not always be a good estimate of male quality. 4. The propensity of females to resume calling (CA<sup>+</sup>) and remate (RM<sup>+</sup>) was significantly lower, and the length of the refractory period longer, following first mating with high (YF) rather than low (OF and AD) male quality. 5. Females that resumed calling (CA<sup>+</sup>) had a lower reproductive output than those that did not (CA<sup><sub></sup></sub>), with the effect being more pronounced following mating with males fed on low (OF and AD) rather than high (YF) quality diet. A similar trend was observed in the proportion of females that were unsuccessfully mated, as shown by their low incidence of fertility (<25%). In contrast to their reproductive output, females that resumed calling lived as long as those that did not, regardless of male larval diet. However, the resumption of calling was also observed in a large number of highly fertile (48%) females, indicating that infertility was not the only reason for the resumption of sexual receptivity. 6. Females that remated (RM<sup>+</sup>) following an initial mating with low quality males (OF and AD) had fecundities and longevities similar to those that did not (RM<sup>-</sup>). However, their incidence of fertility was significantly higher. In contrast, females that remated following an initial mating with high quality males (YF) were more fecund and lived slightly longer than those that did not (RM<sup>-</sup>). A similar pattern was observed with females initially mated with OF and AD males, if only individuals with high fertility following first mating were considered in the analyses. 7. Male larval diet had no effect on fecundity, percentage fertility and longevity in females that remained refractory following their first mating. The first mating occurred earlier in the night and lasted longer than the second, with both variables being independent of the diet of the first mate. This may explain why overall the proportion of females that remated was lower than that for females that resumed calling following mating.
40863582|1. Effects of Stressors on immune functions have long been studied, but most have focused on chronic Stressors, which tend to be immunosuppressive. More recently, an emphasis has been placed on identifying and understanding effects of transient, unpredictable Stressors, especially whether and how they affect movement of immune cells to body areas in need of rapid protection. These latter effects have been termed, immunoredistribution. 2. In this study, we surgically implanted small gelatin sponges subcutaneously to measure leucocyte infiltration to skin in house sparrows, Passer domesticus. First, we evaluated whether wild birds exhibit leucocyte infiltration to skin in response to a transient Stressor (restraint) as seen in laboratory rodents. Secondly, we examined effects of captivity on leucocyte infiltration of wild sparrows, expecting long-duration captivity to impose chronic stress and thus reduce leucocyte infiltrations. In particular, we expected continuous elevation of the avian stress hormone, corticosterone (CORT), to dampen skin infiltration of leucocytes in birds kept in captivity for short-term (1-2 days) and more so long-term (1 month) periods compared with wild-caught individuals. 3. As in lab rodents, house sparrows exhibited cutaneous leucocyte infiltration, but 1 h of restraint prior to surgery did not influence the magnitude of cellular infiltration. The leucocyte infiltration response was influenced by captivity, however, with short-term captive birds (1-2 days) exhibiting less leucocyte influx than long-term (30 days) and wild individuals. Interestingly, the profile of cellular infiltrates changed with time in captivity with a dramatic shift away from lymphocytes and towards heterophils in long-term captive birds. Placement in captivity did not affect total circulating leucocytes, however, lymphocytes decreased in numbers in wild birds in short-term captivity. CORT followed the expected pattern with the highest baseline levels in short-term captives, intermediate levels in long-term captives and lowest levels in wildcaught birds. Stress responses were not affected by time in captivity. 4. These results indicate that an integral aspect of immunoredistribution occurs in wild birds but future efforts to understand the ecological and evolutionary forces that have shaped this immune response must account for the confounding effects of captivity and attempt to understand the proximate and ultimate basis for heterophilia and lymphopenia with chronic stress.
40863643|1. Maternal effects may play an important role in shaping the life history of organisms. Using an insect herbivore, the winter moth (Operophtera brumat) feeding on oak (Quercus robur), we show that maternal effects can affect seasonal timing of egg hatching in an herbivore in an adaptive way. 2. Winter moth egg-hatching needs to coincide with oak bud opening, as only freshly emerged leaves are suitable as food for the caterpillars. However, there is spatial variation in the timing of bud opening among oaks to which the winter moth needs to adapt. 3. We show experimentally that the generation time between the mother's and her offsprings' hatching dates was shorter for mothers who hatched late relative to bud opening of the tree they had to feed on (and hence had to feed on older leaves) than for mothers' who hatched on time. Maternal feeding conditions affected both the larval and the pupal development time of the mother as well as the egg development time of her offspring: at all three stages developmental time was shorter for the mistimed treatment. 4. We thus show that adaptation to spatial variation may be achieved via maternal effects. While this is a mechanism selected to adapt to spatial variation, it may now also play a role in adaptation to climate change induced shifts in host phenology, and allow insect herbivores to adapt to changes in the seasonal timing of their food availability without the need for genetic change.
40963565|1. In vertebrate species, maternal antibodies specific for the pathogens to which mothers have been exposed can be transmitted to offspring before birth. This is assumed to be adaptive as these antibodies can be essential in protecting offspring early in life before their own immune system is fully developed. However, fitness consequences in natural conditions and the long-term effects of these mechanisms have yet to be fully examined. 2. Exploring the ecological and evolutionary implications of such maternal effects requires experimental manipulations to avoid potential confounding maternal effects. In birds, maternal antibodies are transmitted via the egg yolk - a self contained embryonic environment in which antibodies can be manipulated independently outside the maternal environment. 3. Here we use a novel technique to extract and experimentally manipulate maternal antibodies in the egg. Using the common quail (Coturnix coturnix), we demonstrate a blocking effect of antigen specific maternal antibodies received via egg injection, on the offspring's antibody response to an immune challenge with this antigen. Our results also suggest lower antibody production after a second immune challenge if maternal antibodies were present during first infection. 4. Maternal antibodies thus have the potential to affect the development of offspring immunity. Our innovative technique will enable further work to manipulate the transfer of maternal antibodies per se whilst controlling for confounding effects linked to maternal vaccination. Because it also enables to manipulate the amount of antibodies transferred, it will facilitate further study of their adaptive value and ecological consequences in natural host-parasite systems.
4540045|1. We review theoretical and empirical studies to identify instances where evolutionary processes significantly affect the dynamics of populations, communities and ecosystems. 2. Early theoretical work on eco-evolutionary dynamics was concerned with the effect of (co)evolution on the stability of two-species predator-prey systems and the occurrence of character displacement in simple competitive systems. Today's theoretical ecologists are extending this work to study the eco-evolutionary dynamics of multispecies communities and the functioning and evolutionary emergence of ecosystems. 3. In terms of methodology, eco-evolutionary modelling has diversified from simple, locus-based population genetic models to encompass models of clonal selection, quantitative trait dynamics and adaptive dynamics. 4. The few empirical studies on community dynamics that explicitly considered evolutionary processes support the view that evolutionary and ecological dynamics often occur on similar time-scales, and that they co-determine the dynamical behaviour of ecological communities.
2656492|1. The speed with which small birds can get airborne is critical to the effectiveness of their escape response when attacked by a predator. However, take-off ability is likely to be affected by physiological changes occurring as a result of egg formation. 2. To investigate whether reduced take-off velocity is a cost of reproduction, the physiological costs of egg production in the Zebra Finch (Taeniopygia guttata) were experimentally manipulated by varying both the number of eggs a female laid and the quality of her prelaying dict. The effect of changes in postlaying flight muscle condition and body mass upon alarmed flight take-off velocity (a measure of escapeability in birds) was subsequently measured. 3. Changes in muscle condition were found to correlate positively with changes in various measures of flight velocity: treatments that caused the greatest declines in muscle condition during egg-laying were associated with the greatest declines in flight performance over this period. In contrast, breeding attempts that caused the smallest declines in muscle condition were associated with improvements in flight performance (i.e. birds flew faster at the end of laying than at the start). 4. These effects were independent of changes in body mass, and occurred postlaying, suggesting that the cost of egg production lies primarily in the formation of the eggs, rather than in carrying them as other studies had suggested. The observed trade-off between muscle loss resulting from egg production and escape ability could have important implications for the evolution of optimal clutch size in birds.
3599073|1. The wide range in incubation periods among bird species has puzzled biologists for decades, because an extended egg-phase increases time-dependent mortality of the eggs. 2. We investigated a recently proposed mechanistic explanation inspired by life-history theory, suggesting that adults may increase their own survival by reducing nest attentiveness, the percentage of daytime spent incubating eggs, in exchange for reduced off-spring (egg) survival due to a longer incubation period. Incubation behaviour and egg temperatures
2390483|1. Plants growing in deep shade and high temperature, such as in the understorey of humid tropical forests, have been predicted to be particularly sensitive to rising atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub>. We tested this hypothesis in five species whose microhabitat quantum flux density (QFD) was documented as a covariable. After 7 (tree seedlings of Tachigalia versicolor and Beilschmiedia pendula) and 18 months (shrubs Piper cordulatum and Psychotria limonensis, and grass Pharus latifolius) of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> treatment (c. 700  l litre<sup>-1</sup>) under mean QFD of less than 11  mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, all species produced more biomass (25-76%) under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. 2. Total plant biomass tended to increase with microhabitat QFD (daytime means varying from 5 to 11  mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) but the relative stimulation by elevated CO<sub>2</sub> was higher at low QFD except in Pharus. 3. Non-structural carbohydrate concentrations in leaves increased significantly in Pharus (+27%) and Tachigalia (+ 40%). 4. The data support the hypothesis that tropical plants growing near the photosynthetic light compensation point are responsive to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. An improved plant carbon balance in deep shade is likely to influence understorey plant recruitment and competition as atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> continues to rise.
10.2307/2389392|The responses of root systems to flooding were examined in Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. viridulus (Greene) Hall & Clem., Atriplex torreyi (Wats.) Wats. and Sarcobatus vermiculatus (Hook) Torr. These species inhabit shallow ground water habitats on the valley floors of the arid western Great Basin of the United States. S. vermiculatus failed to survive 6 months of continuous flooding. A. torreyi and C. n. viridulus survived flooding with restructured root systems that differed markedly from those of adjacent non-flooded plants with respect to depth, lateral branching, degree of suberization and presence of lysigenous aerenchyma within the root cortices. Such morphological and anatomical changes occur in the root systems of flood-tolerant wetland plants and are remarkable in these two species which both have xeric canopy morphology and relatively strong drought tolerance. Primary roots of each of the three species from a non-flooded location and from containerized specimens grown under relatively poor aeration were examined microscopically for comparison with flooded roots. Aerenchyma developed in roots of all three species grown under container aeration but was absent in specimens from the non-flooded site. Therefore, failure of S. vermiculatus to survive flooding may not be due to the lack of aerenchyma development but simply to lower tolerance.
10.2307/2389508|Many subalpine herbs wilt during natural exposure to full sunlight suggesting that poor water status often limits photosynthesis in these species. We hypothesized that periods of intermittent shade caused by clouds or overstorey plants might enhance daily photosynthetic CO<sub>2</sub> uptake by reducing water stress, especially during full sun periods. Net photosynthesis (A), stomatal conductance (g) and xylem pressure potential () were measured in several populations of two understorey species that characteristically wilt under full sunlight conditions, (Arnica cordifolia Hook. and Arnica latifolia L.). Plants previously exposed to alternating periods of sun/shade had significantly higher , did not wilt, and had greater A and g than leaves exposed continuously to full sunlight. Reductions in  during exposure to full sunlight were slower (1.03 kPa s<sup>-1</sup>) and subsequent increases in  during shade faster (0.93 kPa s<sup>-1</sup>) in A. cordifolia, a species commonly found in more open, drier understorey locations than the congener A. latifolia (1.52 kPa s<sup>-1</sup> and 0.63 kPa s<sup>-1</sup>, respectively). As a result, integrated daily carbon gain was 29% higher in A. cordifolia exposed to intermittent vs continuous sunlight and 49% higher in A. latifolia. Differences in the small-scale distribution patterns of these two congeners could be related to the degree of exposure to continuous full sunlight and their respective capabilities for withstanding short-term periods of extreme evaporative demand. For these understorey species, light limitations to photosynthesis appear secondary to water stress effects. This scenario could be important to varying degrees in a variety of species and habitats where intermittent shade occurs on a regular basis.
20142779| 1. Insects are frequently sampled in food web studies and are assumed to follow the pattern of enrichment in N across trophic levels observed for other organisms. However, few studies have examined N discrimination of metamorphosing insects. 2. We measured the N of larvae, pupae and adults of four Lepidoptera (Bombyx mori, Galleria mellonella, Manduca sexta and Vanessa cardui), one Diptera (Sarcophaga sp.) and one Coleoptera (Tenebrio molitor) fed on artificial diets. 3. The tissues of larvae were enriched in N relative to their diet and this enrichment was explained by the production of N-depleted frass. Surprisingly, the tissues of adults were enriched in N relative to larvae in all but one species (T. molitor). Because, we measured the tissues of adults immediately after they emerged from pupal cases, the enrichment was not due to a change in diet. Rather, it was due to the excretion of N depleted metabolic waste ('meconium') that resulted from protein metabolism during metamorphosis. 4. To our knowledge, the N enrichment that seems to accompany metamorphosis in holometabolous insects had not been previously recognized. This enrichment must be accounted for in ecological studies that rely on stable isotopes to identify both the trophic position and diet of insects. 
10.2307/2389910|1. The chrysomelid beetle Gastrophysa viridula and the rust fungus Uromyces rumicis both occur on leaves of Rumex crispus or Rumex obtusifolius. We investigated reciprocal interactions between herbivory and infection. 2. In both Rumex species the amount of leaf eaten by Gastrophysa viridula was not affected by prior rust infection of the same leaf, whereas there was a significant reduction in infection when the same leaves had been previously grazed by Gastrophysa viridula. 3. Herbivory induced an 80% reduction in pustule density within and immediately around the feeding site within 1 day of feeding damage; it also induced resistance throughout the undamaged portion of the leaf, and a less effective, and slower, resistance in undamaged leaves. 4. Cutting discs from the entire leaf surface, to mimic the natural damage caused by Gastrophysa viridula, induced resistance to Uromyces rumicis throughout the leaf, although we found no systemic effect. Artificially holed leaves also developed significantly less natural Uromyces rumicis infection over a 1-month period in the field. 5. In the UK Gastrophysa viridula is commonly present in the field for several months before Uromyces rumicis infection takes place, so the pattern and degree of leaf damage by the beetle may have significant effects on subsequent rust infection.
10.2307/2389622|The seasonal pattern of carbon assimilation in two evergreen and two deciduous dwarf shrubs coexisting in a subarctic environment was compared in situ and related to light climate. Of the four species, Vaccinium myrtillus L. required the highest photon flux density to reach light saturation; it also had a comparatively low photosynthetic rate at low photon flux densities. The mean relative photosynthetic rate over the season was lower for the deciduous species (42% of maximum for V. myrtillus and 49% for Vaccinium uliginosum L.) than for the evergreens (59% for Vaccinium vitis-idaea L. and 55% for Empetrum hermaphroditum Hagerup). Seasonal photosynthetic carbon dioxide assimilation was 0.29-0.34 mol CO<sub>2</sub> (g leaf)<sup>-1</sup> for deciduous species and 0.13-0.15 for the evergreens. For the evergreen species, 20% of the seasonal photosynthetic production was assimilated during the early and late parts of the season, during which time the deciduous species were leafless. A simulation of the seasonal photosynthetic CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation for different light climates suggested that the productivity of the deciduous V. myrtillus is more light limited than that of the evergreen V. vitis-idaea under most natural conditions. The two other species showed intermediate responses.
826737|1. The concept of plant functional type proposes that species can be grouped according to common responses to the environment and/or common effects on ecosystem processes. However, the knowledge of relationships between traits associated with the response of plants to environmental factors such as resources and disturbances (response traits), and traits that determine effects of plants on ecosystem functions (effect traits), such as biogeochemical cycling or propensity to disturbance, remains rudimentary. 2. We present a framework using concepts and results from community ecology, ecosystem ecology and evolutionary biology to provide this linkage. Ecosystem functioning is the end result of the operation of multiple environmental filters in a hierarchy of scales which, by selecting individuals with appropriate responses, result in assemblages with varying trait composition. Functional linkages and trade-offs among traits, each of which relates to one or several processes, determine whether or not filtering by different factors gives a match, and whether ecosystem effects can be easily deduced from the knowledge of the filters. 3. To illustrate this framework we analyse a set of key environmental factors and ecosystem processes. While traits associated with response to nutrient gradients strongly overlapped with those determining net primary production, little direct overlap was found between response to fire and flammability. 4. We hypothesize that these patterns reflect general trends. Responses to resource availability would be determined by traits that are also involved in biogeochemical cycling, because both these responses and effects are driven by the trade-off between acquisition and conservation. On the other hand, regeneration and demographic traits associated with response to disturbance, which are known to have little connection with adult traits involved in plant ecophysiology, would be of little relevance to ecosystem processes. 5. This framework is likely to be broadly applicable, although caution must be exercised to use trait linkages and trade-offs appropriate to the scale, environmental conditions and evolutionary context. It may direct the selection of plant functional types for vegetation models at a range of scales, and help with the design of experimental studies of relationships between plant diversity and ecosystem properties.
2390519|1. Four species of Drosophila, Drosophila nigrospiracula (Patterson & Wheeler 1942), Drosophila mettleri (Heed 1977), Drosophila pachea (Patterson & Wheeler 1942), and Drosophila mojavensis (Patterson & Crow 1940), are endemic to the Sonoran Desert of North America and breed in different species of necrotic columnar cacti. Differences in resource availability have been suggested to explain the interspecific variability in fly population biology, but resource availability for these species has not been quantitatively assessed thoroughly in either spatial or temporal terms. The resource availability was quantified quarterly at three sites for 3 years and population sizes for each Drosophila species were estimated. 2. Spatial and temporal availability of resources differed significantly among species of host cacti, with organpipe cactus (Stenocereus thurberi) being the least abundant and senita (Lophocereus schottii) the most abundant spatially. 3. Drosophila species differed significantly in population size. The largest population sizes were found for D. nigrospiracula and D. mojavensis and smallest for D. pachea. Populations of D. mettleri were intermediate to these. 4. Population size was greatest for fly species utilizing host species having the largest and longest lasting necroses. 5. Resource availability does not explain the reduction of fly populations in the summer. Necroses were most abundant when flies were absent.
2390418|1. Many field studies have shown that small herbivorous mammals include fungus (usually hypogeous sporocarps of ectomycorrhizal fungi) in their diets. However, the dietary importance of fungus relative to other foods is generally unclear because of limitations on the power of conventional techniques of diet analysis. Stable isotope analysis in conjunction with faecal analysis was used in an attempt to overcome these limitations. 2. Two foregut-fermenting marsupials (the Northern Bettong Bettongia tropica and Rufous Bettong Aepyprymnus rufescens) and a hindgut fermenter (the Northern Brown Bandicoot Isoodon macrourus) were studied. The Northern Bettong and Northern Brown Bandicoot are of similar body size (around 1 kg); the Rufous Bettong is significantly larger at 3 kg. Faecal analysis showed that the two bettongs ate a variety of grasses, lilies and fungi; the bandicoot ate these foods and also invertebrates. 3. Ratios of <sup>15</sup>N/<sup>14</sup>N and <sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C differed in major food types collected in the field (fungus, grass, lily and invertebrates). Grass was clearly separated from the other food types by its low <sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C ratio, while fungus was separated from the other types by its high <sup>15</sup>N/<sup>14</sup>N ratio. Invertebrates and lilies differed slightly in <sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C ratios. 4. Isotope ratios in body tissue (sampled in hair) of the three mammals were also discrete, showing that the species differed in the predominant sources of their C and N. Estimates of the proportion of C assimilated in body tissue that was derived from grass were 80% for the Rufous Bettong, 40% for the Northern Bettong and 45% for the Northern Brown Bandicoot. Analysis of <sup>15</sup>N/<sup>14</sup>N ratios suggested that the Northern Bettong derived almost all its N from fungus, the Northern Brown Bandicoot derived practically no N from fungus, and the Rufous Bettong was intermediate. 5. The results confirm that for the Northern Bettong, fungus is a predominant source of N and C assimilated into body tissue. Differences between the use of fungi by the Northern Bettong and the Northern Brown Bandicoot strengthen conclusions from other studies that foregut fermentation confers on small mammals a greater ability to utilize fungus than does hindgut fermentation. It is hypothesized that the limited use of fungus by the Rufous Bettong is due to the patchy distribution of hypogeous sporocarps, which would result in a high energy cost of foraging for this larger-bodied species with a higher absolute food requirement.
3599028|1. We examined the possibility of using the dry matter content (DMC) of macrophytes (the ratio of dry mass to wet mass) as an integrative variable to predict their palatability to generalist invertebrate grazers. 2. We assessed the palatability of 20 macrophyte species, using the snail Lymnaea stagnalis (L.) in non-choice feeding experiments. Three of the species were studied at two different dates in the year, at two or four sites. 3. The average dry mass consumed by L. stagnalis ranged widely between species, and was negatively correlated to plant DMC. At the intraspecific level, the dry mass consumed varied over time but was not related to site location. Again, the dry mass consumed was negatively correlated to plant DMC. 4. The DMC of the macrophytes studied explained about 30% of interspecific variability, and >80% of seasonal variability, in snail consumption rate. Therefore this trait could be used as a shortcut to predict variations in macrophyte palatability, especially at the intraspecific level. At the interspecific level, the relationship between DMC and palatability might be weakened by the presence in some plants of low molecular weight chemical deterrents.
3599011| 1. Phosphorus content was measured in adult insects and arachnids from 170 species collected in the Sonoran Desert. 2. Across insect body sizes spanning four orders of magnitude, phosphorus content was inversely related to body mass. The largest species (1 g dry) had phosphorus contents that were only about 60% (0.62% P absolute) as high as phosphorus contents of the smallest species (0.0001 g dry; 0.97%P). Negative phosphorus allometry was observed within each of seven insect orders and within arachnids. 3. Phosphorus contents of insect predators and herbivores were statistically indistinguishable. 4. More recently derived orders tended to have lower phosphorus contents -- with the exception of the most recently derived group (Panorpida = Diptera + Lepidoptera), which had high phosphorus contents. 
3599005|1. Egg size and composition can be predicted to trade-off against current condition of reproducing females. Adverse conditions for reproduction should thus give rise to a reduction in egg size and quality. 2. Here we analyse timing of reproduction, egg mass and hatchability, and concentration of maternal carotenoids and components of the immune system in the eggs in relation to ambient temperature during the breeding season for the Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica, Linnaeus). 3. Relatively high temperatures during one day enhanced the probability that clutches were initiated the following days. Egg mass at laying, concentration of lutein, the main carotenoid Barn Swallows, and lysozyme, a major maternal component of innate immunity in eggs, but not maternal antigen-specific antibodies, covaried with temperature during the days preceding laying of individual eggs. 4. Egg mass but not laying order or temperature during incubation predicted hatchability of the eggs. 5. This study suggests that temperature affects not only egg mass, as previously shown for bird species, but also concentration of maternally derived substances, such as antioxidants and immune factors, that can affect egg hatchability and offspring antiparasite defence and viability.
40863588|1. Diversity of patch-tracking epiphyte metacommunities depends on successful colonization of new habitats. Habitat constraints and critical stages in the establishment have gained little attention in metacommunity studies, but a trade-off between dispersal ability and establishment rate is often assumed. This assumption remains largely untested, and alternative dispersal and reproductive strategies offer several trade-offs to be explored. 2. We used in vitro experiments to identify critical stages in the establishment of obligate epiphytic bryophytes with contrasting dispersal strategies [sexual via small (< 20 m) or large (> 20 mm) spores, asexual via gemmae or gemmae-like branchlets], and to identify habitat constraints of diaspore establishment and trade-offs among species traits. 3. Across all stages of the establishment process, large asexual diaspores performed better than small sexual ones. Asexual species also had a higher ability to establish from fragments than sexual species. Germination of all diaspore types was limited by pH with highest germination rates at intermediate pH. Large moss spores showed a higher desiccation tolerance than small ones, but lower germination and protonemal growth rates. Liverwort spores had the lowest desiccation tolerance, germination and protonemal growth rates, but rapidly developed gametophytic shoots once they had germinated. 4. Combining the results with earlier studies on dispersal distances in epiphytes, our study demonstrated a trade-off between dispersal distance and establishment ability, which may be central for the evolution of asexual dispersal in epiphytes. The evolution of spore size may additionally involve trade-offs between high germination and protonemal growth rates, desiccation tolerance, and a rapid development from protonema to shoots. We suggest that trade-offs in epiphytes are shaped by conflicting selection pressures imposed by habitat patchiness, landscape dynamics and irregular water supply.
3806535|1. The immune system plays an important role in fitness, and interindividual variation in immunocompetence is due to several factors including food supply. 2. Seasonal variation in food resources may therefore explain why immunocompetence in bird nestlings usually declines throughout the breeding season, with chicks born early in the season receiving more food than chicks born later, and thereby possibly developing a more potent immune system. Although there are studies supporting this hypothesis, none has been experimental. 3. We performed an experiment in the kittiwake Rissa tridactyla by manipulating the food supply of pairs that were left to produce a first brood, and of pairs that were induced to produce a late replacement brood. 4. If food supply mediates, at least partially, seasonal variations in chick immunocompetence, non-food-supplemented chicks would show a stronger seasonal decline in immunocompetence than food-supplemented chicks. 5. Food supplementation improved humoral immunocompetence (the production of immunoglobulins Y), but not T-cell immunocompetence (phytohaemagglutinin, PHA response). T-cell immunocompetence of food-supplemented and non-food-supplemented chicks decreased through the season but to a similar extent, whereas the humoral immunocompetence of non-food-supplemented chicks decreased more strongly than that of food-supplemented chicks. 6. Our results suggest that the seasonal decline in humoral immunocompetence can be explained, at least partly, by variations in food supply throughout the breeding season.
3599146|1. The consequences of plastic responses of the avian digestive tract for the potential of birds to disperse other organisms remain largely uninvestigated. 2. To explore how a seasonal diet switch in Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos L.) influences their potential to disperse plants and invertebrates, we recorded the retention time of markers, following exposure to two diets of contrasting digestibility (trout chow vs seeds). 3. We then recorded the retrieval and germination of Fennel Pondweed (Potamogeton pectinatus L.) seeds and Brine Shrimp (Artemia franciscana Kellogg) cysts ingested by the same birds. 4. Gut passage rates of markers were increasingly longer in birds on the seed-based, high-fibre diet and shorter in birds on the animal-based, low-fibre one. 5. Propagule digestibility, and thus survival to gut passage, differed between diet groups, with more seeds and fewer cysts retrieved from ducks on the animal-based diet. Germination decreased with retention time, but was not affected by diet. 6. Differences in passage rates of markers but not of seeds and cysts suggest no change in dispersal distances of plants and invertebrates between seasons, while differences in digestibility would affect the numbers of propagules dispersed.
4540047|1. Seedling survival is one of the most critical stages in a plant's life history, and is often reduced by drought and soil desiccation. It has been hypothesized that root systems accessing moist soil layers are critical for establishment, but very little is known about seedling root growth and traits in the field. 2. We related seedling mortality to the presence of deep roots in a field experiment in which we monitored soil moisture, root growth and seedling survival in five Mediterranean woody species from the beginning of the growing season until the end of the drought season. 3. We found strong positive relationships between survival and maximum rooting depth, as well as between survival and soil moisture. Species with roots in moist soil layers withstood prolonged drought better, whereas species with shallow roots died more frequently. In contrast, biomass allocation to roots was not related to establishment success. 4. Access to moist soil horizons accounted for species-specific survival rates, whereas large root: shoot (R:S) ratios did not. The existence of soil moisture thresholds that control establishment provides insights into plant population dynamics in dry environments.
2390469|1. Current game theory models and recent experimental evidence suggests that the strategy an animal adopts in agonistic encounters is determined by individual state. Therefore manipulation of an individual's state should elicit different behavioural responses. In this paper, mechanisms are examined that underlie state-dependent strategies using Shore Crabs, Carcinus maenas, and how, by altering the environment, behaviour and physiology are affected. 2. Fights were staged between pairs of male crabs under normoxic and severely hypoxic (<15 torr) conditions to determine if the metabolic costs of fighting and resource acquisition are affected by water P<sub>O</sub><sub>2</sub>. After fighting, blood and tissue samples from each crab were taken and analysed for metabolites associated with anaerobiosis (L-lactate, glucose and glycogen). 3. The spectrum of behavioural acts performed during contests was unaffected by hypoxic conditions. However, fight duration was significantly shorter in the hypoxic treatment. 4. The phenomenon of being of a larger relative size and winning had a greater influence in the contests staged under hypoxia with 93% of the victors being of a larger size compared to 78% in normoxic conditions. Fight duration and intensity had no relationship with relative size in either treatments. 5. The accumulation of L-lactate was significantly greater in the blood and tissues of crabs after fighting under hypoxia than in normoxic conditions. In addition, there was greater glycolytic activity in the tissues of these crabs, shown by elevated concentrations of glucose in the blood and increased breakdown of glycogen. 6. This study demonstrates that the internal state of the crabs altered the length of time they were willing to engage in fighting and that fighting was energetically more expensive under hypoxic conditions.
2390546|1. Desert gerbilline rodents consume mainly plant material, in particular seeds. However, seeds are less available following winter rains than in summer and many rodents shift their diets from predominantly seeds to ones containing more vegetation. This shift results in a proportionately greater preformed water intake and, as these rodents do not drink, an increase in the water influx to field metabolic rate ratio (WI : FMR; ml kJ<sup>-1</sup>). Thus, this ratio is indicative of the food consumed, being low when gerbils are consuming seeds and high when consuming green vegetation. 2. Smaller animals are more dependent on a highly digestible, high energy diet such as seeds and are more vulnerable to extreme air temperatures than are larger animals. It was predicted that: (1) gerbils consume less seeds in winter than in summer but the difference between seasons in seed intake is less pronounced in smaller than in larger rodents; and (2) smaller gerbils are more sensitive to extreme air temperatures than are larger gerbils. To examine these hypotheses, two coexisting desert gerbils, Gerbillus henleyi (8-12 g) and Meriones crassus (50-110 g), were studied. 3. It was predicted that: (1) the WI : FMR ratio would be greater in winter than in summer in both species, but the proportionate increase would be smaller in G. henleyi than in M. crassus; and (2) energy expenditure would be greater in winter than in summer in both species, but the proportionate increase would be greater in G. henleyi than in M. crassus. To test these predictions, winter and summer water influx and field metabolic rates in these species were measured under free-living conditions using doubly labelled water. 4. The WI : FMR ratio in summer was 0.048 in G. henleyi and 0.069 in M. crassus, indicating that G. henleyi was consuming proportionately more seeds than M. crassus. In winter, the ratio was 0.052 in G. henleyi, indicating that there was little change in dietary composition and that this species was still consuming mainly seeds. In contrast, the ratio in M. crassus rose to 0.127, indicating a shift to a diet containing more green vegetation. The relatively higher seed intake by G. henleyi than M. crassus in both seasons and the small, if any, seasonal change in seed intake in G. henleyi agrees with the hypothesis of body size and seed intake in gerbils. Winter FMR increased over summer FMR in both species, as predicted; however, the expected greater increase in G. henleyi relative to M. crassus did not occur. The winter FMR was 1.52 times the summer FMR in G. henleyi and 1.53 times the summer FMR in M. crassuss.
20142858|1. Maternal effects on offspring phenotype may represent adaptive strategies to optimize maternal or offspring fitness given the maternal environment. The effect of maternal parasitic infection on offspring phenotype has been largely ignored, despite the potential for such effects to be components of a maternal reproductive strategy. In addition, the persistence and fitness consequences of maternal effects are understudied, particularly with respect to research on maternal parasitic infection. 2. Deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) increase reproductive output by weaning heavier offspring when infected with a schistosome parasite (Schistosomatium douthitti). Here, I examine the persistence of maternal effects on offspring phenotype and evaluate potential consequences of maternal parasitic infection for offspring lifetime fitness. 3. Offspring of parasitized females are born heavier, and this mass advantage persists in sons until adulthood. Because adult body mass is known to influence adult reproductive success in deer mice, parasitized mothers would have produced sons of higher reproductive success. 4. Neither maternal infection nor offspring mass influenced adult son aggression. Survival was enhanced for heavier offspring post-weaning. 5. The production of heavier offspring by parasitized females, therefore, led to increased offspring fitness through enhanced survival and potentially reproductive success. The resultant increase in current maternal reproductive success in response to possible infection-induced decreases in future reproductive opportunities supports the hypothesis that infected females trade-off between current and future reproduction.
40407710|1. The time at which animais enter puberty and become sexually mature is a significant life-history trait, influencing lifetime reproductive success. Great variation exists both between and within species. 2. The proximate mechanisms regulating the time at which a male enters puberty are not wellunderstood. Environmental eues are predicted to provide the relevant information on resource availability and opportunities for reproduction. When these are good the onset of puberty begins whereas at other times investment in survival becomes more important. 3. Maie African striped mice (Rhabdomyspumilio) demonstrate large variation in the age at which they enter puberty, with grassland populations starting at 4 weeks old and semi-desert populations at over 10 weeks old. 4. We predicted that differences in the availability of food, social organization and population density could explain these differences. 5. Using data on 170 individuai maies from 4 years of field studies in a semi-desert population, we found that maies became scrotal at a younger age when no breeding male was present in their group and when food was abundant, while population density had no effect. 6. In laboratory experiments we demonstrated that maies fed with poor protein food, that regularly encounter larger unfamiliar maies (mimicking high population density), and that live in family groups with their father present, become scrotal at a significanti later age, independent of their growth rate. 7. Maies housed in family groups have lower testosterone but higher corticosterone levels than singly housed maies, indicating they are sexually suppressed. When they become scrotal in their family group, their testes are only half as large as those of their singly housed brothers, and they contained significantly less sperm. 8. We conclude that maie striped mice have a flexible response to the onset of puberty, and that the onset of sexual maturity is dependent on several environmental eues. Our results indicate that there is no threshold body mass, which, when reached, would automatically trigger puberty in maie striped mice. 9. Male helpers in some species are reproductively suppressed, but ours is the first study that demonstrated the importance of different ecological factors in the timing of puberty in maie helpers in a facultative cooperatively breeding species.
10.2307/2390178|1. The toughness of the midrib, secondary veins and lamina of mature leaves of Castanopsis fissa corresponded to the consumption pattern of caterpillars. Midrib and secondary veins were the toughest tissues and were consumed significantly less than the lamina, which was least tough. 2. Tertiary and higher order veins embedded in the lamina contributed most to lamina toughness but were less tough than secondary veins. Lamina toughness could be predicted by the cell-wall volume fraction of component tissues and by neutral detergent fibre content, confirming that these made leaves tough. 3. Young leaves had higher total soluble phenolics content. Mature leaves had lower phenolics but higher toughness. They were eaten less than young leaves which supports the hypothesis that toughness is the major deterrent to these herbivores.
4540068|1. Sexual selection through mate choice, and in particular female choice for indirect fitness benefits for their offspring, is a major paradigm that currently seems to enjoy almost unequivocal acceptance. A large body of theoretical work has been built to explain the evolution of mate choice in the absence of direct benefits, and the empiricists have enthusiastically verified the various assumptions and predictions of the theory. 2. However, the relative importance of mate choice for indirect benefits in comparison to choice for direct benefits or to other mechanisms of sexual selection such as male-male competition or sensory exploitation remains a controversial issue, and this seems to be forgotten in many empirical studies. 3. Here we discuss what mate choice is, and how mating bias resulting from mate choice can be distinguished from mating biases resulting from other mechanisms such as male-male competition or sensory exploitation. We will argue that the evidence for active mate choice for indirect benefits is not as compelling as the current paradigm suggests, and that the current emphasis on active mate choice for indirect benefits has resulted in a distorted view of the nature of sexual selection. We emphasize that unlike the other mechanisms, active mate choice must come with a cost to females. 4. We conclude by suggesting what we feel are three important areas that require further study before active mate choice for indirect fitness benefits should be concluded.
3599047| 1. Growth, reproductive success and non-structural carbon pools in Polylepis tarapacana Philippi trees were examined across a transect between 4360 and 4810 m altitude on Nevado Sajama, Bolivia. 2. The mean -10-cm soil temperature of 54C under trees at the treeline during the 265-day growing season matched the threshold temperature found at other subtropical and tropical treelines. Beyond 4400 m Polylepis is restricted to the warmer and drier equator-facing slopes, suggesting a direct thermal limitation of tree growth. 3. Maximum tree height, annual shoot increment and mean tree-ring width decreased with altitude. Trees near the upper range limit reached a maximum tree height of 33 m and a maximum stem diameter of 34 cm. 4. The smallest tree-height classes dominated populations at all altitudes, and the uppermost site revealed the highest proportion of seedlings. Tree-size demography indicates a critical phase for tree establishment during the sapling stage, when trees emerge from sheltered niches near the ground. 5. No evidence of a depletion of mobile C stores (sugars, starch and lipids) was found in any tissue type with increasing elevation, suggesting a limitation of C investment (growth) rather than C acquisition (photosynthesis) at treeline. 
20142888| 1. The leaf litter of tropical forests serves as a carbon sink, slows soil erosion and leaching, and is home to a large fraction of the forest's biodiversity. Standing leaf litter reflects the balance of litterfall and decomposition; both rates may be limited by element availability. We propose a mechanism for this regulation that assumes phosphorus limits metabolism in tropical soils, and that phosphorus limitation is more pronounced in faster growing organisms. 2. Leaf litter depth varied 16-fold (14-224 cm) across 28 forest stands in Panama and Peru and was deeper on sand vs. clay soils. Of five elements tested (N, P, K, Mg and Ca), the concentration of P in decomposing litter best predicted litter depth (r = 076, C: P90). This relationship broke down in the most impoverished sandy soils. 3. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that the weathering of tropical soils limits the metabolism of microbes first and trees second, with decomposition and litterfall co-limiting litter depth in ecosystems with the least available phosphorus. This has implications for the dynamics of weathering: nutrient leaching may be regulated through negative feedback if deeper litter buffers soil from rainfall. 
2656451|1. Responses to a spring warming treatment were measured on five common herbaceous species grown in outdoor microcosms in Northern England. Although elevated temperature had a beneficial effect on canopy height and plant cover in monospecific cultures of all species, strongly divergent responses to warming occurred in mixtures. 2. We show that the effect of interspecific competition was to modify and amplify the vegetation response to the warming treatment through effects on phenology and morphological development. 3. The observed responses between the species to warming are consistent with predicted differential responses linked to genome size. 4. We conclude that the mechanism of competitive interaction proposed by Boysen-Jensen (1929) coupled with the insights related to genome size provide a basis for explaining and predicting the role of interannual variation in temperature in determining year to year fluctuations in the relative abundance of species in productive perennial herbaceous vegetation.
10.2307/2389386|Food selection by herbivores should vary with the plant nutrient content and the nutrient requirement of the herbivore. However, any such relationships may be confounded by the presence of plant secondary compounds which are toxic or reduce digestibility. The aim of this study was to determine if selection of food type, nutrients and plant phenolics, varies between mountain hares of different physiological status and whose nutrient requirements are hypothesized to be different. Stomach contents of mountain hares (Lepus timidus L.) were collected at a standardized time of day from March to November to determine the botanical and chemical constitution of the diet. Hares ate two major food types, heather [Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull.] and grasses. The plant phenolics in the diet derived mainly from the former. The mean proportion of Calluna in the diet was lower in summer than in spring and autumn. In summer, the stomachs of reproductively active females and leverets contained smaller proportions of Calluna than non-reproducing females. This resulted in lower concentrations of plant phenolics in their stomachs but had no effect on the stomachs' nitrogen content. These categories of hare apparently avoid plants with phenolics whereas we detected no selection for or against nitrogen.
826711| 1. Pinus ponderosa occurs in a range of contrasting environments in the western USA. Xeric populations typically have lower leaf: sapwood area ratio (A
3599188|1. Changes in biodiversity can affect ecosystem processes through a variety of pathways, such as changes in community structure, loss of a keystone or changes in resource use patterns among species. The latter, also known as resource use complementarity, is an established mechanistic link between species and ecosystems. 2. At present, functional group richness is the dominant measure of the extent of resource use complementarity and has been manipulated in several experiments. These groups are constructed a priori using information about differences between species and a statistically significant effect is typically identified by standard parametric tests. These tests implicitly assume that the a priori functional groups are correct. 3. Avoiding this assumption requires a randomization (bootstrap) test of statistical significance that accounts for the effects of grouping per se. This test compares the observed test statistic to the distribution of the test statistic resulting from random assignment of species to groups. 4. Re-analyses of experimental manipulations of plant functional diversity by bootstrapping the critical significance value changed the ecological interpretation of results in nearly half of the experiments. This occurred because random assignment of species to functional groups frequently creates a strong relationship between functional diversity and ecosystem functioning. 5. The significant bootstrapped results that were found perhaps represent some of the most convincing evidence that functional diversity is an important determinant of local-scale ecosystem functioning.
20142805|1. Carotenoids transferred from mother to offspring may enhance the quality of the offspring. Whether such maternal effects occur in guppies (Poecilia reticulata) has an important bearing on mate preference evolution. 2. By raising female guppies from birth on different dietary carotenoid levels, we examined the pattern of carotenoid allocation to maternal tissue (skin) vs. eggs. Skin carotenoid content was only weakly affected by carotenoid intake while egg carotenoid content was strongly affected. 3. We then tested for effects of maternal carotenoid intake on several measures of offspring quality, including size and condition at birth, juvenile growth rate, and the size, condition, skin carotenoid content and colouration of mature sons. To test for interactions between maternal and offspring carotenoid intake, broods were split and offspring were reared on one of two carotenoid levels. 4. Offspring carotenoid intake had the expected effects on male colouration, but otherwise we found no evidence that maternal or offspring carotenoid intake influences offspring quality. It remains possible that maternal carotenoids affect offspring fitness parameters that we did not measure or that such effects depend on environmental factors that were absent in our laboratory aquaria. 5. Our review of the literature on maternal carotenoid effects in birds and fishes suggests that such effects may be taxon-specific. Thus, it seems unwarranted to assume that an adaptive trade-off necessarily exists between allocation of carotenoids to eggs vs. maternal tissues. Alternative hypotheses, such as the possibility that eggs provide a means of excreting excess carotenoids, also merit consideration. 6. Our results indirectly support the indicator model of mate preference evolution by casting doubt on an alternative hypothesis that requires females to benefit more from consuming carotenoids than males do.
2390323|1. The ability of rain-forest plants to utilize sunflecks for growth was investigated using the following species: Alocasia macrorrhiza, Diploglottis diphyllostegia, Micromelum minutum and Omalanthus novo-guinensis. 2. Growth analysis and gas-exchange measurements were used to assess performance of the four species when exposed to either constant or fluctuating light. 3. Final biomass (g dry wt) in D. diphyllostegia and M. minutum grown under the lightfleck regime (total daily PFD = 7.02 mol m
10.2307/2390558|1. Maternal energy export (in milk), food intake and mass loss were examined in lactating Cotton Rats (Sigmodon hispidus) in relation to the growth of suckling offspring in small (three offspring) and large litters (six offspring). We predicted that energy export would increase from early to late lactation to provide energy for offspring growth, and that mothers with large-sized litters may reach a limit in their ability to nourish suckling young. 2. Mothers nursing small litters showed a greater ability than those with large litters to respond to the energy demands of growing offspring. Their export of chemical energy per suckling pup increased from early to late lactation. In contrast, the energy flow to individual pups in large litters remained low throughout lactation. 3. The low rate of energy flow to individual offspring in large litters significantly affected their postnatal growth. Individual pups in large litters obtained milk with 73.7% the energy content and grew at 71.2% the rate of pups in small litters. 4. The milk produced by lactating animals with large litters was dilute (had a small fraction of milk solids) and had a lower energy content per dry mass than did the milk produced by animals supporting small litters. 5. Mothers supporting large litters did not acquire sufficient energy from food intake or tissue catabolism to offset the low rate of energy export to their offspring. Maximal rates of food intake and tissue catabolism may have been attained. 6. The energy export by mothers supporting large litters (mean mass = 134 g) was uniformly high. The peak rate of energy flow was approximately 220 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>. 7. These results indicate that physical constraints on mothers with large litters limit milk production and, consequently, offspring growth.
2656431|1. Nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) availabilities are important ecological determinants of resource use in nature. Despite the wide range of hosts used by species of the genus Drosophila, elemental composition of natural resources of these flies has never been investigated. 2. Total body N and P contents were determined in seven species of wild-caught Drosophila, their natural hosts, and artificial diets routinely used to rear these flies in the laboratory. The flies tested included D. hydei, D. arizonae, D. simulans and D. pseudoobscura collected from rotting fruit (melons), and the cactophilic D. nigrospiracula, D. mojavensis and D. pachea collected from their specific host plants, Saguaro, Organpipe and Senita cactus, respectively. 3. Natural hosts varied in elemental composition, with fruit showing higher N (2.8-4.3% dry mass) and P (0.50-0.67%) levels compared with cacti (0.5-1.6% N; 0.01-0.29% P). No consistent differences in N and P levels were found between healthy and necrotic cactus tissue. 4. Total body N and P also varied among Drosophila species. This variation mirrored the levels of N and P found in the respective hosts and laboratory diets. N:P ratios were consistently lower in female flies compared with conspecific males suggesting phosphorus demands during oogenesis are high. 5. Potential mechanisms by which Drosophila deal with N or P limitation in nature are discussed.
10.2307/2389576|Experiments were carried out to determine whether the late-emerging biotype of Delia radicum L. has extended diapause, or a lower rate of post-diapause development than the early-emerging biotype. Measurement of the rate of oxygen uptake by pupae of D. radicum indicated that post-diapause development occupied approximately 15 days at 18  2
4540061|1. Selection during interepidemic stages is crucial for the evolution of pathogen populations. Trade-offs involving aggressiveness (quantitative pathogenicity) have rarely been explored in pathogens with a life cycle requiring the disease-causing organism to change organs within the same host. 2. We investigated the existence of a trade-off between aggressiveness and survival in Phytophthora infestans, the pathogen causing potato late blight. In France, P infestans behaves as an obligate biotroph, surviving in infected tubers. Aggressive isolates, which are favoured during the epidemic, may exhaust their nutrient supply too quickly to bridge seasons, resulting in a possible trade-off between the two life stages. 3. We inoculated tubers with isolates possessing different aggressiveness levels, let them overwinter as outdoor piles at three different sites, and scored the proportion of live tubers the following spring. 4. At two sites, infection caused early tuber sprouting, which can be seen either as a manipulation of the host by the pathogen, or as an attempt by the host to escape. 5. Overwinter survival was higher for control than for inoculated tubers, but did not differ between tubers inoculated with different isolates. This suggests that aggressiveness should gradually increase in P infestans populations, unless a trade-off occurs at another stage of the life cycle.
2656559|1. Two proposed hypotheses about energy allocation were tested to explain the patterns of seasonal reproduction found in temperate mammals. The two hypotheses predict either that total demand for energy is greater during reproduction than during winter (when thermoregulatory costs are high) (Increased Demand Hypothesis) or that total costs during winter are greater than or equal to total costs during reproduction (Reallocation Hypothesis). 2. Data were compiled from the literature on summer (non-reproducing) and winter metabolic rates of temperate mammals, and were used on litter sizes and a published equation to predict metabolic rates during lactation. 3. All three measures of metabolic rate scaled to body mass with slopes significantly less than one. Metabolic rates during winter averaged  2 times greater than those of non-reproducing mammals during summer. On average, predicted metabolic rates during lactation were not significantly greater than during winter, but for some individual species they clearly were. 4. It is suggested that neither the Reallocation nor the Increased Demand Hypothesis can fully explain seasonal reproductive patterns in temperate mammals.
40603044|1. Large herbivores are known to spatially concentrate and alter the form of nitrogen (N) in grassland systems, which can modify aboveground plant chemical composition and productivity, and result in shifts in grazing pressure in these areas. Root responses to grazing under high N inputs may facilitate these changes, but their responses are less well understood. 2. We examined biomass, root morphology and demography, and nitrogen pool responses of Festuca campestris Rydb. seedlings grown in pots in an environmental chamber and subject to heavy fertilization with isotopically-labelled N in a NO-N or NH-N fertilizer treatment, and to no clipping or clipping to 4 cm twice during the experiment. 3. Festuca campestris exhibited re-growth patterns after defoliation that reflected preferential allocation to aboveground shoots, with percent recovery of shoot biomass twice that of roots. Clipping did not increase the risk of root mortality. Instead, reduced root biomass in clipped plants resulted from slowed elongation and decreased production of new roots. Although roots with smaller diameters and at lower density had a greater risk of root mortality, clipping did not alter the mean root diameter or level of root branching. 4. Under high N fertilization, NH-N increased the amount of aboveground biomass, ameliorated the effects of clipping on root production and further reduced the risk of root mortality in clipped plants. N-form had no effect on root morphology. 5. While total plant N uptake and the percent utilization of fertilizer were lower in clipped plants, total plant nitrogen accumulated per root biomass (g g) at harvest was higher in clipped plants. 6. Our findings indicate that where defoliation is coupled with high nitrogen return, Festuca campestris recuperates by increasing nitrogen uptake, shifting production to favour recovery of aboveground biomass, and mitigating carbon losses by decreasing investment in new, actively growing roots. Because application of a more mobile form of nitrogen (NO-N) did not alter root morphology, root physiological responses may be most important for re-growth when nitrogen is not limiting. Root reductions associated with grazing may have a greater impact in locations where grazer-mediated nitrogen return is spatially decoupled from defoliation.
10.2307/2390128|1. When microbial agents are used as pest-control agents, resistance in the host may be selected for. If resistance occurs there are potentially fitness costs due to trade-offs between resistance and other life-history traits. Genotypic trade-offs with resistance to a virus in a lepidopteran host are examined by a micro-evolutionary selection experiment. 2. Six populations of the Indian meal moth, Plodia interpunctella, were established, three of which supported a granulosis virus infection (selected insects) while the remaining three acted as virus-free controls. 3. After a period of 2 years, bioassays with the virus showed that selected moths were 1.96-fold more resistant to infection (LD<sub>50</sub>s) than those derived from the virus-free control populations. 4. Correlated with this increase in resistance were a lengthening of development time, a reduction in egg viability and an increase in pupal weight. 5. These changes in life-history traits suggest that a cost in fitness of 15% (sensu Sibly & Calow 1986) is associated with the evolution of the resistance. 6. The importance of fitness costs associated with the development of resistance to pathogens is discussed.
2656332|1. Ten herbaceous species were grown over a 4-month period under ambient (360 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) and elevated (610 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> conditions. Plants were inoculated with the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus Glomus mosseae and given a phosphorus (P) supply which was not immediately available to the plants. 2. Multiple harvests were taken in order to determine whether the effect of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> on mycorrhizal colonization and phosphorus inflow was independent of its effect on plant growth. 3. All species grew faster under elevated CO<sub>2</sub> and carbon partitioning was altered, generally in favour of the shoots. All species responded similarly to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. 4. Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> did not affect the percentage of root length colonized by AM fungi, but the total amount of colonized root length was increased, because the plants were bigger. 5. Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> increased total P content, but had little or no effect on P concentration. At a given age, P inflow was stimulated by elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, but when root length was taken into account the CO<sub>2</sub> effect disappeared. 6. In these host species there is no evidence for a direct effect of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> on mycorrhizal functioning, because both internal mycorrhizal colonization and P inflow are unaffected. 7. Future research should concentrate on the potential for carbon flow to the soil via the external mycelial network.
4139354|1. Climate models predict more extreme weather in Mediterranean ecosystems, with more frequent drought periods and torrential rainfall. These expected changes may affect major process in ecosystems such as mineral cycling. However, there is a lack of experimental data regarding the effects of prolonged drought on nutrient cycling and content in Mediterranean ecosystems. 2. A 6-year drought manipulation experiment was conducted in a Quercus ilex Mediterranean forest. The aim was to investigate the effects of drought conditions expected to occur over the coming decades, on the contents and concentrations of phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) in stand biomass, and P and K content and availability in soils. 3. Drought (an average reduction of 15% in soil moisture) increased P leaf concentration by
40603066|1. Atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (N) is a global problem resulting in negative consequences for biodiversity due to direct toxicity, increases in invasive species, increased susceptibility to environmental stresses and soil-mediated effects of acidification and eutrophication. 2. Reductions in plant species richness related to N deposition have been observed in a number of habitats including calcifuge (acid) grasslands but the mechanisms of this decline have not been fully investigated. We test the hypotheses that along a large-scale gradient of N deposition there is (i) an increase in species tolerant of low pH conditions as a result of soil acidification and (ii) an increase in competitive and nitrophilic species as a result of soil eutrophication. As competitive species can occur in low pH habitats, both of these hypotheses could be true. 3. Using plant characteristics, we examined changes in vegetation species composition along the gradient of N deposition in the UK. Mean C-S-R signatures were used to identify the competitive response of plant communities together with Ellenberg N (nitrogen) scores to identify increases in nitrophilic species. Ellenberg R (reaction, pH) scores were used to identify change in response to soil pH together with an index of soil acidity preference developed using regional survey data. 4. Mean C-S-R signatures showed no significant correlation with N deposition, nor did mean Ellenberg N scores. Ellenberg R scores and the index of soil acidity preference showed significant relationships with N deposition indicating an increased dominance of acid-tolerant species. 5. The results suggest that soil acidification as opposed to eutrophication and consequent competition between species is contributing to shifts in species composition and diversity linked to N deposition in calcifuge grasslands. Soil acidification may be leading to reduced nutrient availability preventing the effects of N addition from being apparent.
826703| 1. A functional growth analysis was used to determine the duration of strict dependency on seed reserves for energy and nitrogen in three woody Bignoniaceae species (Tabebuia rosea DC., Challichlamys latifolia K. Schum. and Pithecoctenium crucigerum A. Gentry) which differed in cotyledon function (photosynthetic, semi-photosynthetic and storage) and shade tolerance (probability of seedling establishment and survival in the understorey). 2. Seedlings were raised from seeds in sand culture under combinations of three nitrogen levels (daily supply of nutrient solution containing 100, 10 and 0% of 26 mM N) and two irradiances (27 and 1% full sun). Time course of biomass, non-cotyledonous biomass and leaf area for 40 days post-germination were compared to identify when the external availability of nitrogen or light began to affect seedling growth. 3. Seedlings of all species became dependent on external energy supply earlier than they did on nitrogen supply. In all species seed nitrogen was sufficient to support positive seedling growth for 40 days in shade, but not in sun. 4. Tabebuia rosea with photosynthetic cotyledons responded to light availability earlier than more shade-tolerant species with storage cotyledons. Challichlamys latifolia, the most shade-tolerant species, had the highest nitrogen concentration in seeds and was the last to respond to external nitrogen availability. Thus seedlings of the most shade-tolerant species depended on seed reserves for the longest period for both energy and nitrogen. 5. Relative growth rate after seedlings initiated autotrophic growth was in a trade-off relationship with seedling survivorship in the understorey across the three species. Tabebuia rosea, the least shade-tolerant species, had the highest positive net carbon balance in sun and shade. 6. Functional morphology of cotyledons and concentration of seed nitrogen deserve as much attention as seed size as correlates of contrasting seedling regeneration strategies. 
10.2307/2390235|1. A new technique for the experimental manipulation of temperature, in open conditions, without the aid of cloches or screens, has been designed, built and tested. 2. The apparatus permits controlled elevation or depression of temperature relative to ambient to be achieved while tracking normal diel temperature variation. The vertical profile is also influenced. 3. Temperature is controlled by means of a simple electronic circuit which governs the operation of a solenoid valve permitting fluid to circulate in a fine pipework heating/cooling element placed at the soil surface. Both controlled elevation and controlled depression of temperature can be achieved using the same design of apparatus. 4. The new system has been used to manipulate the length of the growing season in a long-term experiment investigating the role of climate and management as controls on species diversity in meadows. Specimen results from this experiment are presented. 5. It is suggested that the temperature manipulation technique offers a new approach to the study of climatic influences on plant community dynamics under field conditions.
2390467|1. Many lizards use caudal autotomy as a defensive strategy. However, subsequent costs related to the alteration of locomotor abilities might decrease the fitness of individuals. In this paper, the movement patterns of spontaneously moving Psammodromus algirus lizards and their escape performance running at high speed were compared before and after tail loss. A control tailed group was also studied to assess the repeatability of locomotor patterns between trials. 2. Tail loss had a significant effect on spontaneous movement patterns. Tailless individuals moved at significantly slower speeds during bursts of locomotion, and distances moved within bursts were significantly reduced. The overall time spent pausing increased, and, as a result, overall speeds decreased to an even greater extent than burst speeds. However, mean durations of individual locomotor bursts and mean pause durations did not change significantly after tail loss. 3. Loss of the tail decreased mean stride length, although the positive relation between stride length and speed was retained. 4. Escape performance was also greatly affected; loss of the tail resulted in substantially reduced attained, maximal and overall escape speeds. These changes resulted in shorter escape distances (the time of the first pause after the initiation of the escape response) because the mean duration of escape responses did not change. 5. The relevance of these alterations for the ecology of this species, and how individuals may compensate for the costs of tail loss, favouring autotomy as an escape strategy, are discussed.
10.2307/2389918|1. Life-history theory often assumes that energy and nutrient contents are correlated with egg size. I assessed the within- and among-clutch variation in egg size, nitrogen (N) and carbon (C) content of eggs of the land snail Arianta arbustorum and examined their intercorrelations. I also examined whether the diet of the mother snail (Petasites albus or lettuce) and/or the time of the reproductive season when the eggs were laid affected the variation in egg size and nutrient content. 2. The volume of single eggs ranged from 5.5 to 26.3 mm
40863634|1. Avian embryos depend on the incubating parent to provide a thermal environment suitable for embryogenesis, but as the maintenance of optimal incubation temperatures is energetically costly, an incubating bird often must trade off embryonic investment against self-maintenance. 2. We manipulated the energetic cost of incubation in female zebra finches (Taeniopygia gut tata Vieillot) by varying ambient temperature and clutch size during nocturnal incubation and recorded the corresponding effects on incubation metabolic rate and clutch temperature. 3. Females increased their night-time incubation metabolic rate more than twofold when incubating at 10 C compared to when incubating close to thermoneutrality (28 C). Furthermore, clutch enlargement caused females to elevate their metabolic rate with 2-8% per additional egg added to the clutch. 4. However, despite spending more energy, females did not fully cover the increased costs of incubation, because clutch temperature decreased with decreasing ambient temperature and increasing clutch size. 5. These findings suggest that parental investment in incubation can be energetically constrained and sometimes result in clutch temperatures below the optimal level for embryonic development, at least during nocturnal incubation.
3599110| 1. We compared the foraging behaviour of two small (approximately 6000 bees) and two large (approximately 20 000 bees) honey-bee colonies over 6 days. We determined where the bees of each colony foraged, whether they collected nectar or pollen, the number of patches foraged at, the number of bees engaged in foraging, and the concentration of the nectar collected. 2. Even though the colonies were located in the same environment and had the same genetic background, foragers from different colonies used different forage patches. 3. Small and large colonies foraged at a similar distance in July when forage was abundant (mean foraging distance for small and large colonies was 067 and 062 km, respectively) whereas the large colonies foraged significantly further in August when forage was scarce (mean foraging distance for small and large colonies was 143 and 285 km, respectively). 4. Small colonies foraged at approximately the same number of patches as large colonies. The total number of foragers returning to the small colonies per minute was significantly lower than the number of foragers returning to the large colonies. This means that, relative to their size, small colonies foraged at more patches than large colonies. 5. The quality of the nectar collected by foragers of the small and large colonies did not differ. However, small colonies did collect more pollen than large colonies. 
10.2307/2389875|1. An elongated, controlled environment chamber is described in which a continuous, reproducible gradient of subambient CO<sub>2</sub> concentration (\lbrack CO<sub>2</sub>\rbrack) is maintained during daylight hours to assess plant responses to past increases in atmospheric \lbrack CO<sub>2</sub>\rbrack. 2. The \lbrack CO<sub>2</sub>\rbrack of air moved unidirectionally through the 37.6-m long chamber by a blower is progressively depleted by photosynthesis of plants growing in the chamber. 3. Plant top-growth is contained in a transparent film tunnel which rests upon an enclosed soil volume that is 45 cm wide and 76 cm deep. 4. The desired minimum concentration to which CO<sub>2</sub> is depleted at the end of the chamber, usually 150 or 200 l l<sup>-1</sup>, is maintained by varying the blower speed with a micrologger program dependent upon real-time sensing of \lbrack CO<sub>2</sub>\rbrack and light intensity. 5. Dewpoint and dry bulb temperatures are also controlled by a micrologger- and computer-monitored air-conditioning system.
4540103|1. Identifying how selection shapes life-history traits by causally relating environment to phenotype, performance and fitness has often proven elusive due to limitations of classical analysis methods, which only identify covariance in traits, and to the difficulties in experimentally manipulating environment to expose cause and effect in wild populations. 2. In an approach resembling the experimental method common to all modern research, structural equation modelling can not only identify covariance in traits, but also test hypotheses of direct and indirect causal paths that tie environment to phenotypes and fitness through natural selection. Here, we use novel confirmatory path analyses and a long-term study of Corsican blue tits to analyse the interactions between environmental variables (prey abundance and ectoparasite load), phenotypic traits (mass and haematocrit), physiological performance (aerobic capacity) and nestling recruitment. 3. Our analyses show that an antagonistic interaction between ectoparasites and food abundance sets tissue development and oxygen carrying capacity of blood at fledging, and that identical paths link these variables to physiological performance and recruitment. 4. This study suggests that metabolic capacity at fledging may be important in determining subsequent recruitment and unmasks subtle fitness costs of an ectoparasite.
10.2307/2390091|1. Lowland temperate rain forest was sampled in Fiordland, New Zealand. An assembly rule was sought in terms of relative constancy in the proportion of species from seven synusial (stratum) guilds, compared to a null model in which species associate at random. Two forest types were examined (coastal broadleaved and Nothofagus broadleaved), separately and together. 2. The results show more significances than expected on a random basis. 3. In two forest-type/synusia analyses, guild proportions were more variable than expected under the null model. For lianes this is suggested to be the result of old canopy gaps and for shrubs because of topographic variation. 4. There was significant constancy in the proportion of species from the herb synusia. This effect was seen separately in both forest types. A similar effect was seen for the ground synusia, significant when the two forest types were combined. These effects suggest that there is a limitation on the assembly of these forest communities, a constraint on species coexistence that ensures relatively constant representation from the ground and herb guilds. This represents one of the first demonstrations of an assembly rule in plant communities.
2656462|1. Does enhanced whole-plant CO<sub>2</sub> exchange in moderately low to high light occur at the cost of greater CO<sub>2</sub> loss rates at very-low light levels? We examined this question for first-year seedlings of intolerant Populus tremuloides and Betula papyrifera, intermediate Betula alleghaniensis, and tolerant Ostrya virginiana and Acer saccharum grown in moderately low (7.3% of open-sky) and low (2.8%) light. We predicted that, compared with shade-tolerant species, intolerant species would have characteristics leading to greater whole-plant CO<sub>2</sub> exchange rates in moderately low to high light levels, and to higher CO<sub>2</sub> loss rates at very-low light levels. 2. Compared with shade-tolerant A. saccharum, less-tolerant species grown in both light treatments had greater mass-based photosynthetic rates, leaf, stem and root respiration rates, leaf mass:plant mass ratios and leaf area:leaf mass ratios, and similar whole-plant light compensation points and leaf-based quantum yields. 3. Whole-plant CO<sub>2</sub> exchange responses to light (0.3-600 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) indicated that intolerant species had more positive CO<sub>2</sub> exchange rates at all but very-low light (< 15 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>). In contrast, although tolerant A. saccharum had a net CO<sub>2</sub> exchange disadvantage at light > 15 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, its lower respiration resulted in lower CO<sub>2</sub> losses than other species at light < 15 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. 4. Growth scaled closely with whole-plant CO<sub>2</sub> exchange characteristics and especially with integrated whole-plant photosynthesis (i.e. leaf mass ratio x in situ leaf photosynthesis). In contrast, growth scaled poorly with leaf-level quantum yield, light compensation point, and light-saturated photosynthetic rate. 5. Collectively these patterns indicated that: (a) no species was able to both minimize CO<sub>2</sub> loss at very-low light (i.e. < 15 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) and maximize CO<sub>2</sub> gain at higher light (i.e. > 15 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), because whole-plant respiration rates were positively associated with whole-plant photosynthesis at higher light; (b) shade-intolerant species possess traits that maximize whole-plant CO<sub>2</sub> exchange (and thus growth) in moderately low to high light levels, but these traits may lead to long-term growth and survival disadvantages in very-low light (< 2.8%) owing, in part, to high respiration. In contrast, shade-tolerant species may minimize CO<sub>2</sub> losses in very-low light at the expense of maximizing CO<sub>2</sub> gain potential at higher light levels, but to the possible benefit of long-term survival in low light.
2656487|1. Previous studies of Tiger Salamanders demonstrated that variation in alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh) contributed significantly to associations between multilocus heterozygosity and oxygen consumption traits, and that Adh variation was associated with levels of pond-oxygen and metamorphic ability in extreme oxygen environments. Here Adh allozymes are characterized kinetically, and relationships between Adh and oxygen-related physiological traits (ATP/Hb, 2,3-DPG/Hb) are measured. 2. Kinetic differences were measured among Adh allozymes in the acetaldehyde-to-ethanol direction: k<sub>cat</sub>/K<sub>m</sub> ratios (the catalytic constant divided by the Michaelis-Menton constant) were significantly higher in Adh-SF than the other two genotypes, and in Adh-SS compared with Adh-FF. No significant differences were measured in the ethanol to acetaldehyde direction. 3. Adh-SS had a significantly higher ATP/Hb than Adh-FF, with the Adh-SF intermediate. In addition, a significant interaction between Hb and body mass was measured, such that Adh-FF showed a negative relationship between Hb concentration and body mass while the other two genotypes showed a positive relationship. 4. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that variation at the Adh locus has adaptive and physiological significance, and that functional differences among Adh allozymes partly explain significant associations between multilocus genotype and organismal traits.
10.2307/2390204|1. Life-history theory predicts that as the residual reproductive value of an organism declines its current investment in reproduction should increase. This hypothesis has not been previously tested for insects. 2. The results of a laboratory study on the reproductive investment of the willow-carrot aphid, Cavariella aegopodii and the vetch aphid, Megoura viciae were compared with the predictions of the aphid optimal energy partitioning model. 3. The model's assumption that the fecundity function in aphids is triangular was supported. 4. As predicted by the model, the sizes of gonads decrease and those of the offspring increase with the age of the mother. 5. The large offspring born towards the end of a mother's life achieve a greater adult weight, mean relative growth rate and potential intrinsic rate of increase than the small offspring born early in a mother's life. The better performance of the last born is a consequence of their large birth size. 6. The size of the offspring varies inversely and the reproductive investment positively with residual reproductive value. The increase in offspring size towards the end of a mother's life is a consequence of the time lag between ovulation and birth and the cessation of ovulation well before a mother dies. The excess of energy produced by the soma in old mothers is used to accelerate the growth rate of the remaining offspring. This result can be extended to other groups that conform to the aphid model's assumptions.
40863569|1. During retrogressive succession, vegetation shifts from taller forests with higher species richness to shorter woody communities of lower diversity. Studies of soil chronosequences have emphasized the role of phosphorus (P) depletion in driving these changes in community structure and composition, but neglected the possible role of poor drainage which is often associated with the oldest sites. 2. We used a fully factorial pot experiment to investigate the effects of soil water conditions and  availability on seedling relative growth rate and survival of 11 woody species associated with a 290 000-year chronosequence in southern New Zealand. Species were chosen to represent three stages of the chronosequence: young P-rich soils; intermediate-age P-depleted soils; and old P-depleted, waterlogged soils. Plants were grown in soils taken from youngest and oldest sites of the chronosequence; half the pots were freely drained whilst the other half were waterlogged. 3. Species associated with intermediate-age soils were typical 'stress-tolerators'; those of the youngest and oldest sites were faster growing and more responsive to nutrient availability. Only the latter showed tolerance of waterlogging. Specific root length and adventitious-root production were important determinants of species' responses to soil water conditions and nutrient supply. 4. Our study highlights that soil waterlogging and P depletion interact to influence relative growth rate and survival; P depletion is not the sole driver of ecosystem changes in the retrogressive stages of the soil chronosequence. We also show that some species associated with our retrogression did not necessarily conform to conventional views on 'stress-tolerance', but were well adapted to poor drainage.
41239302|1. Acclimation and hardening represent examples of phenotypic plasticity, the extent to which phenotypes produced by the same genotype vary under different environments. Widespread species are expected to differ in thermal plasticity from narrowly distributed tropical species, but this has rarely been tested particularly when species are reared under the same conditions. 2. We investigated acclimation and hardening responses of 11 widespread or tropically restricted Drosophila species from Australia using estimates of heat resistance where temperatures were increased suddenly (static measure) or slowly (ramping measure), and after controlling for phylogenetic relatedness. We predicted that restricted species would show little acclimation regardless of the method used, whilst widespread species would respond well after a hardening treatment (35 C for 1 h) particularly under ramping. 3. These predictions were partially supported. There was a tendency for the tropically restricted species to be less plastic than the widespread species, although variation among species within the two groups was generally greater than between the groups. For acclimation and stress resistance measured under ramping acclimation, there was an association between the southernmost latitude at which species were found (reflecting variability in climatic conditions they encountered) and knockdown resistance after controlling for phylogeny. There was also evidence of significant divergence from the ancestral state in the ramping trait, likely reflecting a history of direct or indirect selection for ramping knockdown resistance in Drosophila. 4. There was a significant negative association between basal resistance and hardening capacity for static acclimation in the widespread species, suggesting a limit to the extent that plastic responses vary independently of basal resistance. 5. The reduced plastic response in tropically restricted species and negative association between hardening and basal resistance suggest a limit to the effectiveness of plastic responses in changing upper thermal limits for countering increases in thermal stress under future climate change.
3599015|1. In animal-pollinated plants, female function is expected to increase with size because increased pollen production leads to more competition for ovules by pollen grains from the same parent, and a large flower number results in increased geitonogamy and, in turn, increased pollen discounting. To date, many studies have supported this prediction. 2. In Narthecium asiaticum (Maxim), an animal-pollinated plant, however, male reproductive components in flowers increased with raceme size whereas female reproductive components did not. This was mostly because of the similar trend for middle to upper flowers within racemes. 3. Height above ground for middle to upper flowers was associated with raceme size, and higher flowers attracted more pollinators. Accordingly, more pollen grains were removed from upper flowers in larger racemes. Furthermore, an increased number of flowers may not increase local mate competition and geitonogamy in this species because only a few flowers function as males at any one time, irrespective of raceme size. 4. This may be the reason why male reproductive components of upper flowers increased with size, even though N. asiaticum is an animal-pollinated plant. Male reproductive components of lower flowers did not increase, probably because the height of lower flowers was not associated with raceme size.
10.2307/2389365|Results of experiments on egg development, size-dependent feeding, growth and starvation of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis (L.) were successfully represented by a model for energy budgets that has already proved to be applicable to other animals. We studied the interference of the budget by changing the photoperiod. This perturbation affected the model parameter representing energy allocation to reproduction plus development as opposed to representing growth plus maintenance. These results give further support to the mechanistic assumptions on which the model is based and provide a basis for modelling the extensive physiological data already available for this animal.
4139388|1. Carbohydrate storage has been attributed an important role in the ability to tolerate shade, yet empirical support for this idea has been patchy. We asked if carbohydratestorage patterns of seedling evergreens in low light are correlated with variation in shade tolerance, and how these patterns change with seedling size. 2. We measured biomass distribution and total non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) concentrations of leaves, stems and roots of two seedling size classes of six evergreens growing in a temperate rainforest understorey. Light requirements of the six species were quantified by calculating the 10th percentile of the distribution of established seedlings in relation to canopy openness. 3. NSC averaged 14% of the dry mass of small seedlings (40-60 mm tall), and 22% of that of large seedlings (400-600 mm tall). This difference was entirely due to variation in starch reserves, which on average accounted for 60% of NSC in small seedlings and 84% in large seedlings. 4. NSC concentrations of leaves and roots (but not stems) of large seedlings were negatively correlated with species' shade tolerance, but no such pattern was found in small seedlings. Leaf NSC on an area basis was not related to species' shade tolerance in either size class. 5. Partitioning of the NSC pool between leaves, stems and roots of small seedlings was closely related to variation in shade tolerance. Small seedlings of shade-tolerant species had a relatively low proportion of their NSC pool in leaves and a high proportion in roots. This is likely to ensure the reten of the greater part of the NSC pool even in the event of extensive defoliation, and the availability of reserves to replace lost leaves. In contrast, the large leaf-mass fraction of large seedlings of shade-tolerant species (46-47% of biomass) meant that these plants had a large proportion of their NSC pool in foliage. 6. Results suggest that, in Chilean rainforest evergreens, any adaptive relationship of carbohydrate storage with shade tolerance may be confined to young seedlings, involving interspecific variation in the partitioning of reserves between leaves and other organs, rather than especially high NSC concentrations in shade-tolerant species.
3806593|1. We studied the associations among growth rate, RNA content and P content at ~12-h intervals during the larval stage in five species of Drosophilids that specialize on host foods that differ substantially in P content. 2. Consistent with expectations based on the 'growth rate hypothesis' (GRH), within each species there were significant positive correlations between growth rates and RNA and P contents and in each species variation in P content was largely determined by differences in RNA content. However, there was a significant difference among species in how these three parameters were associated with each other, primarily due to differences in the intercept of the relationships rather than in their slopes. 3. Consistent with the GRH, we also observed positive associations among the average growth rates, RNA contents and P contents of the five species. Furthermore, these differences were broadly consistent with differences in the P content of their host resources: for example, Drosophila falleni, a species that specializes on P-rich mushrooms, had the highest growth rates and P and RNA contents while D. pachea and D. mettleri, species that specialize in low-P exudates from necrotic cacti and trees, had the lowest growth rates and P and RNA contents. 4. While data for additional species are needed, our findings provide further evidence consistent with the GRH and highlight a potential role of P limitation in shaping growth rate evolution in the Drosophilids.
3806589|1. Innate immunity refers to the non-specific components of the primary immune response, which act broadly to destroy pathogens. Effective innate immune responses may save an individual the energetic costs associated with activating subsequent specific immune responses. 2. Testosterone can suppress immune function in vitro and in vivo. Most studies examining testosterone's effects on immunity have focused on experimentally elevated testosterone and acquired immune responses (e.g. humoral and cell-mediated responses to foreign antigens). Few studies have investigated the relationship between endogenous levels of testosterone and innate immunity. 3. In a wild breeding population of Dark-Eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis Linnaeus), we asked whether endogenous levels of testosterone measured at several points during the breeding season covaried with two components of innate immunity: total levels of non-specific immunoglobulin-G (IgG), and complement levels. 4. Testosterone levels were significantly negatively correlated with both total IgG and complement activity. Both immune measures were also positively correlated with body mass. Taken together with experimental results from the same species, these results suggest that elevated testosterone levels may compromise innate as well as acquired immune function.
826730|1. To reveal the convertibility between different indices of microsite light environment, relative photosynthetically active photon-flux density (R-PPFD) and relative illuminance (RI) were measured with the ratio of red light to far-red light (R/FR) simultaneously below various types of vegetation: temperate riparian deciduous broadleaf forest, coniferous forest, mixed forest of evergreen broadleaf and coniferous trees and cool-temperate deciduous broadleaf forest, and in rice paddy in summer. 2. Within and throughout the vegetation, R-PPFD and RI were strongly correlated, but the slopes of the regression equations significantly exceeded 1, and differed among the vegetation types and varied seasonally. 3. R/FR decreased with decreasing R-PPFD. The difference between RI and R-PPFD increased with decreasing R/FR: the darker the microsite, the larger the 'error' of the evaluated light availability if RI was used. 4. RI data can be converted to R-PPFD. Conversion from RI to R-PPFD would allow more reliable data comparisons among the different vegetation types and among studies that use different methods to measure the light environment.
3599138| 1. The development of simple predictors of tree growth is important in understanding forest dynamics. For this purpose, tree height, crown width in two perpendicular directions, trunk diameter at 13 m height (d.b.h.) and crown illumination index (CI) were determined for 727 pole-sized trees (8-20 cm d.b.h.) of 21 species, on forest dynamics plots at Pasoh Forest Reserve, Peninsular Malaysia and Lambir Hills National Park, Sarawak, Malaysia. A light-interception index
3599230|1. Adaptive floral divergence may evolve in plants that are generalized for pollination when geographic variation in pollinator assemblages produces a mosaic of phenotypic optima. Within a Dudleya species complex, I estimated the relationship between pollination success and floral phenotype at four sites, and asked whether this relationship depended on the composition of the pollinator assemblage. 2. Flowers were visited by hummingbirds and insects (primarily bees), and the frequency of visitors varied among sites and between years. In 2000, pollination success did not depend on floral phenotype, but in 2001 visitation by hummingbirds increased, and flowers that were longer, produced more nectar, and had more inserted stigmas received more pollen. 3. An independent experiment with hummingbirds confirmed a positive relationship between pollination success and these floral traits, which was due in part to a hummingbird visitation preference for longer, more rewarding flowers. 4. The absence of a trade-off in obtaining service from insects vs birds suggests that variation in pollination environment will not promote floral divergence in Dudleya. However, if longer, more rewarding flowers incur metabolic costs, then the difference between insects and birds as agents of selection on floral function may be sufficient to generate trade-offs in total fitness.
3599359| 1. In this paper a new formulation of the self-thinning law for plant populations is presented, based on dynamical principles. The basis of the new approach is explicitly to separate the equation of state (total = mean  number) from the change in state (total = mean  number + number  mean). 2. Using the dynamical approach, an analytical expression for the self-thinning exponent is derived which shows that the self-thinning exponent follows a trajectory, but whenever the total is constant the self-thinning exponent must, by definition, = -1. Conversely, whenever the total varies the self-thinning exponent must, by definition, differ from -1. The underlying general principles of self-thinning trajectories are deduced. 3. The new dynamic interpretations are general because they are independent of the details about how the changes in the number and mean occurred. 4. The theory is demonstrated using a typical self-thinning experiment. 
10.2307/2390289|1. It has previously been shown that perennial C<sub>4</sub> grasses of tallgrass prairie retranslocate up to 30% of shoot nitrogen (N) to rhizomes and roots in response to water stress and that retranslocation contributes to drought-related decreases in shoot N concentration and photosynthetic capacity, resulting in decreased post-drought carbon gain for 1-2 weeks. 2. In this paper the following hypothesis is tested: under N-limited conditions, the benefits of retranslocation may include limiting loss of shoot N to grazing (or fire) during drought, resulting in increased end-of-season whole-plant biomass, N content, and reproduction. All shoot tissue was removed from young N-limited plants either before or after drought, thereby preventing or allowing the opportunity for retranslocation, and the effects of each clipping treatment on biomass and N content after flowering and senescence were determined. 3. In Spartina pectinata, a mesic species that remobilizes 20-30% of shoot N during drought, plants clipped before drought (no retranslocation) had decreased biomass, N content, and tiller (but not seed) production relative to plants clipped after drought. In contrast, Schizachyrium scoparium, a xeric species that retranslocates little shoot N, exhibited decreased biomass, N content, and tiller and seed production in plants clipped after drought: the result of growth-related increases in total shoot N during drought, and thus greater N loss in plants clipped after drought. Time of clipping had no effect on Andropogon gerardii, a species of intermediate drought tolerance that retranslocates ca. 10% of shoot N during drought. 4. These results support the hypothesis that drought-induced shoot N retranslocation to below-ground tissues represents a trade-off between N protection and post-drought carbon assimilation in prairie grasses.
2390386|1. The fecundity of adult female Roe Deer varies by a factor of 2.35 among populations across Britain. Although much of this variation may be related to environmental differences, there could also be a genetic influence on this component of fitness. In this paper, the relationship between morphological variation of the skull and female fecundity in Roe Deer from 13 populations across the deer's entire range in Britain is investigated. 2. First, principal components analysis of cranial data was used to infer genetic relationships among populations. Three distinct morphological types were identified, all significantly differentiated from the others in terms of both size and shape. The results are compared with earlier analyses of biochemical variation among the same sites; a possible native morph is identified. 3. Subsequently, canonical ordination techniques (redundancy analysis) were used to control for the effects of `environmental' variation (female body mass, density, climate) and, with the residual variation, the correlation between skull morphology and female fecundity was investigated. This correlation is significant for both the extracted axes (R > 0.7), indicating that there are heritable differences between populations affecting female fecundity. 4. The analysis suggests that Roe Deer native to Britain are of a genetically less fecund type relative to populations established by introductions from the continent.
20142796|1. The thermal melanism hypothesis (TMH) predicts that dark (low skin reflectance) individuals are at an advantage in cool climates as they heat faster and reach higher equilibrium temperatures than lighter (higher reflectance) individuals. However, tests of the TMH have yielded mixed support, especially in ectothermic vertebrates. 2. Most studies to date have been undertaken at small spatial scales or using a few, closely related populations or species. Here, we therefore examine the TMH at large scales in heliothermic lizard species, testing two of its major predictions and a corollary thereof, using standard and phylogenetically corrected analyses. 3. First, we test the prediction that skin reflectance and climate variables such as mean annual temperature (MAT) and global solar radiation are positively related across species. Second, we determine whether a positive relationship exists between skin reflectance and body mass. Third, since physiology, behaviour and morphology should be co-adapted, we test the prediction that skin reflectance and traits of thermal biology are positively related. 4. We find strong support for a positive relationship between skin reflectance and mean annual radiation even after adjusting for phylogeny. Moreover, radiation was a better predictor of skin reflectance than MAT. We also find support for a positive relationship of skin reflectance with body size, although this was non-significant after accounting for phylogeny. 5. Skin reflectance was not related to measures of thermal biology, although confounding effects such as methodological differences could not be ruled out. 6. In summary, this study provides novel support for the TMH operating interspecifically at large geographic scales, suggesting adaptive variation of skin reflectance among lizards.
10.2307/2389719|1 The theory of cooling of a metabolically active animal is examined to determine suitable measures of the development of homeothermy in birds based on data on rate of body cooling. 2 When body temperature can be measured continuously or repeatedly during a cooling trial, the best index to homeothermic capacity is the gradient between equilibrium body temperature and the environmental temperature,  T<sub>e</sub> = T<sub>e</sub> - T<sub>a</sub>. 3 When a single measurement is made after a period of cooling, the best index is the gradient between body temperature and environmental temperature normalized by the initial gradient, H = [T<sub>b</sub>(t) - T<sub>a</sub>][T<sub>b</sub>(0) - T<sub>a</sub>]. In comparisons among individuals of different ages, or among species, environmental temperature and duration of the trial must be similar. 4 The development of homeothermy among species may be compared by the relationship between  T<sub>e</sub> or H(T<sub>a</sub>,t) and the logarithm of body mass.
3598971|1. Asynchronous hatching has been studied extensively in altricial birds that feed their offspring, but this phenomenon is also known to occur in insects where parents provide food for their offspring. 2. We examined the proximate mechanisms underlying asynchronous hatching in the burying beetle Nicrophorus vespilloides, an insect species in which parents feed their offspring. 3. Mean hatching spread was 30 h. As expected if egg-laying was the major proximate mechanism underlying variation in hatching patterns, the duration of the egg-laying period had a highly significant and positive effect on hatching spread. The duration of the egg-laying period was unrelated to clutch size. 4. Hatching spread was slightly but significantly reduced compared with the duration of the egg-laying period, and the last eggs laid by females developed slightly but significantly faster than the first eggs. There was no significant difference in the size of the larvae that hatched from the first and last eggs laid by females. 5. We discuss the value of N. vespilloides and other insects where parents provide food for their offspring as alternative models to birds for the evolution of asynchronous hatching.
40407721|1. There is increasing evidence that extrafloral (EF) nectaries, described in approximately 1000 plant species from more than 90 families, have a defensive function. Endophytic fungi are an important group of microorganisms asymptomatically colonizing host plants, and promoting their defences against natural enemies. We aimed at investigating the role of these microorganisms in inducing EF nectary defences in plants against herbivory. 2. We conducted a full factorial experiment to study the effects of a soil-borne endophytic fungus, Acremonium strictum, alone or in combination with the aphid, Aphis fabae, on the production of EF nectar and nectaries in broad beans. By manipulating the presence/absence of the fungus in the roots of the host plants and by inflicting herbivore damage at a specific time and location, we tested the hypothesis that endophyte inoculation induces EF-mediated indirect defences. The quantity of EF nectar production and the number of EF nectaries produced were assessed by repeated samplings at fixed intervals. 3. Endophytic inoculation of bean plants induced a significant short-term increase in total EF nectar production and a significant prompt increase in number of EF nectaries per expanded leaf. On the other hand, aphid infestation resulted in a prolonged increase in total EF nectar production and a delayed induction of EF nectaries. Conversely, when plants were simultaneously inoculated with the endophyte and infested with aphids, both EF traits were significantly reduced. 4. The effect of endophyte inoculation was further examined by recording the life history traits of Aphis fabae. Aphid performance was generally lower on inoculated plants; however, relative fecundity was the only fitness parameter significantly reduced on endophyte inoculated plants. 5. The organism model in the present study serves as a model for investigating how endophytic colonization alters the response of EF nectary traits to herbivory. From a cost/benefit perspective, variable responses in EF-mediated indirect defences as influenced by endophytes could be explained as trade-offs in defence. In addition, other possibilities that may have contributed to the EF response patterns reported in this study are discussed.
3806556|1. Spatio-temporal variation in resource availability is often large and unpredictable. When animals need to find and sample novel foods, therefore they may prefer to choose food sources with feeding conspecifics or odour left by the conspecifics. This behaviour (local enhancement) would be favoured, especially if it decreases the time spent on food-finding and subsequent decision-making. In laboratory experiments we tested if naive bumble bees use local enhancement, and to what degree it could reduce the time spent on finding and sampling novel flowers. 2. When naive bees were presented with a pair of equally rewarded artificial or real flowers in a flight cage, they preferred to land and feed on the flower where a dead conspecific was attached. The presence of conspecifics reduced the time spent on detecting floral reward, which was significant only when bees chose between real flowers. In a similar pairwise choice, bees landed on artificial flowers with a dead conspecific wrapped in plastic more frequently than on flowers with the same-sized plastic wrap including no bees, which suggests that visual cues have important influences on the bees' flower choice. 3. Effects of conspecifics on flower choice and food detection time were most evident when they were attached to real flowers, and least evident when they were wrapped in plastic. These results suggest that the presence of conspecifics on flowers has stronger effects on bees' decision-making as the attractiveness of flowers increases, and that bees use both visual and non-visual cues to recognize conspecifics on flowers. 4. If the benefit of saving time were universal, the use of local enhancement would also be advantageous when bees switch between focal flower species or sites in response to temporal changes in resource availability.
10.2307/2389793|Feeding and distribution responses of grass-feeding grasshoppers to nitrogen fertilization of a native C<sub>4</sub> grass, Calamovilfa longifolia (Hook.), were examined in the field. When fertilized with ammonium nitrate, nitrogen concentration in the foliage increased. In paired choice tests, the grass-feeding Ageneotettix deorum (Scudder) typically consumed more leaf material fertilized at intermediate levels although preferences for leaves with altered levels of nitrogen were sometimes inconsistent. In field plots, total biomass of grasshoppers which fed on grasses increased with nitrogen application; grasshoppers with mixed diets exhibited no apparent distributional response to fertilizer treatments.
3598982| 1. An experiment was carried out to determine whether the spatial pattern of soil nutrient distribution influences plant growth and root placement, and the intensity of competition between plants. Our hypotheses were that (i) growth would be greater for plants in heterogeneous than homogeneous conditions (ii) competitive intensity would be greater when nutrients were confined to a small proportion of the substrate volume than when uniformly distributed, and (iii) plants would selectively place roots in nutrient-rich patches in heterogeneous conditions. 2. We grew plants of Briza media and Festuca ovina alone, or with an intra or interspecific competitor, in pots in which the same total supply of nutrients was distributed either homogeneously or heterogeneously. Nutrients in the heterogeneous treatment were confined to three soil cores occupying only 65% of the substrate volume. 3. Pattern of nutrient supply did not affect yield of plants grown alone. However, the reduction in target plant yield caused by competition was much greater in heterogeneous than homogeneous conditions (i.e. competitive intensity was greater in heterogeneous conditions). 4. Plants growing in heterogeneous conditions placed roots preferentially in the nutrient-rich substrate patches. This may have been the cause of greater competitive intensity in heterogeneous conditions. It is speculated that soil-based heterogeneity might exert an important influence on community structure and composition through its effects on competition. 
40863581|1. Immunological imprinting by maternally derived antibodies has been proposed to have both positive and negative consequences for offspring immunity in early and adult life. However, few studies of maternal effects on immunity have followed individuals past the juvenile stages. 2. Using laboratory Japanese quail, we developed a novel method of directly manipulating yolk antibodies of neonates, and then followed individuals through a series of immune challenges until they were of reproductive age. 3. Our method of directly injecting purified antibodies into the yolk sac of newly hatched chicks successfully elevated the plasma titres of specific anti-KLH Ig Y in neonates. This allows us to test whether differences in neonatal anti-KLH IgY affect immunity at the juvenile and adult stages of life. 4. We found little evidence for an effect of maternal antibodies on juvenile stage immune response, in contrast to results from previous studies. Adult immune response depended largely on the magnitude of the juvenile immune response regardless of the identity of the antigen in the juvenile immune challenge, and did not depend on neonatal IgY titres. Our results are consistent with a priming effect of early immune experience on adult stage immune responsiveness, but we found no evidence of carryover effects of yolk-derived antibodies on adult immunity. 5. This study employs new methodology for investigation of maternal antibodies and presents results suggesting that further studies of maternal effects on immunity will require careful consideration of the numerous ways maternally derived yolk components can impact the different types of immune response.
4139389|1. Most pollination biologists have used the collective pollinator visits to a plant as the measure of its pollinator attraction. However, we know very little about how many returns by the same individuals compose these visits, and how far each visitor travels after leaving the plant. Such behavioural aspects of individual pollinators are essential to understand the patterns of pollen flow among plants. 2. We observed plant visits by tagged bumble bees Bombus diversus in a field population of Cirsium purpuratum. By dissecting the collective visitation data into visits made by individual foragers, we addressed how 'visitor density' (number of individuals that visited a plant per 2 h) and 'individual visitation rate' (number of visits made by each individual per 2 h) are related to floral display size (number of flowering heads on a plant) and local flower density (number of flowering heads on neighbouring plants). We also tracked individual bees to determine how display size and local flower density of a plant influences its relative position in a bee's foraging area. 3. Plants attracted both regular visitors (bees that visited a plant more than three times per 2 h) and occasional visitors (bees that visited a plant fewer than four times per 2 h). Densities of both types of visitors increased with floral display size, whereas only occasional visitor's density increased with local flower density. 4. Individual bees preferred to visit central plants within their own foraging areas, plants with larger displays, and plants with lower local flower density. However, these preferences were independent from one another. Plants with large displays were not necessarily chosen by a bee as the centre of its own foraging area. On the other hand, plants with high local flower density were often located near the centre of a bee's foraging area. 5. The observed pollinator movements have implications for pollen flow in the plant population. Plants with larger displays probably experience greater mate diversity by attracting more occasional visitors, but they also assure matings with particular plants by increasing returns from regular visitors.
10.2307/2389314|The arguments of Smith (1986) bearing on the adaptive significance of leaf mottling are criticized and an alternative hypothesis is presented. I propose that mottling may serve to camouflage the foliage of certain groups of short-statured forest herbs, by disrupting their outline as perceived by colour-blind vertebrate herbivores in sun-dappled understoreys. Certain phenological groups are likely to be particularly vulnerable to herbivores, based on their high leaf nitrogen content (spring ephemerals, spring leaves of summeractive species), leaf activity when few other species possess foliage (evergreen species, wintergreen species, winter leaves of dimorphic species) and/or relative cost of replacing consumed foliage (evergreen species on sterile soils). These groups are also exposed to relatively high irradiances and so are less likely to suffer photosynthetic losses as a result of the reduced leaf absorptance that accompanies mottling. A survey of the incidence of leaf mottling in the native flora of the north-eastern USA supports these ideas: mottled leaves occur almost exclusively among forest herbs and are substantially over-represented among evergreen, wintergreen, and spring ephemeral species, and among the winter leaves of dimorphic species and the spring leaves of summer-active species. Mottled leaves are especially common among evergreen forest herbs. Testable extensions of the camouflage hypothesis to account for the relative abundance of mottled leaves among tropical forest herbs are discussed and parallels with other recently proposed mechanisms of vegetative crypsis in angiosperms based on leaf size, shape, texture, colour, and/or movement (i.e. Mimosa pudica) are outlined.
10.2307/2390173|1. An empirical relationship is established between the somatic juvenile growth rate (g) and the instantaneous rate of increase (r) in Daphnia magna in order to test if g can be used as a measure of fitness. Tested variables influencing g include food concentration, temperature, clonal differences and maternal effects. 2. The juvenile growth rate g was calculated for fixed time periods of 2 to 6 days (g<sub>f</sub>) or for the `physiological' juvenile period to the deposition of the first clutch (g<sub>j</sub>), which varied with environmental conditions. Both g<sub>f</sub> and g<sub>j</sub> resulted in linear relationships between g and r when food concentration was the only variable. If the other variables were included then only g<sub>j</sub> resulted in a good fit. 3. Although the relationship may be slightly curvilinear, g<sub>j</sub> is a robust predictor of r. The ratio r:g<sub>j</sub> is not affected by juvenile size and size at maturation. Hence g<sub>j</sub>, can be used as a relative measure of fitness in Daphnia. This can save considerable time and effort when determining reaction norms in life-table experiments with many genotypes.
10.2307/2390278|1. Tolerance of high summer temperatures was investigated in seven common species of oribatid mite (Acarina) and springtail (Collembola) found in soils associated with dominant vegetation types in West Spitsbergen, Svalbard. 2. Laboratory survival experiments are linked with field data from a 3-year temperature manipulation experiment to characterize the response of these animals to elevated field temperatures. 3. A 1-h exposure to 30<sup></sup>C under moist conditions showed that none of the species studied suffered significant mortality. The temperature required to kill all individuals was between 35-40 and 40-45<sup></sup>C for springtails and mites respectively. Under dry conditions at equivalent temperatures, differences in survival between mites and Collembola were strongly accentuated. Oribatid mites were little affected by the additional drought stress but the lethal temperature for springtails was shifted downwards by several degrees. 4. In parallel 3-h exposure experiments under moist conditions, the thermal death point was shifted downwards by c. 2.5<sup></sup>C in all the species, compared with 1-h exposures. Under dry conditions most Collembola died but mite survival differed little from that in the corresponding wet treatment over 3 h. 5. In longer-term experiments some mature Onychiurus arcticus survived more than 196 and 68 days at 5 and 25<sup></sup>C respectively. Above 30<sup></sup>C individuals survived for <24 h. 6. Regression relationships were established between maximum microhabitat temperatures and screen temperatures over 3 years. These were used to predict past maximum vegetation/litter mat and soil temperatures from historical screen data and to estimate the screen temperatures necessary to raise microhabitat temperatures to the thermal death point of the soil-dwelling arthropods. 7. The results are used to interpret the findings of a 3-year field experiment which examined the response of mite and springtail populations to temperature enhancement on two tundra sites, using small polythene tents. 8. High Arctic soil microarthropods appear able to cope with the higher summer temperatures they may experience as a result of climate change. It is the associated changes in soil moisture status that will probably produce the more significant changes in the microarthropod community. Species differ in their susceptibilities, but a decrease in soil moisture appears to favour oribatid mites at the expense of Collembola.
3806540|1. We studied physiological, behavioural and demographic traits of House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) in tropical Panama and temperate zone Ohio to explore the hypothesis that tropical birds with higher adult survival rates invest less in annual reproduction than their temperate zone counterparts. 2. Compared with wrens from Ohio, Panamanian wrens invested fewer resources in a given reproductive episode, as quantified by lower parental field metabolic rate (FMR) and water influx rate (WIR), a smaller number of feeding trips to the nest, and fewer chicks per brood. 3. Whole organism FMR and WIR were only 13-15% lower in tropical wrens, but because of their larger body size, mass-specific values were reduced by 34-37%. We propose that selection acts indirectly on whole-organism energy expenditure in the tropical wrens by specifically reducing mass-specific levels of metabolic rate, thereby postponing deleterious effects of aging and thus decreasing intrinsic mortality. 4. Declines in parental FMR and fledgling survival probability in the course of the season suggest that reproduction is more time-constrained in the temperate zone, compressed by the shorter breeding season, and as a result more energetically costly for the parents. In contrast, tropical wrens do not show temporal variation in FMR and nesting success and therefore are less constrained to breeding during a short season.
10.2307/2390506|1. Under nutrient-poor conditions initially fast-growing species will in the long term be competitively inferior to slow-growing species. Here, we ask whether this phenomenon can be explained by constraints caused by tissue density. The hypothesis is that low tissue density is necessary for fast growth but has as a consequence short organ life span. This leads to a rapid loss of nutrients that cannot be sustained under nutrient-poor conditions. 2. Biomass accumulation, turnover rate of leaves and roots, and tissue density were studied for five ecologically contrasting grass species. Plants were grown in a garden experiment over two growing seasons on sand with a low nutrient supply level. 3. Species that were characteristic of nutrient-rich sites had a low leaf and root tissue density and were larger after one growing season than species of nutrient-poor sites. However, after two growing seasons the species of nutrient-poor sites were larger. These species had a high tissue density. 4. Life span of both leaves and roots was also correlated with tissue density. Species with low tissue density had a faster turnover of leaves and roots. 5. It is concluded that tissue structure is an inherent constraint that prevents simultaneous maximization of both nutrient acquisition and nutrient conservation. The short life span of fast-growing organs explains the long-term disadvantage of a high growth rate for plants in low nutrient conditions.
2390451|1. Effects of high nutrient input on the longevity and viability of buried seed are examined. Seeds of 17 fen-meadow species were buried in nylon mesh bags at four sites in the Netherlands and one site in Great Britain in plots to which N, P, K fertilizers are applied. Prior to burial germination tests were conducted on the seeds of each species. This paper describes the results of the viability tests on the seeds that were exhumed after one and 2 years of burial. 2. The percentage of seeds that germinated after 1 year of burial was significantly lower than the pre-burial percentage for the majority of the species. After 2 years of burial the germination percentage further decreased. A few species, such as the Carex species, did, however, show an increase in germination percentage indicating that the burial conditions allowed dormancy controls to be broken. 3. Differences in the edaphic conditions between the sites appeared to affect germination percentages after 1 year of burial. A difference in germination response between sites was observed for Carex acutiformis, Filipendula ulmaria and Lychnis flos-cuculi. 4. A significantly higher germination percentage was found at the Great Britain site for F. ulmaria in the phosphate treatment compared with the potassium treatment and the control after 1 year of burial. In contrast to many literature assessments no significant effects of fertilizer application was found after 2 years. 5. For all sites, except one in the Netherlands, the total number of seeds that germinated was lower in 1996 than in 1995.
2390549|1. Although thermal factors are of paramount importance to the quality of the habitats occupied by small ectotherms (e.g. lizards), the hypothesis that the relative abundance of squamate populations is related to the thermal quality of their habitats remains untested. If differences in the availability of thermally suitable microhabitats was the primary determinant of the overall quality of a lizard's habitat, population density in a habitat should be proportional to its thermal quality. 2. The influence of the thermal quality of a habitat on thermoregulatory behaviour, body temperatures, expected physiological performance and relative abundance was compared in two populations of the temperate lizard Psammodromus algirus separated by 700 m altitude in central Spain. Habitat thermal quality was estimated with an index of how closely the available operative temperatures in a habitat match the range of body temperatures that lizards attempt to maintain in a laboratory thermogradient (Hertz, Huey & Stevenson 1993). 3. Operative temperatures, measured using copper models, were higher at the lowland site, where a large proportion of readings fell within or above the preferred range, especially in the early morning. Thermal habitat quality was also higher at the low altitude site, with smaller absolute deviations from the preferred range throughout most of the morning hours. Moreover, lizard body temperatures, the accuracy of thermoregulation and the predicted running performance of lizards were somewhat higher at the lowland site, although differences were smaller than expected on the basis of operative temperatures. A log-linear analysis showed that lizard selectivity for basking sites was more pronounced at the thermally inferior montane site. Thus, the observed differences in the thermal quality of habitats appeared to influence the behaviour of lizards. 4. Nevertheless, the relative abundance of lizards, as estimated by repeated transect counts, was higher at the montane site. This unexpected result suggests that thermal constraints may not be the most important factor determining lizard population densities on a regional scale. Alternatively, food availability and/or predation pressure might have a greater impact on the overall quality of a habitat for temperate lizards
10.2307/2389690|Metabolic rate of the minnow, Phoxinus phoxinus (L.), was estimated in the laboratory at five ration levels (starvation - ad libitum) and four temperatures (5-15<sup></sup>C); the live weight of the fish was 1-5.4 g. The metabolic rate of starved fish (R<sub>s</sub>, J day<sup>-1</sup>) was related to fresh body weight (W, mg) and temperature (T, <sup></sup>C) by the equation: R<sub>s</sub> = aW<sup>b1</sup>e<sup>b2T</sup>. At each temperature, rate of feeding metabolism increased linearly with increased feeding rate. At maximum rations, total metabolic rate was 3.4-5.8 times the rate for starved fish. The following empirical equation described the relationship between rate of feeding metabolism (R<sub>f</sub>, J day<sup>-1</sup>), feeding rate (C, J day<sup>-1</sup>), body weight (W, mg) and temperature (T, <sup></sup>C): R<sub>f</sub> = a+b<sub>1</sub>C+b<sub>2</sub>(CWT).
2390402|1. The response of frugivorous birds to an enlargement of fruit size, and the consequences for both birds and plants, are analysed for the interaction between avian seed dispersers and olives (Olea europaea). 2. The enlargement of fruit size promotes a shift in frugivorous birds' feeding behaviour, from swallowing fruits whole to pecking pieces of pulp. The relative frequency of olive consumption using each feeding behaviour was assessed by combining field data on frequency of appearance of olive pulp and seeds with data from laboratory trials. 3. Sardinian Warblers (Sylvia melanocephala) and European Robins (Erithacus rubecula) were mainly peckers both on cultivated and wild olives. Blackcaps (Sylvia atricapilla) consumed wild olives mainly by swallowing but consumed cultivated olives (larger than the wild ones) primarily by pecking. Song Thrushes (Turdus philomelos) were primarily swallowers of both types of fruits. 4. Laboratory trials with Song Thrushes, Blackcaps and European Robins showed that: (a) all were able to peck fruits; (b) fruit size determined a shift from swallowing to pecking, as pecking frequency increased with the enlargement of the fruit size; (c) all the species had an increased fruit handling failure rate when trying to swallow increasingly large fruits; and (d) from the birds' perspective, small shifts in fruit size may have important consequences on fruit profitability. 5. Pecking on olives turns the mutualistic fruit-frugivore interaction into a fruit-pulp predator interaction, thus arising a conflict between the plant and frugivorous birds. 6. This study shows that heavy dependence on fruit is not always simply related to seed dispersal. The same frugivorous bird species can act as a seed disperser or a pulp predator for the same plant species. The threshold between these roles is highly influenced by the ratio gape size/fruit size.
10.2307/2389526|1. Seeds of 10 members of the Umbelliferae were sown separately into plots of unmanaged turf in October 1984. Emergence was monitored at frequent intervals and took place mostly between February and May 1985. Nine species emerged in relatively large numbers but Conium maculatum did not. 2. Survival was recorded until 1987, by which time only four species were still present. Three of these species flowered (Anthriscus sylvestris, Heracleum sphondylium and Pimpinella major), but the fourth (Conopodium majus) did not. Most flowering took place for the first time in 1988. 3. Several attributes of the 10 species are considered as possible determinants of establishment success. Seed size, at least in this group of relatively large-seeded species, was a poor predictor of success. The best predictor was life history; the polycarpic species established and the monocarpic species did not, although more detailed analysis suggests that this is largely a consequence of a correlation between life history and habitat preference in the group of species studied.
3806590|1. Recent evidence of the important role of emerging diseases in amphibian population declines makes it increasingly important to understand how environmental changes affect amphibian immune systems. 2. Temperature-dependent immunity may be particularly important to amphibian disease dynamics, especially in temperate regions. Changes in temperature are expected to cause deviations away from optimal levels of immunity until the immune system can respond. 3. To test whether temperature changes cause deviations from optimal immunity under natural conditions, we conducted a seasonal survey of adult Red-Spotted Newts and measured basal levels of several immunological variables. 4. We then examined these findings in relation to: (1) the lag hypothesis, which predicts that changes in temperature-dependent immune parameters lag behind short-term temperature changes, and (2) the seasonal acclimation hypothesis, which predicts that immune cell production declines during long-term temperature decreases until amphibians can fully acclimate to winter conditions. 5. Our results supported both hypotheses, showing a spring lag effect on lymphocyte levels and an even stronger seasonal acclimation effect on lymphocytes, neutrophils and eosinophils in the autumn. Our findings suggest that temperature variability causes increased susceptibility of amphibians to infection, and they have implications for the emergence of disease and the potential for climate change to exacerbate amphibian decline.
10.2307/2390573|1. The mechanical properties of plants constrain herbivory. Fracture properties of five species of grass were measured using tests which fractured leaves, pseudostems and whole tillers in tension (mode 1) and in out of plane shear (mode III). Force (F), energy to fracture (U) and energy per unit area (U/A) were caluclated from force-displacement curves. 2. Fracture properties varied widely, depending on species, morphological unit, sclerenchyma or fiber content, and whether the gross was fractured in tension or in shear. 3. Older leaves contain more sclerenchyma than younger leaves, resulting in higher F, U and U/A. 4. Pseudostem is tougher and stronger than leaf whether fractured in shear or in tension, owing to its complex structure and capacity for plastic deformation, larger cross sectional area, and higher fibre content. 5. Entire tillers tested under tension required much less energy to fracture than leaf or pseudostem. 6. Fracture occurs at a zone of weakness at the intercalary meristem and it is argued that this is an evolutionary advantage to grass species which are commonly grazed. The fibre content of grasses increases the difficulty both of harvest and digestion by herbivores.
10.2307/2389280|1. Total daily photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) varied by two orders of magnitude across forest understorey, gap and clearing habitats for sugar maple (Acer saccharum) seedlings in south-western Wisconsin, USA. 2. Area-based photosynthetic capacity (A<sub>max</sub>/area) was greater in clearing or gap than in understorey seedlings, but little photosynthetic acclimation was observed between gap and clearing seedlings. 3. We observed significant correlations between A<sub>max</sub> and leaf nitrogen content (N) among seedling populations from the three habitats when expressed on an area basis, but not on a mass basis because of scaling of leaf mass per unit area (LMA) with N. 4. A<sub>max</sub>/N was higher and chlorophyll/N lower in clearing than in gap and understorey seedlings, possibly as a result of nitrogen partitioning to maximize capacity for either CO<sub>2</sub> fixation or light harvesting in the different light environments. 5. Realized daily carbon gain under ambient field conditions appeared to be controlled largely by differences in total daily PPFD, both among habitats and across the growing season. 6. We conclude that small gaps may present a favourable environment for photosynthesis and growth in sugar maple as a result of the limited ability of seedlings to acclimate to increases in PPFD over levels prevalent in the understorey and because of the moderate levels of other environmental stresses in small forest gaps.
10.2307/2389422|1 Most previous studies of terrestrial ectotherms have emphasized the limitations of ectothermy by concentrating on small organisms, or ones inhabiting xeric environments. To investigate the potential plasticity of ectotherm behaviour in a benign environment, aspects of the behaviour and ecology of two species of tortoise (Testudinidae) were examined in a rain forest in north-western Brazil. 2 Activity levels were monitored by a mark-recapture study and movements were examined by radiotracking and trailing several individuals simultaneously. Fifty-six tortoises were followed over the 18-month study (1442 tortoise-days). 3 Most of the variation observed in activity levels, movement behaviour and use of area was explained at the level of individuals. The few patterns observed seemed related to reproductive biology: young individuals and adult females were active all year round, while large males were active almost exclusively during the mating season. However, except for male Geochelone carbonaria (Spix) during the mating season, individual behaviour patterns differed markedly within each species, sex and season group. 4 We argue that the low metabolic requirements of adult tortoises, along with their low vulnerability to predation and existence in a benign environment, allow individuals to express a wide range of behaviour patterns.
826596|1. This paper presents a method for modelling unimodal flowering phenology based on fitting data to an exponential sine function with a minimum number of parameters. 2. Such parameters have the advantage of being direct surrogates for the most relevant features of any phenology (start, duration, intensity, skewness and length of the tails). 3. The use of the proposed function is exemplified using flowering data collected from populations of five Cistaceae species (four from the genus Cistus and one from Halimium). 4. The fitted models account for a large part (> 90%) of the variance in the data, and their parameters are easily interpreted in ecological terms.
4540093|1. Plants that display many open flowers usually receive higher pollinator visitation rates, but it is unclear whether pollinators select plants to visit based on the size of floral display (apparent size) or the value of the floral rewards (reward size). To examine how pollinators respond to apparent size and reward size, we observed bumble bees foraging among arrays of artificial plants. 2. We constructed two kinds of artificial flower: (i) rewarding flowers that produced nectar constantly; and (ii) unrewarding flowers that produced only water. Thus, we could construct plants that varied both in numbers of flowers (apparent size) and in numbers of rewarding flowers (reward size). 3. At the beginning of the experiments, bees made more visits to the plants with the most flowers, irrespective of the rewards they contained. However, after several hours of foraging, bees returned selectively to plants with the greater number of rewarding flowers, irrespective of the number of flowers the plant presented. After we replaced rewarding plants with non-rewarding plants, bees continued visiting plants at formerlyprofitable locations for a while. 4. Our results demonstrate that bees initially showed preferences for plants with larger floral displays, but eventually bees were able to discriminate between rewarding and less-rewarding plants of equal display size by associating a plant's location with its reward size. Our results suggest that plants with many flowers can achieve higher visitation rates from pollinators in two ways: (i) by attracting inexperienced pollinators with large displays; and (ii) by encouraging experienced pollinators to return with the promise of greater rewards.
4139336| 1. Differences in digestive physiology between browsing and grazing ruminant feeding types have been discussed extensively. The potentially underlying differences in fermentative behaviour of forage plants have received much less attention. 2. In this study, different groups of temperate forage plants (grasses, browse leaves and twigs, herbs and legumes) were compared in their chemical composition and fermentative behaviour. They were evaluated via an in vitro fermentation system (modified Hohenheim gas test), and relevant fermentation parameters such as maximal gas production and relative gas production rate were calculated. 3. Grasses generally had a higher NDF (neutral detergent fibre = total cell wall) content than browse leaves, herbs and legumes, while browse leaf cell wall was more lignified than that of herbs, legumes and grass. 4. With respect to fermentation parameters, grass had the highest maximal gas production, followed by herbs and legumes, and the lowest maximal gas production in browse leaves and twigs. Relative gas production rate was highest in herbs and legumes, while that of grass and browse was lower. As expected, browse twigs had the lowest nutritional value. 5. Dicot material reached given setpoints of absolute gas production rate like 10 or 05 mL gas/(200 mg dry matter x h) faster than grass material. Based on these results, a longer passage time of food particles seems to be adaptive for grazing ruminants, as over a wide range of fermentation times, absolute gas production rate is higher in grass compared with dicots. Especially for browse leaves, a higher intake level should be expected to balance energy requirements of animals relying on this forage type. 
2656463|1. Microclimate was measured and photosynthetic responses to a climate warming manipulation were compared for the evergreen shrub Artemisia tridentata and the herbaceous forb Erigeron speciosus in the Rocky Mountains, Colorado, USA. 2. Soil was warmer and drier under infra-red heaters compared with control plots. 3. Midday xylem pressure potential did not differ for A. tridentata on heated vs control plots but was lower for E. speciosus on heated plots compared with controls. Leaf temperatures did not vary for the two species on heated or control plots. 4. There were no significant treatment or species differences in the diurnal patterns of CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation or stomatal conductance to water vapour. Also, there were no differences in responses to leaf temperature. 5. The quantum yield for CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation over a range of PPFD was lower for plants on heated plots. There was a marked difference between species in the pattern of stomatal conductance to water vapour over a range of PPFD, but no differences as a result of the heating treatment. 6. The quantum efficiency of PSII electron transport was significantly affected by heating. Non-radiative energy dissipation was greater for A. tridentata compared with E. speciosus. There was recovery of F<sub>V</sub>/F<sub>M</sub> for A. tridentata but not for E. speciosus. 7. Heating appears to affect plants via changes in soil water content rather than by increasing leaf temperature. The deciduous species E. speciosus appears to undergo some permanent closure of PSII on heated plots, in contrast to the evergreen shrub A. tridentata. Such differences may help explain the increase in above-ground biomass accumulation in response to heating for shrubs, compared with the decrease observed for deciduous herbaceous species.
3599226|1. Inducible defences alter the strength of interaction in food webs. Their effectiveness depends both on the maximum level of induction and the speed at which induction happens. Maximum level and speed of induction should therefore evolve in concert. 2. We examined the effect of genotype, number of predators and previous exposure to predators on speed and maximum level of induction in a morphological defence expressed by eight clones in three species of the ciliate Euplotes. 3. Both speed and maximum level of induction, and the reaction to predator density varied among genotypes. These results show that there is genetic variance for all aspects of this inducible defence and the potential for complex evolutionary change under selection. 4. Higher predator densities led to higher maximum levels of defence and, for one measure of induction speed, more rapid induction. Previous exposure to predators had no detectable effect on either speed or maximum level of induction. 5. Our results demonstrate that Euplotes can precisely and rapidly adjust their morphological defence to the magnitude of predation risk. The speed of induction and the maximum level of defence varied among genotypes and this will lead to variation in defence level and vulnerability under natural conditions. Variation in prey vulnerability is a key factor promoting stability in food webs.
40205472|1. The fraction of gross primary production (GPP) that is total below-ground carbon flux (TBCF) and the fraction of TBCF that is below-ground net primary production (BNPP) represent globally significant C fluxes that are fundamental in regulating ecosystem C balance. However, global estimates of the partitioning of GPP to TBCF and of TBCF to BNPP, as well as the absolute size of these fluxes, remain highly uncertain. 2. Efforts to model below-ground processes are hindered by methodological difficulties for estimating below-ground C cycling, the complexity of below-ground interactions, and an incomplete understanding of the response of GPP, TBCF and BNPP to climate change. Due to a paucity of available data, many terrestrial ecosystem models and ecosystem-level studies of whole stand C use efficiency rely on assumptions that: (i) C allocation patterns across large geographic, climatic and taxonomic scales are fixed; and (ii) c. 50% of TBCF is BNPP. 3. Here, we examine available information on GPP, TBCF, BNPP, TBCF: GPP and BNPP: TBCF from a diverse global data base of forest ecosystems to understand patterns in below-ground C flux and partitioning, and their response to mean annual temperature (MAT). 4. MAT and mean annual precipitation (MAP) covaried strongly across the global forest data base (37 mm increase in MAP for every 1 C increase in MAT). In all analyses, however, MAT was the most important variable explaining observed patterns in below-ground C processes. 5. GPP, TBCF and BNPP all increased linearly across the global scale range of MAT. TBCF : GPP increased significantly with MAT for temperate and tropical ecosystems (> 5 C), but variability was high across the data set. BNPP : TBCF varied from 026 to 053 across the entire MAT gradient (-5 to 30 C), with a much narrower range of 042 to 053 for temperate and tropical ecosystems (5 to 30 C). 6. Variability in the data sets was moderate and clear exceptions to the general patterns exist that likely relate to other factors important for determining below-ground C flux and partitioning, in particular water availability and nutrient supply. Still, our results highlight global patterns in below-ground C flux and partitioning in forests in response to MAT that in part confirm previously held assumptions.
3806620|1. An unresolved issue in sexual selection concerns the utility of multiple sexual signals that are used simultaneously during displays. We examined male lizards (Urosaurus ornatus) that exhibit two colourful ornaments (throat patch and belly patch) during territorial displays. Populations of Urosaurus ornatus can be polymorphic in throat coloration, and previous studies have shown that the morphs differ in behavioural aggression. We assume that throat coloration correlates with behavioural aggression in our population, as for other populations of U. ornatus. 2. We show that these different morphs do not differ significantly in morphological shape or bite force, a key aspect of fighting capacity. However, by contrast, the size of the belly patch is a significant predictor of maximum bite force, which is a predictor of dominance in other lizards. 3. We suggest that belly patch size and throat patch coloration are largely exclusive in that dominant individuals can exhibit small belly patches and low bite forces, whereas subordinate individuals can have large belly patches and high bite forces. Thus, embedded within the same male lizard display are divergent sexual structures that signal different traits, implying that the possession of multiple sexual signals within animals may be favoured by selection.
41239451|1. Numerous studies demonstrate that given the dichotomous choice of predator-free habitats vs. habitats containing predators, prey choose predator-free habitats when foraging for food or ovipositing. However, predation risk is rarely dichotomous in nature, and very few studies have assessed whether prey can quantify prdation risk when selecting habitats. 2. It was shown previously that gravid females of the mosquito Culiseta longiareolata, when simultaneously offered pools with multiple choices of densities of the predator Notonecta maculata, oviposited more in the zero-predator density pools but oviposited less frequently and similarly across all other densities. This flat oviposition response across various Notonecta densities was in contrast to a decrease in mosquito immature survival with increasing Notonecta density. Here, we reconsider this question with the same species but with a different experimental design; rather than experimentally assessing multiple predator densities simultaneously, we offered only pairwise choices on any given night. Specifically, we offered ovipositing Culiseta females all pairwise combinations from no, low and high predation risk (0, 1 and 4 Notonecta per pool). 3. Overall oviposition was lower when mosquitoes could only choose pools containing Notonecta (1 or 4). In all pairwise comparisons, more females chose pools of lesser predation risk. Thus, gravid females of this species, and probably many other species, can quantify predation risk, and not only assess presence or absence of predation risk, when choosing oviposition sites. 4. This is the first demonstration that an ovipositing female of any species can quantify risk of predation. We suggest, based on statistical and behavioural factors, that pairwise comparisons, and not simultaneous multiple-choice experiments, are the experimental design of choice to adequately test this ability.
3598955| 1. We studied the differences in root strength of species with contrasting root structural types (the grass Paspalum dilatatum and the dicot Lotus glaber), and their relationship with tolerance to simulated cattle trampling under flooding conditions. 2. Root strength was analysed through measurement of the pressure required to cause root collapse. The responses of aerenchyma and plant mass to flooding and trampling were studied. 3. Root aerenchyma increased from 280 to 402% in P. dilatatum and from 129 to 197% in L. glaber under flooding conditions. The increase in aerenchyma did not affect root strength in the relatively trampling-resistant roots of P. dilatatum: roots cracked at >380 kPa in all treatments. In contrast, roots of L. glaber were weaker, cracking at 260 kPa; flooded roots with air spaces irregularly dispersed in the cortex cracked at 115 kPa. 4. Trampling, flooding or their combination did not affect the biomass of P. dilatatum. Conversely, the isolated effects of either trampling or flooding both decreased biomass accumulation in L. glaber. The combination of both treatments killed all Lotus plants. 5. In conclusion, root strength was positively associated with soil trampling tolerance. The effect of aerenchyma tissue generation on root strength varies among root structural types. Aerenchyma tissue increases root weakness in the less stable structural type of the dicot species, but had no effect on the strength of the grass. 
10.2307/2389835|1. The theory of sexual resource allocation in plants assumes (a) that trade-offs occur between the resources allocated to male, female and attractive structures, and (b) that genetic variation occurs, or has occurred, within populations upon which natural selection could act to optimize the relative investment in each structure. These assumptions were tested in a study of 10 clones of Mimulus guttatus isolated from a natural population, which varied in the proportion of viable pollen they produced. The experiment was designed to investigate whether plants which invest less in viable pollen can reallocate the resources released to other functions within the same or subsequent flowers or fruits. 2. This study has failed to find any significant difference in other floral characters associated with the variation in pollen quality. Plants producing less pollen do not produce bigger or more numerous flowers, do not invest more in female function (ovaries or fruits), and do not differ in the rate at which flowers and floral components decline in size as the plants age. 3. These results suggest therefore that trade-offs between male and female function do not occur, or at least are not inevitable. There is evidence for a trade-off between primary sexual characters and attractive structures, and between the size of flowers and the rate at which flowers declined in size with time. This indicates that early investment in large flowers may be costly. 4. Pollen-ovule ratios decline with time and size of flower. Most of the floral characters studied were significantly correlated with flower size, but even when this correlation was removed by analysis of covariance, significant genetic variation could still be detected for most characters. This indicates that selection could act to alter the relative contribution of the different components of the flower if it should be advantageous.
40407744|1. The regulation of energy expenditure in relation to food availability and its consequences for individual fitness in free-ranging animals are poorly understood. Increased daily energy expenditure (DEE) may be viewed as the result of two different processes: expenditure may be forced upwards by low food availability (forcing hypothesis) or enabled to increase by high levels of food resources (enabling hypothesis). Several studies have suggested long-term fitness costs due to increased mortality as a trade-off to increased DEE. 2. We examined the relationship between energy expenditure and an indirect measure of food availability, and the short-term fitness consequences associated with changes in DEE in a small, Arctic seabird, the little auk (Alle alle). We measured DEE of 43 parent little auks by the doubly labelled water method during two consecutive breeding seasons and inferred food availability from plasma concentrations of the stress hormone corticosterone (CORT). 3. We found that DEE was elevated by 26.7% in the year with reduced levels of CORT, indicating that little auks responded to increased food availability by increasing their DEE. These results support the enabling hypothesis. Elevated DEE was presumably caused by increased parental effort as reflected by higher chick provisioning rates and larger chick meals, and was associated with fitness benefits in terms of enhanced current reproductive success. 4. Contrary to earlier studies, our data did not indicate adverse effects associated with elevated DEE; there was no negative relationship between DEE and the probability of adults returning to the colony the following year. Instead, adult return rate was positively related to body mass, with lower return rates when food was limited. 5. These results suggest that ecological consequences associated with limited resource availability may outweigh possible direct negative physiological effects of elevated DEE.
40407760|1. Selective pressures acting on foraging activities constrain the strength of interaction, hence the stability and energetic availability in food webs. 2. Because such selective pressures are usually measured at the individual level and because most experimental and theoretical works focus on simple settings, linking adaptive foraging with community scale patterns is still a far stretch. 3. Some recent models incorporate foraging adaptation in diverse communities. The models vary in the way they incorporate adaptation, via evolutionary or behavioural changes, and define individual fitness in various ways. 4. In spite of these differences, some general results linking adaptation to community structure and functioning emerge. In the present article, I introduce these different models and highlight their common results. 5. Adaptive foraging provides stability to large food web models and predicts successfully interaction patterns within food webs as well as other topological features such as food chain length. 6. The relationships between adaptive foraging and other structuring factors particularly depend on how well connected the local community is with surrounding communities (metacommunity aspect).
40205535|1. Studies of visual ecology generally focus on the tuning of the eye to the spectral environment. However, the environment may also shape vision if the availability of nutrients or other extrinsic stressors impact eye structure or function. 2. Carotenoids are diet-derived pigments that accumulate in the retinas of birds, where they provide photoprotection and tune colour vision. In domesticated species, carotenoid accumulation in retina is dependent on dietary intake, but little is known about the variability in or control of these pigments in the eyes of wild animals. 3. Carotenoids are also deposited in the integument of many animals, where they generate colourful sexually selected displays that communicate information about individual health and nutrition. We hypothesize that retinal carotenoid accumulation is subject to the same health and nutritional constraints as the use of carotenoids in colour signals. 4. As a first test of this hypothesis, we examined retinal carotenoid accumulation in relation to season, sex, body condition, circulating plasma carotenoid concentrations, and plumage colouration in a free ranging population of house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) - a model species for studies of carotenoid ecology. 5. Retinal carotenoid accumulation varied considerably among individuals and differed significantly among seasons, with the highest levels observed in late fall and winter. Body condition and plasma zeaxanthin levels were significantly positively correlated with retinal carotenoid accumulation, but retinal carotenoid concentrations did not differ between the sexes. Plumage redness covaried positively with retinal carotenoid concentration as well, though this relationship was no longer significant when accounting for seasonal variation. 6. Our results, although correlational, do suggest that retinal carotenoid accumulation is a variable trait that may be influenced by environmental and physiological conditions, raising the intriguing possibility that plumage colouration and colour vision could be linked through a common biochemical mechanism.
3599049|1. The grazing optimization hypothesis predicts increased production and quality of plants grazed at intermediate grazing pressures. Following this hypothesis, herbivores will be able to increase their own harvest by repeated grazing. We tested the predictions of this hypothesis for Barnacle Geese, Branta leucopsis. 2. We manipulated the grazing intensity of Festuca rubra swards through trials with captive geese in early spring. Levels on experimental grazing matched levels of natural grazing pressure. The growth response of individually marked tillers was measured over 6 weeks. 3. Above-ground biomass production of individual tillers was not different among different grazing intensities. Lost biomass in grazed tillers was compensated by a lower rate of senescence. 4. Grazing affected sward characteristics significantly: the proportion of dead biomass in the vegetation was reduced, and production of additional axillary tillers increased. 5. When extrapolating the experimental findings to foraging opportunities for staging geese, we calculate an increase in potential harvest for grazed compared with ungrazed swards at levels of natural spring grazing. 6. This experiment demonstrates an increase in the carrying capacity of the staging site for migratory geese through grazing. When comparing the experiment with grazing levels of wild Barnacle Geese, it is clear that current goose densities maximize potential harvest.
10.2307/2389534|The deep-water prawn Pandalus borealis Kroyer, 1838 was sampled at six locations from Krossfjord, Spitsbergen (79<sup></sup>N, close to the known northerly limit of distribution) to Kosterfjord, Sweden (58<sup></sup>N, close to the southerly limit in the eastern north Atlantic). Both egg volume and organic content increased towards high latitudes, ranging from 0.39  l and 0.21 mg at Bergen, to 0.67  l and 0.30 mg at Isfjord, Spitsbergen. Egg volume was positively correlated with both fresh mass and organic content. Reproductive investment (estimated as mass-specific egg biomass: reproductive output, RO) also varied from site to site, but was not correlated with either latitude or egg size. In five of the six populations sampled, reproductive investment calculated on a dry mass basis increased with size (and hence age), but this relationship was statistically significant only at two sites. These data indicate that both egg size and reproductive investment vary from location to location within species, and are uncorrelated. Egg size is related to feeding and other conditions awaiting the newly hatched larva, whereas reproductive investment is dictated by feeding conditions for the adult. The different time-scales over which these two parameters vary (from season to season in RO, and over evolutionary time for egg size) mean that any general relationship between reproductive investment and egg size (and by extension, larval development mode) will be very difficult to demonstrate.
3599336|1. Two major plant strategy theories attempt to explain how phenotype determines community structure. Crucially, CSR plant strategy theory suggests that stress and sporadic resource availability favour conservative phenotypes, whereas the resource-ratio hypothesis views the spatial heterogeneity of resources as selecting for optimal foraging in chronically unproductive habitats. Which view is most realistic? 2. The ecophysiology literature demonstrates that stress is comprised of two processes: (1) limitation of resource supply to metabolism; and (2) damage to biomembranes, proteins and genetic material (chronic stress). Thus stress is defined mechanistically as the suboptimal performance of metabolism. 3. Adaptations to limitation buffer metabolism against variability in external resource supply; internal storage pools are more consistent. Chronic stress elicits the same ancient cellular stress response in all cellular life: investment in stress metabolites that preserve the integrity and compartmentalization of metabolic components in concert with molecular damage-repair mechanisms. 4. The cellular stress response was augmented by morphological innovations during the Silurian-Devonian terrestrial radiation, during which nutrient limitation appears to have been a principal selection pressure (sensu CSR theory). 5. The modern stress-tolerator syndrome is conservative and supports metabolism in limiting or fluctuating environmental conditions: standing resource pools with high investment/maintenance costs impose high internal diffusion resistances and limit inherent growth rate (sensu CSR theory). 6. The resource-ratio hypothesis cannot account for the cellular stress response or the crucial role of ombrotrophy in primary succession. CSR theory agrees with current understanding of the cellular stress response, terrestrial radiation and modern adaptations recorded in chronically unproductive habitats, and is applicable as CSR classification.
40603062|1. Positive interactions driven by ecosystem engineers have been determined to be important community forces in stressed environments. By ameliorating habitat conditions, ecosystem engineering can create available ecological niches for other species. In poorly oxygenated sediments of freshwater wetlands, small invertebrates such as tubificid worms and chironomid larvae are known to function as active bioturbators; however, their effects on the growth and physiology of organisms which are constrained by low oxygnation of sediments have never been studied. 2. We examined whether the common bioturbator, Tubifex tubifex, significantly influences the growth and the physiological state of two plant species, Elodea canadensis and Myriophyllum spicatum, in experimental systems simulating a water-sediment interface of wetlands. We also quantified the influence of plant-animal interactions on biogeochemical processes (fluxes of oxygen and nitrogen at the water-sediment interface) and microbial compartment in sediments. 3. Tubificid worms stimulated growth of aboveground and belowground biomasses of the two plants through reduction in the anoxic stress in sediments. Myriophyllum spicatum, which was the best adapted to sedimentary anaerobic conditions, essentially increased its biomass whereas E. canadensis, less adapted to anaerobic conditions, shifted its root metabolism from anaerobic to aerobic. 4. Biogeochemical processes were not significantly influenced by plant-animal interactions: (i) oxygen flux from overlying water to sediments probably reached a threshold that could not be raised by the increased plant biomass induced by worms and (ii) nitrogen fluxes were essentially linked to bioturbation activities of worms. 5. Our study confirmed that the reduction in constraining variables by physical habitat modifications (ecosystem engineering) may play a crucial role in community and ecosystem processes. The fact that positive interactions measured between ecosystem engineers and plant species in anoxic wetland sediments were highly dependent on the ecophysiology of plant species suggests an extension of this first study to a wide range of macrophytes in order to determine the main plant functional traits driving plant-animal interactions in wetland sediments.
3599190|1. The hypothesis that high soil temperatures are required to induce both initiation and cessation of daily activity in Whiptail Lizards (Aspidoscelis; formerly Cnemidophorus), as well as the hypotheses that hunger thresholds and high rates of evaporative water loss influence daily activity patterns, were experimentally tested in A. inornata and A. gularis. 2. Although a critical soil temperature was required to elicit the initiation of morning activity, high temperature was not a necessary stimulus for the cessation of activity. 3. Access to prey did not influence the pattern of daily activity; moreover, evaporative water loss did not appear to explain the cessation of afternoon activity. 4. Reversing the photoperiod during our experiments led only to a change in the time of initiation of daily activity (i.e. activity began 12 h later), not a significant change in the duration of daily activity. 5. These results provide strong evidence that circadian cycles can play a critical role in not only the initiation but also the cessation of activity. 6. While the ultimate cause (i.e. selective advantage, if any) of this unusual circadian rhythm may be related to extreme temperature, limited water supplies or some other exogenous factor, clearly, the rhythm persists in the absence of limiting environmental conditions.
10.2307/2389830|1. Photoperiod is already a known cue for the seasonal (spring and autumn) wing underside darkening, a polyphenism which is adaptive by increasing solar absorptivity, of the North American butterfly, Colias eurytheme. We now report that photoperiod is also a cue for seasonal (spring and autumn) deepening of thoracic `fur' (actually modified scales), which increases the insects insulation against convective cooling, and thus is likewise adaptive to flight in these cooler seasons. Conversely, the less absorptive and less insulated summer forms are more adaptive in warm conditions because of lesser susceptibility to dangerous overheating. 2. Changes in absorptivity and fur thickness cued by photoperiod are in an uncorrelated fashion. 3. Other phenotypic characteristics, notably characteristic dimension D, whose alteration would affect both thermal balance and flight mechanics, are not affected by photoperiod, at least at the same level of experimental resolution as are absorptivity and fur thickness. This suggests that there are general patterns of evolutionary constraint of change in one phenotypic subsystem by functional requirements of another.
40603107|1. Evolutionary conflicts of interest underlie mutualisms, including plant/pollinator interactions. This is particularly evident in 'nursery pollination', in which the pollinators lay eggs inside the flowers and the offspring of the pollinator consume the developing seeds. Low benefit (pollination service) to cost (seed prdation) ratios could destabilize such associations towards parasitism. 2. Although in most of the well-known cases pollen transfer is associated with oviposition, in some systems the males of the seed predator may contribute to pollination, affecting the strength and outcome of the interaction between the plant and their ovipositing pollinators. In addition, in dioecious species male and female plants differ in the direct costs of seed prdation and benefits of attracting pollinators, which may lead to sex-specific strategies. 3. We investigated whether pollinator and plant sex affect pollination in the interaction between dioecious plant Silne latifolia and its nursery pollinator, Hadena bicruris (Noctuidae). 4. Data on visitation behaviour and pollination efficiency in experimental plant patches demonstrate that (i) male moths are equally efficient pollinators as female moths, leading to fruit initiation in around 80% of visits and to fertilization of around 45% of the ovules in one visit; (ii) female and male moths do not preferentially visit flowers of one sex; and (iii) feeding behaviour is sufficient to ensure pollen transfer. However, female moths visited significantly more flowers than male moths. 5. Altogether this suggests that both moth sexes provide a pollination benefit to the plant with no differences in pollination efficiency but that female moths, before seed prdation costs are accounted for, seem to provide greater benefits owing to their increased activity. That male moths contribute to seed production likely decreases the plant's dependency on ovipositing moths for pollination.
40205542|1. Animals can make decisions by observing the behaviour of others. Their decisions vary depending on whether the benefits of using such information exceed the costs. Thus, it is worthwhile to explore the potential costs associated with different sources of information to understand the consequences of sociality. Previous studies focused mainly on the costs inherent to information gathering, whereas sex differences with regard to the costs arising from information use have received less attention. 2. To explore this further I performed two complementary experiments. The first experiment aimed to examine individual responses to different combinations of information types that are likely to appear in nature, to test whether there is a sex-dependent response in the Bosca's newt, Lissotriton boscai. I tested the time needed for individuals to eat food items by trial-and-error tactics (personal information), and when a conspecific, which was eating or not, was added to the food cue. The second experiment aimed to evoke social interactions that are likely to arise after the choice of using information on conspecific feeding activities is made. I examined the potential costs associated with direct competition between same-sex pairs in food-limited conditions. 3. Results of experiment 1 revealed that in both sexes the latency to eat food items was shorter in the presence of non-feeding conspecifics, but only females took advantage when information related to feeding activities where added to the food cue. Results of experiment 2 showed that when faced with a limited resource of food, females were more prone to engage in costly interactions. 4. This study suggests that the balance between costs and benefits associated with the short-term use of information on conspecific feeding behaviour in combination with food cues may differ between sexes. Differential information uses by sexes might have profound consequences in intraspecific relationships and in the evolution of vertebrates' social systems.
826653| 1. An intriguing feature of the New Zealand flora is the high frequency of 'divaricate' shrubs and tree juveniles. These plants have numerous interlacing wide-angled branches with small leaves and no or few leaves in the outer canopy. They comprise 10% of native woody species, and have evolved in 18 different plant families. 2. We tested the hypothesis that the leaves of divaricate plants are sensitive to cold-induced photoinhibition, and that self-shading by outer branches reduces light intensities enough to prevent photodamage. In a field experiment, leaves of three divaricate species (Aristotelia fruticosa A. Cunn., Corokia cotoneaster Raoul and Coprosma propinqua Hook. f.) inside the north (sunny) side of the shrubs were exposed to one of three experimental treatments over winter: (i) control leaves which were not manipulated; (ii) exposed leaves which had their outer screen of branches pruned away leaving them open to full sun; or (iii) shaded leaves which were exposed by pruning, then sheltered from direct sunlight with shade cloth. 3. Experimental removal of the shielding branches in winter led to rapid (< 20 days), large (23-31%) and persistent (> 3 months) reductions in the maximum photosynthetic capacity (A
10.2307/2389799|The metal tolerance of isolates of some common ectomycorrhizal fungi of Pinus and Betula spp., collected on heavily metal-polluted sites was compared with that of strains of the same species from non-polluted areas. The strains isolated from carpophores on unpolluted soils were greatly inhibited by the metals, whereas most of the strains derived from polluted soils were strongly tolerant to heavy metals: some strains were still able to grow very well at concentrations of 1000  g g<sup>-1</sup> zinc. The mechanisms for zinc (Zn) and copper (Cu) tolerance are completely different, since zinc tolerance does not result in copper tolerance and vice versa. We suppose that ectomycorrhizal fungi are submitted to a selection for metal tolerance in polluted soils. The possible role of tolerant strains in excluding metals from the host plant is discussed.
3598993|1. Jasmonic acid (JA), a ubiquitous regulator of the wound response in plants, is part of a long distance defence signalling pathway and when applied exogenously induces several defence related responses in many species including the activation of proteinase inhibitor (PIN) proteins and defence-related metabolites. 2. There is evidence for an induced systemic resistance mechanism linking increased cell wall peroxidase activity with reductions in leaf expansion rates in Rumex obtusifolius, following limited grazing by the chrysomelid beetle Gastrophysa viridula. We hypothesised that herbivory induces strengthening of cell walls in distal, non-damaged tissue through increases in peroxidase activity and that this mechanism was mediated systemically by JA. 3. JA was applied to the fully expanded fourth leaf of R. obtusifolius and expansion of leaf 8 was measured over 19 days. Treatment with exogenous JA induced a temporary reduction in the expansion rate of leaf 8 beginning 6 days after treatment. This reduction continued until day 7 and reduced final leaf areas in treated plants by approximately 20%. 4. Final epidermal cell areas in leaf 8 were reduced by approximately 25%, while epidermal cell numbers remained unchanged. 5. Cell wall bound peroxidase activity was measured in leaf 8 over a 6-day period following application of JA to leaf 4. Activity increased approximately 9-fold 2 days after treatment, before returning to control activities on day 3. 6. Treatment of leaf 4 with JA reduced the gregariousness of G. viridula larvae on the fully expanded leaf 8. 7. We postulate that JA acts as a signalling molecule in a long-distance pathway responsible for inducing resistance to future attack through increases in cell wall bound peroxidase activity leading to cell wall toughening, while incurring a potential ecological cost in the form of reductions in subsequent leaf expansion.
10.2307/2389406|Benomyl (a fungicide) and phosphate (as NaH<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>4</sub>H<sub>2</sub>O) were applied to patches of two annual serpentine communities dominated by forbs. After one year neither Benomyl nor phosphate had affected plant productivity (except for legume productivity which was increased by phosphorus application), the abundance of any species or mycorrhizal infection. However, at both research sites Benomyl decreased phosphorus concentration in the shoots whereas added phosphorus increased its concentration. At one site, added phosphorus also increased nitrogen concentration in the shoot. In the following year, nitrogen (as NH<sub>4</sub>NO<sub>3</sub>) was added to the experimental design. In that second year, both nitrogen and phosphorus applications decreased the abundance and total above-ground dry weight per unit area of Plantago erecta Morris, a dominant annual forb, and decreased the density of all plants taken together. Additionally, Benomyl increased total plant density. Phosphorus and nitrogen increased productivity of the whole community. The data presented herein support the hypothesis that communities occupying inherently infertile sites are not very responsive to nutrient amendment and that mycorrhizal infection may serve as a controller of community structure.
2390472|1. We investigated the vertical distribution of seeds in the soil, using data from nine studies in five European countries. We discovered significant correlations between seed shape and distribution in the soil. 2. The classification of the longevity of seeds of plant species has been improved by the introduction of a `longevity index', expressing on a continuous scale the most recent information on seed longevity represented as the proportion of non-transient seed bank records in the database of Thompson et al. (1997). Remarkably, no difference in seed longevity was found if the index was based on direct observations only when compared with the index based on the complete data set where indirect, `depth-derived' observations were included. 3. Seed longevity was best estimated using a multiple regression model with an integrated measure of seed size and shape and depth distribution of seeds. 4. The shape of seeds, known to be a consistent character of species, was shown to be constant within species, whereas depth distribution of seeds was highly variable among sites. This is consistent with the variability of seed longevity found in published seed bank data.
10.2307/2389426|A simple model of interspecific competition is described, based on the Lotka-Volterra model in difference equation form but incorporating individual variation in competitive ability. Such variation allows the coexistence of competitors where otherwise the superior competitor would rapidly drive the inferior one to extinction. Variation in interspecific competitive ability is especially important; particularly that which affects the response of the poorer competitor to the superior competitor. The level of variation required is realistic for natural populations.
2656396|1. The study tested the hypothesis that the occurrence of pregnancy in mammals that are capital breeders will be most closely related to state variables that are indices of food stores. Income breeders would not be expected to have the same relationship. 2. The study examined the relationships between mass, time of year, age and body length with the occurrence of pregnancy in three species of pinniped. This included two capital breeders (Crabeater Seal, Lobodon carcinophagus Hombron & Jacquinot, and Grey Seal, Halichoerus grypus Fabricius) and one income breeder (Antarctic Fur Seal, Arctocephalus gazella Peters). Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to examine the relationships and the interactions between the different state variables. 3. In both the capital breeders the state variables used in the study explained approximately twice the amount of variability (55% compared with 25%) in the occurrence of pregnancy than in the income breeder. Mass was the dominant state variable among both the capital breeders whereas in the income breeder mass was less important both relative to other state variables and in absolute terms. The results support the conclusion that the occurrence of pregnancy in capital breeders is more sensitive to body reserves than it is in income breeders. 4. The results also support the conclusion that life histories are the end result of a variety of functional responses to different state variables that have differing degrees of influence. In particular a size-structured approach to studies of population dynamics in pinnipeds may be a more informative way of predicting population responses to environmental variability than the more traditional age-structured approach.
826631|1. Theory suggests that there should be a trade-off between nitrogen productivity (A) and mean residence time of nitrogen in plant tissues (MRT), and that this trade-off depends on the N availability of the habitats. To test this, we studied A, MRT and nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE, reciprocal of N concentration in the dead shoot) in wetland Carex species sampled from seven lowland mires in Japan. 2. The NUE and MRT of unproductive species that usually grow in acidic and N-poor habitats exceeded those of productive species that are abundant in weakly acidic and N-rich habitats. Except for the most productive species, C. lyngbyei, interspecific differences in A were small, irrespective of productivity. 3. Intraspecific variation in A was relatively large in contrast to those in NUE and MRT. Within each species, no parameter correlated with the concentration of total dissolved nitrogen (TDN) in the soil water. 4. Although NUE and MRT of the plants growing in the weakly acidic habitats correlated negatively with TDN, they were constantly high in the acidic habitats regardless of the TDN concentration. Responses of A did not correlate with TDN concentration of soil water in either acidic or weakly acidic habitats. 5. A trade-off between A and MRT in the five Carex species was not detected in relation to habitat N richness. We suggest that soil water acidity dominates the ecological performance of the Carex species, and that the trade-off between A and MRT does not necessarily apply to wetland vegetation.
10.2307/2389840|1. This study provides evidence for the existence of general intrinsic patterns controlling the maximum growth rate of photosynthetic organisms, based on a compilation of data from more than 120 reports, the species ranging from unicellular algae to trees and thick-leaved desert plants. 2. We used thickness and nutrient concentration of the photosynthetic tissue to scale differences in maximum growth rate among plants, based on the demonstrated importance of these plant traits in regulating the maximum growth rates of particular plant groups. 3. The growth rate declined with increasing thickness of the photosynthetic structures and increased with increasing nitrogen and phosphorus concentration. The strong dependence of growth rate and nutrient concentrations on tissue thickness reflect broad-scale patterns and not the adaptive response of individual or closely related species of similar tissue thickness to varying environmental conditions. 4. The scaling of maximum growth rate is similar to the scaling of metabolic rate to animal size. Thickness of the photosynthetic structures therefore plays an important role in the environmental control of plant performance and evolution, setting thresholds for the growth and productivity of photosynthetic organisms.
40603114|1. The uropygial gland of birds produces chemical substances with antimicrobial properties that have been shown to reduce the abundance of feather degrading bacteria and other microorganisms. These microorganisms would affect the flight capabilities of birds and, consequently, a relationship between size of uropygial glands and probability of capture by aerial predators should exist. 2. We tested this hypothesis by estimating the susceptibility of 56 species of prey of the goshawk Accipiter gentilis Linnaeus to prdation as the observed abundance of prey relative to the expected abundance from mean population density. 3. In a comparative analysis of the relationship between relative size of the uropygial gland and susceptibility to prdation we found a strong negative relationship accounting for 16% of the variance. This relationship was present in analyses that accounted for similarity due to common phylogenetic descent, the fact that prey of intermediate size were preferred, and that larger prey species have larger uropygial glands. 4. These observations are consistent with uropygial glands being under strong selection from aerial predators that are likely mediated by the effect of uropygial glands on feather degrading bacteria and therefore on flight capabilities of birds.
3599222|1. Clutch sizes generally increase with latitude, and are smaller at southern latitudes compared with equivalent northern ones. 2. Descriptions of such patterns and attempts to identify their causal mechanisms are complicated as different species, with different ecological traits are often compared in different regions. We reduce such problems by using the introduction of 11 passerine species from the UK to New Zealand as a natural experiment to explore interspecific geographical variation in clutch size. 3. Nine species have significantly smaller clutches in New Zealand than the UK. Seasonality, measured both by climate and how birds respond to variation in resource availability, is also lower in New Zealand. Comparing across species, the magnitude of clutch size change is unrelated to the magnitude of reduced seasonality that each species experiences. 4. Such observations are partly compatible with Ashmole's hypothesis that areas with high seasonality have large clutch sizes (higher winter mortality results in a breeding population that is significantly lower than the environment's carrying capacity, and hence in extra resources for rearing chicks). However, additional data on seasonal changes in resource availability and population densities, combined with comparative data on survival and nest predation rates, are required to evaluate fully the mechanisms generating smaller clutches in the southern hemisphere. We discuss the potential determinants of geographical variation in the patterns of temporal variation in clutch size.
2390522|1. There have been no reports of the long-term responses of the desiccation-tolerant (DT) plants to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. Xerophyta scabrida is a DT woody shrub, which loses chlorophylls and thylakoids during desiccation: a so-called poikilochlorophyllous desiccation-tolerant species (PDT). When the leaves of X. scabria are allowed to desiccate, the species shows many of the normal features of (P)DT plants. 2. However, the duration of photosynthesis in X. scabria is prolonged by 300% when the measurements are made at 700 as opposed to 350 p.p.m. CO<sub>2</sub>. The implication is that the carboxylating enzymes must still have been active at this time to enable appreciable photosynthetic activity. This response could have far-reaching implications for the success of such species in a future climate. 3. Lichens and mosses, representing the homoiochlorophyllous DTs (HDT), retain their chlorophyll content and photosynthetic apparatus during desiccation. We show the desiccation responses of two common HDT species (Cladonia convoluta and Tortula ruralis) to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> for comparison. Both HDT species showed increased net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake in the material grown at high CO<sub>2</sub> by more than 30% in moss and by more than 50% in lichen. It is concluded that desiccation-tolerant plants will be among the main beneficiaries of a high CO<sub>2</sub> future.
826684| 1. The seasonal migration of birds is divided into alternating phases of stopover and flight. The fuel deposition rate at stopover sites is the crucial factor determining overall speed of migration and its success. Therefore, field data about the variation in fuel deposition rates at different levels (among sites, seasons, days, individuals) are essential to explain the observed behavioural reactions to environmental variability and migration strategies. 2. Fuel deposition rates of four species of passerine migrant birds captured at 14 stopover sites from northern Europe to sub-Saharan Africa during autumn and spring were analysed. Plasma concentrations of triglycerides and -hydroxy-butyrate were used to estimate relative fuel deposition rates (named fattening index). 3. The largest variation in fattening indices was between sites which was only weakly explained by geographical position relative to ecological barriers and did not differ between spring and autumn. Therefore it is expected that the selection of appropriate stopover sites is of paramount importance for the success of migration. 4. Variation in fattening index between days within sites was comparatively small with no obvious seasonal trend over the restricted period of mid-migration and with no correlation between subsequent days. However, only samples during good weather days were examined and the full range of this variation could not be estimated. Air temperature and duration of rainfall could explain part of this variation, probably because invertebrate availability is higher during warm and dry weather. 5. The variation of fattening rates between birds on the same day and site was low, and could partially be explained by body mass. Heavy birds had higher fattening rates than light birds. 6. From this analysis, it appears to be difficult for migrating birds to predict the fattening rate of the next stopover site, but relatively easy to assess the fattening rate of the current site in a short time. This may result in larger departure fat loads than would be necessary to reach the next stopover site. 
10.2307/2389395|Quantative genetic analysis indicates substantial heritable variation in both the acceptance of a novel host by ovipositing Drosophila suboccidentalis Sper. and in the number of eggs deposited by accepting females. The two traits are correlated in comparisons of family means, suggesting a common effect of genes affecting fecundity. Environmental and dominance variation accounted for 55% of phenotypic variance in egg numbers.
2656411|1. The effects of external conditions on embryonic development have been repeatedly examined in oviparous reptile species, but the effect of gestation conditions on offspring traits in viviparous species has rarely been examined. 2. The influence of maternal basking opportunities on gestation length and juvenile phenotype was investigated in a viviparous scincid lizard, Niveoscincus ocellatus. Females were housed under one of two experimental regimes (10 or 4 h access to basking) which reflected the natural variation in temperature, potentially one of the most important proximate sources of life-history variation. 3. Females with longer access to basking gave birth significantly earlier than those with reduced basking opportunities. Maternal access to basking significantly affected the phenotype and growth rate of her offspring. 4. Offspring born after relatively rapid development were longer, heavier and in better condition than offspring born after slower development. 5. In standard laboratory conditions, offspring born after rapid development grew more rapidly than those born after slower development, thus amplifying the difference in body size between these two groups postpartum. 6. These results suggest the existence of a strong selective pressure on female basking behaviour through the effect of the maternal environment on embryo development and offspring phenotype and highlight the role of temperature as a proximate source of variation in both the timing of reproductive events and in key life-history traits of neonates.
2656521|1. Embryonic development, juvenile moulting and growth rates, and maximum size of the arctic collembolan Hypogastrura tullbergi were investigated at 5, 10 and 15 <sup></sup>C in laboratory experiments. The embryonic development was also investigated at 21 <sup></sup>C. 2. The lower temperature threshold of the embryonic development (t<sub>0</sub>) was -1.3 <sup></sup>C, possibly reflecting a slight cold adaptation. The temperature of maximum development rate exceeded 21 <sup></sup>C. 3. Instar duration rate was linearly related to temperature. Growth per instar, however, was thermally dependent, giving an overall non-linear correlation between growth and temperature. This emphasizes the importance of studying growth and moulting as separate processes in Collembola. 4. Development of genital area (number of hairs) over succeeding instars was affected by the temperature, suggesting that a higher proportion of individuals reached the adult stage in an earlier instar at 15 than at 10 <sup></sup>C. 5. Contrary to the general pattern in ectotherms of increasing size at lower temperatures, adult H. tullbergi reached a larger maximum size at 15 than at 10 <sup></sup>C. 6. No aspects of postembryonic development in H. tullbergi showed any signs of cold adaptation, probably because it is more important to be able to efficiently utilize high temperatures that frequently occur in the microhabitat during sunny periods in summer.
3599305|1. In a field population in Manitoba, about 16% of Red-Sided Garter Snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis) have a different number of ribs on either side of the body, as indicated by anomalous ventral scales. A study on congenerics shows that this asymmetry reflects disruption of embryogenesis by environmental factors, including suboptimal maternal thermoregulation during pregnancy. 2. Correlates of this scalation asymmetry in adult snakes can clarify the degree to which (and pathways by which) the thermal environment that an individual experiences during embryogenesis affects its later fitness. 3. Data on >4000 free-ranging snakes reveal no significant association between asymmetry and fitness-related traits such as body size, body condition, locomotor speeds or female ability to resist harassment from males. 4. However, adult male snakes with scale asymmetry dispersed from the den-based mating aggregations sooner than did symmetric males. In outdoor arenas, asymmetric males were less able to obtain matings than were symmetric males; and if asymmetric males did mate, they consistently used the hemipenis on the side of the body opposite to their extra rib. 5. Our data suggest that careful thermoregulation by a female garter snake during pregnancy provides a fitness benefit to her sons after they mature, via sexual selection.
41319633|1. Physiological traits can vary greatly within a species and consequently have a significant impact on other aspects of performance. Many species exhibit substantial variation in basal or standard metabolic rate (SMR), even after controlling for body size and age, yet the ecological consequences of this are little known. 2. We examined the relationships between mass-specific SMR of yearling salmon (estimated from their ventilation rate) and their feeding and growth rates across a range of natural population densities within a semi-natural stream environment. 3. Standard metabolic rate was strongly correlated with dominance rank, and higher ranking fish were more likely to acquire good feeding territories. Despite this, there was no overall relationship between SMR and growth. We show for the first time that this paradox can be explained because within territories of a given quality, there was a negative correlation between SMR and growth rate, presumably owing to the costs of metabolism. 4. These effects were also influenced by density: lower densities led to reduced aggression and competition and hence higher average feeding and growth rates. Moreover, at low densities, where availability of good feeding locations was not limiting, there was no relationship between SMR and growth. 5. As a result of these processes, there was a context-dependent trade-off in energy budgets: the fish achieving the greatest growth were those with the lowest SMR that was necessary to achieve dominance over conspecifics (and hence acquire a good territory), but this minimum threshold SMR increased with population density. These relationships and trade-offs can explain the persistence of variation in SMR within populations.
2656525|1. Interspecific comparisons were made among Scaphium species (Sterculiaceae): S. borneense (Merr.) Kosterm., S. longipetiolatum (Kosterm.) Kostermans, and S. macropodum (Miq.) Beumee ex Heyne to test the hypothesis that variations in their architecture and allometry are related to the microhabitat conditions of stands where the species regenerate preferentially. 2. The species studied are shade-tolerant canopy trees. They occur in a tropical rainforest in Lambir Hills National Park, Sarawak, East Malaysia (sympatric at the community level), where the study was conducted, but show an allopatric pattern of distribution among microhabitats due to localized edaphic conditions. Scaphium longipetiolatum occurs primarily in stands on clay-rich soils, whereas S. borneense occurs primarily in stands on sandy soils. Stands on clay-rich soils are more shaded, and gaps form less frequently than in stands on sandy soils. 3. Scaphium longipetiolatum initiated branching at a smaller tree size than S. borneense and S. macropodum, which did not produce branches until stems reached several centimeters in diameter. 4. The monoaxial saplings of S. borneense and S. macropodum expanded their crown area by producing bigger leaves. The branched saplings of S. longipetiolatum expanded their crown area by developing lateral branch systems. 5. An analysis of interspecific differences in above-ground allometries revealed that the growth pattern of monoaxial saplings, which emphasizes leader growth, leads to rapid height growth. In contrast, that of the branching saplings of S. longipetiolatum prioritizes shade tolerance. 6. The architecture and allometry of each Scaphium species gave some potential advantage over the other Scaphium species in stands where the former regenerates preferentially, that is, the advantages of each phenotype were context-dependent.
40205538|1. Parental investment strategies are considered to represent a trade-off between the benefits of investment in current offspring and costs to future reproduction. Due to their high residual reproductive value, long-lived organisms are predicted to be more reluctant to increase parental effort. 2. We tested the hypothesis that breeding little auks (Alie alle) have a fixed level of reproductive investment, and thus reduce parental effort when costs associated with reproduction increase. 3. To test this hypothesis we experimentally increased the flight costs of breeding little auks via feather clipping. In 2005 we examined changes in the condition of manipulated parents, of the mates of manipulated parents, and of their chick as direct measures of change in parental resource allocation between self-maintenance and current reproduction. In 2007 we increased sample sizes to determine whether there was a physiological cost (elevated corticosterone, CORT) associated with the manipulation. 4. We found that:(i) clipped birds and their mates lost more body mass than controls, but there was no difference in mass loss between members of a pair; (ii) clipped birds had higher CORT levels than control birds; (iii) there were no inter-annual differences in body mass and CORT levels between clipped individuals and their mates at recapture, and (iv) chicks with a clipped parent had lower peak and fledging mass, and higher CORT levels than control chicks in both years. 5. Contrary to our hypothesis, the reduction in body mass of partners to clipped birds suggests that little auks can increase parental effort to some extent. Nonetheless, the lower fledging mass and higher CORT of chicks with a clipped parent indicates provisioning rates may not have been fully maintained. 6. As predicted by life-history theory, there may be a threshold to the additional reproductive costs breeders will accept, with parents prioritizing self-maintenance over increased provisioning effort when foraging costs become too high.
3599258|1. The thermal tolerances of a phytophagous insect, the Holly Leaf-miner Phytomyza ilicis Curtis, a specialist on holly Ilex aquifolium L., were investigated to determine whether these contribute to the high levels of miscellaneous larval mortalities that play an important role in determining the local abundances of this species across its geographical range. 2. Temperatures of crystallization, lower and upper lethal temperatures and rapid cold hardening experiments indicated that the Holly Leaf-miner has a pronounced cold hardiness, exceeding that of its host plant. Acute exposure to cold does not therefore contribute directly to miscellaneous mortalities and neither do summer temperatures exceed the upper lethal limits of the larvae. 3. Holly Leaf-miner densities are north-skewed; in the south densities gradually taper off and disappear well north of the distribution limits of the host plant. The parasitoid Chrysocharis gemma causes high larval mortalities in the centre of the distribution of the Holly Leaf-miner and is absent in the cold north, with the level of parasitism being positively correlated with miscellaneous mortalities. Only C. gemma adults overwinter and the attacks on Holly Leaf-miner, starting late winter, are likely opportunistic. This, and C. gemma's absence in the cold north, suggest significant cold susceptibility in C. gemma larvae. Thus, the greater proportion of miscellaneous larval mortalities of the Holly Leaf-miner are possibly the result of pre-premature deaths when C. gemma larvae are killed by cold snaps in late winter.
3806547| 1. The re-establishment of soil-crust lichens following disturbances may be enhanced or discouraged by human-altered microtopographies. This research asks whether such microtopographic changes alter microclimates significantly, and whether changes affect metabolically active periods of recolonizing lichens. 2. In the fog-driven Namib Desert, the water relations of five lichen species were investigated and photosynthetic activity (PSII) was assessed via chlorophyll a fluorescence under natural and altered conditions, based on measured microclimates in vehicular disturbances. 3. Surface temperatures in vehicle tracks were significantly higher than controls by up to 2 C. Fog deposition was significantly lower in tracks, and evaporation rates were higher. 4. Foliose and fruticose lichens retained fog moisture for long periods, and carried out PSII at low relative moisture contents. Desiccation rates of lichens were estimated to increase by 36% in tracks, which reduces PSII durations by as much as 50% in the critical hours following sunrise. Lecidella crystallina was least affected due to a pre-existing low water-holding capacity. Extreme temperatures (>45 C) halted PSII in certain species. 5. These results illustrate the importance of temperature-moisture ratios on desert soil surfaces. Reduced periods of photosynthesis caused by human-induced microtopographic changes, as predicted here, may have important ecological implications by reducing productivity in lichen communities. 
4540100|1. Mammals usually derive energy from metabolizing fat and glycogen stores combined with exogenous food. Nectarivorous bats mostly consume a diet low in both fat and proteins but rich in simple carbohydrates. Metabolizing exogenous carbohydrates directly to fuel their high mass-specific metabolic rate would save the energetic costs of lipogenesis and gluconeogenesis for nectarivorous bats. Therefore, we expected nectarivorous bats to switch to exogenous carbohydrates rapidly when available and use them predominantly instead of fat or glycogen. 2. We first investigated the rate of fractional incorporation of dietary sugars into the pool of metabolized substrates in Glossophaga soricina by measuring the change in
3599208| 1. In monogonont rotifers parthenogenetic reproduction allows population growth, and mictic (sexual) reproduction leads to the production of diapausing eggs. When amictic females are exposed to a mixis stimulus, they produce mictic daughters, whose eggs develop into males or, if fertilized, into diapausing eggs. Experiments showed that mictic offspring production is initiated by crowding in females of Brachionus angularis Gosse 1851, Epiphanes senta (O.F. Mller 1773) and Rhinoglena frontalis Ehrenberg 1853, just as it is in Brachionus calyciflorus Pallas 1766 and B. plicatilis Mller 1786. 2. In B. calyciflorus, B. angularis, E. senta and R. frontalis, the propensity of amictic females to respond to crowding by producing mictic female offspring is low in the stem female hatching from a diapausing egg, but then increases after some generations. In many cases, only few mictic offspring are produced by crowded females of the second to the fifth generation, but the maximal response occurs only in later generations. Delayed sexual reproduction in early generations from the resting egg may be advantageious, because it first favours rapid population growth and later on maximizes resting egg production. However, it may be disadvantageous, if unpredictable environmental variation causes a population decline when sexual reproduction is still suppressed. 3. The extent to which sexual reproduction is delayed varies among and within species. When strains from populations in temporary and permanent habitats were compared, sexual reproduction was significantly delayed in strains from temporary habitats in all species, whereas in B. calyciflorus and R. frontalis mixis was not significantly delayed in strains from permanent habitats. In E. senta mixis was significantly delayed in clones from both habitat types. 4. Within all strains there was significant variation among clones in the propensity to produce mictic offspring, the extent to which sexual reproduction was delayed in the first generations after the stem female hatched, or both. 
10.2307/2390228|1. Possible determinants of the area-based light-saturated photosynthetic rate (P
10.2307/2390210|1. Leaf area index (L*) and above-ground biomass were determined by destructive sampling for a 400-m<sup>2</sup> area of terra firme amazonian rain forest and for an adjacent clearing. 2. While L* in the forest varied considerably with height through the canopy for four separately sampled 100-m<sup>2</sup> subplots, the cumulative L* was similar with a mean value of 5.7\pm 0.5. 3. The total above-ground dry biomass of the forest was 265\pm 95 t ha<sup>-1</sup>, while the leaf dry biomass was 6.3\pm 0.5 t ha<sup>-1</sup>. 4. The specific leaf area (SLA, cm<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) was determined, and found to vary linearly with canopy depth rising from 65 cm<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> at the canopy top, to 114 cm<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> at 5 m above the forest floor. The average for the four subplots was 90 cm<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. 5. The leaf area index of grass in the clearing (blade only) averaged 0.8\pm 0.4, and total green area index (blade+stem) averaged 1.2\pm 0.6. Total above-ground dry biomass (blade, stem) was 2.3\pm 0.6 t ha<sup>-1</sup>, while including dead plant material gave a total dry biomass of 5.6\pm 2.1 t ha<sup>-1</sup>. Specific leaf area of the grass was 79 cm<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. 6. The results clearly demonstrate the profound change in leaf area and biomass which accompany amazonian deforestation.
40603046|1. Caste determination in eusocial insects is the process by which individuals differentiate into reproducer or helper phenotypes. 2. Environmental caste determination (ECD) is predicted to be more efficient than genetic caste determination (GCD), yet GCD occurs in several populations o Pogonomyrmex harvester ants. 3. We tested whether GCD reduces efficiency by comparing colony growth rates of two GCD lineage pairs (H and J) with two closely related ECD congeners, P. rugosus and P. barbatus, under laboratory conditions over a range of temperatures. In addition, we directly compared metabolic rates of GCD and ECD larvae using flow-through respirometry. 4. Unexpectedly, colonies from GCD lineages grew faster than colonies of P. rugosus across all temperatures, and grew at the same rate as colonies of P. barbatus. Slower colony growth rates of P. rugosus were caused by lower queen fecundity and slower larval development. Variation in developmental rate was not due to differences in larval metabolic rates, which did not differ among taxa. 5. These results suggest that GCD in Pogonomyrmex does not impose significant productivity costs during colony growth. Instead, efficiency costs are compensated by other physiological mechanisms which may or may not be directly related to the mode of caste determination. 6. Persistence of GCD populations in contact with ECD competitors likely stems from a life-history trade-off favouring different taxa across the geographic range of the complex: the slow growing but starvation-resistant P. rugosus dominates in resource-poor regions, while faster growing and competitive GCD populations predominate in more mesic habitats.
41239371|1. Cool-season grasses can be simultaneously infected by foliar fungal endophytes and colonised by mycorrhizal fungi, the integrated functions of which are strong predictors of plant fitness within grassland ecosystems. Evidence has been presented previously that infection of grass species with foliar endophytes can negatively affect mycorrhizal colonisation. Here, we tested the hypothesis that mycorrhizal colonisation in turn adversely affects Neotyphodium endophyte concentrations and that the competitive interaction between the two endosymbionts is affected by resource supply. 2. Specifically, we report how competition between Glomus (G. mosseae-GM, G. intraradices-GI) mycorrhizal fungi and N. lolii (common strain (CS) and AR1) foliar endophytic strains is affected by P supply and water-soluble carbohydrate (WSC) content in two Lolium perenne (perennial ryegrass) cultivars: a high sugar grass, AberDart, and a conventional (control) grass, Fennema. 3. The presence of Glomus mycorrhizae reduced the concentrations of endophytes and alkaloids in leaf blades and pseudostems. The reduction depended on P supply, ryegrass cultivar (notably WSC content) and endophyte strain. Conversely, foliar endophyte infection reduced mycorrhizal colonisation rates and concentrations in the roots of the control cultivar Fennema, although not in the high sugar cultivar, AberDart. 4. Neither GM nor N. lolii infection had an effect per se on the yield of root or blade compared with mycorrhiza-free (M-) and endophyte-free (E-) plants, respectively; though, yield of roots and blades was reduced by GI infection and at low P. 5. Competitive interactions between ecologically widespread foliar endophytes (valuable for plant protection) and mycorrhizal endosymbionts (valuable for P acquisition) as seen in this study are of critical importance especially in areas of high pest prevalence and low P availability. Our work stresses the need for elucidating the physiological/metabolic basis for such interactions between endosymbionts to understand how these processes contribute to plant performance and fitness in grassland ecosystems.
2390429|1. A new open-top chamber for measuring CO<sub>2</sub> efflux from the soil is reported here. The new design enables measurement of the equilibrium CO<sub>2</sub> efflux, when there is no detectable pressure difference between the chamber and outside nor leakage of CO<sub>2</sub> into or out of the chamber. 2. In previous dynamic-chamber techniques, the measured CO<sub>2</sub> efflux is dependent on the pressure difference between the inside and outside of the chamber, and a negative pressure difference of -1 Pa may cause an order of magnitude increase in measured CO<sub>2</sub> efflux. Although the measured CO<sub>2</sub> efflux is less sensitive to a positive pressure difference than to a negative one, a positive pressure difference of even a few tenths of a Pa will lead to a considerable underestimation in soil CO<sub>2</sub> evolution. 3. The influence of pressure difference on measured CO<sub>2</sub> efflux is negligible in the new design and the estimated CO<sub>2</sub> efflux is close to the undisturbed soil respiration rate. Flow rates up to 81 min<sup>-1</sup>, or air movement over the soil surface up to 55 cm min<sup>-1</sup>, will not affect CO<sub>2</sub> evolution from the soil. The influence of pressure difference is related to the type of soil being measured and this has also been reported here for the new design.
10.2307/2390015|1. The repeatability of a trait is a critical factor in determining how that trait is affected by natural selection. We examined the repeatability of a key physiological trait, maximum oxygen consumption (VO<sub>2max</sub>), in a wild population of Belding's Ground Squirrels, Spermophilus beldingi. VO<sub>2max</sub> is an integrated measure of organismal metabolic performance. It can be intuitively related to fitness because it sets an upper limit to sustainable power output during ecologically important activites such as locomotion and thermoregulatory heat production. 2. We used respirometry to determine VO<sub>2max</sub> during exercise and thermogenesis. Exercise VO<sub>2max</sub> was elicited in an enclosed running wheel. Thermogenic VO<sub>2max</sub> was obtained with acute cold exposure in a helium-oxygen gas mixture. 3. Repeatability of both exercise and thermogenic VO<sub>2max</sub> was high over 2 h intervals but declined over longer test periods (6-18 days and 1-2 years). In general, repeatability was higher for exercise VO<sub>2max</sub> than for thermogenic VO<sub>2max</sub>. 4. We found no repeatability for animals tested initially as juveniles and then 1 or 2 years later as adults; evidently there is sufficient plasticity in VO<sub>2max</sub> to decouple aerobic performance between these life stages. A small number of adults tested in successive years showed significant repeatability of exercise VO<sub>2max</sub> but no repeatability of thermogenic VO<sub>2max</sub>
40407745|1. Ecologists are becoming increasingly interested in characterizing immunological variation among and within species. However, many of the techniques available to immunologists are not viable for use in non-model species, which limits the resolution and progress of ecoimmunological research. Recently, an assay was developed to quantify the capacity of blood or plasma to kill microorganisms in vitro. Such assays are ideal for ecologists because they provide holistic, integrated measures of immune function with minimal sample size and equipment. 2. Although informative, the assay suffers from several shortcomings in its current form. Specifically, intra-assay variation is often prohibitive, quantification of results is time consuming, sample volumes required are somewhat high (especially for small-bodied species), and materials (e. g. Petri dishes for microbe culturing) are costly and generate excessive waste. 3. Here, we describe a modified version of the assay for use against Gram-negative, Gram-positive, and fungal microbes using spectrophotometry. This assay decreases sample processing time, reduces blood/plasma volume (to 1.5 L), and eliminates the need to score results manually. This technique was 3x more reliable than the alternative method when using house sparrow Passer domesticus plasma and Escherichia coli. 4. We expect this assay will enable quantification of immune defence in a variety of contexts previously difficult to study (e.g. endangered species) because of the small volumes needed and the simplicity of the protocol. We also provide a list of pathogens that affect passerine populations as potential candidates in future studies. Anti-microbial activity in other animal species should also be easy to characterize using our approach and the quantification of antimicrobial capacity of tissue and other body fluids should also be possible with only minor modifications of the assay.
4540109|1. The fungus-gardening ants and their fungi represent a highly co-evolved, vertically transmitted mutualism. Mutualisms such as these are thought to be reciprocal antagonisms, so that the ants and the fungus can be expected to have some conflicting interests. 2. This paper reports the results from a cultivar switch experiment that documented the effects of switching the native cultivar from the basal 'higher-attine' Trachymyrmex septentrionalis with a derived cultivar from the leaf-cutting ant, Atta texana. If the cultivars have been modified significantly during the adaptive radiation of this clade, then they should differ in their ability to produce ant and fungal biomass. If the ants can perceive differences in cultivar performance, then their food preference may also change as a result of the switch. Lastly, if conflict is present in this mutualism, then the sex ratio in the switched colonies should be male biased. 3. Our results showed that food preference was not altered by the new cultivar. The A. texana cultivar did not change the performance of T septentrionalis colonies relative to colonies that were cultivating conspecific fungal cultivars. Foragers preferred insect faeces and oak staminate flowers over fresh leaves or flowers. Most variation in colony performance was attributable to substrate type. Sex ratio of offspring was not affected by fungal cultivar. With respect to fungal growth, the A. texana cultivar appeared to be more of a generalist, while the T septentrionalis cultivar performed better on substrates preferred by the ants than those unpreferred. 4. The results of this study indicate that cooperation and not conflict has been more important in shaping the evolutionary ecology of this mutualism. Although the cultivars were certainly genetically and physiologically distinct, these differences did not account for variation in the production of ant biomass or ant behaviour. The emerging picture thus indicates that this mutualism should be viewed as a highly integrated superorganism that is more than the sum of its parts.
40205515|1. Breeding at the right time of the year is crucial for many temperate zone organisms, as any mismatch with their optimal breeding period leads to a reduction in fitness. The roles of the breeding partners in these adaptive decisions have, however, only rarely been studied. 2. In blue tits (Cyartistes caeruleus) that breed in heterogenous Mediterranean habitats, nearby populations show up to 1-month differences in breeding time. This difference is adaptive as the optimal time for breeding varies by the same amount due to habitat characteristics. But which sex is determining this large difference in timing? 3. We show here that the seasonal development of female reproductive activity (yolk precursor production) closely matches the local optimal breeding time in these two highly contrasted landscapes, while previous studies have demonstrated that male gonadal development does not. In accordance with this, quantitative genetic analyses reveal that timing for breeding is determined by the female only, with no evidence for an additive genetic male effect on laying date. 4. Our results strongly suggest that the adaptive inter-population difference in the laying periods has been driven by females. The central role of females in the determination of breeding period needs to be included when studying how micro-evolutionary processes are affected by global climate change.
40205562|1. Coral bleaching events, predicted to increase in frequency and severity as a result of climate change, are a threat to tropical coral-reef ecosystems worldwide. Although the onset of spatially extensive, or 'mass', bleaching events can be predicted using simple temperature stress metrics, no models are available for predicting coral mortality risk or sub-lethal stress associated with bleaching. Here, we develop a model that links the functional response of colony energy balance and energystore dynamics to coral mortality risk and recovery during and following bleaching events. 2. In a series of simulations using response functions and parameter values derived from experimental studies for two Indo-Pacific coral species (Acropora intermedia and Montipora monasteriata), we demonstrate that prior energy-costly disturbances and alternative energy sources are both important determinants of coral mortality risk during and following bleaching. 3. The timing of the onset of coral mass mortality is determined by a combination of bleaching severity (loss rate of photopigments), duration of the bleaching event, heterotrophy and the size of energy reserves (as lipid stores) before bleaching occurs. 4. Depending on initial energy reserves, model results showed that high rates of heterotrophy could delay the onset of coral mortality by up to three weeks. Survival following bleaching was also strongly influenced by remaining lipid reserves, rates of heterotrophy, and rates of photopigment (or symbiont) recovery. 5. Our results indicate that energy-costly disturbances and low availability of food, before and during bleaching events, respectively, work to increase bleaching-induced coral mortality risk for acroporid corals on Indo-Pacific reefs.
10.2307/2389708|The optimal defence theory assumes that there is a cost associated with the production of defences against herbivores in plants and that plants evolve and allocate defences to maximize individual inclusive fitness. We analyse how a plant should allocate its resources between biomass production and production of defences in order to maximize net growth. In general it is optimal for a plant to have a defence, the intensity of which increases with grazing pressure. However, there is a threshold grazing intensity below which it is optimal not to have a defence. In addition, there is one threshold above which it is necessary (i.e. not only optimal) to have a defence and one defining the highest sustainable grazing level. A plant subjected to an increased level of stress should give priority to, rather than sacrifice, defence. On an evolutionary time scale the efficiency of a defence system seems to be important in a qualitative way. Only if the efficiency is initially above a certain critical value do we expect the defence system to evolve into a more efficient one. Therefore, different taxa, despite being subjected to similar selection pressures, might evolve in opposite directions depending on the initial conditions.
10.2307/2389958|1. The eggs of many stick insect species (Order Phasmatodea) bear a striking resemblance to seeds. These eggs are not only similar in size, shape, colour and texture to seeds, but in many species bear a knob-like structure known as a capitulum. This structure resembles an elaiosome, a lipid-rich appendage on some seeds known to be an adaptation for burial by ants. 2. We present observations and experiments demonstrating that capitula and elaiosomes are convergent in function as well as in appearance. 3. Capitula, like elaiosomes, promote removal of eggs to ant nests and buried eggs suffer reduced rates of parasitism by wasps. 4. Phasmatid nymphs are capable of emerging from eggs buried under 6 cm of soil. 5. Capitula are found only in those phasmatid species which drop eggs freely on to litter and not in species which bury eggs or glue them to vegetation. 6. Elaiosomes and capitula are both adaptations to use ant mutualists for burial, a striking example of evolutionary convergence between the plant and animal kingdoms.
10.2307/2389296|Considerable controversy surrounds the validity and utility of measures of reproductive effort (RE) in analysing the evolution of given life history and, for marine invertebrates especially, larval strategies. Even more confusion has arisen from the wide array of measures of RE that have been variously employed. In assessing the reproductive strategies of two annual marine nudibranch molluscs (Adalaria proxima [Alder & Hancock] and Onchidoris muricata [Muller]) - both of which are semelparous hermaphrodites - we have evaluated the outcomes for five commonly used measures of RE, and developed a new statistic, the reproductive index (RI). When measures of reproductive production were used, higher REs were found for the species that has planktotrophic larvae (O. muricata). However, when measures of reproductive `cost' were employed, the pattern was reversed - the higher `costs' were found for the species with lecitho-trophic larvae (A. proxima). These results are contrasted with other published estimates for semelparous molluscs and the relative merits of the different measures are discussed. It is suggested that available data are not yet sufficiently comparable to enable conclusions to be drawn with regard to the association between reproductive allocation and the evolution of different larval types in marine invertebrates.
10.2307/2390095|1. The rust fungus Uromyces rumicis infects leaves of Rumex crispus and R. obtusifolius causing premature senescence and leaf death. We investigated the effect of infection on nutritional quality of leaves with respect to the chrysomelid beetle Gastrophysa viridula and measured larval survival and growth on rusted and unrusted plants. 2. A smaller biomass of G. viridula was produced and a greater area of leaf consumed per unit biomass gained, by egg batches reared on rusted compared to unrusted R. obtusifolius, although no difference was observed between larvae reared on rusted or unrusted R. crispus. 3. Concentrations of total non-structural carbohydrates were not changed in the pustule and non-infected leaves but were increased in the inter-pustule area. Infection changed the partitioning to different carbohydrates, increasing the proportion of starch in R. crispus and decreasing it in R. obtusifolius. 4. The concentration of total nitrogen, both in the pustule and the inter-pustule area, decreased in both species with time after rust infection. 5. In both species, considerably higher oxalate concentrations occurred in the interpustule area and significantly lower concentrations in the uninfected leaves of these plants. Calcium concentrations altered similarly and were correlated with oxalate concentrations. 6. We conclude that rust infection does not improve the nutritional quality of the leaves for G. viridula and is unlikely to do so for other invertebrate herbivores.
2390342|1. Leaf life spans, determined as half-lives, of 16 herbaceous perennial plant species from the aseasonal, tropical Andes at altitudes between 4000 and 4600 m were on average 193  19 days and thus two to three times greater than those of herbaceous perennials from the seasonal northern hemisphere. The duration of lamina expansion was positively correlated with life span. Growth was continuous all year round, but rates of leaf initiation in the high-elevation tropics were lower than in the temperate zone. 2. Significant positive inter-relationships were found between leaf life span and mass-based foliar nitrogen concentration of Andean taxa. The correlation between life span and leaf mass per area (LMA) was marginally significant, while life span and area-based foliar N content were unrelated. 3. Leaf traits of 46 Andean herbaceous perennials (forbs and graminoids), spanning an altitudinal range of 1500 m, indicated that the 16 taxa utilized for growth and leaf life span determinations were representative. For graminoids no altitudinal changes in LMA or foliar N were observed across species. However, in forbs LMA and area-based foliar N increased significantly with altitude. No differences in leaf traits were observed between herbaceous rosette and cushion growth forms. 4. The Andean data set was used in conjunction with data from the temperate, subarctic and arctic zones to evaluate the significance of leaf life spans in herbaceous plants from a biogeographical perspective. Leaf life span declined significantly with increasing seasonality, expressed as latitude and duration of the annual growth period. Because temperature regimes are similar along this gradient during the respective growth periods (Diemer 1996), observed differences should be the result of variation in the day length and/or duration of the growing season. 5. Data on leaf life spans and leaf traits of herbaceous plants from contrasting latitudes were used to evaluate the validity of general inter-relationships proposed by Reich (1993). The high correlation between LMA and life span observed in both data sets indicates that this relationship holds for various growth forms. On the other hand, the apportionment of mass-based foliar N concentration in relation to life span appears to differ between herbaceous and woody growth forms.
40863644|1. Organisms can protect themselves against parasitism by reducing either parasite burden (resistance) or damage caused by parasites at a given burden (tolerance), but little is known about resistance and tolerance to multiple parasites among wild animal populations and species. The fitness effects of parasitism can be broken down into two components: (i) cost of parasite exposure, the difference in fitness between organisms that were not exposed to parasites and those that were exposed but not infected, and (ii) tolerance, the change in host fitness as a function of parasite burden. For amphibians, a taxon that is being decimated by disease, knowing which species and ontogenetic stages are least resistant or least tolerant to which parasites would help target research and management efforts. 2. We reared American toad (Bufo arnericcinus) and green frog (Rana clamitans) tadpoles in a common garden environment and quantified survival and trematode burdens after exposure to 20 Echinostoma trivolvis, Ribeiroia ondatrae or plagiorchid trematode cercariae. 3. All three trematodes caused significant B. americanus mortality, but R. ondatrae was the only species to induce significant mortality of R. clamitans and was the most deadly of the parasites. Young tadpoles had greater parasite-induced mortality than older tadpoles. 4. Mortality patterns were driven by B. americanus having lower resistance and a higher cost of parasite exposure than R. clamitans, older tadpoles having higher tolerance than younger tadpoles, B. americanus and R. clamitans exhibiting lower resistance and a higher cost of parasite exposure, respectively, to R. ondatrae relative to the other tested trematodes, and skin-penetrating trematodes inducing a higher cost of parasite exposure than non-skin-penetrators. Host size was not predictive of resistance but was a positive predictor of the cost of resistance and tolerance; however, size alone could not fully account for host differences in tolerance. 5. Interactions among developmental stage and host and trematode species emphasize the plasticity and context-dependency of defence strategies and the importance of considering resistance and tolerance to multiple parasites in wild host species.
10.2307/2389693|Species of the Drosophila auraria complex entered reproductive diapause in autumn in response to short daylengths. Their diapause ended even at short daylengths without special stimuli. For D. auraria Peng, D. triauraria Bock & Wheeler and D. subauraria Kimura, duration of diapause was longer at a shorter daylength but such a relationship was not clear in D. biauraria Bock & Wheeler. High temperature or continuous illumination broke diapause but chilling had a small or no effect in terminating diapause. In outdoor cultures of D. auraria and D. triauraria, diapause was almost terminated by spring in individuals which had eclosed in early autumn, but not in most individuals which had eclosed in mid- or late autumn. Excluding D. biauraria (below), for sympatric populations D. subauraria had the deepest diapause, D. auraria had the shallowest one and D. triauraria had the intermediate one. It was proposed that the deeper diapause of D. subauraria or D. triauraria was an adaptation to the earlier start of its diapause in autumn. Also in these three species, diapause was deeper in northern populations. This variation may occur because northern populations enter diapause earlier and experience relatively longer daylengths which are less effective in maintaining diapause. D. biauraria had rather deep diapause compared with the other three species and this species did not show clinal variation in the diapause intensity.
41319572|1. Evolutionary medicine seeks to understand whether and to what extent aspects of human disease are adaptations for coping with infections or injuries, or the consequence of mismatches between modern and ancestral environments. Ecological immunology by comparison focuses largely on how organisms balance investments in immune defences against other traits (e.g., cognitive and reproductive functions) to maximize fitness. 2. Here we address the potential benefit ofmerging these two young disciplines by reviewing the biomdical literature involving variation at the human apolipoprotein epsilon (apoE) locus. Allelic variants at this locus are differentially susceptible to certain parasites [e.g. herpes-simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) and Chlamydia pneumoniae], as well as Alzheimer's and coronary artery disease, although susceptibility is impacted by environmental factors such as exercise and diet. ApoE variants also exhibit extensive physiological differences, particularly in immune and cognitive traits. 3. Considered altogether, we suggest that apoe-associated diseases are maladaptive plastic responses to conditions in modern environments, and predict that allelic variation at the apoE locus arose as both a consequence of genetic accommodation of historically adaptive environmental responses and because of the particular susceptibility of lipid transport molecules as infection pathways for certain parasites. 4. The goal of this paper is not to support unequivocally this hypothesis because relevant data remain scarce. We intend instead to provide a framework whereby existing hypotheses, which tend to emphasize faulty signalling via one alele (apoE4), can be evaluated through ecologically-informed experiments.
40603042|1. In this paper we determine whether interspecific variation in entire photosynthetic lightresponse curves correlates with the leaf traits of the leaf economics spectrum' (LES) and the degree to which such traits can predict interspecific variation in light-response curves. This question is important because light-response curves are included in many ecosystem models of plant productivity and gas exchange but such models do not take into account interspecific variation in such response curves. 2. We answer this question using original observations from 260 leaves from 130 plants of 65 different species of herbaceous (25) and woody (40) angiosperms. Herbs were grown in growth chambers and gas exchange measurements were taken in the laboratory. Leaf traits and gas exchange measurements for the woody plants were taken in the field. Leaf traits measured were leaf mass per area (LMA), leaf nitrogen concentration (N) and leaf chlorophyll concentration (Chi). We fitted the Mitscherlich and Michaelis-Menten equations of the light-response curve separately for each leaf. This gave (for the Mitscherlich equation) the light compensation point (), the quantum yield at the light compensation point (q()), and maximum net photosynthesis (A max ) and (for the Michaelis-Menten equation), the maximum gross photosynthesis (G max ), the half saturation coefficient (k) and the dark respiration rate (R d ). 3. A max and q() were highly correlated with the measured leaf traits but  was not. All three parameters of the Michaelis-Menten equations were correlated with the leaf traits. Allometric equations predicting the parameters of the Mitscherlich and Michaelis-Menten equations by N and LMA are presented. Replacing the leaf-specific parameters by these general allometric equations based on leaf N and LMA gave good predictions of net photosynthetic rates over the entire range of irradiance (r = 0-79-0-98) but with a downward bias for the herbs when the most general allometric equations are used. 4. These results further extend the generality of the LES and may allow available information from large leaf trait data bases to be incorporated into ecosystem models of plant growth and gas exchange.
10.2307/2389630|The growth rates and patterns of above-ground biomass allocation were determined for saplings of nine species of a wet tropical forest in Costa Rica. Relative growth rate and allocation were calculated by remeasuring the dimensions of forest-grown saplings and using biomass-dimension relationships derived from harvested saplings to convert linear dimensions to biomass estimates. The light environment of each sapling was characterized in terms of direct and indirect site factors calculated from hemispherical `fisheye' photographs of the canopy. Relative growth rate (RGR) was significantly correlated with both direct and indirect site factors. A significant negative correlation was found between ln(% leaf allocation) and RGR for six species, but no such correlation occurred for the three species most highly associated with canopy gaps. Thus, shade-tolerant saplings shift most of their above-ground growth to leaf replacement when heavily shaded, while gap-associated species allocate about 2/3 of above-ground growth to the stem and branches under all measured conditions. This differential plasticity in leaf vs wood allocation may be an important factor in determining the shade tolerance and successional status of woody species.
10.2307/2389941|1. Seedlings of 41 British herbaceous species of contrasting functional type were screened for sensitivity to SO<sub>2</sub> pollution in a large-scale `Solardome' exposure facility. Sand was used as a growing medium and there was an ample supply of water and mineral nutrients. Plants were exposed continuously for 83 days to 100 nl l<sup>-1</sup> SO<sub>2</sub> (v/v in air), with a series of higher peaks of SO<sub>2</sub> concentration, the frequency and duration of which increased with time. 2. Exposure to SO<sub>2</sub> caused significant (P < 0.05) reductions in the dry mass of whole plants, roots and shoots in the cases of 18, 19 and 12 of the species, respectively. Generally, the adverse effect on root growth was greater than the adverse effect on shoot growth. Total leaf area was reduced in seven species in response to SO<sub>2</sub>. 3. Significant correlations were found between per cent response to SO<sub>2</sub> exposure and C-S-R functional type. These were explicitly related to relative growth rate in the seedling phase, a predictor of stress-tolerance. Slow-growing, perennial species (stress tolerators), were less susceptible under exposure to SO<sub>2</sub> than were faster-growing, perennial species (competitors) or faster-growing, annual species (ruderals). 4. The general pattern of species responses to SO<sub>2</sub> was similar to that previously reported for O<sub>3</sub> fumigation but it contrasts markedly with that found among a similar range of species growing under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>.
10.2307/2389844|1. Anolis carolinensis, the most northerly distributed member of its neotropical genus, does not hibernate, but facultatively basks during days with direct sunlight throughout the December to March period. 2. Both sexes were primarily inactive (92% of emerged time), infrequently foraging (6.4%), interacting socially (1.3%), or responding to predator threats (<0.1%). 3. Because subjects infrequently moved (averaging 2 cmh<sup>-1</sup>), apparent thermoregulatory behaviour (i.e. sun/shade shuttling) was rarely observed. 4. Body (T<sub>b</sub>) and concurrent air (T<sub>a</sub>) temperature relationships for emerged lizards were: maximum T<sub>b</sub>s range of 33-34<sup></sup>C, a mean T<sub>b</sub> of 23<sup></sup>C, and a mean T<sub>b</sub> - T<sub>a</sub> differential of 2.4<sup></sup>C (ranging up to 15<sup></sup>C). 5. Several criteria characterized winter A. carolinensis as being passive, thermal generalists. 6. Mean monthly oxygen uptake for wintering A. carolinensis was estimated at 0.924 (December), 0.686 (January), 0.884 (February), and 1.118 (March) Ml g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>. 7. The total estimated energy expenditure for the four months by the average male (3.8 g body mass) and female (2.9 g body mass) was 1.99 and 1.52 kcal, respectively, which is equivalent to 0.21 and 0.16 g of lipid metabolized, respectively ( 6% of body mass). 8. Compared to metabolic rates at the species' 32-35<sup></sup>C preferred T<sub>b</sub> range, the 23<sup></sup>C average T<sub>b</sub> of emerged lizards represented a 60% reduction in energy expenditure. We speculate that the observed basking T<sub>b</sub>s reflect an adaptive trade-off between nonbasking T<sub>b</sub>s for minimum metabolic costs and optimally high T<sub>b</sub>s to facilitate physiological processes (e.g. gonadal recrudescence), but at a threat to lipid reserves.
3599324|1. Hairworms (phylum Nematomorpha) and mermithid nematodes (phylum Nematoda) have independently evolved almost identical life cycles: both parasites cause their terrestrial arthropod hosts to seek water, required for their aquatic free-living adult stage. Hairworms achieve this by altering host neurotransmitters, but the mechanisms used by mermithids remain unknown. 2. The physiological effects of the mermithid nematode Thaumamermis zealandica on its host, the supralittoral talitrid amphipod talorchestia quoyana, are investigated. The parasite develops in the haemocoel, and induces the host to burrow more deeply than healthy amphipods and the adult T. zelandica emerges from the host into moist and at these greater depths. 3. Parasitized amphipods had higher haemolymph osmolality than unparasitized amphipods. There was no difference in haemolymph Na
40205497|1. The science of nutritional ecology spans a wide range of fields, including ecology, nutrition, behaviour, morphology, physiology, life history and evolutionary biology. But does nutritional ecology have a unique theoretical framework and research program and thus qualify as a field of research in its own right? 2. We suggest that the distinctive feature of nutritional ecology is its integrative nature, and that the field would benefit from more attention to formalizing a theoretical and quantitative framework for developing this. 3. Such a framework, we propose, should satisfy three minimal requirements: it should be nutritionally explicit, organismally explicit, and ecologically explicit. 4. We evaluate against these criteria four existing frameworks (Optimal Foraging Theory, Classical Insect Nutritional Ecology, the Geometric Framework for nutrition, and Ecological Stoichiometry), and conclude that each needs development with respect to at least one criterion. 5. We end with an initial attempt at assessing the expansion of our own contribution, the Geometric Framework, to better satisfy the criterion of ecological explicitness.
10.2307/2390099|1. Restricted maximum likelihood using the `Animal Model' (REML) and least squares (LS) analyses of a quantitative genetic study of life-history traits are compared. The REML method is considered generally superior although the advantages are not great if the data analysed come from nearly balanced one-generation designs. 2. Although in the analysis of several traits multivariate analysis is desirable it did not prove practicable because of its computational demands.
20142881|1. It has been recently showed that one bacterial strain isolated from the uropygial gland of a nestling hoopoe Upupa epops produced antimicrobial peptides active against a broad spectrum of pathogenic bacteria. These bacteria might thus mediate antimicrobial properties of the uropygial secretions as a consequence of the symbiotic association with hoopoes. 2. We study antimicrobial properties of white (from males and non-breeding females) and brown (from nestlings and breeding females) uropygial gland secretions of hoopoes Upupa epops, as well as the association with the presence of bacteria living inside their uropygial gland. 3. We found that brown, but not white secretions contained bacteria and showed antimicrobial activity against the feather degrading bacterium Bacillus licheniformis. The antagonistic activity of bacterial colonies was mediated by antimicrobial peptides because protease inhibited antimicrobial properties. 4. All except one identified bacterium in aerobic cultures were of the genus Enterococcus, and the microscopic study of uropygial secretions and glands confirmed a high density of bacteria within the gland. 5. Furthermore, we studied potential benefits of antimicrobial peptides produced by symbiotic bacteria of hoopoes by adding protease to incubating nests. 6. The experiment increased bacterial growth and hatching failures in hoopoes but not in spotless starlings Sturnus unicolor, a species that does not harbour bacteria in its uropygial gland. 7. Thus, microbiological, anatomical and ecological results suggest a tight symbiotic interaction between bacteria that produce antibiotic substances and the hoopoes.
20142852|1. Marine invertebrates use egg nutrients to develop the functional feeding larva and then enter a facultative feeding period (FFP) when development can proceed without food because larvae are supported by maternal reserves. Facultative feeding reduces starvation risk and so is important for larval success. It may also influence egg size evolution because FFP length correlates with egg size. 2. We quantified energetic lipid (triglyceride, TG) utilisation in unfed and fed larvae as an index of larval nutritive condition in the tropical echinoid Tripneustes gratilla during the FFP to determine if fed larvae would use the buffer provided by endogenous provisions to improve their condition or accelerate development. We predicted that: (i) the condition of unfed and fed larvae should diverge before egg TG is exhausted and/or (ii) that the size of fed larvae should outstrip that of unfed larvae. 3. Temperate echinoplutei exhibit phenotypic plasticity, increasing the length of their food capture apparatus (arms) in nutrient-poor conditions. We examined the generality of this phenomenon in a morphometric analysis of growth in the tropical larva of T. gratilla. We hypothesized that plastic arm growth in starved larvae would occur before the FFP ends as a bet hedging strategy to prepare for hard times ahead when lack of reserves may render this response impossible. 4. We found that fed larvae diverged in condition (higher TG) but not in size compared with starved larvae before egg energetic lipids were exhausted. In addition, unfed larvae showed plastic arm growth before the end of the FFP. 5. Lack of divergence in growth of unfed and fed larvae suggests there may be an imperative to maintain a nutrient storage buffer against starvation due to unpredictable future planktonic food supply. The FFP of T. gratilla exceeds 8 days, considerably longer than that of other echinoids with similarly sized eggs, emphasizing that egg quality may be more important than egg size as a predictor of the FFP in fecundity-time models of egg evolution.
826610| 1. Competition effects on growth of individual trees were examined for 4 years in aggrading, mixed-clone stands of trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) at the Aspen-FACE free-air CO
10.2307/2389749|We report an analysis of the abundance distributions of Salmonella serotypes in published notifications of incidents in domestic livestock. It is shown that, for cattle, fowl and sheep, the abundance distributions of Salmonella serotypes tend to follow a truncated log-normal distribution. The distribution for pigs approximates to both the truncated log-normal and the log-series distributions. It is suggested that the observed distributions indicate that Salmonella types in domestic livestock populations are subject to many, possibly fluctuating, resources rather than to competition for a single limiting resource. The resources for which these bacteria compete could include adhesion sites within the intestinal tract and any of many different nutrients. When reports from 1976 to 1982 are compared with reports from 1983 to 1989, the reports for fowl show an even greater divergence from the log-series distribution. It is argued that this increasing divergence from the log-series distribution of fowl reports supports the hypothesis that the Salmonella niche in fowl is narrowing. This narrowing niche width could be due to increasing homogeneity of the genetic constitution of fowl in the UK or to increasingly similar handling and feeding techniques.
4139331|1. Pollinator-mediated selection on traits associated with mechanical fit and attraction of pollinators were investigated through both sexual functions in Cyclopogon elatus (Sw.) Schlechter (Orchidaceae). 2. Only halictid bees, principally Augochlora nausicaa, were observed as pollinators. The pollinarium becomes attached to the ventral surface of the bee's mouthparts (labrum) when the proboscis, which closely matches the length of floral tube, is projected into the flower to reach nectar. 3. We detected directional selection on nectary depth, with deeper nectaries favoured only through male fitness, because this trait affects pollinaria removal but not deposition. Correlational selection was detected through male function between nectary depth and the number of flowers in an individual's floral display. These traits affect pollination in a multiplicative way: flower number is positively related to the number of bee visits, and nectary depth positively affects the effectiveness of pollinaria removal at each visit. 4. We also detected stabilizing selection on display size. For smaller displays there was a strongly positive association between number of flowers and overall reproductive success, which can be attributed to a simple numerical effect. However, the expected performance of individual flowers is impaired in large displays by pollinator limitation, because bees visiting the display pollinate few flowers per visit and each bee carries, at most, one pollinarium.
3599265|1. In laboratory microcosms, we investigated the influence of diversity of both leaf litter and detritivores on decomposition processes. Either woodlice or earthworms, or a combination of woodlice and earthworms, fed on leaf litter of either oak or alder, or oak and alder for 8 weeks. Mass loss of leaf litter, soil microbial respiration and soil nutrient concentrations were determined every 2 weeks. 2. For four out of seven decomposition parameters, the joint effects of woodlice and earthworms were stronger than the sum of single-species effects when they had fed on alder litter. When feeding on oak litter, however, woodlice and earthworms together revealed lower decomposition rates than predicted from their single effects. Joint effects of detritivores on decomposition of mixed litter were always lower than predicted from the sum of their effects. 3. In mixed-litter assays, we obtained intermediate values of decomposition parameters, indicating that doubling the species richness of leaf litter from one to two species did not promote decomposition processes. Effects of mixing litter were, thus, mostly additive; essentially only when earthworms fed on mixed litter we observed, mostly positive, non-additive effects of diverse litter. 4. Our findings provide evidence for a potential effect on ecosystem functioning through joint action of detritivores even at low species diversity, while litter diversity seems to be less significant. On high-quality litter, isopods and earthworms are not functionally redundant but act synergistically on litter decomposition. The effects of detritivore diversity on ecosystem processes, however, are context-specific and depend on the quality and diversity of the available food sources, and on species-specific characteristics of the detritivores.
10.2307/2389902|1. A model is described which provides a mechanistic explanation of the functional response of intake rate to herbage availability [Leaf Area Index (LAI), height or mass] in large herbivores. 2. When grazing non-selectively (between plant species) rates of encounter (cf. search times) are unlikely to be limiting even at low herbage LAI in cool-temperate pastures. Bite rate and intake rate are limited by handling time. Even at low herbage LAI, the fixed time cost associated with opening and closing the jaw to prehend a bite limits the capacity of animals to compensate for low bite mass by increasing bite rate and so restricts intake rate. 3. The model proposes that differences in the time taken to masticate a unit bite mass are necessary to explain the major differences in intake rate between large-mouthed animals (e.g. cattle) and sheep grazing from the same sward. 4. When grazing selectively (between plant species) search times increase substantially and may come to limit intake rate as total herbage availability (both plant species) declines, or as the fractional cover of the more desirable species declines below about 20%. The selective grazing strategies and optimal diets, those which provide maximum net daily energy balance and/or `value' to the grazing animal, are identified for animals grazing from plant species that differ in both the relative vertical availability (height, mass) and relative horizontal availability (fractional cover) as well as the total availability of herbage. 5. A decrease in the relative horizontal availability of a species reduces selectivity, but only to the point of indifference. A decrease in the relative vertical availability of a species may reverse species preferences.
2390403|1. We studied the nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) in six perennial grasses adapted to a wide range of nutrient availability. The glasshouse experiment was carried out in pots containing nutrient solution, with two fertility treatments. Nitrogen-use efficiency was considered as the product of nitrogen productivity and mean residence time of the nitrogen in the plant (calculated using <sup>15</sup>N pulse labelling). 2. The species investigated are characteristic of habitats ranging from very nutrient rich to extremely nutrient poor, in the following order: Lolium perenne, Arrhenatherum elatius, Festuca rubra, Anthoxanthum odoratum, Festuca ovina and Molinia caerulea. 3. Lolium perenne (adapted to nutrient-rich habitats) had higher nitrogen productivity (A) than M. caerulea (species adapted to nutrient-poor habitats) but lower than that of F. rubra (from habitats with an intermediate availability of nutrients). 4. In the low fertility treatment, species with the lowest nitrogen-use efficiency had the lowest N productivity and the highest mean nitrogen residence time (MRT); however, although species with the highest nitrogen use efficiency had the highest N productivity they did not have the lowest MRT. In all species the nitrogen-use efficiency decreased with increasing N supply. The two components of the NUE (A and MRT) are inversely correlated along gradients of nutrient availability, but not at very high levels of nutrient availability. 5. The nitrogen-use efficiency of species at constant levels of nutrient supply tends to increase with increasing nutrient availability in their preferred habitat, according to the Clausman nutrient index, up to a certain nutrient availability and then decreases. The results support the contention that species from nutrient-poor sites are not necessarily adapted by a high nitrogen-use efficiency, but by low nutrient loss rates (high mean residence time of N in the plant).
10.2307/2390087|1. Habitat degradation and the overexploitation of many taxa currently represent serious threats to biological diversity. In species-rich foodwebs, trophically specialized species are particularly prone to risk if their prey species are removed. This appears to be true of Circellium bacchus (Scarabaeinae: Canthonini), a large, flightless dung beetle, which feeds on the dung of large mammals such as elephant, buffalo and rhinoceros. It was once widespread in the southern African savanna but within the last century has become restricted to a small, xeric area in the south-eastern Cape Province of South Africa. In this study we examine the original distribution of this species and reasons for its subsequent range contraction. 2. Because temperature and water availability play such important roles in determining the abundance and distribution of animals, and because the thermal biology of dung beetles is so important in determining their competitive ability, we compare the desiccation resistance and thermal biology of C. bacchus with a large, winged, savanna dung beetle, Pachylomerus femoralis, as well as that reported in the literature for other dung beetles. We also compare respiratory metabolism of the two species because an elevated factorial aerobic scope is indicative of competitive superiority. In addition, we compare the distribution and habitat preference of C. bacchus with that of closely related scarabaeine beetles to gain insight into its original distribution. 3. Circellium bacchus appears to have originated in mesic, east-coast wooded savanna and forests. It is unlike any other large dung beetle because its flightless condition makes it a strict ectotherm. This means that it stands little chance in competing for dung with heterothermic, winged dung beetles which have a competitive advantage at dung pads. This advantage is conferred on winged species because of high post-flight activity levels associated with high thoracic temperatures. 4. The penetration of other, wooded savanna areas by C. bacchus is ascribed to the presence of a constant dung source which would ameliorate the effects of competition from other dung beetles. The only known resource of this type is Black Rhinoceros middens. Range contraction of the Black Rhinoceros seems to have precipitated range contraction of C. bacchus. Collection records of C. bacchus correspond with areas known to have supported Black Rhinoceros populations throughout this century. 5. The survival of C. bacchus in the xeric southern and eastern Cape seems to have been a result both of its large body size, which has endowed it both with a lower conductance and greater desiccation resistance than other savanna-dwelling dung beetles, and the presence of a small population of elephants in the thick Valley Bushveld of the eastern Cape throughout this century.
10.2307/2389800|Ion-exchange resins can successfully be employed to measure throughfall, especially below vegetation canopies with a complex, small-scale vegetation architecture. Ions in throughfall are quantitatively adsorbed due to an intimate contact between vegetation and ion-exchange resins. In the most Southern part of The Netherlands the flux of sulphate in throughfall below grassland canopies exceeds bulk precipitation of sulphate by more than 500%. Throughfall fluxes and dry deposition are strongly dependent on leaf area indices. Ammonium ions from atmospheric deposition may be absorbed by the canopy; as a consequence, dry deposition of ammonium (or its precursors) cannot easily be determined from an analysis of throughfall.
2656562|1. The relative palatabilities of the seedlings and adults of a range of British herbaceous plant species (14 annuals and 15 perennials) were compared using a generalist native herbivore (the slug Deroceras reticulatum) in a food-choice experiment. A palatability index (0 to 1) was devised. 2. A general linear model analysis showed that, overall, there was a highly significant difference between seedling and adult palatability. 3. In the majority of cases, seedlings were more palatable than adults. However, in species with highly palatable adults the opposite tended to be the case. 4. No consistent difference between annual and perennial species was seen with respect to the relative palatabilies of adults vs seedlings. 5. No evidence of a trade-off between seedling palatability and relative growth rate was found. 6. In view of the role that selective seedling predation may play in determining species composition in the field, the results of this experiment indicate the need for caution in making ecological inferences from the exclusive use of adult material in palatability tests.
2390521|1. We investigated whether reserves stored in the lignotubers of two Mediterranean shrubs, Arbutus unedo and Erica arborea, were significantly mobilized to support the demands of regrowth and respiration after clipping the tops at different frequencies. 2. After a single clipping, Arbutus showed a 29% decrease of phosphorus concentration by the end of the first growing season. Two years after recovery from clipping, the starch levels remained lower than those of unclipped plants. Similarly, Erica showed depletion of starch, but no nutrient reserves were depleted significantly. 3. Regrowth after multiple clippings mobilized a large fraction of the starch and nutrients stored in the lignotuber. Mean starch concentrations were depleted by 87-93% after multiple clippings and concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and magnesium were depleted by 10-45%, 27-41%, 19-39% and 23-31%, respectively. 4. An average-sized lignotuber produced 288 resprouts for Arbutus and 1990 resprouts for Erica during a 27 month period of multiple clippings, at the end of which the first plants died. 5. Plant mortality after multiple clipping was 10% for Arbutus and 30% for Erica, and was primarily attributed to exhaustion of carbon reserves because starch concentrations decreased by 96% in dead plants.
826583|1. The reasons why birds construct nest scrapes, and the extent to which scrape designs reflect functional optima, are poorly understood. Working on Pectoral Sandpipers (Calidris melanotos, Vieillot), we investigated whether scrapes function to insulate clutches and are efficiently designed to reduce heat loss rates. 2. Excavating a scrape and using lining material reduced the rate at which an object positioned within a scrape lost heat by 9% and 25%, respectively, suggesting that lined scrapes insulate clutches. 3. The rate of heat loss from an object within a scrape increased with scrape depth and decreased non-linearly with lining depth. The extent to which wind increased forced convective heat loss decreased with scrape depth. 4. On average, Pectoral Sandpipers used the minimum lining depth that approximately minimized heat loss through the lining. Mean scrape depth approximately minimized convective cooling in windy conditions while minimizing heat loss to the ground. Pectoral Sandpiper scrapes therefore efficiently reduced heat loss given conflicting environmental thermal pressures. 5. Available lining materials differed in insulative quality when both damp and dry. Pectoral Sandpipers used lining materials that insulated relatively well when damp more than expected given random collection of locally available materials. Linings therefore insulated efficiently given the damp nesting environment.
826692|1. The widespread commercial interest in producing growth-enhanced organisms has raised concerns about ecological consequences, emphasizing the need to understand the costs and benefits associated with accelerated growth in nature. Here, sustainedrelease growth hormone (GH) implants were used to estimate the competitive ability of growth-enhanced fish in the wild. Growth rate, movements and survival over winter were compared between GH-implanted and control Brown Trout in a natural stream. The study was repeated over two consecutive years. 2. GH treatment had no effect on recapture rates, indicating that mortality rates did not differ between GH-treated and control fish. More GH-treated trout (63%) than control fish (41%) were recaptured within their 10 m section of release. Thus, GH-treated fish were more stationary than control fish over winter. 3. GH-treated fish grew about 20% faster than control fish. This was mainly because of a three-fold growth rate increase in GH-treated fish in late summer, whereas growth rates over winter did not differ significantly between treatment groups. These results were consistent over both replicate years. 4. This first study of growth-enhanced fish in the wild shows that they can survive well and therefore may out-compete normal fish with lower growth rates. Although selection against rapid growth may be more intense at other life-history stages and/or during periods of extreme climate conditions, our findings raise concerns that released or escaped growth-enhanced salmonids may compete successfully with resident fish. It is clear that the potential ecological risks associated with growth-enhanced fish should not be ignored.
826695|1. We explored the ecological properties of a self-assembling, cellular automaton model by simulating the behaviour of distinct plant functional types. 2. Types differed according to three fundamental traits: size of plant modules; longevity of modules in the absence of resources; and propensity to flowering. 3. When expressed at three levels apiece, the three traits were able to approximate the essential biology of seven important types within a well known system of plant functional types (the C-S-R system, based on disturbance and resource availability). 4. The seven types, when grown in real experiments with virtual communities, reproduced classical community-level behaviour to the extent of demonstrating smooth, competitive replacements along gradients of resource or disturbance, or both. 5. In complex communities simulated over a wide range of environmental conditions, the seven types produced a clearly 'humpbacked' curve linking plant diversity to community productivity. The mixtures of species resulting from these experiments together represented all parts of C-S-R space. 6. These outcomes emerged solely from the 'bottom-up' processes inherent in self-assembling cellular automata. No community-level specifications were inserted into the model, yet the community-level consequences agreed with both the underlying predictions of C-S-R theory and field observations. 7. This work confirms that the dynamics of herbaceous plant communities can be emergent from the resource-handling properties of the organs of the constituent species, and that a simple rule base can, to a first approximation, be sufficient to reproduce such dynamics.
10.2307/2389955|1. Various woody species belonging to the mediterranean macchia ecosystem have been studied in respect of their strategies of water resources acquisition and water-use efficiencies, using stable isotopes analysis. 2. Evergreen species seem to depend more on rain-water utilization than the deciduous ones, which utilize ground-water almost exclusively. 3. This pattern is paralleled by the distribution of <sup>13</sup>C values which show a greater water-use efficiency for the evergreen species vs the deciduous ones.
3599007|1. Plants that grow beneath trees in arid systems may frequently experience both water and light limitation, although protection from high radiation loads during drought may compensate for a loss of productivity due to reduced light availability when water is plentiful. 2. We examined the effects of shading, during an imposed water deficit, on the carbon gain, stomatal conductance
4540076|1. Optimal partitioning theory (OPT) suggests that plants should allocate biomass to the organ that acquires the most limiting resource. An implied assumption of this is that there are trade-offs in allocation between leaf, stem and root functions. 2. Recently, an alternative approach, allometric biomass partitioning theory (APT), was developed to predict how plants should divide their metabolic production between leaves, stems and roots, based on the constraints of body size. APT predicts that, for an allometrically ideal plant, leaf mass should scale to the 3/4th power of body size, and stem and root mass should scale isometrically to body size. 3. In this study, we combine OPT with APT by investigating biomass partitioning not accounted for by allometric constraints across broad environmental gradients. 4. Intraspecific variability in biomass allocation shows correlations with environmental factors that would be predicted by OPT. However, interspecifically, these patterns either do not appear or are greatly reduced. 5. Our study suggests that, after size is accounted for, intraspecific residual variation in biomass allocation may be partially explained by environmental factors in a manner consistent with OPT. However, the particular patterns vary between species, obscuring large-scale patterns. 6. In summary, differences due to environmental variability can be incorporated with allocation patterns related to total mass to help understand how plants should allocate biomass in response to changes in both size and environment.
3599349|1. Mistletoe infection prevalence typically differs between host tree species. Differences in infection prevalence between hosts are probably the product of mistletoe-host compatibility and frequency of seed deposition on that host by dispersers. 2. We recorded patterns of infection prevalence of two mistletoes, Phragmanthera dschallensis Engl. and Plicosepalus kalachariensis Schinz (Loranthaceae), on different host species. We then tested the importance of mistletoe-host compatibility mechanisms and disperser preferences in determining infection prevalence patterns among different host species. 3. Mistletoe-host compatibility was tested by planting mistletoe seeds on different hosts and recording germination and establishment up to 1 year after planting. There were no significant differences in seed germination, but seedling survival was significantly different among hosts. However, seedling survival was not correlated with infection prevalence among hosts. 4. Disperser preferences were calculated from observations of birds that disperse mistletoe fruits. Both the duration and frequency of disperser visits to trees were greater among parasitized trees. Dispersers did not visit unparasitized trees in proportion to their abundance, but showed preferences for certain tree species. Disperser preferences for trees were correlated with infection prevalence. 5. Mistletoe-host compatibility mechanisms could not explain patterns of prevalence among hosts in this study. In contrast, disperser preferences were related to prevalence of mistletoe infections among different host tree species.
826654|1. Previous studies have shown that oxygen is limiting in embryo masses of marine invertebrates. It has been suggested that several behaviours found in brooding females of brachyuran crabs are used to ventilate and provide oxygen to the embryo masses. 2. The relationship between female brooding behaviour, oxygen consumption of embryos and oxygen provision to the brood mass for embryos at different developmental stages was studied, using the marine crab Cancer setosus. The changes in oxygen consumption of brooding females associated with changes in oxygen provision to the brood were also estimated. 3. Brooding females of C. setosus behaved differently from non-brooding females. Abdominal flapping was associated with an increase in oxygen availability in the centre of the brood mass; the frequency of abdominal flapping increased with embryonic development, as oxygen demand of crab embryos increased. Oxygen consumption of brooding females also increased throughout embryonic development. The difference in oxygen consumption between brooding and non-brooding females was used as an indicator of the cost of oxygen provision (brooding). 4. These results provide the first evidence - among crabs and other marine invertebrates - of a direct link between active brood care and oxygen provision. It is possible that parental care in marine invertebrates is strongly linked to oxygen provision, since oxygen limitation has been reported for several brooding taxa. The simple physiological constraint of oxygen provision in marine invertebrates may have important ecological and evolutionary consequences.
10.2307/2390268|1. It is widely assumed that stressors such as toxicants affect organisms by impairment of those life-cycle variables that are most sensitive to these toxicants. We tested this premise by contrasting a fitness assessment with the most sensitive life-cycle variable approach using cadmium and the nematode Plectus acuminatus as a case study. 2. Based on complete life-cycle experiments, a deterministic model was constructed relating changes in juvenile and adult variables, including a Weibull survival distribution, to fitness, which was defined as the intrinsic rate of population increase. 3. Based on a sensitivity analysis of the model it was indicated that impairment of the most sensitive trait, the reproductive period which was reduced by 45%, did not have any effect on fitness. However, a prolongation by cadmium of the juvenile period by 7.5%, the least sensitive trait, resulted in a fitness decrease of 5%. 4. Application of this approach to the evaluation of critical effect levels for cadmium implies that a hazard assessment based on the most sensitive life-cycle trait leads to erroneous predictions of the biological impact that toxicants cause.
3599351|1. It is hypothesized that defoliation-induced changes in plant carbon allocation and root soluble C concentration modify rhizosphere C availability and, further, the abundance and activity of soil microbes and their grazers. To test this hypothesis, field-grown Lolium perenne swards were defoliated twice during their second growing season at two nitrogen availabilities (added N or no added N). Plant, soil and microbial attributes were measured 2 and 4 days after the last defoliation, and nematode abundance was measured 6 days after the last defoliation. 2. Defoliation decreased shoot production in plots where N was added, but had no significant effect in plots where N was not added. Root biomass and the ratio of root mass to shoot production were not affected. 3. Defoliation increased root soluble C concentration by 26% at the first harvest (2 days after defoliation) and by 18% at the second harvest (4 days after defoliation). Leaf N concentration was 27% lower in defoliated than in non-defoliated swards at the first harvest, while that of stems was 14% higher in defoliated swards at both harvests, and that of roots was not affected. Defoliation increased root C: N ratio, decreased stem C: N ratio, and did not have a statistically significant effect on leaf C: N ratio. 4. Soil attributes (soil soluble C concentration and soil C and N concentrations) were not affected by defoliation. Similarly, microbial attributes such as microbial C and N content, bacterial abundance in rhizosphere soil, and diversity of C sources utilized by the rhizosphere microbial community, did not differ between defoliated and non-defoliated swards. 5. Among nematode trophic groups, defoliation reduced the abundance of fungivorous and herbivorous nematodes by 70 and 47%, respectively, but did not affect the abundance of bacterivorous, omnivorous and predatory nematodes. 6. Although defoliation altered plant C allocation and root soluble C concentration, these changes did not influence C availability, soil microbial growth or the abundance of bacteria-feeding nematodes in the plant rhizosphere. Instead, the effects on root- and fungus-feeding nematodes suggest that the effects of defoliation on soil communities were propagated not through the effects of root-released C on bacteria and bacterial grazers, but through effects of root quality on root-feeders and possibly through effects of mycorrhizal fungi on fungus-feeders.
2390360|1. To evaluate differences in energy allocation to gonadal development of resident and anadromous Brown Trout, Salmo trutta, we analysed tissue composition and energy contents of adults of the two morphs from three small streams in southernmost Norway. Somatic energy per unit mass of anadromous spawners (5.0  0.6 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> wet weight) was 1.1 times that of the residents. This difference was chiefly due to a 1.4-times higher lipid content in anadromous (4.9  1.5%) than resident trout. The somatic protein and carbohydrate contents per unit mass were higher in resident than anadromous fish. 2. Somatic energy content per unit mass increased linearly with body length in resident but not anadromous fish. This increase was due to a significant increase in lipid content with fish size in resident contrary to anadromous trout. 3. The mass-specific energy content of the ovaries was higher for residents (8.4  0.4 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> wet weight) than anadromous (7.81  0.5 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> wet weight) trout. This was due to higher lipid and protein contents per unit mass in resident than anadromous females. In males, no similar differences between morphs were found (5.9  0.8 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> wet weight). The mass-specific energy content of the ovaries was c. 1.4 higher than that of the testes, mainly caused by a 2.3-2.6 higher lipid content per unit mass of eggs. 4. The mean gonadosomatic index (kJ %) was higher in anadromous (34.0  9.4) than resident (28.6  5.5) females, but not in males ( 3%). In females, but not in males, gonadal energy increased linearly with increasing somatic energy of the fish. 5. Female gonadal energy at corresponding somatic energies was higher than that of males. On average, the energetic investment in gonads relative to soma of first-time spawners in the year of maturation was estimated at 11% in males and 67% in females.
10.2307/2389500|Physiological manipulations offer an alternative and complementary method to quantitative genetics as a means of investigating life-history trade-offs. Sixteen manipulations were performed in a physiological analysis of trade-offs which have been analysed genetically in a companion paper. Evidence is presented of a physiological trade-off for juveniles between development rate and adult weight, and a physiological trade-off for adults between fecundity and adult period. The latter was not detected by the genetic analysis because of lack of genetical variation. The physiological and genetical approaches proved to be complementary.
40603057|1. Spiders are the most sexually size dimorphic terrestrial animals and the evolution of this dimorphism is controversial. Patterns of sexual size dimorphism (SSD) in spiders have been related to individual performance and size. In 2002 Moya-Larao, Halaj & Wise proposed the ' gravity hypothesis' to explain patterns of sexual size dimorphism in spiders whereby species building webs high in the vegetation are predicted to show greater SSD than those that build lower down. They advocated an advantage in climbing speed in smaller males searching for females in high places. The gravity hypothesis predicts a negative relationship between male size and climbing speed. In 2007 Brandt & Andrade questioned this interpretation and proposed that the pattern of SSD in spiders is better explained by an advantage for larger males of low-dwelling species to run faster along the ground. 2. We induced male spiders to run a standard distance up vertical poles of different diameters to examine the predicted relationship between size and climbing speed. We tested two species of extremely size-dimorphic orb-web spiders, Argiope keyserlingi and Nephila plumipes, that differ in the height at which females tend to build webs, and one species of jumping spider, Jacksonoides queenslandica, with low levels of size dimorphism. We also examined morphological determinants of horizontal motility by inducing males to run along a raceway. 3. Substrate diameter was consistently found to influence climbing performance. In N. plumipes, climbing speed was slowest on the widest diameter substrate. In A. keyserlingi, size-adjusted leg length and substrate diameter interacted to determine climbing speed, while in J. queenslandica, there was an interaction between body size and substrate diameter on climbing speed. In the effect of substrate diameter, we have identified a potential bias in previous tests of the gravity hypothesis. 4. Our results do not support the prediction of the gravity hypothesis. There was no evidence of a negative relationship between body size and climbing speed in the two orb-web species with high levels of SSD. Our results are also not consistent with a recent modification of the gravity hypothesis that suggests a curvilinear relationship between climbing speed and size. 5. Body size was positively associated with maximum running speed only in the cursorial hunter J. queenslandica. For this spider, results are more consistent with Brandt & Andrade's explanation for variation in SSD in spiders, that larger males are selected for superior running ability in low-dwelling species, rather than selection for smaller size for climbing to females in high-dwelling species.
3599063|1. Bunchgrasses are clonal plants whose dominance of moist grasslands worldwide is maintained largely through tiller recruitment. Tiller recruitment in clonal plants is a subset of the problem of lateral bud outgrowth in higher plants. This paper proposes that three currently competing hypotheses of lateral bud outgrowth -- apical dominance; the nutrition hypothesis; and photosensitivity to the red: far-red light ratio -- all operate in a manner dependent on environment and plant form. 2. The evidence for each hypothesis is reviewed, following which an integrated model is provided that links the three hypotheses into a cohesive strategy. Consequently we assess tiller recruitment by bunchgrasses in terms of the constraints of their functional growth form and their environment. Of the mineral nutrients, only nitrogen is considered because it is the only nutrient whose relationship with tiller recruitment is well established. 3. The integrated model maintains the accepted paradigm that actual bud release is hormonally controlled by the auxin: cytokinin ratio, although local nutrient concentrations may also be inhibitory. Importantly, each hormone is controlled by local signals in the shoots and roots, respectively, facilitating appropriate responses to environmental conditions. Auxin production and export from the shoots is moderated by phytochrome responses to red: far-red light ratios. Cytokinin production is mediated by root N concentration which, in turn, is a function of N absorption from the soil and seasonal reallocation of tissue N. 4. The growth form of bunchgrasses and the environment in which they are found emphasize that N has a strong mediatory role over tiller production which allows the grass plant to respond appropriately to shifts in this limiting resource. This suggests that control of lateral bud outgrowth may have an evolutionary basis in resource competition for N.
4139370|1. Egg yolks contain carotenoids that protect biological molecules against free-radical damage and promote maturation of the immune system. Availability of carotenoids to birds is often limited. Trade-offs can thus arise in the allocation of carotenoids to different physiological functions, and mothers may influence the immunocompetence of nestlings by modulating the transfer of carotenoid to the yolk. 2. In the great tit Parus major, we experimentally manipulated the dietary supply of carotenoid to mothers, and partially cross-fostered hatchlings to investigate the effect of an increased availability of carotenoids during egg laying on immunocompetence of nestlings. 3. In addition, we infested half of the nests with hen fleas Ceratophyllus gallinae to investigate the relationship between carotenoid availability, resistance to ectoparasites and immunocompetence. 4. We found that the procedure of cross-fostering can reduce the immune response of nestlings, but this effect can be compensated by the maternally transferred carotenoids. Cross-fostered nestlings of carotenoid-supplemented females show a similar immune response to non-cross-fostered nestlings, while cross-fostered nestlings of control females mounted a weaker cell-mediated immune response. This suggests that yolk carotenoids may help nestlings to cope with stress, for example the one generated by cross-fostering and/or they may enhance nestling competitiveness. 5. There was no statistically significant interaction between parasite and carotenoid treatments, as would be expected if carotenoids helped nestlings to fight parasites. Under parasite pressure, however, lighter nestlings raised a lower immune response, while the immune response was only weakly correlated with body mass in uninfested nests.
41319588|1. Extension of life span by food shortage, often mimicked by calorie restriction (CR) in the laboratory, is one of the most common life-history alterations in eukaryotes. Although the life-history of offspring often changes in response to the parental environment, it has remained ambiguous whether or not CR-induced longevity is transmitted to the next generation. 2. Here, we investigated the effects of CR on life span, oxidative stress resistance and the expression levels of two antioxidant enzymes, catalase and manganese Superoxide dismutase (Mn SOD), in the parthenogenetic rotifer Brachionus plicatilis during two consecutive generations. 3. Rotifers under CR lived 50% longer than those fed ad libitum (AL) in association with enhancement of oxidative stress resistance and increased mRNA levels of catalase and Mn SOD. 4. The daughters from the CR-treated mothers lived 20% longer than those from the mothers fed AL regardless of food-rich and CR conditions for the daughter. Furthermore, the daughters from the CR-treated mothers were endowed at birth with a higher ability to resist oxidative stress and the increased mRNA levels for catalase, but not for Mn SOD. In agreement with the mRNA expression patterns, CR increased the protein levels of catalase and Mn SOD in eggs and the whole body of mothers, respectively. 5. Our results for these asexually reproducing rotifers provide the first evidence that the longevity and oxidative stress resistance resulting from CR can be passed on to subsequent generations.
10.2307/2389458|The perennial herb Delphinium nelsonii Greene is pollinated by hummingbirds and bumble-bees in Colorado, USA. Birds and bees were induced to forage in an aviary and the resulting carryover of pollen and fluorescent dye powder from an initial male-phase donor flower to emasculated female-phase recipients was compared. Bumble-bee visitation caused dye transfer whose properites closely resembled those of pollen transfer on average, while hummingbird visitation caused more variable deposition of dye and pollen on recipients and longer distances of pollen than of dye movement on average. The last result implies that pollen dispersal and genetic neighbourhood area are more extensive than estimated previously from dye dispersal in D. nelsonii populations. Pollen transfer in this species also is comparable to that in two sympatric herbs. Ipomopsis aggregata (Pursh) V. Grant and Erythronium grandiflorum Pursh.
3806585|1. Leaf respiratory temperature responses and general leaf properties of Quercus rubra were measured throughout the 2003 growing season in a deciduous forest in the northeastern USA. Measurements were made in the upper and lower portions of the canopy at two sites with different soil water availability. Correlations among respiration and various leaf properties were examined. 2. At a set temperature (
2656536|1. The speeds of locomotion in nature were quantified for juveniles and adult females of the lizard Anolis lineatopus during escape from a threat, feeding and undisturbed locomotion (juveniles only), and compared these data both with data gathered previously on maximal laboratory performance, and with field data gathered previously for adult males. 2. The following questions were addressed: (1) Within a particular intraspecific class, do lizards move at different speeds during different behaviours? (2) Within a particular behaviour, do intraspecific classes differ in speed? (3) Do juveniles differ from adult males in the entire distribution of speeds and distances moved when undisturbed? 3. Locomotion was typically fastest during escape, followed by feeding and then undisturbed locomotion. Within escape and undisturbed activity, the intraspecific classes differed significantly in absolute speed, relative speed and percentage maximal speed. For the entire distribution of movements during undisturbed locomotion, juveniles moved shorter distances and at slower speeds (between 0 and 10% of maximal) than adult males. 4. The relatively high percentages of maximal speed that juveniles employ when escaping and feeding provide limited support for the hypothesis that juveniles are compensating for their relatively poor sprinting capacities.
10.2307/2390139|1. Infection of plants by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizas (VAM) was reduced by application of the contact fungicide iprodione in two early successional plant communities. 2. One community was initiated in 1988 and monitored for four years, the other started in 1990 and monitored for 18 months. 3. In both communities reduction in fungal infection resulted in a lower plant species richness, with a number of species occurring in untreated (control) plots but absent in fungicide-treated plots. These were mostly perennial forbs. 4. It is suggested that VAM fungi are important in structuring early successional communities and that this is brought about by enhanced seedling establishment of forbs when fungi are present.
2656406|1. One of the climate change scenarios predicted for the UK is warmer winters and additional summer rainfall, which may favour growth and survival of fungal pathogens. We tested several hypotheses on the fate of persistent seeds in the soil and the role of fungal pathogens under this predicted climate change. 2. We buried seed bags containing fungicide-treated and non-fungicide-treated seeds of four species with persistent seed banks (Convolvulus arvensis L., Lotus corniculatus L., Medicago lupulina L. and Rubus fruticosus L.) under control and simulated climate change (winter warming plus supplemented summer rain) conditions, and monitored seed survival over 1 to 2 years. 3. Fungicide treatment resulted in a significant increase in the percentage of intact seeds recovered for only two of the four species, M. lupulina and R. fruticosus. Seeds of M. lupulina that were treated with fungicide remained viable in the soil for longer than non-treated seeds. Thus, the effect of fungal pathogens on seed persistence in the soil appears to be species specific. 4. There was no significant effect of the simulated climate (winter warming plus supplemented summer rain) on seed persistence in the soil, for any of the four species. Neither was a significant climate x fungicide treatment interaction found for any of the four species. Thus, it does not appear that the conditions provided in the simulated climate plots favoured the growth and survival of fungal pathogens affecting the soil seed banks of the four species studied here. 5. The use of fungicides in manipulative experiments and the importance of field experiments that simulate predicted climate change are discussed.
10.2307/2389597|This study was designed to describe the spatial and temporal dynamics of an assemblage of linyphiid spiders during recovery from local depletion by an insecticide. A field of winter wheat was partly sprayed with 10g a.i. ha<sup>-1</sup> of deltamethrin. Of the linyphiid spiders, Erigone atra (Blackwall) was reduced by 89% and Oedothorax apicatus (Blackwall) females by 82%. Recovery of the populations is described in space and time by comparisons of relative densities of spiders at different distances from an adjacent unsprayed area using multiple-range tests, regression models and a diffusion model. Median estimated recovery times (ERT<sub>50</sub>) are calculated for species at different distances from the unsprayed area. For O. apicatus females ERT<sub>50</sub> ranged from 1.1 to 15.3 weeks and for E. atra from 3.7 to 6.5 weeks at 15 and 75 m from the unsprayed area. Differences in recovery patterns for three spider categories are explained in terms of susceptibility to the pesticide and modes of dispersal. The consequences are discussed with reference to interplot interference in field ecotoxicity trials and commercial practice.
10.2307/2389907|1. Photosynthesis, transpiration and carbon isotope ratios of 11 mistletoes and their hosts were measured in central and eastern Australia to test hypotheses regarding (i) similarity of photosynthetic rate between host and parasite and (ii) significance of host xylem carbon as a contributor to parasite carbon gam. 2. Differences in photosynthetic rates of mistletoes and their hosts were not statistically significant, although most mistletoes had slightly lower photosynthetic rates and much higher transpiration rates than their hosts. 3. Uptake of carbon dissolved in the xylem sap of the host was estimated from the discrepancy between observed and predicted carbon isotope ratios. Dividing xylem carbon gain by measured transpiration yielded a mean \pm SE xylem carbon concentration of 10\pm2.0 mM. Addition of xylem carbon gain to photosynthesis for the mistletoes further reduced differences between mistletoe and host carbon gain. 4. Heterotrophic carbon gain, derived from the host xylem sap, represented approximately 15% of the total carbon gain on average. Patterns are discussed in terms of possible selection for equivalent shoot growth rates between parasite and host.
2656359|1. Tower-based eddy covariance and measurements of the vertical CO<sub>2</sub> concentration gradient within the canopy were used to quantify the seasonal variations in the net ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> exchange (NEE) of a 28-30 m tall transitional tropical forest (cerradao). The study was conducted near the city of Sinop, Mato Grosso, Brazil (11<sup></sup>24.75' S; 55<sup></sup>19.50' W), which is located in the ecotone of two major regional ecosystem types of South America (tropical rainforest and savanna). 2. The NEE during the dry season (August-September) was in balance, but during the transition period between the dry and wet seasons (October-November) the cerradao stand became a net source of 50-150 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> CO<sub>2</sub> to the atmosphere. Measurements during the wet season (February, April) indicate that the forest was a net sink of between -55 and -102 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>. 3. The NEE of the transitional tropical forest was more similar to that of tropical rainforest during the wet season, but during the dry season the NEE of the transitional forest was more similar to that reported for tropical savanna. The data suggest that seasonal variations in rainfall have important implications for the seasonal pattern of NEE in cerradao.
10.2307/2389431|The body dimensions and weights of female Lesser black-backed gulls were analysed to investigate which most accurately described body size and whether these measures, together with body weight, could be used to predict the level of fat and protein in a live bird. Conventional measures were not found to predict body size as accurately as a combination of tarsus, sternum keel and wingspan. Using these to indicate basic body size it was possible to predict accurately the fat but not the protein content of a bird from its dry body weight. Further work is needed to assess the technique in the field.
10.2307/2389509|The `chemical exclusion' of fungi, using fungicides, is probably the only practical method of studying the overall role of these organisms in natural vegetation. No currently available systemic fungicide is active against both lower and higher fungi and only one compound shows significant basipetal translocation. On the one hand, these restrictions may allow the effects of different fungal groups to be isolated. On the other, the chemical exclusion of a broad range of fungi will require the use of at least two compounds and both root and shoot applications. The correct interpretation of any such study requires knowledge of the direct effects of the fungicide(s) on treated plants in the absence of fungi. Direct effects on crop growth are known for many fungicides and are especially pronounced in the widely used triazole compounds. We report here the responses of 19 herbaceous wild species to five fungicide treatments. The effects of fungicide treatments on growth were highly species specific. Benomyl, a benzimidazole, was the only fungicide which had no significant effect on any species. Metalaxyl, which is active against lower fungi, reduced the dry weight of Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop. Fluzilazol, a broad-spectrum triazole fungicide, was applied alone and in combination with metalaxyl, and in both cases caused reduced expansion or distortion of leaves in many dicotyledonous species, and in some of these significantly reduced dry weight. Oxycarboxin, a carboxin compound active against Basidiomycete fungi, inhibited the growth of C. arvense and Solanum dulcamara L. The pronounced plant responses to fluzilazol, and probably other triazoles, may make them unsuitable for chemical exclusion. The more limited direct effects of the remaining compounds on higher plants are discussed with respect to their possible use for chemical exclusion.
10.2307/2390234|1. The epiphyte Guzmania monostachia induced CAM activity when transferred to high light intensity (PFD) for 2 weeks under well-watered and water-stressed conditions. 2. Nocturnal acidity resulted from the refixation of respiratory CO
40407701|1. The xylem pressure inducing 50% loss of hydraulic conductivity due to embolism (P) is widely used for comparisons of xylem vulnerability among species and across aridity gradients. However, despite its utility as an index of resistance to catastrophic xylem failure under extreme drought, P may have no special physiological relevance in the context of stomatal regulation of daily minimum xylem pressure and avoidance of hydraulic failure under non-extreme conditions. Moreover, few studies of hydraulic architecture have accounted for the buffering influence of tissue hydraulic capacitance on daily fluctuations in xylem pressure in intact plants. 2. We used data from 104 coniferous and angiosperm species representing a range of woody growth forms and habitat types to evaluate trends in three alternative xylem hydraulic safety margins based on features of their stem xylem vulnerability curves and regulation of daily minimum stem water potential <tex-math>$\Psi _{stem\min } $</tex-math> under non-extreme conditions: (i)<tex-math>$\Psi _{stem\min } - P_{50} $</tex-math> (ii)<tex-math>$\Psi _{stem\min } - P_e $</tex-math> the difference between <tex-math>$(\Psi _{stem\min } )$</tex-math> and the threshold xylem pressure at which loss of conductivity begins to increase rapidly <tex-math>$(P_e )$</tex-math> and (iii) <tex-math>$P_e - P_{50} $</tex-math>, an estimate of the steepness of the vulnerability curve between <tex-math>$P_e $</tex-math> and P-Additionally, we assessed relationships between xylem capacitance, species-specific set-points for daily minimum stem water potential and hydraulic safety margins in a subset of species for which relevant data were available. 3. The three types of hydraulic safety margin defined increased with decreasing species-specific set-points for <tex-math>$\Psi _{stem\min } $</tex-math> suggesting a diminishing role of stem capacitance in slowing fluctuations in xylem pressure as <tex-math>$\Psi _{stem\min } $</tex-math> became more negative. The trends in hydraulic safety were similar among coniferous and angiosperm species native to diverse habitat types. 4. Our results suggest that here is a continuum of relative reliance on different mechanisms that confer hydraulic safety under dynamic conditions. Species with low capacitance and denser wood experience greater daily maximum xylem tension and appear to rely primarily on xylem structural features to avoid embolism, whereas in species with high capacitance and low wood density avoidance of embolism appears to be achieved primarily via reliance on transient release of stored water to constrain transpiration-induced fluctuations in xylem tension.
10.2307/2389575|Insect species in which males pass a spermatophore to females during mating have been important in the investigation of parental investment theory. Most studies have assumed the mass of the spermatophore passed by the male during copulation is an appropriate estimate of its relative value to a female. However, our investigation of this assumption has shown that no relationship exists between either total lipid or hydrocarbons contained in a spermatophore and its mass in Pseudaletia unipuncta (Haworth). Analysis of spermatophores produced by multiply mated P. unipuncta males indicated that, while spermatophore mass and total lipid contained in the spermatophore were reduced by previous matings, levels of hydrocarbons remained relatively stable. The hydrocarbons found in the spermatophore are similar to those found in eggs and thus represent a potential male nutrient investment. We question the use of mass as an estimate of male investment in offspring and discuss the need to integrate life-history theory, particularly those facets involved with nutritional ecology, into parental investment theory.
40205485|1. Melanin is one of the major pigments of vertebrates and has many suggested functions. Although it is supposed to have an antipathogenic effect, its relationship to infection with ecto-and endoparasites largely remains to be examined. 2. The common buzzard Buteo buteo occurs in three eumelanin morphs which differ in their life-time reproductive success. We examined the distribution of the blood-sucking ectoparasite Carnus haemapterus and the blood parasite Leucocytozoon toddi among buzzard nestlings and related parasite infection to the morph of the host and its parents. We controlled the effect of melanin morph on parasites for the potentially confounding total leukocyte numbers, heterophil : lymphocyte ratio (H : L ratio), age, sex, hierarchical rank within the brood and annual food availability. 3. Blood parasite prevalence was lower in offspring of intermediately coloured males. This pattern was apparent during high and low food availability, and although this result did not remain under intermediate vole densities, it could contribute to observed fitness differences in male buzzards. In contrast, carnid fly score increased with darkness of the host plumage. However, among chicks infected with the blood parasite, Leucocytozoon infection intensity decreased with plumage darkness. 4. The two parasite species may exert selection pressures in opposite directions on melanism of their host. Therefore, buzzards with intermediate amounts of melanin may prosper as they are sufficiently protected against endoparasites, but not too attractive for ectoparasites. Parasites could help explain the persistence of colour polymorphism in their buzzard host.
41239446|1. Behavioural adaptations of ectotherms to thermally heterogeneous environments are still overlooked in the literature despite the fact that organismal behaviour could enhance survival in the warming world. This is particularly critical in the intertidal where most ectotherms live at, or near to the upper limit of thermal tolerance. 2. This study investigated (i) the environmental factors determining the body temperatures of the intertidal gastropod Nerita atramentosa, (ii) the space-time variability in environmental and individual body temperatures and (iii) the potential variability in N. atramentosa thermoregulatory behaviours, i.e. microhabitat selection and aggregation. 3. Thermal imaging was used to assess the body temperatures of N. atramentosa and surrounding substrata over two seasons (autumn and summer), at two shore levels (low-vs. high-shore levels) within two habitats of different topographic complexity (rock platform and boulders) on the same rocky shore. 4. Snail body and substratum temperatures were significantly and positively correlated within each habitat at both seasons. Substratum temperature may thus be considered as a primary driver of body temperatures of organisms that attach to a substratum. Substratum temperature and other variables such as solar irradiance critically need to be integrated in climate-change models that use single climatic variables (e.g. air temperature) that are not necessarily correlated with individual body temperatures in nature. 5. The high space-time variability in both substratum and body temperatures reinforces the growing evidence that small spatial scale variations may surpass those observed at larger spatial scales. 6. Nerita atramentosa thermoregulatory behaviour under high thermal stress appeared to be habitat specific. 7. The small spatial scale heterogeneity in environmental and individual temperatures and in thermoregulatory behaviours has stressed the need to focus on body temperature patterns at the niche level and to integrate the organismal behaviour in climate-change models.
40863574|1. Aposematic animals advertise their defences to predators via warning signals that often are bright colours combined with black patterns. Prdation is assumed to select for large pattern elements and conspicuousness of warning signals because this enhances avoidance learning of predators. However, conspicuousness of the colour pattern can vary among individuals of aposematic species, suggesting that warning signal expression may be constrained by opposing selection pressures. If effective warning signals are costly to produce, variation in signal expression may be maintained via physiological trade-offs. To understand the costs of signalling that might underlay both physiological and ecological trade-offs, it is crucial to identify the pigments involved in aposematic traits, how they or their precursors are acquired and how their production and/or deposition interact with other physiological processes. 2. We characterized the pigments responsible for the genetically and phenotypically variable orange-black warning signal of the hairy larvae of an Arctiid moth, Parasemia plantaginis. We tested orange and black coloured hairs for the presence of six candidate pigment types using high-performance liquid chromatography, spectral and solubility analyses. 3. After excluding the presence of carotenoids, ommochromes, pterins and pheomelanins in orange hairs, our results suggest that tiger moth larvae produce their orange warning signal by depositing both diet-derived flavonoids and trace levels of synthesized eumelanin in their hairs. The nearby black hairs are coloured by eumelanin. 4. In light of previous studies, we conclude that although a large orange patch increases the 1 larvae's antipredator efficacy, variation in the size of orange patches within a population can be driven by scarcity of flavonoids in diet. However, traces of eumelanin found in the orange hairs of the larvae may also play a significant role in the maintenance of the signal pattern on poor quality diets. 5. The goal of the future studies will be to test the condition dependence of pigment deposition in aposematic colour patterns by directly manipulating relevant nutritional parameters such as dietary flavonoid or nitrogen content (i.e. amino acid content).
10.2307/2390279|1. In order to better document the thermoregulatory effectiveness of observed behaviours compared to other possible behaviours, we develop a model of interception of solar radiation. We demonstrate its use with data from a population of the orbweaving spider Nephila clavipes inhabiting a mid-altitude Mexican desert. 2. Nephila clavipes exhibits three behaviours that appear related to thermoregulation in this extreme climate: microhabitat selection, orb-web orientation and postural adjustments. 3. Large females more often built in open spaces without shade and small juveniles built within shrubs in shaded web sites. Webs built by large females tended to have a north-south orientation, whereas among small juveniles there was no correlation in web orientation. 4. Only individuals in unshaded sites exhibit postural thermoregulation, in which the spider's abdomen tracks the elevation of the sun. The simulation revealed that interception of solar radiation by large females was reduced by solar tracking, but that the north-south orientation of the orb did not reduce the interception of solar radiation relative to an east-west orientation.
10.2307/2389871|1. Influences of acclimation to winter, winter stresses (5<sup></sup>C, severe hypoxia) and reacclimation to summer conditions (20<sup></sup>C, normoxia) on life-history traits and energy allocation were determined in small and large Nephelopsis obscura. 2. Acclimation to winter did not affect feeding but resulted in decreased growth and enhanced energy allocation to glycogen (GN), triaclyglycerols (TAG) and total lipid (TL). Winter stresses resulted in a significant decrease in GN, TAG and TL which were subsequently rapidly replenished in both small and large N. obscura. 3. Even with very low feeding rates during winter stresses energy derived from GN, TAG and TL was adequate to maintain body weight. 4. Dynamics of storage components during reacclimation and subsequent growth in summer conditions resulted in leeches experiencing winter stresses at a small size attaining mature levels of GN, TAG and TL components earlier, while leeches experiencing winter stresses at a large size attained significantly higher levels than control leeches at maturity. 5. Size at maturity was unaffected by treatment, but the delay in attaining maturity compared to the controls equalled the sum of the treatment times in small leeches and was 30 days longer in large leeches. 6. As there are no genetic differences and no selection through winter mortality for resistant genotypes these results support the hypothesis that N. obscura exhibits a phenotypic facultative response which enhances winter survivorship and affects the subsequent life history.
10.2307/2389484|Ultraviolet (UV)-reflecting visual displays that attract prey and ensure frequent insect-web encounter may be an important factor in the evolution of obligate, group foraging and feeding among spiders. Manipulation of the UV-reflecting properties of webs spun by Argiope argentata (Fabricius) and presence of the spider (also UV reflecting) show that in spatially heterogeneous habitats, spiders foraging in groups attract more insects than solitary ones. Once drawn to a spider cluster, UV-reflecting web decorations lure insects to them and away from undecorated webs spun by neighbouring spiders. Phylogenetic comparisons show that group foraging has evolved frequently among primitive web-spinning spiders that produce silks characterized by high reflectance in the ultraviolet region but infrequently among the derived web spinners that produce silks characterized by low reflectance in the UV or that are spectrally flat. The experimental data presented here, together with data on the spectral properties of silks spun by obligate group foragers and facultative group foragers, suggest that the ability to spin UV-reflecting silks that attract prey and that ensure high rates of insect-web encounter has allowed the evolution of obligate foraging even in sites where prey densities are low or unpredictable. In contrast, group foraging has evolved among spiders that spin silks characterized by low reflectance in the UV, those that do not attract prey, only when insect abundance is high.
3806586|1. Many arthropods depend on carbohydrate-rich food sources such as nectar or honeydew. Nevertheless, we often know little about the extent to which various sugar sources contribute to the diet of arthropods. 2. One way to study food use in the field is to analyse guts of collected insects for source-specific compounds. Sugar sources often show distinct differences in their carbohydrate composition. This applies especially to honeydew, the excretion product of phloem-feeding 'Sternorrhynchae', which often features a broad range of phloem-feeder synthesized di- and oligosaccharides. 3. Out of these oligosaccharides, melezitose, has been widely used as an indicator of honeydew consumption. The use of melezitose or other honeydew saccharides as 'signature sugars' hinges on the assumption that the production of these sugars is unique to honeydew-secreting insects. 4. Here we show that the hymenopteran parasitoids Diadegma semiclausum and D. insulare synthesize the trisaccharides melezitose and erlose as well as the disaccharide maltose when fed sucrose, but not when feeding on an equimolar glucose-fructose mixture. 5. The presence of melezitose, erlose and maltose was confined to the parasitoid's digestive tract, indicating that enzyme activity is restricted to this area. D. semiclausum excrement contained low overall sugar concentrations and low relative levels of melezitose, erlose and maltose. 6. Possible functions of sugar synthesis in these nectar-feeding insects are discussed.
40407743|1. During the early juvenile period, animals are especially prone to heat loss due to their high surface area to volume ratio. Consequently, adverse environmental conditions such as low ambient temperature and wetness affect the energy balance in juveniles more strongly than in adults. 2. Our main study goal was to experimentally measure the influence of low ambient temperatures and wet fur on resting metabolic rates (RMR) and on thermal conductance in young, preweaned (wild-type) European rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus L.), i.e. shortly after young rabbits in the wild usually leave the breeding burrow. 3. We predicted that a higher body mass and therefore a more favourable surface area to volume ratio might decrease the responses of the juveniles to adverse weather conditions. Furthermore, huddling with siblings might buffer the negative influences of low temperature and wet fur. 4. Using studies in field enclosures, we first evaluated the occurrence of huddling in juvenile European rabbits, and recorded the variation in ambient temperature experienced by the young. In laboratory experiments, we then measured RMR in single and pair-housed (huddling) juveniles with dry and wet fur under different ambient temperatures reflecting the conditions experienced by same-aged rabbits in the wild. 5. We found interacting effects of temperature and wetness on RMR and on thermal conductance, which increased more strongly with decreasing temperature when the animals were wet. In addition, RMR decreased significantly with increasing body mass, but only under wet conditions when the temperature was low. 6. Pre-weaned juveniles in the field enclosures almost exclusively huddled in pairs but not in larger groups, probably because of the high juvenile mortality, which was strongly limiting the number of litter mates. In laboratory experiments, we did not find significantly lower RMR or thermal conductance in huddling pairs than in single juveniles. The occurrence of huddling, in the field and in the laboratory, was also not related to ambient temperature conditions. 7. Our study highlights the importance of a high juvenile body mass which helps to reduce maintenance costs under adverse environmental conditions. Such effects might have important implications for the individual's pre-weaning growth and development and may exert long-term effects on fitness-related traits.
10.2307/2389400|Rates of ingestion of sucrose varied with sucrose concentration and butterfly sex, age and size for Speyeria mormonia Edwards (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Peak rates of ingestion occurred between sucrose concentrations of 30% and 40%, as predicted by previous theory. Males fed at a faster rate than did females under most experimental conditions. Rates were also high for medium to large individuals as opposed to small individuals. Ingestion rates decreased with age for males but not for females. These results are compared with data available for other species and considered in the context of information on nectar concentrations and composition in the field and activity budgets for S. mormonia. Finally, the possible impact on plant-pollinator interactions is evaluated.
826664|1. Life-history theory predicts that clutch size and offspring size should evolve to an optimal offspring size vs number (OSN) equilibrium. 2. Offspring size in Swedish Sand Lizards (Lacerta agilis) decreases up to 60% during a female's life with a concomitant increase in clutch size; why do female Sand Lizards not produce an offspring of approximately equal size through life, while adjusting clutch size in accordance with available resources? 3. Our results show that there is year-to-year variation in what factors determine female reproductive success, estimated by the number or proportion of recruits into the second year cohort. 4. In a year with relatively poor female growth rate, poor female condition and probably relatively low potential for resource acquisition, females mating with many partners did relatively better than females mating with fewer partners. 5. In the poor year, relatively larger offspring survived better than smaller ones. 6. In a year with relatively high resource levels, females producing both relatively large young and large clutches were favoured by selection. 7. Depending on environmental conditions, female 'optimal tactics' may differ between episodes of selection.
10.2307/2390189|1. We measured the gas exchange and growth responses of Alocasia macrorrhiza to three light regimes; short lightflecks (SF), long lightflecks (LF), and uniform diffuse light (U), all with the same total daily photon flux density. 2. Relative growth rates (RGR) were highest in the U regime and lowest in the LF regime. Carbon gain was limited by low photosynthetic induction state in the LF plants. A greater contribution from post-illumination CO<sub>2</sub> fixation resulted in increased RGR for the SF plants relative to the LF plants. 3. Photosynthetic capacities and efficiency of sunfleck utilization were unaffected by growth light regime, indicating that there was no acclimation to the temporal distribution of light. In addition. we did not find any differences in carbon allocation patterns which could be attributed to acclimation. 4. We conclude that although sunfleck frequency and duration have substantial effects on carbon gain and growth of A. macrorrhiza, specific acclimation responses have not developed.
2656472|1. Interactive effects of temperature and inorganic carbon availability on photosynthetic acclimation and growth of two submerged macrophyte species, Elodea canadensis and Callitriche cophocarpa, were examined to test the hypotheses that: (1) effects of temperature on growth rate and photosynthetic acclimation are suppressed under low inorganic carbon availability; (2) the plants compensate for the reduction in activity of individual enzymes at lower temperatures by increasing the activity per unit plant mass, here exemplified by Rubisco. The experiments were performed in the laboratory where plants were grown in a factorial combination of three temperatures (7-25 <sup></sup>C) and three inorganic carbon regimes. 2. The relative growth rate of both species was strongly affected by growth conditions and increased by up to 4.5 times with increased temperature and inorganic carbon availability. The sensitivity to inorganic carbon was greatest at high temperature and the sensitivity to temperature greatest at high carbon concentrations. 3. Photosynthetic acclimation occurred in response to growth conditions for both species. The affinity for inorganic carbon and the photosynthetic capacity, both measured at 15 <sup></sup>C, increased with reduced inorganic carbon availability during growth and were greater at warmer than at cooler growth temperature. The acclimative change in photosynthesis was related to the extent of temperature and inorganic carbon stress. Using data for Elodea, a negative relationship between degree of temperature stress and photosynthetic performance was found. In relation to inorganic carbon, a linear increase in CO<sub>2</sub> affinity and photosynthetic capacity was found with increased inorganic carbon stress during growth. 4. The total Rubisco activity declined with increased inorganic carbon availability during growth and with enhanced growth temperature. In addition, the activation state of Rubisco was higher at cooler than at warmer temperatures for Callitriche. This suggests that low-temperature grown plants compensate for the temperature-dependent reduction in activity of the individual Rubisco molecules by enhancing resource allocations towards Rubisco.
2390377|1. A dense understorey of annual and perennial herbs grow under the canopy of Retama sphaerocarpa shrubs in semiarid environments of south-east Spain, influencing plant productivity and diversity at a regional scale. We investigated the facilitation by the shrub on its understorey in field and laboratory experiments with Barley designed to explore the mechanisms of interaction between both vegetation layers and their spatial variation. 2. There was a gradient of spatial heterogeneity in soil chemical fertility under the shrub canopy, with organic matter and soil nitrogen contents higher at the centre than at the edge of the canopy. Dry mass production of Barley was also higher in soils from intermediate positions, and lower in soils from both the centre and edge of the canopy. 3. In the field, pots sown with Barley placed near the centre, at an intermediate position and at the edge of the canopy of Retama shrubs showed significant differences in productivity, suggesting a mulching effect of the canopy that also affects seedling establishment. 4. Micro-climatic measurements showed significant differences in total radiation reaching the soil, mean air and soil temperatures and maximum temperature among different positions in the understorey, increasing radially from the centre to the edge of the canopy. 5. These results and field observations suggest that the optimal association of climatic factors under the canopy would combine with a high soil fertility mediated by litter decomposition to increase biomass production mid-way between the centre and the edge of the canopy. Overstorey and understorey thus interact to increase nutrient retention locally, which benefits both the shrub and the herb layer.
2390399|1. Using existing data on the rate of cutaneous and pulmonary evaporative water loss (EWL) for hibernating Little Brown Bats (Myotis lucifugus) and on the duration of torpor bouts, body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>) and oxygen uptake (V<sub>O</sub><sub>2</sub>) of Golden-mantled Ground Squirrels (Spermophilus saturatus), the rate of EWL was modelled for ground squirrels hibernating at ambient temperatures (T<sub>a</sub>) of -2, 2, 4 and 8 <sup></sup>C. 2. Total EWL showed a curvilinear response to T<sub>a</sub>, being lowest at 2 <sup></sup>C and increasing with both increasing and decreasing T<sub>a</sub>. EWL at -2 <sup></sup>C was about equal to that at 4 <sup></sup>C. The duration of torpor bouts showed the same curvilinear response to T<sub>a</sub> and torpor bout duration at -2 <sup></sup>C was similar to that at 4 <sup></sup>C (8.5 vs 8.3 days, respectively). 3. At T<sub>a</sub>  2 <sup></sup>C, where T<sub>b</sub> of torpid S. saturatus is not metabolically defended, torpor bout duration is significantly related to T<sub>b</sub>, V<sub>O</sub><sub>2</sub> and EWL, with the three variables having similar r<sup>2</sup> values. 4. Using the regression equations generated at T<sub>a</sub> \geq 2 <sup></sup>C to predict torpor bout durations at -2 <sup></sup>C, where T<sub>b</sub> is metabolically defended, shows that the three variables do not have equivalent predictive abilities. T<sub>b</sub> and V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> predicted torpor bout durations of 15.2 and -40.4 days, respectively, compared with observed durations of 8.5 days at -2 <sup></sup>C. EWL predicted torpor bout durations of 8.4 days or only 0.1 days less than that observed at -2 <sup></sup>C. 5. The relation between torpor bout duration and total EWL was insensitive to major variations in cutaneous EWL. Over T<sub>a</sub> ranging from -2 <sup></sup>C to 8 <sup></sup>C, a stepwise multiple regression including T<sub>b</sub>, V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> and EWL as independent variables identified EWL as the only variable significantly correlated with torpor bout duration. 6. Our analyses suggest that torpor bout duration may be influenced by EWL, indicating that animals may need to obtain free water when they arouse. An analysis of the structural and temperature characteristics of ground squirrel hibernacula suggests that they may function as a biological condensing tower. Throughout winter, water should evaporate from the warm lower levels and condense in the colder upper regions and so free water may be available to animals when they arouse.
10.2307/2390119|1. Hakea trifurcata is a dimorphic species that produces two distinct leaf types (broad and needle) with the broad leaves superficially resembling the fruits (follicles) that remain green at maturity. Feeding trials conducted with the white-tailed black cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus funereus latirostris), the major granivore of H. trifurcata, showed that the cockatoos removed fewer follicles when broad leaves were present than when they were absent. 2. Broad leaves are only produced by mature plants and the follicles are physically located near them. Follicles are difficult to distinguish among the broad leaves and apparently both represent similar search images to the cockatoos. This is therefore an unusual case of `self-crypsis' with the follicles mimicking the unrewarding broad leaves. 3. The number of follicles that can be detected by the cockatoos is further reduced by broad leaves shielding the follicles. The increasing size of broad leaves the further away from follicles, together with the spatial distribution of broad leaves, may also aid in diverting the cockatoos from the nutritious follicles.
10.2307/2390156|We test the hypothesis that the responses of vegetation to extreme events is a function of the nutrient stress tolerance of species present. The nutrient stress tolerance of a range of species was defined by a formalized procedure in which traits measured by screening in the laboratory were synthesized using principle components analysis. 2. Results were then compared with the results from a large-scale field experiment which examined the responses of five herbaceous plant communities in Derbyshire, UK to three extreme events (frost, drought and fire). 3. Nutrient stress tolerance was positively correlated with resistance to initial damage and negatively correlated with resilience (speed of recovery). The results illustrate the use of laboratory data to predict the field responses of plants to extreme events and demonstrate that the axis from high to low nutrient stress tolerance can play an effective role in predicting these responses.
20142785|1. In defensive mutualistic associations, reduced risk of predation should permit defended organisms to produce phenotypes with higher offspring production than non-mutualistic, unprotected conspecifics which require costly defensive traits. 2. Here, we show that cotton aphids. Aphis gossypii, which produce any combination of dwarf apterae (low intrinsic rate of increase), light green apterae (medium intrinsic rate of increase), dark green apterae (high intrinsic rate of increase) and alatae (winged dispersal morphs), alter offspring phenotypes when tended by predatory ants. 3. Aphids tended by the Argentine ant, Linepithema humile, have similar numbers of dwarf, dark green and alate offspring, but greater numbers of light green offspring, compared to untended colonies. 4. Because light green morphs have a higher intrinsic rate of increase than dwarf morphs but a decreased risk of parasitism compared to dark green morphs, increased production of the light green phenotype may optimize offspring production in order to maximize clone fitness. 5. Since many organisms have high levels of plasticity and mutualistic interactions are ubiquitous, mutualist-induced polyphenisms may be pervasive.
41239364|1. Mammalian dental morphology and function are strongly linked to diet. Within mammals, phyllostomid bats are the most diverse family in terms of dietary ecology and thus represent a unique opportunity in which to investigate relationships between diet, tooth structure, feeding performance and behaviour. 2. Previous studies have focused on how specific aspects of dental morphology relate to diet. Here we use a comprehensive approach to describe 3D dental topography through a measure called dental complexity. Using phyllostomids as a model system, we investigate the functional significance of molar complexity with respect to prey breakdown of insect-eating species. We generated complexity data from 3D laser scans of molars from 17 species. We quantified feeding performance (ability to break down insects) and behaviour (number of chews) by conducting feeding experiments on 11 species using native prey. 3. Frugivores were found to have the highest molar complexity, which is related to biting into and crushing fruit pulp. Lower complexity of insectivore and omnivore molars can be related to the presence of crests specialized for shearing insect exoskeleton. Increases in the complexity of these shearing teeth translated into higher performance in prey breakdown (smaller exoskeleton particles), but chewing behaviour also played an important functional role. 4. Our results highlight the importance of morphology and behaviour in determining feeding performance, which potentially contributes to resource partitioning within this diverse group of mammals.
10.2307/2389697|Photosynthesis of three marine macroalgae (Hormosira banksii Turn. Dene., Carpophyllum maschalocarpum Turn. Grev., Ecklonia radiata C.Ag. J.Ag.) was measured by O<sub>2</sub> electrode and infra-red gas analysis (IRGA) methods in both steady and fluctuating light regimes Using immersed material of Carpophyllum or Ecklonia in the O<sub>2</sub> electrode the response of mean photosynthetic rate (P) to changes in the frequency (i.e. phase period, T) at different relative amplitudes of fluctuating light was examined. P was also compared to rates predicted from steady state responses on the basis of either integration of photosynthate (P<sub>s</sub>) or integration of irradiance (P<sub>f</sub>). In alternations of saturating and limiting light (defined with reference to steady P-I response of the same plant material) P was > P<sub>s</sub> at T < 300 s, increased markedly as T decreased, and approached P<sub>f</sub> at T = 0.25 s. The enhancement of P at high frequencies was less marked in alternations of sub-saturating and limiting light. P showed little or no change with T for alternations of irradiance within the limiting range. For emersed material in the IRGA the response of P to T showed a dependence on relative amplitude of light fluctuation similar to that obtained in the O<sub>2</sub> electrode. Frequency response patterns (P versus log T) in saturating/limiting amplitudes were comparable for all three species. Irrespective of the amplitude of the fluctuations P -> P<sub>s</sub> at T > 300 s and P -> P<sub>f</sub> at T < 0.25 s. Enhancement of P at high and intermediate frequencies is attributed to the integrated influence of two transients of CO<sub>2</sub> exchange viz. induction loss and post-illumination fixation. The complex interaction of these and other transients such as post-illumination bursts of CO<sub>2</sub> means that previous models of the P versus T response based only on two time constants are probably inadequate. However, for these macroalgae, a modified form of the Thornley (1974) model can be used to predict P at the extremes of the frequency range.
20142859|1. Many organisms are able to vary the duration of life-history stages in response to environmental conditions such as predation risk. However, in those undergoing a metamorphosis, it is not known whether the duration of the metamorphic phase itself can change in response to the presence of a predator, and whether this carries costs. 2. In experiments using the amphibian Xenopus laevis, we found that metamorphosis was accelerated in the presence of a predator and this occurred consistently across the natural range of temperatures experienced by Xenopus. 3. Although metamorphic climax was reduced in duration, a functional tail was maintained for longer in the presence of a predator. Furthermore, burst swimming speed was significantly faster for animals metamorphosing in the presence than in the absence of a predator. This suggests that the more rapid development induced by predator presence does not carry costs in terms of ability to escape predators during metamorphosis. 4. There was no evidence of post-metamorphic costs of faster metamorphic climax in terms of escape response since juveniles from the two predator treatments did not differ in burst swimming speed. However, individuals metamorphosing in the presence of predators lost proportionally more mass during metamorphosis, resulting in smaller juveniles than those without predators. This reduced juvenile size represents a potential cost of accelerating metamorphic development. 5. Therefore, conditions experienced during metamorphic climax, independent of larval conditions, can have a significant influence on the life histories of animals with complex life cycles.
20142886|1. Ecology can have a profound influence on social evolution. However, the role of ecology in the evolution of specialized altruistic phenotypes or 'castes', a recurrent theme in insect societies, is poorly understood. 2. Cephalotes ants nest in pre-existing arboreal cavities, and extant species span four incremental steps in the evolution of a soldier caste that is morphologically specialized for blocking cavity entrances. I address the hypothesis that ecological specialization, defined as specialized use of cavities with entrances close to the area of one ant head, has selected for a morphologically and behaviourally specialized soldier in Cephalotes. This is done with comparative studies of four Cephalotes species, with one representative for each of the four character states of soldier evolution. 3. By quantifying nesting ecology, nest defence and foraging behaviour, I provide strong support for two key predictions of the focal hypothesis. First, the least specialized nesting ecology is seen in the species with the ancestral state of no-soldier. Thus, more individuals are needed to block the average entrance than in other species, and the variation in entrance area is also greater. Second, a systematic increase in ecological specialization (lower mean and variance of entrance area), and behavioural specialization of soldiers, is associated with each of the three transitions to more specialized soldier morphology. This pattern culminates in the consistent use of cavities with an entrance area equal to one soldier head, and a strict soldier-only blocking defence, in the species representing the most specialized and derived soldier morphology. All species used some entrances equal to one ant head, thus it was specifically the specialization on such nests that was associated with increased morphological and behavioural specialization of the soldier. 4. Overall, theses findings provide strong comparative support for the hypothesis that ecological specialization has played a key role in the evolution of a specialized soldier caste in Cephalotes. This pattern is opposite to classic theoretical prediction that a broader resource base should select for caste evolution. The idea that ecological specialization could be a general force in caste evolution is explored, with critical comparative and experimental tests discussed.
41239372|1. Soil micro-organisms play important roles in ecosystems and respond quickly to environmental changes. We examined how understory removal and tree girdling influence the composition of soil microbial community and the litter decomposition in two subtropical plantations. 2. Phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs) analysis was used to characterize soil microbial community. Redundancy analysis and principal response curves (PRC) were used to investigate the relationships between soil microbial community and environmental factors. 3. Understory removal significantly reduced the amount of fungal PLFAs, the ratio of fungal to bacterial PLFAs, and the litter decomposition but did not affect bacterial PLFAs and total PLFAs. In contrast, tree girdling did not affect the soil microbial characteristics. The changes in soil microbial community caused by understory removal were mainly attributed to the indirect effects such as increased soil temperature and soil NO-N availability. In addition, PRC analysis showed that the relative abundance of most PLFAs increased in response to understory removal in the 2-year-old plantation but decreased in the 24-year-old plantation. 4. We propose that understory plants are important components in subtropical forest ecosystems, and play different roles in maintaining soil microbial community and driving litter decomposition processes in young vs. old plantations. The functions of understory plants should be considered in forest management and restoration. The negligible effect of tree girdling on the soil micro-organisms can be attributed to the resprouting trait and mycorrhizal interactions of Eucalyptus.
41239289|1. The extent to which free-ranging large north-temperate mammals seasonally adjust thermo regulation and their energy expenditure under fully natural conditions are unknown. 2. Therefore, using telemetry we measured the heart rate (as a proxy for metabolic rate), rumen temperature (T r ) and locomotor activity (LA) over 2 years for 20 free-ranging Alpine ibex (Capra ibex ibex) living at high altitudes in the Alps. 3. Ibex showed strong seasonal changes in mean daily heart rate with a winter nadir of about 60% below the summer peak. Only 40% of this variation could be attributed to the changes in daily mean T r LA, wind chill, body size and snowfall. The unexplained residual variation in heart rate still showed a strong seasonal pattern. 4. The amplitude of daily rhythms in T r was twice as high during the winter when compared with summer. This was predominantly due to lower daily minimum T r . Thus, the substantial down-regulation of endogenous heat production during winter - as indicated by heart rate - had surprisingly small effects on T r , indicating decreased thermal conductance. 5. Rewarming from the daily T r minimum during the morning hours was independent of heart rate throughout the year, and occurred phase-delayed to the increase in black bulb temperature (BBT). The effects of BBT and LA on the rate of rewarming were maximized within a small range of BBT around 0 C. This suggests that the ibex moved at sunrise to the closest sunny spot to facilitate extensive basking. 6. The energetic benefits of basking can explain the strong residual seasonality of heart rate in Alpine ibex. This partially ectothermic strategy - together with metabolic depression - apparently enables a thrifty use of body fat reserves, the major metabolic fuel during winter, and thus survival of extremely harsh winter conditions despite the virtual absence of food. Therefore, hypometabolism and passive rewarming by basking may be of general importance as a strategy for non-hibernating mammals to survive winter in strongly seasonal habitats.
3598985|1. Allocational shifts in response to light may be an important factor in allowing plants to survive in shade, while increasing their extension rates and competitive ability in sun. To investigate this response, the allocation of above-ground growth between leaves, branches and stems was studied in saplings of Acer pensylvanicum L. and Castenea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh. in the Appalachian mountains of western Virginia, USA. Measurements of current leaf biomass, current and past year leaf numbers and the growth ring widths of branches and stem were used to estimate biomass partitioning for saplings growing in locations ranging from forest understorey to large openings. 2. Both species showed higher leaf area per unit leaf biomass (SLA) and higher allocation of above-ground growth to leaves in shade than in sun. 3. There were no differences between species in the slopes of the relationships of allocation and SLA vs estimated irradiance, but SLA was significantly greater in A. pensylvanicum than in C. dentata at a given light level. Hence, somewhat lower production per unit leaf area is required to maintain the canopy in A. pensylvanicum, consistent with foresters' ratings of greater shade tolerance for this species. 4. Greater foliar allocation in shade than sun has also been observed in broad-leaved evergreen saplings, but generally not in seedlings. This difference is probably related to differences in size and age between seedlings and saplings. Young seedlings typically show exponential growth with no immediate foliar losses, while shaded saplings lie closer to the steady state where new leaves replace old ones with little additional stem growth. 5. Thus trees shift their allocation patterns in an acclimatory fashion, depending on their size and light environment, with the costs of replacing senesced leaves becoming of consequence as juveniles age.
10.2307/2389929|1. Ortho-dihydroxyphenol and cyanoglycoside concentrations were determined in seeds of over 80 species, drawn largely from the native British flora but including a number of weeds and other species of agricultural significance. 2. All seeds examined contained at least trace amounts of hydroxyphenols and three-quarters released hydrogen cyanide on hydrolysis. A highly significant correlation was found between (a) seed persistence in the soil and ortho-dihydroxyphenol concentration and (b) between protein content, as a measure of the nutritional value of the seed, and ortho-dihydroxyphenol content. No such relation was found with cyanoglycosides. 3. Particularly high concentrations of ortho-dihydroxyphenols were found throughout species within the order Myrtales (Onagraceae and relatives), all with little or no seed endosperm. 4. From this broad survey we conclude that ortho-dihydroxyphenols, as a class, play an important role in maintaining seed persistence in the soil, probably by deferring or decreasing the rate of decomposition by microbes as well as by defending against herbivory, and that this is one important mechanism, along with morphological adaptations, which confers longevity and persistence on seeds buried in cool temperate and relatively moist soil conditions.
41319571|1. Communication among cells, tissues and organ systems is essential for survival. Vertebrate and invertebrate animals rely primarily on three physiological systems for intra-organismal communication: the nervous, endocrine and immune systems. Rather than acting independently of one another, these systems communicate in an integrated fashion to coordinate suites of speciesappropriate physiological and behavioural responses. 2. Our understanding of how these three systems are coordinated remains incomplete, in part because the importance of the immune system as part of this regulatory network has only recently been recognized. In contrast to the well-established integrative approach to the study of the endocrine and nervous systems, the study of immunity has traditionally occurred in relative isolation from other physiological systems. Immunity was typically considered to be largely buffered from environmental perturbations. 3. In the last several decades, however, this simplistic view has changed dramatically; we now know that a wide variety of extrinsic and intrinsic factors can affect immune responses (reviewed in: Ader, Feiten & Cohen 2001). This altered perspective has led to the development of new scientific disciplines including psychoneuroimmunology (Ader & Cohen 1981) and ecological immunology (Sheldon & Verhulst 1996). 4. These new research fields focus on the connections among the endocrine, nervous and immune systems. These fields also examine how environmental factors influence interactions among the three systems, and the implications of these interactions for behaviour and host defence. A comparative approach will benefit the search for the adaptive functions of these interactions.
3806566|1. The influence of environmental temperatures and competition combine to determine the distributions of island lizards. Neither a bioenergetic model nor simple models of competition alone can account for the distributions. A mechanistic, bioenergetic model successfully predicts how the abundance of a solitary Anolis lizard species will decline along an island's elevation gradient. However, the abundance trends for sympatric lizards diverge from the predictions of the non-interactive model. 2. Here we incorporate competition in the bioenergetic model and examine how different forms of competition modify the temperature-based abundance predictions. 3. Applying the bioenergetic model with competition to an island chain tests whether the model can successfully predict on which islands two lizards species will coexist. 4. Coexistence is restricted to the two largest islands, which the model predicts have substantially greater carrying capacities than the smaller islands. The model successfully predicts that competition prevents species coexistence on the smallest islands. However, the model predicts that the mid-sized islands are capable of supporting substantial populations of both species. Additional island characteristics, such as habitat diversity, resource availability and temporal disturbance patterns, may prevent coexistence.
3598967| 1. We examined the thermal ecology of Interior Alaska dragonflies (Odonata: Anisoptera). The relationships between mass and passive cooling rate, wing loading, minimum flight temperature (MFT) and thermoregulating ability were examined. These properties were also compared between the behavioural classes: perchers and fliers. All factors with the addition of seasonal and daily flight activity were related to generalized thermal strategies. 2. Passive cooling rate decreased while wing loading and MFT increased with mass. 3. While all species were able to elevate thoracic temperature, larger species were better able to maintain a constant temperature. 4. Both the smallest and largest species of dragonflies were capable of activity at ambient temperatures of approximately 14 C by employing different thermal strategies: low MFT and physiological heat production, respectively. 5. For small species active in cool conditions low MFT may be favoured even if accompanied by poor thermoregulating ability. By contrast, thermoregulation and specialization for high-temperature performance may be favoured in both small and large species during the warmer summer flight season. 6. The smallest and largest dragonflies in Interior Alaska have the shortest and longest daily activity periods, respectively. However this pattern does not hold for the intermediate-sized dragonflies. Thermal strategy displays no clear relationship to daily activity pattern. 
40205533|1. Colour may show effects of senescence because the pigment or structures involved in production of colouration deteriorate with age. 2. We tested this hypothesis by investigating age-related changes in plumage colour for two feather tracts coloured by eumelanin or pheomelanin in a longitudinal study of a cohort of barn swallows Hirundo rustica that reached very old age (at least 5 years). 3. The level of melanization of the throat increased with age in both sexes, but particularly in females. In contrast, the black colour of the plumage of the back was unrelated to age in both sexes. 4. These age-dependent patterns of colouration of different feather tracts of male and female barn swallows suggest that effects of senescence are trait-specific depending on their importance in sexual signalling. The red throat colour based on pheomelanin is involved in sexual selection, with a strong effect in males, but not in females. In contrast, the black colour of the back based on eumelanin is unrelated to sexual selection, but is under natural selection due to intense abrasion of this feather tract. 5. These findings suggest that the relative importance of natural and sexual selection are important determinants of the pattern and rate of senescence of colour.
2656483|1. Studies of reproductive effort in ectotherms have focused primarily on the energetic investment in gamete production; much less is known about the indirect energetic costs of reproduction, such as increased metabolic costs of maintenance or activity. 2. The metabolic cost of reproduction in the oviparous lizard, Sceloporus undulatus, was investigated by measuring the metabolic rate of females prior to and following oviposition. 3. The metabolic rates of gravid females were adjusted for embryonic metabolism by subtracting the metabolic rate of egg clutches, measured immediately after oviposition. 4. The metabolic rate of females when gravid was elevated by 122% compared with that when non-gravid. The difference was not detected until the metabolic rates of gravid females were adjusted for the metabolic rates of the embryos. 5. The increment in metabolic rate associated with reproduction was not correlated with clutch mass or body mass, indicating that different components of reproductive effort (i.e. metabolism vs gametic investment) may not covary in a predictable fashion. 6. Indirect energetic costs of reproduction constitute a substantial portion of the reproductive effort of female S. undulatus, and should be incorporated into theoretical considerations of life history.
41239282|1. Decomposition is a key ecosystem process that determines nutrient and carbon cycling. Individual leaf and litter characteristics are good predictors of decomposition rates within biomes worldwide, but knowledge of which traits are the best predictors for tropical species remains scarce. Also, the effect of a species' position on the leaf economics spectrum (LES) and regeneration light requirements on decomposition rate are, until now, unknown. In addition, land use change is the most immediate and widespread global change driver, with potentially significant consequences for decomposition. 2. Here we evaluate 14 leaf and litter traits, and litter decomposition rates of 23 plant species from three different land use types (mature forest, secondary forest and agricultural field) in the moist tropics of lowland Bolivia. 3. Leaf and litter traits were closely associated and showed, in line with the LES, a slow-fast continuum ranging from species with tough, well-protected leaves (high leaf density, leaf dry matter content, force to punch and litter C : N ratio) to species with cheap, productive leaves [high specific leaf area (SLA) and nutrient concentrations in leaves and litter]. 4. Fresh green leaf traits were better predictors of decomposition rate than litter traits, and leaf nitrogen concentration (LNC) was a better predictor of decomposition than leaf phosphorus concentration, despite the widely held belief that tropical forests are P-limited. 5. Multiple regression analysis showed that LNC, SLA and chlorophyll content per unit leaf area had positive effects on decomposition, explaining together 65-69% of the variation. Species position on the LES and regeneration light requirements were also positively related to decomposition. 6. Plant communities from agricultural fields had significantly higher LNC and SLA than communities from mature forest and secondary forest. Species from agricultural fields had higher average decomposition rates than species from other ecosystems and tended to be at the fast end of the LES. 7. Both individual traits of living leaves and species' position on the LES persist in litter, so that leaves lead influential afterlifes, affecting decomposition, nutrient and carbon cycling.
3599331|1. Detritivores affect plant performance and therefore have the potential indirectly to affect above-ground herbivore populations. 2. In a microcosm study we asked whether changes in the performance of two plant species, Cardamine hirsuta L. and Veronica persica Poiret., arising from the activity of various earthworm communities influenced the consumption rate and development of a leaf-chewer, Mamestra brassicae L. 3. Earthworms increased soil nitrate and foliar nitrogen concentrations. There was no associated increase in plant biomass. 4. There was no significant effect of earthworm treatment on the biomass of M. brassicae larvae. However, highest larval mortality occurred in microcosms without earthworms, while the proportion of larvae that had reached the final instar was lowest. In a 24 h feeding trial, the consumption rate of V. persica foliage by M. brassicae was higher when plants were grown in soil containing earthworms. The complexity of earthworm communities did not affect M. brassicae consumption rates and consequent development. 5. This is the first study to show the potential of detritivore communities indirectly to affect leaf-chewing herbivores. It highlights the need to explore the interactions that occur between above- and below-ground components of plant-insect communities.
10.2307/2390581|1. Resorption of nitrogen and dry matter prior to leaf fall was monitored in 40 mountain birch trees [Betula Ehrh. pubescens ssp tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman] at four sites during 4 consecutive years. The variation in resorption of dry matter and nitrogen was related to the tree individual, summer temperature sum, leaf weight:area ratio, leaf nitrogen content and site. 2. Because of the sampling design the contribution of variation between individuals could only be assessed for 2 of the 4 years. For these 2 years `individual within site' was the most important factor resolving the variation in the resorption of dry matter and nitrogen and in the respective resorption efficiencies. 3. On average, 26% of the dry matter was resorbed before leaf abscission. Dry-matter-resorption efficiency for individual trees varied between 0 and 45%. The leaf weight:area ratio was the factor explaining most of the variation in mass-resorption and mass-resorption efficiency. A significant negative relationship was also found between each of these two variables and the temperature sum. 4. Leaf nitrogen resorption for individual trees varied between 49 and 86 %, with an overall mean of 72%. The nitrogen content of green leaves and the summer temperature were the most and next most important factors determining N resorption and resorption efficiency. A weak relationship was found between nitrogen resorption and mass resorption.
10.2307/2389636|The extent of nutrient limitation of phytoplankton in eutrophic Plusee was studied by enrichment bioassays and by analysing the cellular stoichiometry of monospecific fractions obtained by size fractionation and density-gradient separation. In this lake silicate and nitrogen, but not phosphorus, at times limit the reproductive rates of phytoplankton. The dependence of nutrient-limited reproductive rates on the cellular content of the limiting nutrient (cell quota) could well be described by the Droop model. Biomass specific minimal cell quotas of nitrogen ranged from 0.014 to 0.061 mol N mol<sup>-1</sup> C, minimal cell quotas of silicon ranged from 0.055 to 0.127 mol Si mol<sup>-1</sup> C. The cell quotas of the non-limiting nutrients usually increased with the cell quotas of the limiting nutrient. In contrast to the Droop model, the Monod model which relies on ambient concentrations of limiting nutrients was a much poorer predictor of growth rates.
3599160|1. Bright coloration in birds is typically a sexually selected trait. Expression of such traits is sensitive to environmental factors, so they can function as bioindicators of environmental contamination. Of particular value may be carotenoid-based coloration because it is commonly used as a social signal and these pigments have important health functions. 2. American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) in captivity were exposed to dietary PCBs in March. Colour and plasma carotenoids of exposed and control birds were evaluated at pairing and courtship in April, and in winter in December. Juveniles produced by these birds (exposed to PCBs only in ovo) were examined at fledging and in winter. 3. The brightly coloured ceres and lores were evaluated by comparison to colour charts and quantified using digital photographs, and plasma carotenoid concentrations were quantified by spectrophotometry. 4. During breeding, PCB-exposed kestrels differed from controls for both colour and carotenoids, although the nature of effects was sex-specific. Carotenoids of juveniles were not related to treatment at fledging. 5. In winter, PCB-exposure resulted in patterns of colour/carotenoid variation opposite to controls; exposed adult males were duller, and juveniles of both sexes were brighter, than controls. PCB juveniles had higher plasma levels of carotenoids. Sexual dimorphism was apparent in colour and carotenoids of control adults, but not for PCB-exposed birds. 6. Our results are consistent with endocrine disruption. Modulation of both colour and carotenoids may have serious consequences to social behaviour and health.
4139357|1. Rapid movements in fungi and plants have evolved in different species to facilitate the dispersal of spores and seeds. The mechanisms of action can differ among species, but the effectiveness of these movements has rarely, if ever, been tested. Here we show through a quantitative biomechanical analysis that the stamens of Cornus canadensis L. (bunchberry) are ideal for catapulting pollen vertically at high speeds. 2. We develop a biomechanical model to describe the explosive launch of pollen from the flowers of bunchberry. The model determines the equation of motion for the stamens based only on the morphology and measurements of the parts of the stamens. To measure the motion of the stamens to compare with our model, we analysed individual frames of a video taken at 10 000 fps. 3. The thecae of adjacent stamens dehisce in bud so that the stomia face each other, retaining pollen between neighbouring anthers. As the flowers open, pollen is accelerated vertically as long as the thecae remain in contact. Pollen is released only when the anthers move horizontally and separate. 4. The observed motion of the stamens matches the results from our model through release of the pollen. The model reveals that pollen release (horizontal movement of the anthers) occurs only after the vertical speed is at its maximum. Thus, for this particular catapult mechanism, the morphology of the stamens is optimal for launching light, dry pollen straight upwards at high speed. Pollen launched vertically at high speed both enhances insect pollination by helping to making pollen stick on visiting insects, and also allows for successful wind pollination by propelling pollen into the air column. Seed set by inflorescences in pollinator-exclosure cages further supports the ability of this flower to use wind as a pollination mechanism.
20142868|1. Species of the genus Drosophila reproduce in a wide range of different resources, including fruits, sap, flowers, mushrooms and cacti. Drosophila species and their resources also exhibit considerable variability in geographic distribution. 2. Habitat and resource differences pose enormous challenges for Drosophila species. Host chemistry may include highly toxic compounds and breeding sites may be characterized by extreme abiotic conditions such as high and/or low temperature and humidity. 3. Drosophila reproductive biology, in terms of morphology, physiology, and behaviour, is as variable among Drosophila species as is their resource use. In some species, adults are ready to reproduce upon emergence, whereas one sex or the other in other species may require weeks to become sexually mature. 4. Already a robust system for transmission and population genetic studies, the sequencing of the genomes of 12 diverse Drosophila species now brings the power of genomics to investigators wishing to understand the functional aspects of Drosophila ecology.
10.2307/2390217|1. A passive, rapid response, closed system was developed to measure in situ ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> and CH<sub>4</sub> flux in 0.5-m<sup>2</sup> plots over diurnal, seasonal, and annual time scales in arctic tundra ecosystems. The system consists of a chamber measuring 0.75 m on a side, 0.3 m in height, with acrylic sides, a mylar top, and 6-10 cm radial fans to ensure thorough mixing of the chamber environment. 2. CO<sub>2</sub> concentration and flux rates were measured using a Li-Cor 6200 Portable Photosynthesis System, which is capable of measuring 0.1 p.p.m. s<sup>-1</sup> changes in CO<sub>2</sub> concentration. CH<sub>4</sub> flux rates were measured by sequential sampling of the CH<sub>4</sub> concentration in the chamber over the duration of a 15-20-min incubation period. 3. Performance analyses indicate that light attenuation was \leq 10% of ambient light. The rate of temperature increase within the chamber over the duration of the measurement period was approximately 1.5<sup></sup>C and 0.2<sup></sup>C for the majority of the sampling days at tussuck tundra and wet coastal tundra sites, respectively. The maximum increase in thaw depth due to the bases was approximately 10%, and was a function of the site water balance and the amount of time that the bases were in place. Generally, thaw depth in plots with bases was greater when the bases were in place for a longer period of time (\geq 1 year), while the bases that were installed during the current growing season had a small effect on plot thaw depths. 4. The system had a minimal effect on ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> flux, compared to plots that lacked bases in a wet coastal tundra and southern California turf ecosystem. 5. The system was successfully used to measure the effect of light intensity, soil temperature, and water balance on ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> flux. 6. Due to the rapid response of the system, high sensitivity to low flux rates, high portability, low cost, potential for use in field experiments, and non-invasive sampling design, the system allows for the reliable measurement of CO<sub>2</sub>, CH<sub>4</sub>, and other trace gas flux rates in a variety of ecosystem types.
40963568|1. Although direct contributions of soil invertebrates to carbon turnover are modest, they have a disproportionally large indirect impact through their control over the activity of microbial decomposers. Shifts in soil invertebrate species distribution might have a substantial effect on the decomposition process because their functional role depends on the species' vertical position in soils. Gradients in microclimate and substrate quality and structure largely determine the vertical position of soil invertebrates. Because of the possible impact of climate change on soil invertebrate distribution, and consequently on decomposition, it is important to know the relative contributions of microclimate and substrate quality to the vertical distribution patterns of soil invertebrates. 2. We studied this for springtails (Collembola) as a keystone group in cool and cold biomes, by turning peat cores in a subarctic blanket bog upside down, thereby reversing the substrate quality gradient and leaving temperature and moisture gradients intact. 3. Two opposing groups of springtail species could be distinguished with respect to their abundance responses along the vertical gradient: (i) species that remain associated with the stratum they were originally found in ('stayers') and (ii) species that re-establish the original stratification pattern, by remigration either to the top or deeper layers, irrespective of any substrate quality change ('movers'). Within the 'mover' response pattern, the direction of their migration in response to microclimate changes seemed to coincide with their ecomorphological traits. 4. Our results not only demonstrate that springtail species differ in their responses to changes in climate or substrate quality; they also suggest that interspecific faunal trait variation may provide a useful tool to predict animal responses to climatic changes.
2656336|1. Stable isotopes of nitrogen and carbon are widely used in the evaluation and understanding of trophic interactions, and especially so in aquatic food-webs. However, differences among tissues which occur in consumers such as fish may confound resolution of these ecological relationships, and greatly affect dietary compositions calculated through mass-balance equations. 2. <sup>13</sup>C and <sup>15</sup>N were determined for homogenized whole fry ( 2.7 g) and particular tissues (white muscle, red muscle, liver and heart) of juveniles ( 20.6 g) of Rainbow Trout Oncorhynchus mykiss. 3. Differences in <sup>13</sup>C and <sup>15</sup>N were observed among tissues; removal of lipid resulted in these tissues becoming statistically indistinguishable but more variable in <sup>13</sup>C, particularly in tissues with higher lipid content. Differences in <sup>15</sup>N among tissues may be related to the relative composition of `essential' and `non-essential' amino acids. 5. Acidification, which is used to reduce variability caused by the presence of inorganic carbonate, had a significant effect on <sup>15</sup>N, while having a non-significant effect on the <sup>13</sup>C. This was the case for whole ground fish-fry, which contained 22.6% inorganic carbonates in the form of bones and scales, and for individual fish tissues which contained only very small amounts of inorganic carbonate. 6. White muscle was found to be less variable in <sup>13</sup>C and <sup>15</sup>N than all other tissues, and is probably the best tissue for use in ecological work. Red muscle, which is often closely associated with white muscle, is more variable in <sup>13</sup>C and may constitute a source of significant error in source material identification and dietary overlap.
40603063|1. In forest soils, fungi generally dominate the decomposer community, but their specific, filamentous physiology is often not recognized in nitrogen (N) cycling models. Many litter degrading fungi form large mycelia and have a well-developed capacity to translocate resources within their mycelia. Fungi may thus connect substrates that differ with respect to carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) availability and, thereby, overcome local resource limitation through translocation. 2. Here we test whether the ability of fungi to translocate carbohydrates within their mycelia prevents local C limitation in a low C:N ratio substrate, thereby reducing  mineralization. The capacity of fungi to translocate N to a high C:N ratio substrate in order to increase the decomposition, was also assessed. Two litter decomposing fungi, Marasmius androsaceus and Mycena epipterygia were grown in axenic laboratory microcosms containing spatially separated substrates: pine needles (C:N = 135) and glycine (C:N = 2). 3. In the absence of needles both fungi mineralized the glycine N. When connecting the two substrates, both fungi were able to overcome local C-deficiency on the glycine medium by translocating carbohydrates from the needles. In the presence of needles, N mineralization from glycine was negligible, although the glycine was utilized. Only trace amounts of N were translocated from glycine to the needles. 4. A basic assumption of N cycling models is that substrates of different qualities decompose in an independent manner. Our observations imply that this assumption may be violated in heterogenic environments dominated by fungi.
10.2307/2389863|1. Rosettes of the yellow water-lily bear both floating and submerged leaves. The major specialist herbivore, the water-lily beetle (Galerucella nymphaeae, Col., Chrysomelidae), has access only to the floating leaves, and no herbivore eats the submerged leaves. The possibility was studied experimentally that heterophylly (i.e. the occurrence of morphologically different leaves) of the yellow water-lily is affected by herbivores. Experiments were conducted with naturally growing plants. 2. Herbivory did not cause noticeable changes in the total number of leaves produced or in the production of flowers. However, the relative production of the different leaf types changed within a month. Plants eaten by the beetles produced more submerged leaves. 3. The result shows (1) that heterophylly that has previously been thought as an adaptation to different physical environments may be a response to herbivory as well and (2) that the water-lilies may respond to herbivory by a structural change even though the herbivory does not directly affect the active meristems of the plant. The observed response may be interpreted either as a consequence of shortage of resource supply or as resource allocation depending on the prevailing ecological conditions. The latter gains circumstantial support from this study.
2390439|1. Young plants of a northern (Alaska) and southern (Oregon) provenance of Sitka Spruce, Picea sitchensis, were subject to high and low light and high and low nitrogen treatments in a polyhouse experiment. The effect of treatments on growth, needle and resin duct size, water content and concentration of quantitative defences (resin and polyphenols), sugars and nitrogen in needles, stems and roots was determined. 2. Concentrations of resin, polyphenols and carbohydrates were higher in low nitrogen treatments as predicted by resource-availability models of defence and the changes were similar in all parts of the trees including roots and in tissues formed prior to experimental treatments. Variation in the relative concentration of resin and polyphenols between tissues may indicate a defensive trade-off. The size of needle resin ducts was positively correlated with tree growth but no evidence for `structural' limitation of resin concentration in needles was found. 3. Changes in concentration of quantitative defences did not appear to be the result of a direct trade-off with growth but reflected treatment-induced variation in the root/shoot ratio. Production of quantitative secondary chemicals may therefore be part of an integrated response of the trees to environmental stress. 4. Bioassays with Elatobium abietinum, Gilpinia hercyniae and the fungus Phacidium coniferarum showed that changes in needle size, the nutritional and water content of tissues and the balance between nutrients and secondary chemicals influenced performance of one or more of the organisms. Changes in the concentration of carbonbased secondary chemicals alone were, therefore, of only limited value in predicting susceptibility of Spruce to insects and fungi.
3806562|1. Structural coloration is a striking component of sexual ornamentation, and may function as a signal of mate quality. Although the proximate optical mechanisms are often well defined, we know much less about the morphological basis for intraspecific variation in structural colour. 2. Males of the butterfly Colias eurytheme L. possess a thin-film interference array on their dorsal wing scales that generates a bright and iridescent ultraviolet (UV) signal. This signal is used in mate choice. 3. Using scanning electron microscopy, we investigated the covariance between nanostructural architecture and UV reflectance in samples that were variously subject to either nutrient stress (using a larval host-plant manipulation), or thermal stress (using transient heat and cold shocks during the pupal period). We employed these two stressors to mimic natural stressful processes and to accentuate the variance in UV signal characteristics. 4. Two primary structure-reflectance relationships were apparent. First, UV brightness increased with the density of scale ridges that bear the interference reflectors. Second, the breadth of above-wing angles for viewing the UV covaried with a measure of thin-film angular orientation. These relationships were, however, either limited to, or stronger among, males of the nutrient stress sample. 5. Our results are consistent with a causal effect of developmental stress on nano-structural architecture and henceforth UV reflectance, but also suggest that the proximate basis for signal variation may be intimately linked to the nature of prevailing stressors.
20142820|1. A major current challenge in ageing research is to understand why senescence rates vary between individuals, populations and species in wild populations. 2. Recent studies clearly illustrate that senescent declines in key demographic and life-history traits can be observed in many wild animal systems. 3. Here, we summarize the key challenges facing researchers working to understand senescence in the wild. We concentrate on: (i) limited data availability, (ii) the substantial individual heterogeneity typical of wild populations, (iii) incomplete capture histories, and (iv) trade-offs across the life span. 4. We discuss analytical methods to overcome these challenges. We advocate the use of Capture-Mark-Recapture models to remove likely bias associated with re-sampling rates of less than one. We also illustrate that ageing trajectories may vary between different traits in wild populations. Wherever possible, researchers should examine ageing patterns in multiple traits. 5. Numerous models are available to describe the rate and shape of senescence in free-living populations, but there is currently little consensus regarding which is most appropriate in analyses of wild organisms. 6. We argue that only longitudinal studies of marked or recognizable individuals provide reliable sources of information in the study of senescence. Senescence is a within-individual process and only longitudinal studies allow researchers to separate within-individual ageing patterns from between-individual heterogeneity. 7. We examine two analytical approaches to measure ageing using longitudinal data from wild populations: a jack-knifing approach, well-suited to modelling survival probability, and a mixed-effects model approach. Both methods control for sources of between-individual heterogeneity to allow more accurate measurement of within-individual ageing patterns.
2656388|1. Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) clutches were manipulated so that sibling eggs were incubated within either natural-sized clutches, or clutches that had been experimentally enlarged but were still within the natural range of variation. Thus the consequences of incubated clutch size for hatching success were investigated. 2. Eggs incubated within enlarged clutches hatched less successfully than eggs incubated within natural-sized clutches, suggesting that clutch size affects the conditions experienced by embryos during incubation. 3. Eggs incubated in enlarged clutches may have hatched poorly because clutch enlargement altered nest microclimate, causing increased water loss during the incubation period. 4. There was no evidence that enlargement altered nest microclimate by energetically constraining parents from incubating effectively. Instead, intrinsic physical properties of enlarged clutches affected clutch temperature directly. 5. Parents that had incubated experimentally enlarged clutches subsequently fledged fewer chicks than control parents, suggesting that constraints imposed during incubation may influence the optimal number of eggs that parents should lay. 6. Future studies should investigate whether parents laying naturally large clutches can minimize the problems of incubating many eggs by adaptively tailoring the shape and composition of their eggs to their expected clutch size.
826614|1. In a forest stand, canopy and understorey species grow at completely different irradiances and consequently with different carbon and nitrogen availability ratios. We studied how the difference in growth irradiance influenced plant N use in a mature beech forest. 2. We defined leaf-level nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE
10.2307/2390185|1. Temperature and moisture influence the development of embryonic reptiles in the laboratory but the importance of these variables to embryos developing in nature is a topic of debate. 2. We measured temperature and water potential in 12 nests of painted turtles, Chrysemys picta, and subsequently assessed the influence of these factors on survival by embryos, net change in mass of eggs, length of incubation, and live mass and body size of hatchlings. 3. Average temperature in nests varied between 23.4 and 26.2<sup></sup>C, and average water potential ranged from -0.06 MPa to -2.11 MPa. 4. Hatching success varied from 33 to 100%, and was correlated more highly with the water potential in nests than with temperature. 5. Surviving eggs in some nests declined in mass and produced relatively small hatchlings after short incubations, whereas eggs in other nests increased in mass and produced relatively large hatchlings after longer incubations. Net change in mass of eggs, length of incubation, and size and mass of hatchlings also were correlated more highly with water potential in nests than with temperature. 6. These findings lend support to the concept that availability of water in nests is more important than temperature in influencing survival, metabolism and growth of reptilian embryos.
40407694|1. The evolution of flowering plants has undoubtedly been influencee by a pollinator's ability to learn to associate floral signais with food. Here, we address the question of 'why' flowers produce scent by examining the ways in which olfactory learning by insect pollinators could influence how floral scent emission evolves in plant populations. 2. Being provided with a floral scent signal allows pollinators to learn to be specific in their foraging habits, which could, in turn, produce a selective advantage for plants if sexual reproduction is limited by the income of compatible gametes. Learning studies with honeybees predict that pollinator-mediated selection for floral scent production should favour signais which are distinctive and exhibit low variation within species because these signais are learned faster. Social bees quickly learn to associate scent with the presence of nectar, and their ability to do this is generally faster and more reliable than their ability to learn visual eues. 3. Pollinators rely on floral scent as a means of distinguishing honestly signalling flowers from deceptive ones. Furthermore, a pollinator's sensitivity to differences in nectar rewards can bias the way that it responds to floral scent. This mechanism may select for flowers that provide olfactory signals as an honest indicator of the presence of nectar or which select against the production of a detectable scent signal when no nectar is present. 4. We expect that an important yet commonly overlooked function of floral scent is an improvement in short-term pollinator specificity which provides an advantage to both pollinator and plant over the use of a visual signal alone. This, in turn, impacts the evolution of plant mating Systems via its influence on the species-specific patterns of floral Visitation by pollinators.
10.2307/2389909|1. Although the coastal fog zone of the Namib Desert has negligible rainfall, large parts may be covered by soil-crust lichens with chlorophyll contents and photosynthetic rates (under optimal conditions of hydration and light), on an area basis, almost equal to the leaves of typical higher plants. 2. The photosynthetic and respiratory CO
41239445|1. Genetic polymorphism in the gene phosphoglucose isomerase (Pgi) encoding for a glycolytic enzyme has been shown to affect many traits in adult insects, including flight metabolism, running speed, fecundity and longevity, but it is not known to what extent Pgi genotypic effects are consistent across different life stages. 2. In the Glanville fritillary butterfly, heterozygous AC adult individuals for a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (AA111) in the coding region of Pgi have superior fitness to the common homozygotes (AA) in practically all life-history traits. 3. Here, we studied associations between Pgi SNP AA111 and larval and pupal weights, larval development time in three different temperatures and adult longevity. Small body size and limited mobility of larvae offer little buffer against changes in ambient temperature; hence, temperature is expected to affect greatly larval growth and development. 4. In contrast to adults, larval performance was superior in AA homozygotes in two respects. First, survival was higher in AA homozygotes under stressful conditions, represented by the low-temperature treatment in which survival was generally low. Second, the AA homozygotes had heavier pupae. In spite of the latter result, adult life span was longer in the AC heterozygotes, in support of previous studies. 5. The results on larval growth are consistent with the hypothesis of a trade-off between thermal stability and kinetic efficiency between the different isoforms of the PGI enzyme, but the results also indicate unexpected differences in the genotypic effects at different life stages.
3598974|1. While it is generally accepted that the evolution of morphological traits is mediated by selection on whole-animal performance, few studies have examined how variation in performance explains variation in fitness. Most studies to date have studied how performance predicts survival, and these typically examine only a single age class. 2. Maximal sprint speed was measured for hatchling and adult Collared Lizards (Crotaphytus collaris), in addition to morphological measurements, in order to determine how well annual survival could be predicted by performance and whether the relationship between performance and survival differed between age classes. 3. Logistic regression revealed that no morphological trait or sprint speed performance predicted survival in adults. However, sprint speed predicted survival in hatchlings. Further, hindlimb length differed between survivors and non-survivors and correlated with sprint speed, suggesting that the evolution of hindlimb length in hatchlings may be driven by selection on sprint speed performance. 4. Selection on sprint speed may be mediated directly by predators where hatchlings cannot attain speeds sufficient to escape predators or indirectly where slower individuals use a greater proportion of their maximal capacity than faster individuals while escaping predators, perhaps causing elevated stress levels or a higher expenditure of energy stores.
3599112| 1. Secondary compounds are common in floral nectar but their relative effects on nectar consumption and utilization in nectarivorous birds are unclear. 2. We studied the effect of two pyridine alkaloids, nicotine and anabasine, present in Tree Tobacco (Nicotiana glauca) nectar, on food consumption, gut transit time and sugar assimilation efficiency of the Palestine Sunbird (Nectarinia osea), a pollinator of N. glauca in east Mediterranean ecosystems. 3. Sunbirds demonstrated dose-dependent deterrence; they were not deterred by the lowest natural concentrations of these alkaloids in nectar (01 ppm nicotine and 06 ppm anabasine) but they were significantly deterred by the average concentrations detected in nectar (05 ppm nicotine and 5 ppm anabasine). 4. The two pyridine alkaloids reduced gut transit time (by 30-42%) and sugar assimilation efficiency (by 9-17%) compared with the control alkaloid-free diet. 5. Sunbirds are able to cope with low, but not average, concentrations of nicotine and anabasine in N. glauca nectar. If sunbirds are efficient pollinators of N. glauca they may induce selection on it to reduce pyridine alkaloid production in the nectar. Alternatively, high concentrations in some N. glauca plants may lead the birds to visit more plants with lower alkaloid concentrations. Hence, they will be more efficient pollinators, especially if other nectar-producing plants are scarce. 
41319574|1. Life history theory predicts that immunity should be plastic and reflect environmental contexts. However, individual variation in immune investment may arise not just because of individual adjustment, but because of developmental, physiological, genetic or immunological constraints which lead to non-adaptive responses by limiting or eliminating flexibility in immune investment. Constraints can arise because organisms are single integrated units with interconnected and interacting components, in which physiological and genetic control mechanisms may limit or constrain immunity. We review some of the key underlying genetic and physiological factors that may constrain the occurrence and intensity of immune responses. 2. A major part of individual variability may rest on variation in genetic background. Geneticbased constraints can limit or influence immune responses, particularly through pleiotropy and epistatic interactions. In addition, genetic variation, an important driver of variation in antigen recognition and immune system polarization, can be constrained through linkage disequilibrium and genetic drift. Epigenetic changes can also constrain or limit immune responses in future generations based on individual experience. 3. The immune system itself can influence individual flexibility in immune investment. Throughout development individuals face tradeoffs within the immune system that favour the expression of one trait at the expense of another. Ontogenetic differences can cause juveniles and adults to produce entirely different immune responses to the same pathogen. T-helper 1 (Th1)/T-helper 1 (Th2) polarization during infection also imposes constraints upon an individual's immune responsiveness, with the consequence that hosts cannot simultaneously mount strong responses using both Thl and Th2 cells. In addition, evidence suggests that flexibility in immune responses becomes constrained with age through accumulation of memory cells at the expense of nave cells, decreased function of cells involved in adaptive and innate immunity, and programming of HPA-immune interactions. 4. In summary, selection on a particular immune trait can have effects on other immune components or phenotypic characters, as revealed by artificial selection studies. In particular selection for increased investment in compartments of the immune system leads to decreased investment in other competing life history functions and/or marked changes in other immune components. The role of past experience, even the past experience of parents, may limit and constrain immune responses through influencing the ontogeny of immunity, as well as through epigenetic influences.
10.2307/2389945|1. Growth, photosynthesis and root adenine nucleotides were compared in two wetland plants, Phalaris arundinacea and Glyceria maxima, grown in aerta, de-oxygenated or reduced (redox potential = -250 mV) nutrient solutions, to test the hypothesis that the stress of de-oxygenated conditions is mild compared with that of naturally reducing sediments. 2. Relative growth rate (RGR) was not significantly different between plants in the aerated and de-oxygenated treatments. However, plants in the reducing treatment stopped growing and some lost mass (RGR negative). Differences in root porosity were not significant between treatments. 3. Rates of net photosynthesis in both species were stable in the de-oxygenated and aerated treatments, at 3-8 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>. However, net photosynthesis in the reducing treatment declined over 5 days, becoming negative in P. arundinacea and falling below 1 mumol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-1</sup>s <sup>-1</sup> in G. maxima. 4. Concentrations of adenine nucleotides in the roots of both species were significantly but only slightly lower in the de-oxygenated treatment than in the aerated treatment (0.65 times as much ATP and 0.70-0.87 times as much total adenine nucleotides). However, nucleotide concentrations were much lower in the reducing treatment (0.10-0.19 times as much ATP and total adenine nucleotides as the aerated treatment). Both species tolerated the de-oxygenated treatment but were sensitive to the reducing treatment.
10.2307/2390281|1. Chenopodium album (a sun species) and Alocasia macrorrhiza (a shade species) plants were grown under various photon flux densities (PFDs) to investigate whether nitrogen partitioning among photosynthetic components was optimized under any light conditions. The amounts of several photosynthetic components of the leaves were determined to examine nitrogen partitioning. 2. For the same PFD, nitrogen partitioning among photosynthetic components was similar in both species, except for leaves of C. album grown at 5% PFD, which showed a markedly smaller fraction of nitrogen in photosystem I. 3. Optimal nitrogen partitioning among photosynthetic components was estimated for various PFDs using a simulation model of leaf photosynthesis. At any PFD, the actual nitrogen partitioning was very similar to the estimated optimal partitioning. However, partitioning in C. album grown at 5% PFD deviated from the optimum. 4. For both species grown under any light conditions, estimated daily photosynthesis of actual leaves was very close to that of leaves with optimal partitioning. It is concluded that both species achieve nitrogen partitioning leading to nearly maximum carbon gain under any light condition.
10.2307/2389774|Water and nutrient uptake are provided at a cost of the carbon incorporated structurally into roots as well as that used for respiratory activities supporting root growth and maintenance. Gas-exchange and dry weight measurements on growing attached roots of Agave deserti indicated a respiratory CO<sub>2</sub> requirement of 6.80.6 mol CO<sub>2</sub> per kg dry weight for newly elongating nodal roots emanating from the stem and 7.20.9 for lateral roots occurring as fine branches on the nodal roots. Similar gas-exchange measurements indicated a growth respiration of 9.41.4 mol CO<sub>2</sub> kg<sup>-</sup>1 for new roots of Ferocactus acanthodes and 8.70.7 for Opuntia ficus-indica. Root growth respiration was also estimated using the heat of combustion of dried root material, which was assumed to contain 47% carbon in the non-ash fraction. For roots 1-20 weeks of age, growth respiration based on the heat of combustion averaged 9.4, 8.4 and 7.7 mol CO<sub>2</sub> kg<sup>-</sup>1 for A. deserti, F. acanthodes, and O. ficus-indica, respectively, averaging 0.7 mol CO<sub>2</sub> kg<sup>-</sup>1 higher for 1-week-old roots. The direct measurements of CO<sub>2</sub> evolution and the indirect estimate of growth respiration both indicate that the roots of desert succulents have low respiratory costs for growth compared with other species. The carbon incorporated into the dry weight of the roots averaged 38 mol kg<sup>-</sup>1 for the three species. Thus, the carbon costs for new roots of these desert succulents represented mainly carbon incorporated structurally into the roots, not growth respiration, and such total carbon costs can become similar to carbon expended by maintenance respiration after about 3 months under wet conditions at 20<sup></sup>C. For A. deserti under conditions appropriate to the Sonoran Desert, the water acquired from the soil per unit carbon expended was over twice as high for the drought-deciduous lateral roots and for nodal roots in their second year compared with first-year nodal roots.
10.2307/2389897|1. Cribellar thread is the most primitive type of capture thread found in the aerial webs spun by spiders and is composed of thousands of dry, looped fibrils that are spun from the spigots of a spinning plate. 2. Comparison of the strength with which cribellar threads produced by two species of spiders in the family Uloboridae held five insect surfaces demonstrates that the size, type and density of insect setae influence a thread's stickiness. 3. Moth wings were held the least strongly, as their detachable scales easily pulled free of the wing and remained attached to the cribellar threads. 4. Two forces were responsible for holding the other insect surfaces: setal snagging caused the stout setae of a fly notum to catch on the fine fibrils of the cribellar thread, whereas an uncharacterized force held the smooth surface of a beetle elytra and the setose surfaces of a bug hemelytra and a fly wing. 5. The force with which non-snagging surfaces that have well-attached setae were held was directly proportional to the area of contact between the cribellar thread and the surface. 6. Together, these mechanisms create prey capture threads that effectively but differentially hold a range of insect prey.
2656327|1. A number of recent tree growth models have been based on the assumption that tree structure follows certain empirical rules and carbon allocation is performed so as to maintain these rules when growth and senescence occur simultaneously. This paper introduces a method of combining structural rules with adaptive regulation in a carbon balance model. 2. The method is based on regulating gross growth but situations are analysed where increased senescence of tissue functions as an alternative means of re-establishing the balance. 3. The model does not aim to be mechanistic but merely to describe the process of regulation, or acclimation to changing environments and situations, as constrained by the carbon balance. The method incorporates parameters that describe the rate of returning to the balance after disturbance or after a change in the goal, which can be determined empirically. 4. Two models are given as examples of the use of the method, and the requirements and limitations of control in a carbon balance framework are discussed. 5. The method is best applied as a technical tool to describe variations and disturbance in balanced growth models when the variations are present but not very large. In addition, it can be used as a theoretical framework for the analysis of regulation as constrained by the conservation of mass.
41319621|1. Plastic responses to spatiotemporal environmental variation strongly influence species distribution, with widespread species expected to have high phenotypic plasticity. Theoretically, high phenotypic plasticity has been linked to plant invasiveness because it facilitates colonization and rapid spreading over large and environmentally heterogeneous new areas. 2. To determine the importance of phenotypic plasticity for plant invasiveness, we compare well-known exotic invasive species with widespread native congeners. First, we characterized the phenotype of 20 invasive-native ecologically and phylogenetically related pairs from the Mediterranean region by measuring 20 different traits involved in resource acquisition, plant competition ability and stress tolerance. Second, we estimated their plasticity across nutrient and light gradients. 3. On average, invasive species had greater capacity for carbon gain and enhanced performance over a range of limiting to saturating resource availabilities than natives. However, both groups responded to environmental variations with high albeit similar levels of trait plasticity. Therefore, contrary to the theory, the extent of phenotypic plasticity was not significantly higher for invasive plants. 4. We argue that the combination of studying mean values of a trait with its plasticity can render insightful conclusions on functional comparisons of species such as those exploring the performance of species coexisting in heterogeneous and changing environments.
826567|1. The effect of mechanical breakdown of detritus by the millipedes Centrobolus fulgidus, Centrobolus richardii and Spinotarsus sp. on selected soil elements was investigated in the laboratory. 2. Microcosms containing soils, detritus and millipedes from areas undergoing vegetation regeneration were set up in a climate chamber. Short-term changes in soil concentrations of ammonia (NH
41319623|1. The drying of stream channels resulting from flow interruption is expected to increase as a consequence of climate change. Implications for aquatic organisms and processes are profound. We assessed whether riparian diversity can partially buffer against consequences of drying on fungal decomposers and leaf litter decomposition, an important ecosystem process. 2. Our central hypothesis was that during dry periods recalcitrant leaf litter with high waterholding capacity would extend the window of opportunity for microbial activity in less recalcitrant litter when both litter types are mixed, and that this would lead to a positive litter diversity effect on decomposition. To test for such interactive effects, we conducted a diversity experiment in a Mediterranean stream, in which alder and oak litter, and a mixture of both, was subjected to various drying regimes differing in intensity and timing. 3. Drying regime affected both fungal decomposers and the decomposition rate of alder litter. Effects were observed both immediately and 3 weeks after stream flow resumed. Small differences in the timing of the dry period influenced both decomposition rate and measures of fungal performance (i. e. biomass and sporulation activity). Litter mixing, in contrast, had no effect on either decomposition or fungal decomposers, although mixing increased moisture retention in alder litter as required for the mechanism hypothesized to lead to a diversity effect. 4. Given the contrasting traits of the litter types used in the experiment, our results imply that riparian tree diversity is unlikely to buffer against increased frequencies of stream flow disruption expected in the face of climate change. It appears, however, that the precise timing of dry periods and high-flow events will strongly influence the extent to which stream food webs can exploit the resources supplied by riparian vegetation in the form of leaf litter.
20142879|1. Mammalian sleep is composed of two distinct states -- rapid-eye-movement (REM) and non-REM (NREM) sleep -- that alternate in cycles over a sleep bout. The duration of these cycles varies extensively across mammalian species. Because the end of a sleep cycle is often followed by brief arousals to waking, a shorter sleep cycle has been proposed to function as an anti-predator strategy. Similarly, higher predation risk could explain why many species exhibit a polyphasic sleep pattern (division of sleep into several bouts per day), as having multiple sleep bouts avoids long periods of unconsciousness, potentially reducing vulnerability. 2. Using phylogenetic comparative methods, we tested these predictions in mammals, and also investigated the relationships among sleep phasing, sleep-cycle length, sleep durations and body mass. 3. Neither sleep-cycle length nor phasing of sleep was significantly associated with three different measures of predation risk, undermining the idea that they represent anti-predator adaptations. 4. Polyphasic sleep was associated with small body size, shorter sleep cycles and longer sleep durations. The correlation with size may reflect energetic constraints: small animals need to feed more frequently, preventing them from consolidating sleep into a single bout. The reduced daily sleep quotas in monophasic species suggests that the consolidation of sleep into one bout per day may deliver the benefits of sleep more efficiently and, since early mammals were small-bodied and polyphasic, a more efficient monophasic sleep pattern could be a hitherto unrecognized advantage of larger size.
10.2307/2389948|1. A compact, low-cost, free-air carbon dioxide enrichment system for use in climate change experiments is described. The system has been used in a small-scale study of the effects of an enriched carbon dioxide atmosphere on the growth and functioning of a natural plant community. 2. The experiment ran for 4 months in summer on a nutrient-poor limestone grassland in Derbyshire. The study examined the separate and combined effects of elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, temperature and soil nutrient status on the growth of seedlings of obligate mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plant species native to the site. 3. It was demonstrated that the CO<sub>2</sub> elevation could be controlled within the limits set for 64% of the time. Significant effects of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> on the growth and recruitment of seedlings were found in the presence of added nutrients and elevated temperatures.
3599017|1. Astroturf mats can effectively trap diaspores dispersed by tidal water. 2. Within four tidal inundations, up to 745 propagules per m
10.2307/2390069|1. We investigated experimentally predation by the flatworm Dugesia lugubris on the snail Physa acuta in relation to predator body length and to prey morphology [shell length (SL) and aperture width (AW)]. 2. SL and AW correlate strongly in the field, but display significant and independent variance among populations. In the laboratory, predation by Dugesia resulted in large and significant selection differentials on both SL and AW. Analysis of partial effects suggests that selection on AW was indirect, and mediated through its strong correlation with SL. 3. The probability P<sub>ij</sub> for a snail of size category i (SL) to be preyed upon by a flatworm of size category j was fitted with a Poisson-probability distribution, the mean of which increased linearly with predator size (j). Despite the low number of parameters, the fit was excellent (r<sup>2</sup>=0.96). We offer brief biological interpretations of this relationship with reference to optimal foraging theory. 4. The largest size class of Dugesia (>2 cm) did not prey on snails larger than 7 mm shell length. This size threshold might offer Physa a refuge against flatworm predation and thereby allow coexistence in the field. 5. Our results are further discussed with respect to previous field and laboratory observations on P. acuta life-history patterns, in particular its phenotypic variance in adult body size.
40963550|1. The complex structure of tree bark reflects its many functions, which include structural support as well as defence against fire, pests and pathogens. Thick bark, however, might limit respiration by the living tissues of the trunk. Nevertheless, little research has addressed community-level variation in bark thickness, and to the best of our knowledge, no one has tested multiple hypotheses to explain variation in bark thickness. 2. We conducted an extensive survey of bark thickness within and among species of trees in the tropical rain forests of French Guiana. Trunk bark thickness increased by 1-2 mm per 10 cm increase in stem diameter, and varied widely at all taxonomie levels. Mean trunk bark thickness was 4-5 mm (range: 0529 mm), which was less that found in two Amazonian rain forests in previous studies. This survey of bark thickness should be of use for forest management since tree survival through fire is strongly predicted by bark thickness. 3. We combined the survey data with multiple datasets to test several functional hypotheses proposed to explain variation in bark thickness. We found bark to provide an average of 10% of the flexural rigidity of tree stems, which was substantially less than that found in the only other study of bark stiffness. Bark thickness was uncorrelated with species' association with fire-prone habitats, suggesting that the influence of fire on bark thickness does not extend into moist Forests. There was also little evidence that bark thickness is affected by its function as a defence against herbivory. Nor was there evidence that thick bark limits trunk respiration. 4. A re-analysis of previously collected anatomical data indicated that variation in rhytidome (non-conducting outer bark) thickness explains much of the variation in overall bark thickness. As rhytidome is primarily involved in protecting the living tissues of the trunk, we suggest that bark thickness is driven mostly by its defensive function. 5. Functional explanations for the variation in bark thickness were not clear-cut. Nevertheless, this study provides a foundation for further investigation of the functional bases of bark in tropical trees.
41319589|1. Given their ubiquity, we might expect parasites to play an important role in the adaptive divergence of host populations. Specifically, adaptation to local parasite communities is predicted to influence the evolution of a number of host traits such as parasite resistance. 2. To investigate the possibility that divergent parasite-mediated selection drives populationlevel variation in parasite resistance, we artificially infected lab-reared three-spined sticklebacks with the monogenean flatworm Gyrodactylus gasterostei. The fish were derived from five populations from North Uist, Scotland, that were chosen because they differed in natural infection levels of Gyrodactylus arcuatus. 3. We found substantial differences in resistance to G. gasterostei among populations. Resistance was defined largely by the ability to limit the size of the worm population rather than by the timing of the host response. 4. Experimental resistance was not significantly correlated with natural infection levels of G. arcuatus. However, in general, populations with greater exposure to G. arcuatus were shown to be more resistant to G. gasterostei. Fish from the only naturally unexposed population showed the highest susceptibility, which may be the result of less selection to maintain resistance. 5. Taken together, these results suggest that the divergent selection mediated by Gyrodactylus may play a role in driving population-level variation in resistance to this parasite.
10.2307/2389970|1. At the peak of the growing season, nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations increased with altitude particularly above 500m. Leaf dry mass and area decreased with altitude, this trend being more pronounced above 500m. The total amount of nitrogen per leaf, specific leaf area (SLA) and potassium concentration did not change with altitude. <sup>13</sup>C increased linearly with altitude. 2. Nitrogen, phosphorus and chlorophyll concentrations decreased throughout the growing season from a maximum in May; the decline at the end of the growing season was most rapid at high altitude. <sup>13</sup>C also decreased with time but uniformly at all altitudes. Potassium concentrations peaked in June and leaf size in July. SLA was lowest in July and highest in October. 3. The high nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations are probably caused by low biomass acquisition because of low temperatures and a short growing season; changes in nitrogen supply may also be involved. The altitudinal trend in <sup>13</sup>C is the consequence of a number of interacting properties of the plant and its environment.
10.2307/2389506|The control of asexual division rates in clonal invertebrates is poorly understood, with some research suggesting that abundant food stimulates division whereas other results indicate that starvation initiates division. We replicated six clones of the polyp phase of a marine scyphozoan (Aurelia aurita Lamarck 1816) across three feeding frequencies to determine how much of the variation in clone formation can be attributed to the frequency of food supply vs genotypic effects. Animals were fed for 6 h per week on three different feeding schedules: food was supplied 1 h for 6 days a week, 2 h a day for 3 days a week, or 6 h per day once a week. We tested two alternative hypotheses for the control of cloning at low food levels: the first predicts that individual polyps divide or make buds rapidly to maximize the feeding surface area of the clone, and the second predicts that clones minimize the weight-specific respiration rate by investing tissue in large animals, rather than dividing or budding, when food is scarce. We found that polyps maximize feeding surface area to body volume ratios when food is present infrequently, but not when food is supplied daily or every other day. Budding rates varied only with feeding frequency, whereas maximum polyp size showed significant effects of genotype and feeding treatment. The total clonal volume and the ratios of feeding surface area to body volume for individual polyps were significantly affected by genotype, feeding frequency and an interaction between genotype and feeding frequency. Patterns of tissue allocation within clones apparently have a genetic component which affects their response to environmental variables.
3599271| 1. To determine the mechanisms by which metal hyperaccumulation in plants could provide a chemical defence against insect herbivores, the feeding behaviour and performance of the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria (Forskl), was investigated on plants of Thlaspi caerulescens J. & C. Presl containing different zinc concentrations, as well as on artificial food differing only in Zn content. 2. In choice experiments, locusts preferred T. caerulescens plants containing low foliar Zn concentrations (mean value 042 mg g
2656435|1. Photosynthetic pathway diversity was evaluated for the dominant species in a seasonally aquatic community in the south-western USA using <sup>14</sup>C pulse-chase techniques. 2. Under submerged conditions, only about half of the species were clearly C<sub>3</sub>, three of the 15 dominants were CAM, one species was C<sub>4</sub> and three were potentially assimilating carbon with both C<sub>3</sub> and C<sub>4</sub> fixation. 3. During the brief terrestrial stage in the life history of these amphibious plants, both the CAM and the C<sub>3</sub> + C<sub>4</sub> species switched to C<sub>3</sub>, whereas the C<sub>4</sub> species did not switch. 4. Numerous variations were apparent; for example, the C<sub>4</sub> species, while exhibiting a biochemical pathway indistinguishable from terrestrial C<sub>4</sub> plants, lacked Kranz anatomy in the aquatic foliage. Also, despite well-developed CAM in several species, others exhibited low-level diel changes in acidity, apparently not indicative of CAM. 5. Species with C<sub>4</sub> or CAM CO<sub>2</sub> concentrating mechanisms lacked the capacity for bicarbonate uptake, an alternative CO<sub>2</sub> concentrating mechanism found in certain C<sub>3</sub> species in this community. 6. Rubisco/PEPC in aquatic foliage was higher in C<sub>3</sub> species than in C<sub>4</sub>, CAM or putative C<sub>3</sub> + C<sub>4</sub> species. In the terrestrial phase, as expected, the switch from CAM or C<sub>3</sub> + C<sub>4</sub> to strictly C<sub>3</sub> assimilation was associated with a substantial increase in Rubisco/PEPC. Quite unexpected, however, was the substantial increase in this ratio in terrestrial C<sub>3</sub> foliage. It is hypothesized that submerged C<sub>3</sub> plants utilize PEPC for recycling of respiratory CO<sub>2</sub> and/or C<sub>4</sub> phototrophism under field conditions of limited CO<sub>2</sub> and O<sub>2</sub> saturation, and this is lost in the terrestrial foliage.
2390460|1. Pedunculate Oak trees were grown in ambient and elevated temperatures and CO<sub>2</sub>. Leaves were fed to Winter Moth caterpillars reared either in constant conditions or with the trees (caged or on-tree). 2. Caterpillars in constant conditions ate the same mass and produced the same mass of faeces whether fed elevated or ambient temperature leaves. However, less was assimilated from elevated leaves, resulting in lighter pupae and fewer, lighter eggs. 3. Caterpillars in constant conditions ate more and produced more faeces when fed elevated CO<sub>2</sub> leaves than when fed ambient CO<sub>2</sub> leaves, but the mass assimilated and pupal mass were unchanged. 4. Caged caterpillars reared with the trees from which they were fed had constant pupal mass in all treatments, but pupated earlier at elevated temperature. Pupal mass was also unaffected when caterpillars fed on the trees. 5. Nitrogen was reduced in both elevated temperature and elevated CO<sub>2</sub> leaves. Increased fibre in the former prevented increased consumption and resulted in reduced pupal mass and fecundity. Reduced fibre in the latter allowed increased consumption, resulting in pupae of normal mass. 6. Despite the clear effect of nutrient quality, experiments rearing caterpillars and trees together suggest that anticipated climatic change will have no nutritional effect on Winter Moth development.
10.2307/2390167|1. Repeatability is important in determining how traits are affected by selection, but it is largely unstudied for most physiological characters other than locomotory performance. We examined the repeatability of aerobic capacity, measured as maximum O<sub>2</sub> consumption (Vo<sub>2max</sub>), in Red Junglefowl, Gallus gallus. Vo<sub>2max</sub> is an integrated index of metabolic performance that can be intuitively linked to fitness because it sets the upper limit to sustainable power output. 2. We used mass residuals to determine Vo<sub>2max</sub> repeatability in adult birds, and across growth from 28-day-old chicks to reproductively mature adults. We measured Vo<sub>2max</sub> during brief episodes of intense exercise in motorized running wheels. Minimal resting metabolism (Vo<sub>2mr</sub>) was measured in adults to provide an estimate of factorial aerobic scope (Vo<sub>2max</sub>/Vo<sub>2mr</sub>). We also examined the influences of sex and infection by a common intestinal nematode, Ascaridia galli, on Vo<sub>2max</sub>. 3. There were no gender differences in adult Vo<sub>2mr</sub> or in the Vo<sub>2max</sub> of chicks. However, the Vo<sub>2max</sub> of adult males was considerably greater than that of adult females. Factorial aerobic scopes were 9.6 and 5.6 for adult males and females, respectively. Higher scope in males may be an adaptation to support intense, prolonged intermale aggression. Infection with A. galli significantly depressed the mass and Vo<sub>2max</sub> of chicks but had no effect on adults. 4. The Vo<sub>2max</sub> of adult junglefowl was highly repeatable over periods up to 180 days. In contrast, we found no repeatability of Vo<sub>2max</sub> across ontogeny for birds tested initially as chicks and again as adults. The lack of repeatability was not influenced by sex or infection status.
826581| 1. The cost of reproduction due to limiting of the reproductive female's locomotion capability has been suggested many times, but has rarely been directly examined, especially in fishes. Here, the effect of pregnancy on swimming performance in the viviparous Mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis, was studied. 2. Eight females of G. affinis were isolated, each in a separate aquarium, and critical swimming speed (U
10.2307/2389926|1. We studied how the outcome of simulated herbivory on the leading shoot of young Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) depended on the extent and timing of the damage, and on whether the damaged part was physiologically a sink (bud) or a source (needle). In addition we studied how the position of the shoot in relation to the damaged shoot affected the outcome of treatments. 2. Damage to needles had either growth-stimulating or growth-suppressing effects, whereas damage to buds had a positive effect on growth. 3. Needles and shoots were able to compensate for a significant amount of defoliation but not for complete defoliation: 100% but not 50% defoliation of the leader shoot significantly decreased average needle mass and length, and to a lesser extent shoot size. 4. The impact of defoliation depended on the relative position of the shoot and on the timing of defoliation. The growth of new shoots, which were situated `above' the defoliated shoot, was reduced. This was most apparent in the trees defoliated late in the season. The growth of shoots that were situated `below' the defoliated shoot was increased. 5. The results show that the responses of Scots pine to simulated herbivory are dependent on the within-tree regulation of growth and that seemingly minor differences in the methods of simulated herbivory may explain the great variability in the results obtained in studies of herbivory-induced responses in trees.
3806550|1. An important component of plant water transport is the design of the vascular network, including the size and shape of water-conducting elements or xylem conduits. 2. For over 100 years, foresters and plant physiologists have recognized that these conduits are consistently smaller near branch tips compared with major branches and the main stem. Empirical data, however, have rarely been assembled to assess the wholeplant hydraulic architecture of woody plants as they age and grow. 3. In this paper, we analyse vessels of Fraxinus americana (White Ash) within a single tree. Vessels are measured from cross-sections that span 12 m in height and 18 years' growth. 4. We show that vessel radii are determined by distance from the top of the tree, as well as by stem size, independently of tree height or age. 5. The qualitative form for the scaling of vessel radii agrees remarkably well with simple power laws, suggesting the existence of an ontogenetically stable hydraulic design that scales in the same manner as a tree grows in height and diameter. 6. We discuss the implications of the present findings for optimal theories of hydraulic design.
4540054|1. Hormone-mediated maternal effects and developmental plasticity are important sources of phenotypic variation, with potential consequences for trait evolution. Yet our understanding of the importance of maternal hormones for offspring fitness in natural populations is very limited, particularly in non-avian species. 2. We experimentally elevated yolk testosterone by injection of a physiological dose into eggs of the lizard Ctenophorusfordi Storr, to investigate its roles in offspring development, growth and survival. 3. Yolk testosterone did not influence incubation period, basic hatchling morphology or survival under natural conditions. However, there was evidence for increased growth in hatchlings from testosterone-treated eggs, suggesting that maternal hormones have potential fitness consequences in natural populations. 4. The positive effect of prenatal testosterone exposure on postnatal growth could represent a taxonomically widespread developmental mechanism that has evolved into an adaptive maternal effect in some taxa, but remains deleterious or selectively neutral in others. 5. A broader taxonomic perspective should increase our understanding of the role of physiological constraints in the evolution of endocrine maternal effects.
2656526|1. Two semiaquatic grasses, Panicum hemitomon Schultes and Leersia hexandra Schwartz, were grown for 12 weeks in sterilized soil in experimental mesocosms, with and without the addition of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal inoculum (as nonsterilized soil), under the following rooting-zone flood regimes: waterlogged (W), free-draining (D), beginning W and ending D (W-D), and beginning D and ending W (D-W). The purpose of the experiment was to determine whether these controlled water regimes affected both colonization of wetland grasses by AM fungi and the effects of the colonization on various plant parameters. 2. Water regime, addition of inoculum, and their interaction were highly significant effects on total and proportion of root length colonized by AM fungi. Trends were very similar for the two grass species. Colonization was less and plants smaller in the W and W-D than in the D and D-W treatments. The viability of mycorrhiza at the end of the experiment, as measured by vital staining techniques, was not affected by changes in water level. 3. Colonized plants in all water level treatments showed an improvement in phosphorus (P) nutrition over noncolonized plants. Colonized grasses of both species gained consistently more P per plant and had greater tissue P concentrations, with the greatest P concentration in the most heavily colonized plants (from the D and D-W treatments). 4. The effect of flooding on the mycorrhizal association depended largely on the extent to which the association was already established when the flooding occurred. Flooding reduced the initiation of colonization either directly or indirectly, but once the fungi were established in the roots they were able to maintain and expand with the growing root system.
3599001|1. Ecologists often ascribe considerable importance to traits that are widespread within a specific lineage but rarely seen in other kinds of organisms. Unfortunately, such hypotheses cannot be tested robustly unless there is variation in expression of the trait within that lineage; such 'exceptions to the rule' provide opportunities to falsify predictions about putative functional correlates of the focal trait. 2. Research on snake foraging has emphasized species that feed infrequently and take large prey, often from ambush positions, but these characteristics do not apply to all snakes. 3. Movement patterns and feeding rates of free-ranging Turtle-Headed Sea Snakes Emydocephalus annulatus (Krefft 1869) were quantified in coral reefs of New Caledonia. These snakes forage by moving slowly $(<2\ \text{m}\ \text{min}^{-1})$ but consistently across the substrate as they investigate crevices and burrows for fish nests. The snakes feed frequently (sometimes, several times per hour) on large numbers of very small
3599342|1. Melanin coloration is the most common type of colour in animals. Many species use melanin-based black, brown, grey or earth-toned colours as intraspecific signals of quality. 2. Melanin comes in two main forms in vertebrates -- eumelanin and phaeomelanin -- and these are said to create different colours, with eumelanin giving a darker black, brown or grey appearance and phaeomelanin a lighter reddish or buff hue. 3. However, the few studies that have examined the melanin content of animal colours, namely from bird feathers, have shown that both phaeomelanin and eumelanin are present in nearly all melanized patches. These pigment types also have different synthetic origins and may be differentially costly to display. 4. Thus, to fully understand the costs and benefits of melanic colours, we must first quantitatively determine the relationship between pigment composition and colour characteristics. 5. We studied melanin content and colour variation in the ventral chestnut-coloured plumage of male and female Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica erythrogaster) from North America. 6. Total melanin concentration explained significant variation in the hue, saturation and brightness of male breast plumage and female breast plumage. Eumelanin is the predominant type in these feathers, constituting over 75% of total melanins. Eumelanin and phaeomelanin concentration were significantly positively correlated in the feathers of females but not males. 7. In both sexes, levels of both eumelanin and phaeomelanin concentrations were significantly and positively correlated with hue, saturation and brightness. In males but not females, however, the ratio of eumelanin-to-phaeomelanin was also an important predictor of colour, with smaller ratios conferring browner hues. Males also deposit more phaeomelanins, but not eumelanins or total melanins, in breast feathers than do females. These results suggest that phaeomelanin plays a unique role in the colouring strategy of male Barn Swallows.
3599200| 1. Although in birds and mammals sex-specific differences in organismal performance and physiology are well documented, comparatively little is known about the influence of sex or reproductive status on fish performance or metabolism. 2. In this study, the resting cardiovascular performance of male and female Largemouth Bass Micropterus salmoides was contrasted across three seasons and different reproductive states including the spring when nesting males provide sole parental care. Doppler flow probes were used to monitor resting cardiac output (Q) and its two components (heart rate,
3599189|1. Using mixtures of 14 calcareous grassland plant species drawn from three functional groups, we looked at the effects of elevated atmospheric CO
4540106|1. Root feeding insects can influence foliar quality of the host plant, which can affect the development and behaviour of leaf herbivores and parasitoids. Thus far, such interactions have been reported in situations where root and leaf associated organisms share a host-plant. We tested whether root herbivory influences searching behaviour of an above-ground parasitoid when the foliar feeding host of the parasitoid and the root herbivore are feeding on different plants. 2. We manipulated the proportion of 25 plants (ranging from 0 to 1) exposed to root herbivory by Delia radicum (neighbouring-plants). Five additional plants were infested above-ground with Pieris brassicae larvae (host-infested plants) and were placed in-between the neighbouring plants. We then released females of the parasitoid Cotesia glomerata which attacks P. brassicae and studied foraging efficiency of the parasitoid. 3. Overall, parasitoids located more host-infested plants during the maximum allowed searching time, and found their hosts about three times faster when neighbouring plants were exposed to root herbivory, than when neighbouring plants were not infested with D. radicum. Similar results were found when the host-infested plants were also exposed to root herbivory. 4. Our results show that the interaction between an above-ground foliar feeding insect and its parasitoid can be influenced by the presence of non-host herbivores feeding on the roots of neighbouring conspecific plants.
3599234|1. Carotenoids are a diverse group of organic compounds that function as important antioxidants and immunostimulants and are of particular importance to developing embryos and young birds. In addition, they constitute the majority of yellow to red hues in the integumentary pigments of birds. 2. We investigated the maternally derived carotenoid concentrations and balances in the yolks of eight European passerine species successfully introduced and abundant in New Zealand. Specifically, we addressed whether variation in maternally derived yolk carotenoids were related to phylogeny, integument coloration, native vs introduced distribution, breeding habitat and laying sequence. 3. Across species, the concentration and balance of carotenoids deposited in yolks varied significantly. Egg carotenoid concentration was positively associated with the occurrence of male carotenoid pigmented body regions. Carotenoid concentrations differed between agricultural habitat types within New Zealand but not between samples from New Zealand and Europe. Controlling for the differences among species, and among clutches within species, increased egg carotenoid concentrations were significantly associated with decreasing fresh egg mass and eggs laid earlier in the laying sequence. 4. We conclude that variability in the concentration and balance of carotenoids deposited in the egg yolk imply different relative roles for ecological and phylogenetic factors that warrant further investigation, both within and across species.
4540059|1. Models of sympatric speciation via host shifting for phytophagous insect specialists are based on a synergistic feedback between habitat-specific mating and performance genes. Under these models, insects are presumed to choose host plants based on the cumulative, additive effects of attraction alleles at one or several host preference loci. 2. Host choice for insects may not be based solely on attraction genes, however. Habitat avoidance may also play an important role in host use and the evolutionary implications of avoidance may differ from attraction. Insects that are heterozygous for avoidance alleles to alternate host plants may be behaviourally conflicted and have difficulty accepting any suitable host to feed, mate or oviposit on in a timely manner. 3. Here, we perform computer simulations of a three locus, epistatic model for ecological specialization involving host attraction, avoidance and performance genes. We show that the role habitat avoidance potentially plays in sympatric speciation is predicated on the strength of host-specific mating and fitness trade-offs. 4. When host discrimination and performance trade-offs are relatively strong, avoidance alleles that reduce the host-finding ability of hybrids (heterozygotes) can be favoured by selection and drive sympatric divergence to completion. The effect is similar to reinforcement, except that habitat avoidance not only strengthens pre-zygotic barriers to gene flow, but also causes post-zygotic isolation due to the behavioural sterility of hybrids. 5. In contrast, when host discrimination and performance trade-offs are weak, avoidance alleles with negative fitness effects in hybrids tend to be eliminated from populations. Habitat avoidance genes under these conditions are therefore akin to attraction alleles, increasing in frequency only if they have minimal or no detrimental effects on hybrids.
10.2307/2390195|1. Female body condition affects reproductive success in birds of prey. Females with ample body reserves lay early and large clutches. Body reserves also act as a buffer against short-term food shortage. 2. We analysed variation in the body condition of female Ural owls Strix uralensis in 1978-1991. Depending on the year, 80-100 pairs occupied 160 nest-boxes in an area of 1500 km<sup>2</sup> in southern Finland. 3. The weights of 199 females were converted into condition indices by calculating the difference between the observed body weight and the expected minimum weight, which was calculated from the regression equation between observed (at least three observations from different years) minimum weight and arm (ulna + radius) length. 4. Female body condition depended on food supply and varied in accordance with the vole populations. 5. Females in good condition laid early and large clutches. Female body condition decreased as the season advanced. 6. Incubating females kept their reserves but started losing weight after the young hatched. 7. Females in poor condition did not hatch fewer young than females in good condition. 8. The results show that the dramatic variation in food supply is reflected in the condition of breeding females. The parallel variation between laying date, clutch size and female body condition suggests that these traits are intimately linked.
3806600|1. Overlap in habitat use between herbivores can result in facilitative interactions, through enhancement of forage quality, as well as competitive interactions. The latter result from either interference or indirectly from resource depletion. 2. We investigated competitive and facilitative interactions between wild Barnacle and Brent Geese and European Brown Hares on a salt marsh in the Dutch Wadden Sea. In a multifactorial experimental design, we manipulated biomass and quality of grass swards and determined foraging preferences of the wild herbivores. 3. We found that both Barnacle and Brent Geese select plots with plants that have a higher nitrogen content. Barnacle Geese avoid plots with high plant biomass. 4. Hares prefer the combination of high biomass with high plant quality, when geese are absent. However, in the natural situation with geese present, hares select high biomass swards. 5. Grazing increases the quality of the vegetation within one season. Geese mainly select plots that have been previously grazed by either geese or hares within the same season. 6. We conclude that indirect competition through forage depletion by large numbers of geese in spring plays a significant role determining the foraging choices of hares, while Barnacle Geese profit from grazing facilitation by other small herbivores which prevents the maturation of forage tissues.
4540048|1. Temporal separation of male and female phases in hermaphrodite flowers (dichogamy) is proposed to reduce self-pollination, both within and among flowers. Darwin and later workers suggested that protandry (the most common form of dichogamy, in which the male phase precedes the female phase) should be most effective in reducing geitonogamous (between-flower) self-pollination when pollinators forage upwards from older female-phase flowers to younger male-phase flowers on vertical inflorescences. 2. We tested this hypothesis by manipulating the extent of protandry in artificial inflorescences of the orchid Satyrium longicauda Lindl. and using stained pollen to quantify self-pollination and pollen export. 3. Upper flowers of non-protandrous inflorescences received more self-pollen through geitonogamy than lower flowers, unlike protandrous inflorescences. Protandry reduced absolute levels of self-pollination, as the amount of removed pollen involved in selfpollination was three times greater in non-protandrous than in protandrous inflorescences. This high level of self-pollination reduced the pollen available for export, as the ratio of pollen export to self-pollination declined with increasing self-pollination, indicating the occurrence of pollen discounting. 4. This study represents the first direct measurement of the effects of protandry on the pollination process, and indicates that the evolution of protandry in plants could be driven strongly by the consequences of this trait for male mating success.
20142781|1. Evolutionary theory predicts that resource allocation decisions taken during development are adjusted to an organism's life-history. These decisions may have irreversible effects on body design and strong fitness consequences. Holometabolous insects that have a long expected life span typically postpone reproduction, and so are expected to allocate resources for somatic maintenance prior to investing in reproduction. In contrast, insects that have a short expected life span are expected to allocate relatively less to soma and more to reproduction. In support of this theory, an earlier investigation of resources allocated to soma vs. reproductive reserves in the comma butterfly, Polygonia c-album, revealed that short-lived females indeed allocate more resources to reproductive reserves as compared to longer lived females that hibernate before reproduction suggesting that short-lived females should have higher fecundity. 2. Here we test this prediction, using the comma butterfly as our study organism. Depending on daylength and temperature this butterfly produces one of two morphs: (i) a light summer morph that reproduces directly after adult eclosion and has a short expected life span of a couple of weeks; or (ii) a darker winter morph that normally lives for 8-9 months before the onset of reproduction. Our test is based on experimental manipulation that allowed us to induce reproduction without prior hibernation in winter morph comma butterflies, and comparing lifetime fecundity among three groups: (i) directly reproducing summer morph commas; (ii) directly reproducing winter morph commas; and (iii) winter morph commas reproducing after overwintering. This protocol allowed us to tease apart trade-offs during development and the hibernation period. 3. The results showed that the short-lived summer morph had a substantially higher fecundity (total number of eggs = 586  19, mean  SE) than the winter morph females manipulated to reproduce without hibernation (total number of eggs = 334  42). We argue that this is a consequence of a resource allocation trade-off during early development observed in this species; females with a short expected life as adults allocate relatively more of their resources to reproductive parts and thereby reach a higher reproductive output compared to females predisposed for a long adult life. 4. There was no significant difference in lifetime fecundity between winter morph females that did, or did not, hibernate before reproduction. This suggests that the cost of hibernation per se is small and hence corroborates our conclusion that the life-history implemented trade-off made during early development underlies the lower reproductive output of the winter morph butterflies.
3599327|1. An individual evergreen in the northern Australian savanna biome experiences seasonal extremes in rainfall, raising questions of whether there is a corresponding shift in the physiology of these leaves, and whether estimates of leaf function for the biome differ between wet and dry seasons. 2. A range of leaf attributes was measured for 21 tree species in four contrasting habitats during the wet season, and again during the dry season for the 14 species that retained leaves. 3. The 14 leaf-retaining species showed decreases in assimilation rates, foliar saturated water content and chlorophyll content, and increases in leaf mass per area and leaf density between wet and dry seasons. Species means were strongly correlated between seasons for attributes other than assimilation and stomatal conductance. 4. Seasonal variation in CO
20142787| 1. Climate-driven changes in leaf respiration (R) in darkness have the potential to determine whether low productivity ecosystems exhibit positive or negative carbon balances. 2. We investigated whether sustained exposure to full sunlight, shade and seasonal drought alters the temperature response of leaf R of field-grown Quercus ilex subsp. ballota in a dry-land continental Mediterranean ecosystem. The plants studied, experience large diurnal and seasonal variations in temperature. 3. Whilst growth irradiance impacted on photosynthesis, it had little effect on the short-term temperature dependence of leaf R. Moreover, although basal rates of leaf R (i.e. rates of R at a common measuring temperature) were higher in sun-exposed than shade-exposed leaves, growth irradiance had little impact on the degree of acclimation to seasonal changes in temperature and/or moisture. Basal rates of leaf R were higher in winter than summer in both sun-exposed and shaded plants. Estimated Q values (i.e. proportional increase in R per 10 C rise in temperature) for leaf R were greater in winter than summer; however, no seasonal variation was found in the apparent activation energy (E) of leaf R. These observations were used to construct a simple Arrhenius model that fully accounted for both daily and seasonal variations in the temperature dependence of R in both sun-exposed and shaded plants. Crucial to the model was accounting for the seasonal and irradiance-dependent shifts in the basal rate of leaf R. 4. Although the balance between daily R and photosynthesis increased markedly in summer (particularly under full sun), the increase in this ratio was markedly less than would have been the case if leaf R had not acclimated to the high average day time temperatures in summer. 5. It is concluded that seasonal acclimation of leaf R plays a crucial role in determining the viability of tree growth in dry-land, low productivity forest ecosystems. 
3806534|1. Female birds deposit variable amounts of androgens in the yolks of their eggs, and it has been suggested that yolk androgen deposition is an adaptive mechanism preparing offspring for a competitive environment. Breeding pairs of Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) Linnaeus were stimulated with an intruder presentation while ovarian follicles were developing. Yolk steroid concentrations in eggs laid by stimulated females were then compared with yolk steroid concentrations in eggs laid by control females. Additionally, blood samples taken from a subset of control and stimulated females were analysed for plasma steroid hormone concentrations. We predicted that female bluebirds experiencing a simulated intrusion would experience increased levels of circulating plasma androgens that would be reflected by larger amounts of androgens deposited in their eggs compared with control females. 2. Patterns of steroid concentrations differed between egg yolks and female plasma. In egg yolks, androstenedione was the predominant hormone, followed by testosterone. Yolks contained minimal amounts of both corticosterone and oestradiol. In female plasma, however, corticosterone was the predominant hormone, while sex steroids were found at low levels. 3. Yolk steroid concentrations did not vary with laying order in either the control or the stimulated group, a result expected due to the relatively synchronous nature of incubation behaviour exhibited by Eastern Bluebird females. 4. Yolk androgen concentrations in eggs laid by stimulated females were significantly higher than in those laid by control females, suggesting that females increase yolk androgen deposition in response to aggressive encounters. 5. Females exposed to an intruder presentation contained significantly lower levels of plasma androgens than control females. We suggest that the deposition of androgens in the eggs serves as an adaptive method of regulating circulating androgen levels in the female, preventing potentially disruptive elevations in circulating androgen concentrations during a particularly sensitive period in the reproductive cycle.
3599048|1. Flood-sensitive plant species are restricted to highly elevated sites in floodplains, but why flood-tolerant plants do not grow at higher elevations is much less clear. We test the hypothesis that a trade-off exists between flood-tolerance and selective root placement in nutrient-rich patches, a putatively important trait in the more competitive highly elevated sites. 2. Achillea ptarmica, Achillea millefolium, Rumex palustris, Rumex thyrsiflorus, Ranunculus repens, Ranunculus bulbosus, Festuca arundinacea and Festuca rubra were subjected to a drained, waterlogged or partially submerged treatment to test their flood-tolerance. Within each species pair, the former are more tolerant to flooding while the latter are relatively flood-sensitive. In another experiment, plants were grown in soil with either a homogeneous or a heterogeneous nutrient distribution. All species placed their roots selectively in the enriched patch, but overall the flood-tolerant species were less selective than the flood-sensitive ones. The wetland species R. palustris was an exception, with very high root plasticity in response to both flooding and nutrient heterogeneity. 3. The negative correlation between selective root placement and flood-tolerance for seven out of eight species suggests that each of these traits has been selected for in its own environment. The exception of R. palustris indicates that there are no physiological or genetic trade-offs involved in explaining this correlation. Species from more frequently flooded habitats were less able to respond morphologically to nutrient-rich patches in the soil, and are therefore more likely to be outcompeted at the more highly elevated sites. Rumex palustris may use its ability to place roots selectively in nutrient-enriched patches to benefit from the nutrients released during drained periods in its dynamic habitat.
40407780|1. The ability to suppress neighbour growth and the ability to withstand growth suppression are widely viewed as two forms of competition, competitive effect and competitive response. 2. We conducted a greenhouse experiment to determine whether these two forms of competition were functionally linked, and to determine which plant traits are associated with effect and response competitive abilities among seedlings of 22 perennial North American prairie species. We further explored the trait-function relationship by growing plants under different soil fertilities and with different neighbour species. 3. To determine competitive abilities, we used a phytometer approach with two phytometer species: Poa pratensis and Achillea millefolium grown in competition with each of the 22 focal species under low and high fertility. Root and shoot morphological traits were measured and principal component analyses were used to reduce the dimensionality of the data. Three axes were extracted, which roughly corresponded to size, root and shoot architecture. 4. The hierarchy of competitive effect ability of the target species did not vary with either soil fertility or neighbour identity, while the hierarchies of competitive response abilities were highly variable among the treatments. Competitive effect ability was closely associated with size-related traits under high nutrient conditions, and with root-related traits under low nutrient conditions. In contrast, few plant traits axes were related to competitive response. 5. These findings indicate significant differences between competitive effect and response ability. We suggest competitive effect ability is a consistent trait of a species, linked to specific plant traits. In contrast, we found little evidence to support the idea that competitive response ability is itself a species trait, and instead it appears this may be simply a collection of different ways of avoiding or tolerating competition and/or low nutrient conditions. Supporting this argument was a lack of any consistency in which traits were associated with competitive response ability. 6. We recognize the limitations of a single study of seedlings under greenhouse conditions. However, we suggest these findings indicate a need to critically examine current assumptions about plant competition, how it is defined, and the traits which control a species' competitive ability.
41319622|1. Tree architecture is thought to allow species to partition horizontal and vertical light gradients in the forest canopy. Tree architecture is closely related to light capture, carbon gain and the efficiency with which trees reach the canopy. Previous studies that investigated how light gradients drive differentiation in tree architecture have produced inconsistent results, partially because of the differences in which tree species and ontogenetic stages were studied. 2. We examined the relationship between stem diameter, tree height, foliage height, crown width and life-history strategy over a broad size range of 200 randomly selected, co-occurring tree species in a lowland rainforest in Peninsular Malaysia. We developed a hierarchical Bayesian model to account for both intra-and interspecific variation and describe the relationships among tree architectural variables. We analysed interspecific variation in tree architectural variables in relation to adult stature and light requirement for species regeneration as a function of tree size. 3. There was little interspecific variation in architectural variables, this is partly because of large intraspecific variation in response to canopy heterogeneity, but it also suggests architectural convergence within this community. However, interspecific analyses showed that, for large-statured species, small size classes had thinner stems with narrow and shallow crowns, whereas large-size classes had wider crowns. Light-demanding species (as indicated by high sapling mortality in shaded conditions) showed weak trends in tree architecture and were only characterized by wide crowns at intermediate sizes. 4. In summary, tree architectural traits overlapped across the species community. This suggests that architectural convergence and equalizing effects occur in this diverse tropical forest and that community-wide allometric equations can be used to describe forest height and carbon storage. Light resource partitioning also occurs, indicating stabilizing effects. Interspecific architectural variation in relation to adult stature supports the theory of the trade-off between early reproduction and vegetative growth. In closed rainforests, adult stature imposes a stronger force on architectural differentiation of species than regeneration light requirements.
3806606|1. An animal-pollinated plant living on a slope should orientate its flowers down-slope towards the more open space if by doing so it receives more pollinator visits and thereby achieves increased reproductive success. 2. We measured flower orientation relative to slope direction on individuals of 10 species of forest-floor herbs in cool temperate forests in Japan. For one of these species, Erythronium japonicum, we also manipulated flower orientation to test experimentally for its effects on both male and female reproductive function. 3. In all 10 species, flowers were preferentially orientated down-slope. This pattern was more pronounced in plants growing on steeper slopes. 4. Our manipulative field experiment in Erythronium japonicum demonstrated that pollen dispatch was highest in flowers orientated down-slope. Additionally, flowers orientated up-slope may have achieved a lower seed set on steep slopes. 5. We conclude that down-slope orientation of flowers was a general phenomenon among the species that we studied, and that this behaviour was adaptive in enhancing plant fitness through pollination.
10.2307/2390027|1. Most herbivores have a very restricted host range (the specialists), but some (called generalists) include a large number of different food plants in their diet. Here, we investigate the land snail Arianta arbustorum (Helicidae) to discover whether eating several plant species is more advantageous than eating one plant species only. 2. In the faeces of field-collected Arianta arbustorum, the plant species eaten were identified anatomically. Over 89% of the snails had eaten more than one food item within the period of 1-3 days, for which the faeces are representative. 3. In the laboratory, Arianta arbustorum was presented with two different food plants in sequence and the amounts eaten were measured (sequentially mixed diet group). The controls were fed only one plant species throughout the experiment (pure diet group). When the snails of the sequentially mixed diet group received the food plants Circaea lutetiana (Onagraceae) or Stachys silvatica (Lamiaceae) together with Adenostyles alliariae (Asteraceae) (irrespective of order of presentation) they ate more than the snails from the pure diet group. However, when the snails of the sequentially mixed diet group received Senecio fuchsii (Asteraceae) together with Adenostyles alliariae (irrespective of order of presentation) they ate similar amounts as the snails from the pure diet group. 4. Adenostyles alliariae and S. fuchsii belong to the same subtribe Senecioneae and contain very similar secondary compounds, while C. lutetiana and S. silvatica belong to different plant families from Adenostyles alliariae and contain completely different secondary compounds. This suggests that secondary compounds may be important in causing snails to eat sequentially mixed diets. However, nutrient complementation and sampling cannot be ruled out as additional factors responsible for the maintenance of sequentially mixed diets.
4540071|1. Male frogs and toads expend considerable energy and experience potential predation risk while calling in breeding aggregations; similarly, male lizards display behaviourally and exhibit striking colour patterns during courtship interactions. These apparently costly displays of male anuran amphibians and squamate reptiles have been argued to play an important role in mate selection by females. Although female preferences for male display traits under controlled conditions have been documented for both taxonomic groups, directional selection on male displays has rarely been adequately assessed under natural conditions. 2. We discuss theoretical and empirical considerations of display costs in the context of sexual selection due to female preferences in anurans and lizards. We review experimental evidence of female preferences for apparently costly displays by males and estimation of selection on male traits due to female choice in the field in these taxonomic groups. 3. Evidence of female preferences for apparently costly display traits is not uncommon for thoroughly studied populations, and there is some field evidence of significant selection on these traits in at least one well studied group: prolonged breeding toads. Studies have been hampered by confusion over the definitions of costs, difficulty in adequately describing variation in male displays, and overly simplistic approaches to documentation of female preferences. 4. Future work should include recognition of variation in definitions of cost in relation to male display behaviour, acknowledgement that female choice may be based on multiple male characteristics, and that considerable effort, including documentation of consistency in male behaviour, is required before inferences regarding the importance of female choice in sexual selection can be drawn.
40205573|1. Peatland soils are estimated to store a third of all terrestrial carbon stocks and are very sensitive to climate change. In these systems, one group of soil mesofauna, enchytraeid worms (Annelida, Oligochaeta), represent up to 70% of total soil fauna biomass and previous studies have highlighted their potential use as 'biological indicators' for functionally important changes in the C cycle. 2. To examine the link between temperature, enchytraeids and carbon fluxes we performed a microcosm experiment in which we assessed the influence of temperature on enchytraeid populations and soil CO and DOC release from a Galician peatland soil over 90 days. Additionally, to unravel the potential underlying mechanisms responsible for DOC production, we also tested the effects of increasing temperatures and enchytraeid activities on the presence of organic chelating metals (iron and aluminium) and hydrogen ions (i.e. acidity) in the soil solution. 3. Enchytraeid population numbers and biomass increased over time at both temperature treatments (14 and 19 C), with the greatest increase produced at the highest temperature (to over five and seven times higher initial values, respectively, by day 88). Results also showed that, under warmer conditions, enchytraeid activities increased both CO fluxes and DOC release by twofold (Q values of 3-9 and 3-6, respectively). 4. The combined effect of temperature and enchytraeids promoted the breakdown of organic substances and consequently, more DOC and iron were leached. An important decline in H release was observed when enchytraeids were present and possibly eliminating one of the critical mechanisms restricting DOC release. These leachate pH values were also responsible for aluminium immobilisation and hence for its insignificant role in the export of DOC from the peat soil. 5. We conclude that temperature change alone does not explain all the observed increases in soil respiration and DOC production but rather soil invertebrate responses to warming are crucial in controlling C fluxes in peatland soils. This is the result of temperature induced changes of enchytraeid populations and activities which have the potential of speeding up the decomposition of organic matter and altering soil aeration, metal mobilization and acidity of the soil solution, with important implications for the global carbon cycle. 6. There is an urgent need for incorporating the response of soil biology in climate change modelling to make better predictions of future changes in terrestrial carbon pools.
40407708|1. Thermal acclimation is one of the basic strategies by which organisms cope with thermal heterogeneity of the environment. Under predictable variation in environmental temperatures, theory predicts that slection favours acclimation of thermal performance curves over fixed phenotypes. 2. We examined the influence of diel fluctuations in developmental temperatures on the thermal sensitivity of the maximal swimming capacity in larvae of the alpine newt, Triturus alpestris. 3. We incubated newt eggs under three thermal regimes with varying daily amplitudes (1,5 and 9 C) and similar means (17-6-17-9 C), and accordingly we measured the swimming speed of hatched larvae at three exprimental tempratures (12, 17 and 22 C), which they would normally exprience in their naturai habitat. 4. Embryonic development under low and middle temperature fluctuations produced larvae with similar swimming speeds across exprimental tempratures. In contrast, the most fluctuating regime induced development of phenotypes, which at 12 C swam faster than larvae developed under moderate diel fluctuations. 5. Our results pro vide vidence that diel temperature fluctuations induce acclimation of thermal dependence of locomotor performance. In ectotherms experiencing diel cycles in environmental tempratures, this plastic response may act as an important pacemaker in the volution of thermal sensitivity.
10.2307/2389809|Ladybird species of different sizes make a proportionally similar investment in reproduction in terms of biomass of gonads and reproductive rate. In particular egg size multiplied by egg number is proportional to adult weight. Thus egg size is a function of adult weight and ovariole number. Species with few ovarioles lay larger eggs than similar-sized species with many ovarioles. Development time is a function of the ratio of adult to egg weight such that species with proportionally small eggs take longer to complete their development than do species with proportionally large eggs. Egg size is probably constrained by the minimum size at which first instar larvae can capture active prey and complete their development before prey becomes scarce.
2656469|1. Kirschfeld (1976) suggested that visual acuity is directly proportional to body length across a wide range of animal species. A survey of eye size, visual acuity and body size of birds and mammals that is consistent with Kirschfeld's suggestion is reported. Hypoallometry (scaling factor < 1) for eye size vs body size combines with hyperallometry (scaling factor > 1) for acuity vs eye size to produce roughly linear scaling between acuity and body size. 2. Kirschfeld (1976) also suggested that the distance at which important objects are typically viewed is a linear function of body length. `Subjective distance' (viewing distance/body length) was therefore thought to be independent of body size across species. However, for prey detection by mammalian and avian predators, it is doubtful that subjective visual distances are size independent because prey size and visual acuity both scale by factors > 0.5 with predator body size; hence, detection distance should scale with size by a factor > 1. Scaling analyses also suggest that subjective visual distances for intraspecific social interactions are size dependent. 3. A positive association between body size and viewing distance has implications for the scaling of coat pattern features. In environments with fractal visual backgrounds (in which perceived sizes of background pattern elements do not change as distance from the background changes), larger animal species should have larger coat patches than smaller species if they are adapted to be cryptic at greater viewing distances than smaller species are.
3599278| 1. Energy saving is often suggested as the basis of a resource trade-off between immunocompetence and other fitness-relevant traits. This suggests that the energetic cost of an immune response is significant and sufficient to force trade-offs. To date, few studies have investigated the energetic cost of the humoral component of the immune system in birds and furthermore, existing results are contradictory. 2. We addressed this question through two experiments. In experiment 1, the basal metabolic rate (BMR) of Collared Doves, Streptopelia decaocto, challenged with sheep red blood cells (SRBC) was compared with the BMR of control birds. The energetic cost of immunity on host life-history strategies was compared with another physiological activity, thermoregulation, in experiment 2 to assess its significance. 3. Experiment 1 showed that antibody production against SRBC increased BMR of birds, with a peak of energy expenditure 7 days after immune activation (+85% BMR). In addition, we found that among birds fed ad libitum, those mounting a stronger immune response lost significantly more mass than controls or birds mounting a low immune response. In experiment 2, we found the cost of thermoregulation to be 527%
3806533|1. One route to a deeper understanding of the life history of organisms is to identify how resources are acquired and used for reproduction. This may be particularly relevant for insects such as nectar-feeding butterflies, which change diets during the life cycle. 2. Nitrogenous resources used for reproduction in nectar-feeding butterflies come principally from the juvenile diet and are stored in abdominal reserves. Juvenile resources are also used to build the soma of the adult. Consequently somatic and reproductive investment will trade off and constrain the amount of resources available for egg and spermatophore production. Recent findings show a pronounced decrease in thorax resource content and suggest that nitrogen from somatic tissue can be reallocated to reproduction and thus alleviate the resource limitation upon reproduction. 3. In this paper we test the prediction that the observed decrease in thorax nitrogen content is related to the expenditure of resources in spermatophore production in Pieris napi males. By comparing thorax nitrogen content over the life span between males mated 0-3 times, we show that mating history is an important factor in explaining the observed decrease in nitrogen content. 4. These results support the hypothesis that thoracic resources are used for reproduction in male nectar-feeding butterflies.
826568| 1. There is an isometric relationship for allometry of ventricle mass (slope = 0952) and liver mass (slope = 1027) and phylogenetic correlations of ventricle and liver mass for museum specimens of 42 species of Australian frogs. 2. There was a strong relationship for ventricle mass with body mass, phylogeny and dehydration tolerance, but not habit, body shape or environmental variables. The relatively large ventricle of more dehydration-tolerant species may also be associated with a higher metabolic scope for activity. There was a strong relationship for liver mass with body mass, phylogeny, habit (burrowing, terrestrial, arboreal), body shape and some environmental variables, but not dehydration tolerance. For burrowing frogs, a relatively large liver is presumably important because it is an energy store during long periods of dormancy and is a source of amino acids for cocoon formation or urea synthesis. For arboreal frogs, a small liver might reduce the cost of transport by limiting body mass, and allow a more elongate shape. 3. Relative ventricle mass of museum specimens is representative of values for field-collected frogs. Relative liver mass is higher for museum specimens; this might be an artefact of museum preservation and/or reflect seasonal or geographic variation. 
3806582|1. The accelerating extinction rate of plant species and its effect on ecosystem functioning is a hotly debated topic in ecological research. Most research projects concerning the relationship between species diversity and productivity have been conducted in artificial plant communities, with only a few in natural ecosystems. In this study we examined the relationship between species diversity and above-ground net primary productivity (ANPP) over two consecutive growth seasons (2004 and 2005) in a semi-arid steppe ecosystem of northern China, that were subjected to different land uses. 2. Land use affected the relationship between species diversity and ANPP in this semi-arid steppe ecosystem. Exclusion of grazing without or with biomass removal by mowing increased ANPP, species richness and species diversity compared with free grazing; the effect was reflected mainly as enhanced importance of the perennial forbs functional group in terms of their relative contributions to ANPP, plant cover and plant abundance. 3. Many mechanisms regulate the relationship between species diversity and productivity. Differential effects of anthropogenic activities on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning greatly complicate the analysis of such relationships. On grazing-exclusion sites the relationship between ANPP and species richness can be best described as an exponential growth function (R
10.2307/2390505|1. The study assesses the effects of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration and water availability on stand development and photosynthetic characteristics of Loblolly Pine (Pinus taeda) and Red Maple (Acer rubrum). Miniature stands of these species were grown from seed in monoculture and in a 50:50 replacement mixture for two accelerated growing seasons. 2. Both species had greater biomass under the higher levels of CO<sub>2</sub> and water availability. Biomass of Loblolly Pine seedlings in mixed stands exceeded that in monocultures, while the opposite was true for Red Maple. No significant treatment interactions were detected for total biomass. Significant main effects for water and stand type were detected for stem height of Loblolly Pine. CO<sub>2</sub>, water and stand type interactions were observed for height of Red Maple. 3. Net photosynthetic rates were measured on miniature stand canopies and constituent seedlings from these stands. Both species exhibited higher photosynthetic rates under elevated CO<sub>2</sub>. However, expression of photosynthesis on a leaf mass or soil area basis affected conclusions regarding the role of water availability on stand-level response to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>.
826605|1. Models developed to predict behavioural and life-history decisions of parasitoids rely heavily on assumptions concerning the nature and function of the nutrients that the female obtains from the host. 2. Using a combination of colorimetric and thin-layer chromatography techniques, we analysed the composition of the host-feeding fluid consumed by the parasitoid Eupelmus vuilletti and found it to be consistent with the composition of the host's haemolymph. 3. The analysis of the haemolymph revealed that it was rich in proteins but also rich in sugars, trehalose and sucrose in particular. 4. Injections of these sugars at haemolymph concentrations directly into the parasitoid's haemolymph showed that these sugars are solely responsible for the increased longevity observed in host-fed females. 5. This study is the first to identify the constituents of host-feeding meals and their impact on parasitoid longevity and provide further evidence of the extent to which parasitoid behavioural decisions are determined by physiological variables. Our study demonstrates that the integration of nutritional physiology, behaviour, life history and population dynamics is essential in order to understand parasitoid foraging ecology.
2656506|1. Acclimation responses are normally assumed to increase the fitness of an organism, but supporting evidence is generally lacking, especially under field conditions. Even where an advantage arises from acclimation, this can be offset by other fitness costs. Heat hardening is a well-known form of acclimation in many invertebrates where exposure to high but sub-lethal temperatures protects against subsequent heat-induced death. 2. Previous laboratory work has shown that hardening occurs in wasp egg parasitoids of the genus Trichogramma because pretreatment with a mild temperature shock can increase survival at high temperatures. This system allowed fitness benefits and costs of hardening under the more stringent conditions in nature to be tested. 3. Heat hardening in Trichogramma carverae was considered at the pupal and adult stages and it was shown that hardening had a beneficial effect on heat resistance in the laboratory. Moreover, hardening enhanced adult fitness in the field under hot conditions. No costs of acclimation were detected under mild field and laboratory conditions. Conditions leading to hardening without costs were different from another Trichogramma species. 4. Hardening can therefore have fitness benefits without costs under field and laboratory conditions, and this process can be used to enhance parasitism rates in inundative commercial releases of Trichogramma against moth pests.
10.2307/2389870|1. In this paper we stress the important role that immature parasites can play in the interaction with their hosts and the importance of looking at juvenile hosts when studying parasite effects. These results are discussed in relation to the evolution of host-parasite associations and to Hamilton & Zuk's (1982) hypothesis on the evolution of secondary sexual characters. 2. We exposed juvenile European minnows Phoxinus phoxinus from two lake populations to sympatric and allopatric Diplostomum phoxini in a reciprocal cross-infection experiment. 3. Parasites from both localities were more infective to the sympatric hosts than to the allopatric ones. 4. During the first 4 weeks after infection, when the parasites grow within the host, minnows from both sympatric host-parasite combinations grew less quickly than minnows infected with allopatric parasites. 5. The parasites did not affect the host mortality. 6. The results suggest that: (a) there is a genetic basis to the host-parasite interaction; (b) the parasite is adapted to its local host genotype; (c) the parasite influences energy allocation and so may reduce host fitness, at least while it grows within the host.
826666|1. Although changes in the mass and biochemistry of vertebrate locomotory muscle are established responses to exercise training, the effects of training on resting metabolic rate (RMR) are not clear. Here, a sustained flight training regime was shown to lower both the night-time and day RMR of captive Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata). Training also reduced fat reserves and overall body mass. 2. Our results are largely consistent with the effects of an elevated energy expenditure on night-time RMR detected in a study of workload on Zebra Finches but contrast with most studies of humans, where exercise training increases or has no effect upon RMR. 3. A compensatory lowering of RMR in response to increased physical activity may be an artefact of captivity and could be dependent upon the activity levels of the captives concerned. 4. It is suggested that when extrapolating from cage bird studies to wild situations, consideration should be given to the physical condition of the caged individuals being used. 5. Variation in physical fitness may account for some of the unexplained variation in comparative studies of basal metabolism.
40205567|1. In nature, organisms experience environmental variability at coarse-grained (inter-generational) and fine-grained (intra-generational) scales and a common response to environmental variation is phenotypic plasticity. The emphasis of most empirical work on plasticity has been on examining coarse-grained variation with the goal of understanding the costs and benefits of plastic responses in response to a particular environment. 2. In this study, we investigated the effects of fine-grained variation in predation on the inducible defences of larval wood frogs (Rana sylvatica) by widely altering the density and feeding schedule of caged predators (Dytiscus spp.) while holding average predation constant. 3. We found that predator cues induced change in tadpole behaviour, morphology, and mass. Surprisingly, however, temporal variation in predation did not cause the tadpoles to alter their activity (compared to a constant predation treatment) or mass. Temporal variation in predation did alter tadpole tail depth, but only when experiencing our most extreme variation treatment in which the predators were fed once every 8 days. Under these conditions, the predator-induced tadpole tail was less extreme compared to environments containing constant predation. 4. While a number of previous studies have examined behavioural responses of prey to temporal variation in predation risk without holding average predation constant, this appears to be the first test of temporal variation per se. As in previous studies of organism responses to temporal variation in resources, our results suggest that fine-grained environmental variability can affect the expression of phenotypically plastic traits, but our tadpoles appear to be generally unresponsive to this finegrained variation for many of their traits.
10.2307/2389873|1. This study deals with resistance to complete submergence of seedlings of Rumex acetosa, R. crispus and R. palustris. 2. Seedlings of R. crispus and R. palustris appeared to be more resistant to flooding than those of R. acetosa under both field and greenhouse conditions. 3. Younger seedlings of all species were able to survive a longer flooding period than older ones. 4. When completely submerged the three Rumex species showed a low, but significant, photosynthetic activity. In R. crispus and R. palustris photosynthetically produced oxygen is released by the roots. Excised Rumex root tips have a low hypoxia tolerance, but that of R. acetosa was the lowest. This correlates with a high rate of ethanolic fermentation in both R. crispus and R. palustris and a low rate in R. acetosa. 5. The overall resistance to flooding of Rumex seedlings established from field, greenhouse and laboratory experiments showed a relationship with their site distribution in a flooding gradient of river Rhine.
3599089|1. Why do larger predators generally consume larger prey items? Endemic pit-vipers (Gloydius shedaoensis) on a small island in north-eastern China ambush passerine birds, usually from the branches of small trees. Both minimum and maximum prey sizes increase with predator size. 2. To clarify the reasons for this ontogenetic shift, 251 snakes in ambush postures were approached and offered potential prey items (dead birds, or models covered in feathers) to clarify the cues that trigger a foraging strike. 3. The snakes struck at the prey item in 101 of these trials, and this 'decision' was influenced by the size, movement and temperature of the prey item. A pit-viper's body size influenced its prey-size selectivity, with larger snakes refusing to strike at smaller prey items. Larger snakes also scavenge dead birds too large for smaller snakes to ingest, but do not ignore live birds: even the largest snakes use prey movement and prey temperature as cues to elicit feeding strikes. 4. The ontogenetic shift in prey size thus reflects a combination of processes. The absence of large prey from the diet of small snakes is due to gape-limitation (these snakes strike and attempt to swallow much larger prey). The absence of small prey items from the diet of larger snakes is due to active refusal to strike at small prey, as well as a behavioural shift to scavenging and to terrestrial rather than arboreal ambushsites (and thus, higher rates of encounter with large prey items) by larger pit-vipers.
826709|1. Patterns of pollinator responses to variation in floral display size have significance for pollen flow among plants. Here we test a theoretical model for explaining such patterns by simultaneously assessing bumble bee behaviour and nectar availability in two native stands of Cirsium purpuratum with different spatial densities. 2. A bumble bee (Bombus diversus) foraging on a plant remembered and avoided only one or two flower heads that it had probed before, so that the flower-head revisitation rate increased as it stayed longer on a plant. Moreover, the revisitation rate increased less rapidly on larger displays. 3. The number of heads probed per plant increased less than proportionally with display size, and this increase was smaller at higher plant density. This pattern is consistent with our expectation that a bee leaves a plant when the cost of flower-head revisitation exceeds that of interplant movement. However, bees left plants slightly earlier than predicted. 4. As predicted, the visitation rate of bees per plant showed a decelerated increase with floral display size, and this increase was greater at higher plant density. 5. As a result of these complementary changes in the number of heads probed per plant and visitation rate per plant across plant densities, nectar rewards per head were equalized among displays (an ideal free distribution was achieved).
10.2307/2390175|1. An etiolated regrowth technique was used to examine the dependence of regrowth of Osteospermum sinuatum, a semiarid shrub native to South Africa, on its carbon reserves. Regrowth as well as changes in reserve carbon pool sizes of four plant parts were compared between clipped plants (80% of leaf and twig biomass removed) growing in the light and in the dark. 2. Distinct temporal and spatial patterns of reserve carbon use were found, with reserve carbon of twigs being used before stem and below-ground storage carbohydrates. Leaf reserve carbon was also utilized in the absence of photosynthesis. 3. Regrowth of clipped Osteospermum sinuatum plants was dependent initially on carbon reserves but subsequent leaf growth and refilling of partially depleted carbohydrate reserves relied on photosynthates produced by new and remaining leaves. Most regrowth was derived from stored carbon (60%) during the first 2 weeks following clipping. 4. Results suggest that the production of new leaves in this shrub is dependent on carbon reserves to a greater extent than is the case for grasses. The difference between grasses and shrubs, with respect to the relative importance of reserve carbon for regrowth, possibly explains the poor competitive ability of grasses, and the persistence of shrubs in graminoid-shrub communities subjected to severe grazing pressures.
3599254| 1. To assess how internal and external factors contribute to lichen growth, light, water and nutrient supplies were manipulated during 3 months in the field for the lichens Nephroma arcticum (L.) Torss. and Peltigera aphthosa (L.) Willd. Concomitant measures of weight and area gain, microclimatic conditions and investments in photobiont vs mycobiont tissue were also conducted. 2. In both lichens 80% of the variation in weight gain was explained by a linear regression model including light received during wet active periods, chlorophyll a concentration and area gain. All three parameters had a positive effect on weight gain. 3. About 80% of the variation in area gain was explained by a model including variation in weight gain, initial thallus specific weight, ergosterol and chitin concentration. The model was identical for the two lichens, with a positive effect of weight gain and thallus specific weight and a negative effect of ergosterol and chitin. 4. Peltigera aphthosa grew faster than N. arcticum when exposed to the same environmental conditions. This could be explained by its higher chlorophyll a to ergosterol ratio, and a greater water-holding capacity prolonging the active time in light. 
2656348|1. Carotenoids are responsible for the most striking colours in birds, but also play an important role as enhancers of the immune system. Consequently, a trade-off between the ornamental and health functions of carotenoids in birds has been proposed. 2. Although it is well known that birds can store carotenoids in different organs and tissues, including the fat stores, until now all field studies of the regulation of carotenoid stores have focused on plasma carotenoids. 3. Carotenoids in the fat of 44 wild Greylag Geese (Anser anser L.) wintering in southwestern Spain were identified and quantified. In addition, the relationships between carotenoids and the size of the fat stores, as well as the sex and age of the geese, were analysed. 4. The major carotenoid in goose fat was lutein. This and related carotenoids are also the most prevalent pigments in bird plasma and secondary sexual characters. We also detected -cryptoxanthin, -carotene, neochrome and neoxanthin. Total carotenoid concentration was negatively correlated with the size of the fat stores. Males had higher concentrations of carotenoids than females. 5. A possible explanation for these patterns is that male birds tend to have higher plasma carotenoids than females, a difference that could be transposed to fat if carotenoids diffused passively from the blood into adipose tissues. Carotenoids, however, may tend to remain in the fat stores. If this were true, fat would not be a reservoir of carotenoids, but a sink where a significant amount of these pigments would be sequestered, being no longer available for other functions.
3599217|1. Theoretical and modelling studies highlight the importance of the spatial patterns of organisms for ecosystem functioning, stability and dynamics. However, there is little empirical evidence as to their importance as drivers of such ecosystem attributes. 2. We evaluated the relationships between different biological soil crust attributes (spatial pattern, cover and diversity) and ecosystem functioning in two semiarid areas differing in the developmental stage of these crusts. 3. We found a significant direct relationship between spatial pattern and both soil bulk density and respiration (surrogates of ecosystem infiltration and nutrient cycling, respectively) at one of our study sites. However, the strength of such a relationship was lower than that found between attributes such as cover and evenness and the same ecosystem functioning surrogates. 4. Our results represent, to our knowledge, some of the first empirical evidence linking the spatial pattern of a community and ecosystem functioning. They also suggest that the importance of spatial pattern as a driver of ecosystem functioning may depend on community attributes such as cover and diversity, and that its importance may be lower than that of these attributes.
3806613|1. The proper functioning of immune defences may be traded-off against protecting the organism from physiological stress through the induction of stress protein (HSP) synthesis. Immune function could also be negatively affected by haemoparasite infections. 2. We studied whether two induced immune responses (the humoral response to a tetanus vaccine and the T-cell-mediated response to phytohaemaglutinin (PHA) injection) were associated with the levels of two stress proteins (HSP60, HSP70), with haemoparasite infection and with condition in Pied Flycatcher, Ficedula hypoleuca Pallas, females. HSP levels, haemoparasite infection and condition were assessed on days 1 and 11 of nestling age, prior to tetanus and PHA challenges, respectively. 3. Females with higher HSP60 levels prior to tetanus challenge mounted lower humoral responses. Females parasitized by Haemoproteus showed lower humoral responses, when controlling for HSP60 levels. No association was detected for HSP70 levels. 4. Females with higher HSP60 and HSP70 levels prior to PHA challenge, independently of Haemoproteus infection, showed lower cell-mediated responses, when correcting for laying date. Female condition was not associated with immune responses. 5. These results suggest that synthesizing more HSPs to mitigate stress may be traded-off against mounting humoral and cell-mediated immune responses, and agree with immune defences being costly.
826651|1. While herbivory is considered a major selective force operating in mature vegetation, much less is known about how herbivores affect the expression of defence at the seedling stage. In this study we quantified several chemical and physical properties, usually considered to affect seedling palatability, of 14 Western Australian Hakea species. We also determined whether seedling defences were related to other plant life-history attributes. 2. Of all of the attributes measured, chemical defence (phenolic content of shoots) exhibited the most significant correlations with other traits (six of a possible eight). We also detected an apparent trade-off between chemical (phenolics) and physical (spinescence) defence. 3. Seed mass, relative growth rate and specific leaf area are traits commonly held to have the most predictive power in simplifying our understanding of plant ecological and evolutionary processes across species boundaries. Within this genus, however, these attributes were poorly correlated with other traits. 4. We conclude that more extensive studies of seedling defence attributes are needed for a fuller understanding of what governs the evolution of plant life-history traits.
826573| 1. Two laboratory screening experiments tested the juvenile-phase responses of 14 C
10.2307/2389374|1 When Deschampsia flexuosa (L.) Trin. was grown from seedlings in a glasshouse in summer, growth of the shoots declined (P < 0.001) as photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and nitrogen concentration (N) decreased. These responses were largely a function of a reduction in numbers of tillers. PAR and N interacted positively at P < 0.001. 2 Individual tillers of D. flexuosa responded to reduced nitrogen and PAR (except at the lowest PAR level) by an increase in shoot dry weight, shoot length, leaf dry weight, leaf length, leaf number, leaf length ratio (=SLA) and leaf weight fraction. At the lowest PAR used, this trend was reversed. Leaf length ratio was the variable which showed the largest relative change and was the most consistent in its response to variation in PAR. 3 These results suggest that D. flexuosa has a greater capacity to respond morphologically to variation in nutrient levels than has previously been reported. The increase in the magnitude of tiller variables with decreasing nitrogen and PAR levels may be an adaptation which allows the species to be successful in shaded, low fertility sites.
3599066|1. Nitrogen-use efficiency
10.2307/2389482|Measurements of growth, respiration and ingestion were used to examine the influence of food concentration on the assimilation and individual production efficiencies of Daphnia galeata G. O. Sars at food concentrations of 2.50, 0.25 and 0.05 mg Cl<sup>-1</sup>. A plot of assimilation rate against body size showed an S-shaped curve. In the first adult instar, the rates at 2.50 mg Cl<sup>-1</sup> were two and five times higher than those at 0.25 and 0.05 mg C l<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Assimilation efficiency, gross growth efficiency (K<sub>1</sub>) and net growth efficiency (K<sub>2</sub>) showed binomial curves with maxima at the last juvenile or early adult instars. Assimilation efficiency increased with decreasing food concentration; an opposite trend was found for K<sub>2</sub>. Except for early juvenile instars, K<sub>1</sub> was highest at the intermediate food concentration, suggesting that there is an optimal resource concentration for energy transfer efficiency. The lower value of K<sub>1</sub> at the higher food concentration was due to lower assimilation efficiency, while that at the lower food concentration was due to high respiration rate relative to the amount of food assimilated. These results demonstrate that food concentration affects the carbon balance not only quantitatively (rates), but also qualitatively (efficiencies). The change in carbon balance with changing food concentration is interpreted as a strategy for D. galeata to maximize its assimilation rate at given food concentrations.
10.2307/2390052|1. Analysis of the sexes of 2260 nestlings in 735 marsh harrier broods revealed an overall excess [sex ratio (SR) = 54.8%] of males, and a significant increase in the proportion of males with progressive laying date (d = day of the year): ln [SR/(1-SR)]=-1.286+0.013 d. 2. We argue that it is likely that these deviations from parity are determined at ovulation rather than by differential mortality of the sexes. This argument is based on two facts. First, the seasonal trend was most pronounced among the largest and oldest two nestlings per brood. These corresponded with the initial two eggs in 95% of the cases in a subset of 61 nests followed closely. Secondly, these initial eggs suffered least mortality. 3. We speculate that marsh harriers may benefit from producing more daughters early in the season if the probability of [female][female] breeding as yearlings declines with progressive date of birth.
3599025|1. Leaf emergence, leaf longevity, light regime and photosynthetic rates were investigated in order to clarify the morphological and phenological adaptations to light conditions by avoiding self-shading in two herbaceous (Polygonatum odoratum and Polygonum sachalinensis) and two woody (Fagus crenata and Alnus sieboldiana) plants in artificially created open habitats in Japan. 2. Fagus and Polygonatum open their leaves simultaneously as a flush during a short period at the start of the growing season (simultaneous foliar phenology), while Alnus and Polygonum open their leaves one by one successively for a longer period (successive foliar phenology). 3. Light conditions at the level of single leaves, defined as photon flux density relative to that above the plant, were essentially the same throughout a growing season for simultaneous species. On the other hand, light conditions for the two successive species degraded with time. There were gradients of light from the distal to basal part of a shoot only in successive species. 4. Reflecting the abrupt decrease in irradiance with time, photosynthetic rates of individual leaves decreased quickly with time in successive species (Alnus and Polygonum), while those of simultaneous species (Fagus and Polygonatum) decreased slowly. Photosynthetic rates of the canopy as a whole, however, were maintained constant over the season in successive species by replacing leaves frequently. Canopy-level photosynthesis decreased slowly with time in the two simultaneous species. 5. Successive leaf emergence is adaptive in open habitats such as flood plains and canopy gaps, while simultaneous leafing is adaptive in light-limited habitats such as the forest understorey.
3598986| 1. Anthrenus verbasci shows a circannual pupation rhythm, and a transfer from long-day to short-day conditions caused a phase shift. Short-day conditions produced synchronous pupation, and the critical day-length was between 13 and 14 h, which corresponded to the natural day-length in September. 2. A decrease in temperature does not seem to act as a zeitgeber under natural conditions, because a change from 25 to 20 C caused no or little phase shift. 3. Under conditions of natural photoperiod and temperature, larvae pupated synchronously in April, although under natural day-length at 20 C larvae pupated in February. Therefore, a decrease in day-length crossing the critical value in September probably shifts the phase of the circannual rhythm so that the gate to pupation opens in February, and probably low temperatures in winter suppress pupation until April. 4. Newly hatching larvae transferred outdoors pupated successfully only when transferred between late April and mid-September, although larvae transferred after mid-July developed into smaller pupae than those transferred earlier. Therefore, synchronous pupation and emergence in spring are needed to allow larvae of the next generation to grow sufficiently before winter. 
4540074| 1. Although many plants grow in rock crevices and other regions of small soil volume, including over 20 000 epiphytic and hemi-epiphytic species, analyses of the actual soil volume occupied, the water availability in that soil, the water-storage capacity in the shoots and underground organs, and the photosynthetic pathway utilized have rarely been combined. 2. Dudleya saxosa (M.E Jones) Britton and Rose (Crassulaceae), growing in the Sonoran Desert, has very shallow roots that occupied soil volumes averaging only 43 x 10 m per medium-sized plant. This volume of soil can hold about the same amount of water (10 g) as can be stored in the leaves, corm and roots combined (11 g), but at a sufficiently high water potential for transfer to the plant for less than 1 week after a substantial rainfall. 3. About 80% of the net carbon dioxide uptake by D. saxosa over a 24-h period occurred during the daytime (C) under wet conditions, the daily total decreasing by 34% and the pattern shifting to nocturnal net CO uptake (CAM) after 46 days' drought. Seventy-seven days' drought eliminated its daily net CO uptake. 4. Stomatal frequency was only 67 mm on the adaxial (upper) surface and twofold lower on the abaxial surface. The cuticle was thick, 34 m for the adaxial surface. Leaves had 24 mesophyll cell layers, leading to a high mesophyll cell surface area per unit leaf area of 142. 5. The three leaf anatomical features plus utilization of CAM increased net CO uptake per unit of water transpired, and helped D. saxosa thrive in a small soil volume, with the underground corm being a major supplier of water to the succulent leaves during 2.5 months of drought. The maximum water-hold capacity of the soil explored by the roots closely matched the maximum water-holding capacity of the plant, reflecting the conservative strategy used by D. saxosa in a stressful semi-arid environment. 
41319569|1. Ecoimmuriologists aim to understand the costs, benefits, and net fitness consequences of different strategies for immune defense. 2. Measuring the fitness consequences of immune responses is difficult, partly because of complex relationships between host fitness and the within-host density of parasites and immunological cells or molecules. In particular, neither the strongest immune responses nor the lowest parasite densities necessarily maximize host fitness. 3. Here, we propose that ecoimmunologists should routinely endeavour to measure three intertwined parameters: host fitness, parasite density, and relevant immune responses. We further propose that analyses of relationships among these traits would benefit from the statistical machinery used for analyses of phenotypic plasticity and/or methods that are robust to the bi-directional causation inherent in host-parasite relationships. For example, analyses of how host fitness depends upon parasite density, which is an evolutionary ecological definition of tolerance, would benefit from these more robust methods. 4. Together, these steps promote rigorous quantification of the fitness consequences of immune responses. Such quantification is essential if ecoimmunologists are to decipher causes of immune polymorphism in nature and predict trajectories of natural selection on immune defense.
10.2307/2389514|1. Body size is not a good predictor of the abundances of the different species within bird communities, even though the correlation between the two variables sometimes achieves statistical significance. 2. The apparent weakness of the relationship for birds in comparison with other taxa does not seem to result from the three-dimensional nature of birds' environments. 3. When correlations with phylogeny are controlled for, no statistrcally significant covariation between body size and population abundance can be detected. This may be because birds tend to speciate into niches similar to those occupied by their ancestors.
2390446|1. A trade-off was predicted between investment in defence and growth rate in the encrusting sponge Crambe crambe (Schmidt), while survival rates were expected to correlate positively with the production of defences. Previous studies have demonstrated that this sponge is better defended (chemically and physically) in shaded animal-dominated habitats than in well-illuminated habitats, dominated by algae. It was determined whether these habitat-associated differences in investment correlate with differences in growth, regeneration and mortality rates of small specimens (initial average area less than 100 mm<sup>2</sup>) of this sponge. 2. In the 2 years of the study the sponge grew slowly (size increased 2.5 times on average), and showed high interindividual variation in growth rates. A seasonal pattern was evident, with marked size increases from May to October. Significantly higher growth rates (on a monthly basis) were found in the well-illuminated habitat during the second year of study. There was also a negative relationship between monthly growth rate and toxicity (measured in previous studies). No differences were found in sponge regeneration rates between communities. 3. Mortality was significantly higher in individuals from the well-illuminated habitat, and mainly affected the smallest sponges (< 150 mm<sup>2</sup>). 4. This sponge was significantly more abundant in the shaded habitat, but the mean size of the sponges was greater in the well-illuminated habitat. The size distributions in the two communities were also significantly different. Sponges of the smallest size classes were more abundant in the shaded community. 5. It is concluded that sponges in the shaded habitat, in which investment in defence was greatest, featured higher survival but grew more slowly than those in the well-illuminated habitat. Differential mortality and growth observed in the study were sufficient to explain the patterns of abundance and size distributions of the established sponge populations from these two habitats.
826644|1. The outcome of interactions between wood decay basidiomycete fungi is affected by the size of territory held by a mycelium. We investigated the outcomes of interactions between the cord-forming saprotrophs Phanerochaete velutina (DC: Pers.) Parm., Phallus impudicus (L.) Pers. and Hypholoma fasciculare (Huds: Fr) Kumner over 152-155 days, determined as ability to capture or share territory in soil and wood, in terms of decay partitioning and the carbon cost of interactions. 2. The outcome of interactions in wood alone differed from those in which the fungi competed for an opponents' inoculum in soil microcosms. Competitive ability (the ability to capture or co-occupy an opponent's inoculum) varied according to species and inoculum age. In wood block pairings in the absence of soil there was evidence that P. velutina opportunistically utilized C previously mobilized within an opponent's inoculum. 3. In soil systems, short-term (28-day) respiratory losses of preloaded
2390408|1. The shape of avian eggs is often explained by involving the mechanical properties of eggshell such as resistance to breakage or invoking physiological forces operating during egg development. 2. Here we take a different approach and investigate the efficient use of space. According to this approach the optimal egg shape is the one that produces the most compact fit under the incubating parent. 3. We extend the model of Andersson (1978) and use a numerical technique to investigate egg shapes in clutches of 1 to 10 eggs. In our model the shape of eggs is described by four parameters in a two-dimensional space. These parameters are free to vary - but eggs cannot be concave. 4. The optimal egg shape for each clutch size was found by a genetic algorithm. 5. The model predicts that egg shape should depend on clutch size. In particular, if the clutch consists of one egg then this egg should be spherical; whereas in clutches of two or three eggs the eggs should be biconical. In clutches of four the eggs should be pointed. The model also predicts that in clutches of over seven eggs the optimal egg shape should be approximately spherical. 6. These predictions are valuable because they point out that some of the variation in avian egg shapes may be explained solely by the efficient use of the brood patch area of the incubating parent.
3599235|1. Resolving the controversy over the prevalence of generalization in plant-pollinator interactions requires field studies characterizing the pollination effectiveness of all a plant's floral visitors. Herein, the pollination effectiveness of all visitors to two species of barrel cactus (Ferocactus) was quantified. 2. Flowers of both species were pollinated almost exclusively by cactus-specialist bees: 99% (F. cylindraceus (Engelm.) Orcutt) and 94% (F. wislizeni (Engelm.) Britt. and Rose) of all seeds produced in this study resulted from cactus bee visits. 3. For F. cylindraceus, the cactus-specialist Diadasia rinconis was the most abundant visitor. For F. wislizeni, three cactus-specialists (including D. rinconis) plus generalists in the family Halictidae (which did not act as pollinators) each accounted for a quarter of all visits. 4. Diadasia rinconis visits to F. wislizeni flowers were more effective (per-visit) than visits by the other two cactus-specialists. 5. Pollen-collecting and nectar-collecting visits were equally effective. Nector-collecting visits were the most abundant. 6. Apart from the non-pollinating halictids, floral visitors surprisingly did not include commonly co-occurring generalist bees. 7. These data suggest that, just as apparently specialized flowers may be visited by a diverse assemblage of generalists, so apparently generalized flowers may be visited predominantly by specialists, and that these specialists may perform virtually all of the pollination.
3599330| 1. Clutch formation represents a considerable energy expense for waterfowl, yet little evidence is available to quantify nutrient allocation from endogenous and exogenous sources. Here we investigated hydrogen and carbon stable isotope ratios (D and 
41239360|1. Canopy plasticity, the expression of different leaf phenotypes within the crown of an individual tree has complex functional and evolutionary implications that remain to be thoroughly assessed. We hypothesized that it can lead to disparity in how leaves in different positions of the canopy change with allometric growth and population genetic structure. 2. Leaf phenotypes of the inner and outer canopy were estimated using eight morphological and physiological characters. All traits were measured under field conditions in six populations of Olea europaea and again in a common garden for a subset of the genotypes. The same populations were characterized genetically with amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) genomic scans. With these data, we investigated the extent to which leaf phenotypes change with plant size, genetic processes and in response to environmental conditions inside and outside the canopy. 3. The size of trees measured in the field was clearly associated with the phenotype of sun but not to that of shade leaves. The phenotype of sun leaves depended on both direct and diffuse light, while that of shade leaves was found to correlate only with diffuse radiation. Additionally, light availability inside the canopy was conditioned by the shape of external leaves, and increasing elongation of sun leaves led to higher radiation in the inner canopy. 4. The field phenotypes of both inner and outer canopy leaves were correlated with genetic variation among populations. Conversely, in the common garden, the different genotypes expressed a homogeneous sun phenotype, while phenotypic differences among populations remained apparent in shade leaves. 5. We conclude that, in agreement with our working hypothesis, canopy plasticity is both cause and consequence of the environment experienced by the plant and might lead to the differential expression of genetic polymorphisms among leaves. Furthermore, we propose that it can contribute to buffer abiotic stress and to the partition of light use within the tree crown.
10.2307/2390263|1. After the breeding season, migrant passerine birds moult and subsequently migrate to their winter quarters. Moult and migration involve different physiological processes (replacement of body proteins vs energy storage for endurance flights). This study investigates metabolic responses to three phases of the annual cycle (postbreeding, moulting and migratory periods) in three physiological situations (feeding during the day, overnight fasted, short-term fasted) by examining six plasma metabolite levels of three bird species. 2. In birds feeding during the day, diurnal body mass gain, triglyceride and free fatty-acid plasma levels were higher during the migratory period than during the postbreeding and moulting periods. This reflects hyperphagia and hyperlipogenesis in preparation for migratory flights. 3. No clear effects of moult were found on the metabolite levels examined. 4. Overnight fasting was generally characterized by low protein catabolism (low uric acid levels) and increased fat utilization (high free fatty-acid, glycerol and -hydroxybutyrate levels), compared with feeding birds. 5. During the migratory period, however, overnight fasted birds showed no elevated free fatty-acid levels, a more marked drop in triglyceride levels, unchanged glucose levels, less increased -hydroxy-butyrate levels and a stronger decrease in uric acid levels than birds in the postbreeding and moulting periods. This suggests that the increased fat deposition rate during the migratory period leads to increased hepatic and muscular lipid stores by the end of the day. During the migratory period, a higher utilization of these triglycerides allows a lower utilization of fatty acids from adipose tissues and a more effective sparing of protein and carbohydrates during overnight fasting than during the postbreeding period. 6. These metabolic responses were more pronounced in the Blackcap and Robin than in the Garden Warbler which starts migration when it is in the last stages of moult.
2390531|1. Macaranga (Euphorbiaceae) is a paleotropical tree genus comprising myrmecophytic and non-myrmecophytic species. All species are presumed to possess food bodies (FBs) to maintain or attract ants as anti-herbivore defence. 2. The hypothesis was tested that Macaranga species differing in their mode of association with ants would produce FBs differing in their chemical composition. We investigated contents of carbohydrates, proteins and lipids in FBs of four myrmecophytic and one non-myrmecophytic Macaranga as well as one Parthenocissus (Vitaceae) species. 3. On a dry weight basis, FBs of myrmecophytes contained relatively higher amounts of proteins compared to carbohydrates than those of non-myrmecophytes. Soluble carbohydrates showed species-specific patterns and were found in especially high amounts in both non-myrmecophytes. Furthermore, Parthenocissus FBs contained higher amounts of soluble compared to polymerous substances not only in carbohydrates but also in proteins. 4. FBs seem to be specifically adapted to their respective role in ant attraction and nutrition, with myrmecophytes providing ants with high amounts of lipids and proteins and non-myrmecophytes mainly offering carbohydrates in the form of common soluble sugars.
2656316|1. The aim was to assess the extent to which the microbial biomass and activity, and community structure of fertilized upland grasslands are directly related to changes in soil N availability or indirectly related to individual plant species effects caused by changes in plant species composition and dominance. We investigated the short-term interactive effects of dominant plant species (Lolium perenne, Agrostis capillaris, Holcus lanatus and Festuca rubra) and nitrogen (N) amendment using an N-limited upland grassland soil. 2. In soils planted with different grass species, soil microbial biomass, and to some extent microbial activity, were determined by temporal changes in plant productivity. Variations in the way that individual plants influenced soil microbial biomass and activity were highly inconsistent over time, and largely independent of N-additions and differences in plant productivity. At the final sample date, those grass species which co-dominate the total plant biomass of intermediate fertility (H. lanatus) and semi-improved grasslands (A. capillaris and F. rubra) had a beneficial effect on the soil microbial biomass. In contrast, the dominant plant species of improved grasslands, L. perenne, had zero or a negative effect on soil microbial biomass. Two plant species (A. capillaris and H. lanatus) increased the proportion of fungi relative to bacteria in the soil microbial community, relative to the unplanted control soil and the other plant species. Lolium perenne and A. capillaris reduced the evenness of microbial PLFAs, suggesting negative effects of these plant species on the diversity of the soil microbial community. 3. The addition of N had no consistent effect on measures of soil microbial biomass or activity, but significantly altered the structure of the microbial community in favour of fungi. The lack of effects of N-addition on microbial biomass and activity were despite the finding that nitrogen addition reduced root biomass in all plant species and increased rhizosphere acidity. 4. The results suggest that in the short term, the abundance and activity of soil microorganisms in upland grasslands are regulated more by plant species traits than by a direct effect of nitrogen. These effects are likely to be related to variations amongst plant species in root exudation patterns and/or efficiency of nutrient aquisition. 5. Our study provides evidence that the functional characteristics of dominant plant species are important determinants of soil biological properties, and hence ecosystem functioning in temperate upland grasslands.
826592|1. Adult Drosophila melanogaster Meigen were examined for Hsp70 expression level and heat-shock resistance from 0 to 8 days of age - the latter being close to the mean life span in natural D. melanogaster populations. 2. Over the 8 days, both induced Hsp70 expression level and induced heat-shock resistance showed a linear decrease. Heat-shock resistance without prior hardening also decreased, but at a lower rate than both induced Hsp70 expression level and heat-shock resistance after hardening. 3. The results suggest that the decrease in induced Hsp70 expression level in D. melanogaster with age is regulatory and not due to a reduced ability to express Hsp70 as a result of senescence. 4. The changes in induced Hsp70 expression level with age are likely to be determined by natural selection and are evolutionarily adaptive. The decrease with age in stress resistance after hardening may then be considered a direct consequence of age-dependent reduction in expression levels of induced Hsp70.
4540072|1. Aspects of locomotor performance are thought to be important in a variety of natural contexts, including foraging and escaping from predators. The role of locomotor abilities in sexual selection is less well documented, but is probably of wide importance. 2. Sexual selection may exaggerate traits beyond their optimum with respect to biomechanical or physiological function, thus imposing 'costs' of various types. Locomotor performance, in conjunction with its lower-level determinants and its behavioural and ecological consequences, constitutes an ideal set of phenotypes with which to study such costs. 3. Organisms may possess traits that compensate for the negative effects of sexually selected traits on performance abilities. Ignoring these may lead to erroneous conclusions about the cost of a putatively sexually selected trait. At the same time, ignoring the effects of sexual selection on functionally important traits may lead us to underestimate their functional significance. 4. Many properties of organisms are affected by, or at least correlate with, overall body size, so this must be considered in any study of adaptation or sexual selection. For interspecific or interpopulation comparative studies, phylogeny must also be considered in statistical analyses. 5. We present a hypothetical data set that illustrates the perils of ignoring potential compensatory mechanisms when studying the costs of a sexually selected trait. We also discuss different ways of studying costs, including analyses of a single sex and of the differences between the sexes.
20142824|1. Classic evolutionary models interpret ageing as a cost of reproduction, but evolutionary research has thus far largely neglected the conceptual links between the evolution of ageing and a key mode of selection on male and female reproductive strategies -- sexual selection and sexual conflict. 2. We synthesize ideas and evidence linking sex and ageing, and make the case that a focus on this fascinating problem will ultimately lead to a more complete understanding of both the evolution of ageing and the evolution of sexual strategies. 3. The primary and secondary differentiation of male and female reproductive strategies is expected to produce sex-specific optima for traits that affect longevity and ageing rate, often favouring a 'live fast, die young' strategy in males, relative to females, although numerous exceptions to this pattern are observed and sex-differences in ageing rate, in particular, remain poorly understood. 4. Conversely, environmental factors that influence life expectancy or ageing rate can thereby determine the magnitude or even sign of sexual selection. 5. Sexual conflict is expected to displace the sexes from their sex-specific life-history optima through sexually antagonistic interactions, as well as sex-specific selection on loci expressed in both sexes. 6. Despite the availability of interesting and testable hypotheses linking sexual selection and ageing, relevant empirical studies are remarkably sparse, and the complex relation between sex, mortality rate and ageing remains poorly understood.
10.2307/2389769|Some characteristics of photosynthetic acquisition of inorganic C by five macroalgae collected at Pivers Island, Beaufort, North Carolina, USA were investigated. The algae examined were the Chlorophytan Codium fragile var. tomentosoides, and four Phaeophytans: Dictyota dichotoma, Padina vickersii (Dictyotales), Sargassum filipendula (Fucales: Sargassaceae) and Fucus vesiculosus (Fucales: Fucaceae). The intertidal F. vesiculosus differs from the other four, subtidal algae in the C<sub>4</sub>-like or CAM-like traits of having a higher affinity for inorganic C (saturated by normal sea-water concentrations), a greater capacity for HCO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> and in the occurrence of low-amplitude CAM-like diel changes in titratable acidity; data on N-use efficiency of photosynthesis were more equivocal. These characteristics suggest a higher capacity to fix inorganic C from ambient inorganic C on the basis of biomass or tissue N in the intertidal than in the normally submersed algae, in agreement with earlier data involving other species. They also point out the excess of photosynthetic capacity in the subtidal algae (with their less C<sub>4</sub>-like physiology) over what can be expressed in full sunlight in normal sea-water inorganic C concentration during steady state photosynthesis. Natural abundance <sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C ratio measurements on S. filipendula (haptophytic) with a pleustophytic Sargassum sp. from the Gulf Stream are consistent with greater boundary layer limitation on inorganic C acquisition for the pleustophyte.
41239296|1. Exaggerated male ornaments often are hypothesised to increase predation risk due to reduced locomotor performance, yet empirical evidence supporting this proposition is equivocal. In part, current costs of ornaments may be difficult to detect in nature due to the evolution of compensatory mechanisms that offset detrimental effects. 2. The exaggerated eye stalks of male stalk-eyed flies increase their moment of inertia compared with females, yet males do not suffer a flight performance decrement. We tested for evidence of compensation within seven species of stalk-eyed flies, examining eyespan and wing size in four dimorphic and three monomorphic species. 3. We found that, within species, males had larger wings than females in two species dimorphic for eyespan but not in any monomorphic species. In males of the dimorphic species, there were positive relationships between relative eyespan and relative wing area, indicating compensation, whereas there were no such relationships in females of the dimorphic species or in either males or females of the monomorphic species. 4. We propose that examining compensatory abilities relative to ornament size is a powerful way to test for costs of ornaments in correlational and experimental studies.
40863584|1. The potential for selection against migrants to promote population divergence and speciation is well established in theory, yet there has been relatively little empirical work that has explicitly considered selection against migrants as a form of reproductive barrier, and its importance in the accumulation of reproductive isolation between populations has been overlooked until recently. 2. Parasites often differ between environments and can be an important source of selection on hosts, yet their contribution to population divergence in general, and selection against migrants in particular, is poorly understood. 3. Selection against migrants might be reduced if organisms escape parasitism when they disperse (natural enemy release). Alternatively, parasites could increase selection against migrants if, when they disperse, organisms encounter parasites to which they are poorly adapted. 4. Here we test experimentally the contribution that parasites could make to selection against migrants in the adaptive radiation of three-spined sticklebacks. These fish have repeatedly colonized freshwater environments from marine ones, and this has repeatedly lead to rapid speciation. 5. We use transplant experiments of lab-raised fish to simulate dispersal, and antihelminthic treatment to show that ancestral-type marine sticklebacks contract higher burdens of novel parasites when introduced to freshwater, than in saltwater, and suffer a growth cost as a direct result. 6. Susceptibility to parasites and their detrimental effect is less in derived, freshwater fish from evolutionarily young populations, possibly as a result of selection for resistance. 7. Our results support a role for parasites in selection against migrants and population diversification. They do not support the hypothesis of'natural enemy release'.
2656510|1. Increases in photosynthesis of leaves remaining after defoliation may result from shifts in leaf photosynthetic characteristics or from an improved light penetration in the canopy. However, few studies have tried to estimate the relative contribution of these factors to mitigating the negative effects of defoliation. We present a quantitative framework for such an analysis. 2. In a field and greenhouse experiment, plants of the rain forest understorey palm Chamaedorea elegans were subjected to three levels of defoliation (0, 50 or 66% of leaves removed) and, in the greenhouse, grown at two irradiances (5 or 16% of daylight, `low light' and `high light' hereafter). For each plant, leaf photosynthesis and light penetration in the canopy were measured and these data were used to calculate whole-canopy carbon gain. 3. Defoliation significantly increased the light available to the remaining leaves. In the field and in the `high-light' greenhouse plants, defoliation also resulted in an increase in the light-saturated photosynthesis per unit leaf area (P<sub>max</sub>), although in the `low-light' plants this was not the case. 4. A sensitivity analysis revealed that in the `low-light' plants, a proportional increase in leaf P<sub>max</sub> did not result in increased canopy-level carbon gain, while in the `high-light' and field plants, it did. This suggests that the lack of plasticity in P<sub>max</sub> in response to defoliation, at low light, may be the appropriate pattern to maximize carbon gain. 5. Defoliated plants had 10-18% more average photosynthesis per unit leaf area (P<sub>area</sub>) than the control plants, and this increase was mostly the result of an improved light penetration in the canopy. 6. A relatively small fraction (5-30%) of the total estimated loss in canopy carbon gain caused by the removal of leaves was compensated for by an increase in P<sub>area</sub>. This suggests that in rain forest understorey plants, an increase in diurnal photosynthesis of remaining leaves has limited potential for mitigating the negative effects of defoliation.
2656523|1. A successful immune response requires the functioning of a range of physiological mechanisms and is therefore supposed to be costly in terms of limited resources that could be used otherwise, such as energy or nutrients. Because immunity is costly, immune defence should be reduced if appropriate multiple immunogenic challenges are present. 2. The working hypothesis that multiple challenges will reduce the immune system's capacity to respond is adopted. An existing infection by yet another parasite could also further reduce the strength of the immune response, since limited resources have to be divided among the different challenges. 3. The bumble-bee, Bombus terrestris L., and its parasites are used as a model system to study (1) whether the melanization response towards an antigen is reduced or increased after a preceding challenge (`depletion/stimulation'); (2) if depletion occurs, how long it takes to mount a full defence response against the second challenge; and (3) whether the coinfection by another parasite reduces or increases the immune defence system's capacity to respond. A standard technique was used where two novel antigens (nylon filaments of different sizes and time intervals) were implanted into the haemocoel of individual workers. Controls were individuals implanted with a single fixed sized implant. A gut parasite, the trypanosome Crithidia bombi, was used for coinfections. 4. Size of the implant had no effect on the melanization response as well as time between primary and secondary implant. Primary and secondary implants differed from the controls. In particular, the primary implant was melanized more intensively than the controls and secondary, respectively. Furthermore, a coinfection by C. bombi had no effect on the encapsulation response. 5. The results suggest that no general depletion of the encapsulation system occurs under the conditions of our experiment and that a similar immune response (melanization) independent on the magnitude of the challenge, occurs. However, there seems to be a depletion effect on the secondary implant. Furthermore, the dynamics of two different parasites seem to run independently as far as within-host interactions are concerned.
10.2307/2390166|1. Following the method of Jeffree & Jeffree (1994), mean temperatures of the coldest (x) and warmest (y) months of the year in the geographical ranges of Viscum album and Leptinotarsa decemlineata were used to construct ellipsoidal probability regions for the range of each species in temperature space. 2. Assuming that species responsiveness to temperature remains constant, the temperature probability ellipsoids may be used to interpret both the potential geographical range of the species and its potential redistribution in response to the temperature component of past or future climatic changes. 3. Temperature changes  x and  y for UKHI and UKTR GCM scenarios for a double CO<sub>2</sub> were plotted as vectors in two-dimensional (x, y) temperature space, enabling the magnitude and direction of temperature change at each geographical location to be visualized. 4. Interactions in x, y temperature space between the temperatures of geographical locations and the temperature probability ellipsoids were used to map those areas of Europe in which the combination of summer and winter temperatures would be suitable for the species in various temperature change scenarios. 5. The direction of potential migration of each species was found to be sensitive to seasonality both of existing temperatures and of the increments  x and  y, and cannot therefore be interpreted from annual mean temperature change alone. 6. Under the increasingly oceanic temperature regimes in Europe indicated by the UKHI and UKTR GCM scenarios the potential range of Viscum album is only likely to extend north and east into parts of Europe currently with a regime that is both cooler and more continental than in the present species distribution. 7. UKHI and UKTR scenarios of climatic warming are likely to be unfavourable to northward extension of the range of Viscum album in Britain, and may result in the loss of the species where current annual temperature range is reduced. 8. By contrast, in the same temperature change scenarios, the potential geographical range of summer and winter temperatures suitable for Leptinotarsa decemlineata may extend into Britain as far as the north of England.
20142746|1. The effect of the ratio of red: far red light (R: FR) on seed germination of herbaceous species from northern temperate deciduous forest has received little attention. Here for 27 such species, we investigated the relationship between seed mass and the suitability of micro-sites for germination. Germination in light and in darkness was compared after cold stratification, and for the light-requiring species, the germination response to R: FR was determined. In addition, seed bank persistence was monitored over 4 years. 2. With increasing seed mass, germination became less dependent on light and seed bank persistence decreased. Furthermore, for the light-dependent species, there was a significant negative relationship between the R: FR that resulted in 50% germination and seed mass. 3. These data suggest that small-seeded species only germinate in micro-sites with a high R: FR, which signals the absence of over-topping vegetation or leaf litter. Such micro-sites are comparatively rare, which may necessitate persistence in the soil seed bank. 4. For small-seeded species, we propose that a key benefit from restricting germination to high R: FR is a reduction in the time-frame over which the initially small seedlings remain small and hence highly vulnerable to mortality: high R: FR is likely to indicate high-light levels which would facilitate rapid seedling growth.
10.2307/2389568|Mayapple (Podophyllum peltatum L.), a clonal perennial herb, produces shoots that are distinctly vegetative or sexual. To determine whether shoot type was correlated with rhizome size or nutrient distribution, we compared size and N and P levels of organs of both shoot types in March, May and August. Buds, leaves and current rhizome segments were significantly larger for sexual than vegetative shoots at all sampling dates, but there was substantial overlap. Shoot types differed little in N and P concentrations, but did differ in N and P contents and in distributions of N and P among organs. N and P levels were highest in buds and green leaves; nutrient levels in rhizomes decreased from March to May but increased again by August. Rhizome size may be important for the amount of future storage capacity provided, as well as for amounts of stored carbon and/or nutrients available for release. However, rhizome size may be a consequence of bud type, rather than determining bud type, because buds are recognizably sexual or vegetative by late spring, before new rhizome growth is complete. Sexual buds may be stronger sinks for resources than are vegetative buds, leading to increased growth of their associated rhizomes.
41239279|1. Interspecific variation in plant functional traits is fast becoming popular as a tool for understanding and predicting ecosystem biogeochemistry as dependent on vegetation composition. Leaf pH has recently been shown to be a promising new candidate trait for this purpose. But how robust is leaf pH as a species trait in the face of environmental variation? We hypothesized that inherent interspecific variation in leaf pH should be greater than phenotypic variation of given species in response to soil environments. 2. We tested this hypothesis in a temperate herbaceous flora by growing 23 species experimentally in three soils of contrasting pH (ranging by almost three pH units) and related chemistry. 3. As predicted, there was large and consistent variation in leaf pH among these species, which was robust to the differences between soil types. Indeed both the species rankings and the absolute species values for leaf pH were remarkably constant in comparisons between soil types. 4. The fact that a given species can maintain a leaf pH very different from that of their soil environment, combined with the great interspecific variation in leaf pH, indicates that leaf pH really is largely a species-specific trait. Linked with recent field evidence we suggest that interspecific variation in leaf pH, while easy and cheap to assess, has important predictive power of biogeochemical properties and processes in ecosystems.
40205488|1. Parasites use resources from their hosts, which can indirectly affect a number of host functions because of trade-offs in resource allocation. In order to get a comprehensive view of the costs imposed by blood sucking parasites to their hosts, it is important to monitor multiple components of the development and physiology of parasitized hosts over long time periods. 2. The effect of infestation by fleas on body mass, body length growth, haematocrit, resistance to oxidative stress, resting metabolic rate and humoral immune response were experimentally evaluated. During a 3-month period, male common voles, Microtus arvalis, were either parasitized by rat fleas (Nosopsyllus fasciatus), which are naturally occurring generalist ectoparasites of voles, or reared without fleas. Then voles were challenged twice by injecting Keyhole Limpet Haemocyanin (KLH) to assess whether the presence of fleas affects the ability of voles to produce antibodies against a novel antigen. During the immune challenge we measured the evolution of body mass, haematocrit, resistance to oxidative stress and antibody production. 3. Flea infestation negatively influenced the growth of voles. Moreover, parasitized voles had reduced haematocrit, higher resting metabolic rate and lower production of antibodies against the KLH. Resistance to oxidative stress was not influenced by the presence of fleas. 4. During the immune challenge with KLH, body mass decreased in both groups, while the resistance to oxidative stress remained stable. In contrast, the haematocrit decreased only in parasitized voles. 5. Our experiment shows that infestation by a haematophageous parasite negatively affects multiple traits like growth, energy consumption and immune response. Fleas may severely reduce the survival probability and reproductive success of their host in natural conditions.
10.2307/2389569|A model is developed to predict the optimal shoot weight ratio (SWR: the fraction of shoot weight to total plant weight) for maximizing the relative growth rate (RGR) at a given specific root activity (SRA: the rate of nitrogen accumulation per unit root weight) for a plant undergoing steady state exponential growth. The model is based on two assumptions: (1) specific shoot activity (SSA: the rate of dry matter accumulation per unit shoot weight) is a function of shoot nitrogen concentration and (2) root- and shoot-nitrogen concentrations are linearly related to each other. The model predicts that at high nitrogen availability, the optimal SWR increases with increasing SRA to maintain a shoot nitrogen concentration at which the SSA is just saturated at a maximal level. At low nitrogen availability, where SRA is less than a critical value, the model predicts a constant SWR as an optimum irrespective of SRA, which causes a reduction of shoot nitrogen concentrations with decreasing SRA. Two grass species, Holcus lanatus L. and Festuca ovina L., were grown in a flow-culture system. At medium and high N, both species showed higher SWRs than expected optima. At low N, there is a time lag for H. lanatus to reduce the SWR from an initial high level following germination to an optimal level. In contrast, slow-growing F. ovina achieves optimal SWR soon after germination and maintains it during growth, irrespective of temperatures.
3599069|1. The seedlings of larger-seeded species typically perform better than those of smaller-seeded species in the face of a variety of hazards. One mechanism that might explain this general pattern is the reserve effect, where larger-seeded species commit a smaller proportion of their initial seed reserves to seedling construction, keeping a greater proportion in reserve to sustain seedlings during times of resource deficit or imposed hazards. 2. This study tested two hypotheses: (1) that seedlings of larger-seeded rainforest species can resprout more often, following simulated herbivory, than those of smaller-seeded species; and (2) that any such correlation is consistent with the reserve effect. 3. To test these hypotheses we grew the seedlings of 15 rainforest species with hypogeal storage cotyledons in a shade house, excised the initial shoot, and sequentially clipped each resprout. Previous work had demonstrated a reserve effect among these species. 4. The first hypothesis was proved true: seedlings of larger-seeded species resprouted significantly more often than those of smaller-seeded species. 5. The second hypothesis was proved false: although large-seeded species resprouted more often, the total mass invested in resprouts scaled isometrically with seed mass across species. The reserve effect predicted that total resprout mass should have scaled more than proportionately with seed mass. 6. This study adds to a growing body of work demonstrating that the seedlings of larger-seeded species often perform better than those of their smaller-seeded counter-parts. However, the results presented here are at odds with the view that the reserve effect might be a common mechanism explaining this pattern.
3806614|1. During copulation male katydids transfer a protein-rich nuptial gift to females, which is ingested by the female. We hypothesized that female katydids are built at least partly from proteins assimilated from nuptial gifts. 2. We measured the ratio of nitrogen isotopes (
10.2307/2389854|1. Flowering in Senecio jacobaea is dependent on plant size at the time of vernalization and at the time of photoinduction in spring. We present data on genetic variation in the threshold size for vernalization in this species. 2. Field measurements revealed ample phenotypic variation in threshold size for flowering in a natural sand dune population of S. jacobaea. The parental generation of the artificial selection experiment, carried out in a climate chamber, showed that the genetic variation for this character was also very high. 3. In the artificial selection experiment offspring from different selection lines were compared. In the parental generation 56% of the largest plants did not flower. Large plants that remained vegetative in the parental generation did not flower after a second period of growth and subsequent vernalization. A selection line for ability to flower under the conditions provided was established by selecting the largest flowering plants. One generation of selection decreased the non-flowering fraction to 20%, compared to 38% in the control group, which was a second sample from the same seed pool as the parental generation. 4. In a second line, selection took place on low threshold sizes for vernalization, by selecting the smallest flowering plants in the parental generation. In this group the non-flowering fraction also decreased, and in addition the median threshold size was much lower than in the line selected for flowering ability only, indicating that selection on low threshold size was successful. 5. Significant differences in threshold size were found among five clonal families grown in a controlled environment. The within-clone flowering percentage was always below 100% for large plants. 6. The results show that threshold size for vernalization in S. jacobaea has a genetic component, and may be subject to natural selection.
10.2307/2389775|An automated, CO<sub>2</sub>-controlled, long-term greenhouse system (`CO<sub>2</sub>LT') has been developed to provide replicated in situ ecosystem-level manipulation of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration and temperature for intact plots of tussock tundra, and to measure the instantaneous ecosystem-level CO<sub>2</sub> exchange rates within each of the plots under the treatments imposed. This is a computer-controlled, closed, null-balance greenhouse system consisting of 12 chambers with individual control of CO<sub>2</sub> concentration and temperature. Carbon dioxide can be maintained in each chamber at concentrations from well below ambient (150-200  l l<sup>-1</sup>) to more than 900  l l<sup>-1</sup>. Air temperature can be fixed, set to track ambient, or can track ambient temperature with a specified offset allowing studies of the interaction of CO<sub>2</sub> and temperature. Despite the complications involved in tracking a naturally fluctuating environment, the CO<sub>2</sub>LT system performs very well. Temperatures in individual chambers average within 1<sup></sup>C of ambient or target temperatures over a 24-h period and carbon dioxide concentration control rivals that of laboratory-based, control-environment systems. Photon flux density within the chambers is within 93% of ambient values. Comparison to unenclosed tundra indicates minimal chamber effects on depth of thaw, air, leaf, or soil temperatures, or net ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> flux. Chamber effects are generally small, and the experimental design allows separation and interpretation of treatment effects despite any unavoidable chamber effects. Both diurnal and seasonal patterns of net ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> flux can be accurately tracked with this system. Field measurements indicate net ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> loss under current environmental conditions, a possible response to recent climate change. Field measurements also indicate initial enhancement of net ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> uptake with elevated atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub>. Photosynthetic adjustment to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> lowers ecosystem response to that of ambient chambers by mid-season. Also indicated is the possibility of delayed senescence of photosynthetic capacity at elevated CO<sub>2</sub>.
10.2307/2390575|1. There is a negative relationship between body mass and ecological population density across 200 species of Australian birds, with a slope of -0.82 on logarithmic axes. This is not significantly different from the slope predicted by the energetic equivalence rule. 2. Contrary to previous studies, there is not tendency for the phylogenetic position of an individual tribe to correlate with the strength of the mass-density relationship across its species. 3. However, in line with recent theory, there is a relationship between the degree of niche overlap among species in a tribe and the abundance pattern of the species. Tribes in which the species appear to shear few resources are those in which the relationship between mass and density is most strongly negative.
10.2307/2389427|The present-day abundance of productive habitats is without precedence in the evolutionary history of the British flora. Of the disproportionately few native plant species which commonly exploit these newly-created artificial habitats in Central England, most are polyploid. It is suggested that despite their current abundance these polyploids may be limited in their capacity to maintain their dominance in contemporary productive habitats. Their partial displacement by diploids, which have (theoretically) a greater potential for ecological innovation, and by alien taxa, which may already possess appropriate ecological characteristics, is predicted.
826685| 1. Dispersal of propagules of marine benthic species may contribute to variation in the structure and dynamics of populations. Ascophyllum nodosum dominates the midintertidal zone of sheltered rocky shores in the north-west Atlantic, and populations often consist of large, mature individuals and few newly recruited thalli. 2. We investigated the dispersal of zygotes of A. nodosum at three sites on Swans Island, ME, USA, to determine its variability under natural conditions and to test whether limited dispersal explains recruitment patterns. 3. At each site we released artificially fertilized, marked zygotes from a single point during the rising tide, and sampled their dispersal using two methods: sampling the water column to track the dispersing cloud of zygotes; and assaying caged ceramic tiles affixed to the shore for the presence of marked zygotes. 4. At all sites, zygotes were diluted to  13% of the initial concentration within 8-12 min of their release. The mean direction of transport was correlated with both wind and tidal current direction at only one site. The most dense settlement occurred at this site, suggesting greater local reproductive success. 5. Regression analyses based on settlement densities suggest that a quadratic model fit the data best for all sites. Quadratic terms occurred in the direction normal to flow, and are interpreted to represent turbulent transport and diffusion. Both linear and quadratic terms were significant parallel to flow, and we ascribe these to advective transport without and with turbulent mixing, respectively. 6. The range of zygote dispersal exceeded 6 m from the source, and therefore cannot explain the exponential decline of recruits in large patches (10 m diameter) within adult stands of A. nodosum. 7. Migration of zygotes between populations is unlikely, but their local dispersal may strongly influence the spatial and temporal dynamics within populations. 
10.2307/2389848|1. We developed a simple model of foraging locomotion for mammalian herbivores that contains two parameters, maximum foraging velocity (V<sub>max</sub>, m s<sup>-1</sup>) and acceleration (a<sub>o</sub>, m s<sup>-2</sup>) and a single dependent variable, the distance between plants (d, m). 2. We examined predictions of our model by varying the distance between plants offered to nine mammalian herbivores ranging in mass from 0.05 to 533 kg. 3. Application of simple laws of motion were adequate to explain the dynamics of foraging locomotion. As the animals travelled between food items, they accelerated to a maximum foraging velocity, which they maintained until they approached the next food item. Acceleration was achieved by increasing both the length and the frequency of strides. Mean foraging velocity increased up to 10-fold as plant spacing increased, but as plant spacing increased, mean velocity was asymptotic with distance between plants. 4. V<sub>max</sub> scaled in proportion to M<sup>0.04</sup>, and a<sub>o</sub> scaled as M<sup>-0.17</sup>. 5. Our results suggest that small herbivores achieve similar maximum foraging velocities as do large herbivores, but can accelerate faster and therefore encounter plants more rapidly when plants are spaced closely together (<2 m apart). We conclude that foraging models that do not include the effects of acceleration will overestimate encounter rate and affect the model solution.
20142744|1. Deposition of nutrients due to anthropogenic activities has the potential to change nutrient availability in nutrient-limited ecosystems with consequences for plant and ecosystem processes. 2. Species-specific and ecosystem responses to the addition of nutrients were studied in a field experiment conducted in a Savanna (Cerrado sensu stricto) on dystrophic soil in central Brazil. Three fertilization treatments (N. P and N plus P additions) and unfertilized control were replicated in four 15  15 m plots per treatment. 3. Five of the dominant woody species were studied. Specific leaf area (SLA) was not affected by the treatments, but species responded differently in terms of foliar nutrient concentration, resorption efficiency and proficiency to the increased soil N and P availability. 4. Responses of N and P resorption suggested different levels of regulation for these two limiting elements, with a decrease in N and P resorption proficiency depending on the treatment. In general, under N fertilization, senesced leaves presented higher N concentration, whereas combined fertilization with N and P resulted in senesced leaves richer in P. The concomitant variation in P resorption efficiency and proficiency indicates a stronger regulation between them compared to N. 5. Results indicated a highly efficient and complete P resorption, while N concentrations in senesced leaves indicated intermediate or incomplete resorption efficiencies, supporting the idea that Cerrado plants might be more limited by P than by N. 6. At the ecosystem level, higher N concentration in the leaf litter was measured at the end of the dry season in the +NP-fertilized plots, resulting in a significantly faster decomposition rate in relation to the control treatment. Responses of litterfall and decomposition rates indicated that the system was generally more responsive to the combined addition of N and P than to fertilization with N or P alone over the relatively short time span of this study.
2656391|1. Patterns of torpor, arousal and activity in free-living Greater Horseshoe Bats, Rhinolophus ferrumequinum (Schreber), were investigated during the hibernation period by using temperature-sensitive radio-transmitters. 2. Torpor bouts varied between 0.1 and 11.8 days, with individual means ranging from 1.3 to 7.4 days. Torpor bout duration decreased with increasing ambient temperature. 3. Activity duration varied from 37 min to 54 h 24 min, with individual means ranging from 2:29 to 8:58 h. Activity duration increased with ambient temperatures above approximately 10 <sup></sup>C. 4. Ten of 11 bats synchronized their arousals with dusk. The circadian rhythm of one bat showed a free-running pattern over a period of about 5 weeks. Arousals were more highly synchronized, and closer to dusk, in individuals with lower body condition. 5. That bats forage in mild weather is supported by the strong synchronization of arousals with dusk, especially in bats with low body condition. 6. Patterns of torpor and subsequent activity are consistent with predictions that torpor lasts until a critical metabolic or water imbalance is achieved. Because metabolism and water loss are temperature-dependent, torpor bout duration decreases with increasing temperature. The imbalance is corrected during subsequent activity, which is relatively constant in duration until a temperature threshold of 10 <sup></sup>C, above which increasing levels of foraging lead to longer activity bouts.
10.2307/2389768|Bromus tectorum (cheatgrass), an alien annual grass, has become naturalized in a variety of habitats ranging from arid steppe to mesic forest communities within the intermountain region of western North America. To examine the contribution of genetic differentiation to the success of cheatgrass, we measured photosynthesis, growth, phenology and biomass allocation in populations collected as seed from contrasting habitats and grown in a glasshouse. In addition, we examined the effects of drought and population seed source on characteristics of photosynthesis and growth. In general, leaf-level photosynthetic response to variation in light, temperature and soil moisture did not vary significantly among the different habitat populations. Water-use efficiencies were not detectably different among populations. Growth, phenology and biomass allocation were also relatively insensitive to variation in soil moisture induced by the watering treatments. In contrast, phenology and biomass allocation exhibited marked variation among populations. Populations from arid steppe sites flowered earlier, set seed earlier and allocated less biomass to root growth than did populations from mesic steppe or forest habitats. Higher biomass allocation to shoot growth in arid steppe populations allows a plant to reach reproductive size more rapidly and set seed before moisture becomes limiting in late spring. These results suggest that mechanisms of adaptation such as drought avoidance may be better understood by focusing on whole-plant phenology and allocation patterns rather than on the physiology of a particular organ.
40863629|1. Oxidative stress is usually defined as an imbalance arising when the rate of production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) exceeds the capacity of the antioxidant defence and repair mechanisms, leading to oxidative damage to biomolecules, but the concept can be expanded to include the disruption of reduction : oxidation (redox) reactions involved in cellular signalling. In this review, we consider how the need to circumvent oxidation may shape the phenotypes of organisms throughout their life and that of their offspring, underpinning a diverse range of life-history trade-offs. 2. A recent explosion of interest in this field has shown that both ROS production and the capacity of animals to deal with it change from early development through to adulthood, and vary with environmental conditions and lifestyle. Oxidative stress may both stimulate and be caused by reproduction, although direct evidence of either process is surprisingly weak. Many forms of secondary sexual traits may signal the individual's oxidative balance to potential mates, but the underlying mechanisms are still debated. 3. Germline cells may be especially vulnerable to oxidative stress, leading to transgenerational effects on offspring viability and possible consequences for the evolution of mate choice. 4. Both antioxidant defences and the ability to repair oxidative damage tend to decline with old age, contributing to cellular and whole organism senescence. This increasing vulnerability to oxidative stress, although little studied, appears especially marked in sexually selected traits. 5. Challenges for the future include the incorporation of longitudinal approaches into experiments that analyse oxidative balance over an individual's lifetime (preferably under near-natural conditions), the exploration of the genetic basis for trade-offs involving oxidative stress, the assimilation of current redox signalling knowledge, and the study of the consequences of heritable oxidative damage to germline DNA.
2656465|1. Using three independent methods (eddy covariance, heat pulse and open-top chambers), diurnal and seasonal measurements of evapotranspiration were made in a wet-dry Eucalypt savanna of the Northern Territory, Australia. 2. Total annual dry-canopy water loss was estimated to be 870 mm and understorey evapotranspiration contributed 557 mm to this flux. Understorey evapotranspiration occurred predominantly during the wet season as bare soil evaporation and transpiration of Sorghum spp., a C<sub>4</sub> grass. 3. Annual transpiration from trees was 313 mm, significantly less than the grassy understorey. Despite a very high degree of seasonality in distribution of rainfall and large changes to soil and atmospheric water content, water use by the trees did not differ between wet and dry seasons. This suggests that mature trees exploit a large soil volume and this may include extraction from the capillary fringe of the shallow water table (2-10 m below the ground surface). 4. The open canopy created an aerodynamically rough surface well coupled to the atmosphere with the coupling coefficient, , ranging from 0.40 to 0.11 over a wet-dry cycle. 5. Leaf area index (LAI) of the overstorey was typically 1.0 in the wet season and 0.65 in the dry season. The decline in tree LAI occurred when evaporative demand showed a similar proportional increase. Consequently overstorey water use remained relatively unchanged throughout the year. 6. Given the very high rainfall intensities of the monsoonal climate and low LAI of the site, canopy interception was set at 5% of rainfall. Including this amount gives an annual evapotranspiration of 958 mm for this savanna.
20142771|1. Herbivore damage can select for tolerance in plant populations where genetic variation for tolerance exists. The causes underlying variation in tolerance are not fully resolved. We assessed the importance of two potential mechanisms for tolerance by examining its relationship with leaf photosynthetic rate and relative biomass allocation across plant organs. 2. We monitored responses of 12 aspen (Populus tremuloides) genotypes, grown in a common garden under two levels of nutrient availability, to defoliation in two successive seasons. Tolerance of each genotype was calculated as the difference in growth between defoliated and undefoliated trees grown under the same nutrient conditions. 3. Although light-saturated leaf photosynthesis increased in response to nutrient addition and defoliation, it did not vary among genotypes and was not correlated with tolerance. 4. Tolerance was, however, correlated with patterns of biomass allocation. Under low-nutrient conditions it was positively correlated with the proportion of biomass in stems just prior to defoliation, while under high-nutrient conditions it was correlated with greater allocation to stems in response to damage. 5. Herbivores may select for specific patterns of biomass allocation in trees, and do so differently in different environments. The positive correlation between tolerance and relative allocation to stems, as opposed to roots, runs counter to reports from studies of herbaceous species and underscores the need for further exploration of mechanisms of tolerance in woody plants.
10.2307/2390010|1. Studies were conducted to assess the response of a seasonal cave-dwelling bat and its insect prey to natural and experimental changes in barometric pressure. 2. The Eastern Pipistrelle, Pipistrellus subflavus, tracks barometric pressure metabolically. 3. Eastern Pipistrelles potentially use pressure as a cue for predicting the relative abundance of aerial insect prey outside the roost. 4. Barometric pressure tracking affords these bats an opportunity to conserve limited energy and make appropriate foraging decisions. 5. Barometric pressure tracking is viewed as an alternative evolutionary strategy to torpor and may be a widespread phenomenon among insect-feeding bats that roost deep within caves.
10.2307/2389608|Trialkyltin compounds (butyl and phenyl) have been used in marine paints as antifoulants. These compounds degrade naturally in a process that involves the progressive removal of the organic groups attached to the tin atom. The biological activity of these organotins has been shown to decrease from the trialkyltin through dialkyltin to the monoalkyltin forms. Although these compounds are effective against their target organisms they and their degradation products have widespread and deleterious effects on non-fouling species, even when diluted to sub-lethal concentration. For example, the occurrence of abnormal penile morphogenesis (imposex) in females of the neogastropods Nucella lapillus (L.) and Ocenebra erinacea (L.) has been correlated with elevated environmental concentrations of TBT and its degradation products. Evidence is presented that demonstrates measurable sub-lethal effects of a less active form of organotin (monophenyltin = MPhT) on penile length and hydromineral regulation in O. erinacea. Specimens were collected from two sites on the south and south-western coasts of Britain, i.e. the western Solent and south Devon. It was found that exposure to MPhT increased penile length in males and females from the south Devon site but a reduction was observed in animals from the western Solent. There was also a reduction in the diffusional water permeabilities and activities of ionophoretic enzymes of the MPhT-treated animals from both groups compared to their respective controls.
40205499|1. Resource acquisition and allocation are the physiological mechanisms integrating foraging and life-history traits. An understanding of the patterns of acquisition and allocation in different environments and organisms is critical to a predictive theory of life history. 2. Here I develop an allocation framework, which provides a template for conceptualizing the interactions among resource acquisition, allocation and life-history traits. The framework describes the process through which food is taken in by an organism at specific life stages, then allocated to growth, survival (including maintenance, defence, dispersal, etc), reproduction and further foraging. 3. I use the allocation framework to examine allocation to life-history traits in insects under both benign and stressful environments. Stressful environments result from resource scarcity or harsh environmental conditions. I consider effects of consistent stress or variable stress across time. 4. Several broad generalizations emerge from empirical studies, viewed in the allocation framework. First, resource congruence, or the requirement for specific nutrient ratios in, for example, eggs, results in different limiting nutrients for each life-history trait. Second, the timing of resource acquisition affects both allocation patterns and the identity of limiting nutrients for a given life-history trait. Third, physiological trade-offs may occur across, not just within, life stages. Fourth, apparent trade-offs may be driven by differences among traits in resource congruence constraints and deleterious effects of excess nutrients on a particular trait. Fifth, allocation response to environmental stress shows age-specific and sex-specific patterns. Sixth, physiological trade-offs are often more pronounced under environmental stress. Finally, even within insects, there is considerable variability in allocation response to environmental stress. We do not yet have sufficiently diverse and thorough case studies to understand why this is so. Studies in the wild, or relating laboratory conditions to wild environments, are also needed. 5. Senescence can also be understood in an allocation framework. The present approach provides a necessary functional basis for understanding patterns of senescence in diverse organisms and environments. 6. The allocation framework fosters a mechanistic understanding of life-history patterns, and the beginning of an understanding of the processes underlying those patterns.
41319626|1. Many floral displays are visually complex, transmitting multi-coloured patterns that are thought to direct pollinators to nectar rewards. These ' nectar guides' may be mutually beneficial, if they reduce pollinators' handling time, leading to an increased visitation rate and promoting pollen transfer. Yet, many details regarding how floral patterns influence foraging efficiency are unknown, as is the potential for pollinator learning to alter this relationship. 2. We compared the responses of bumblebee (Bombus impatiens Cresson) foragers to artificial flowers that either possessed or lacked star-like patterns. By presenting each bee with two different foraging scenarios (patterned flowers rewarding/plain flowers unrewarding, plain flowers rewarding/patterned flowers unrewarding) on different days, we were able to assess both short-and long-term effects of patterns on bee foraging behaviour. 3. Bees discovered rewards more quickly on patterned flowers and were less likely to miss the reward, regardless of whether corollas were circular or had petals. Nectar guides' effect on nectar discovery was immediate (innate) and persisted even after experience, although nectar discovery itself also had a learned component. We also found that bees departed patterned flowers sooner after feeding. Finally, when conditions changed such that flowers no longer provided a reward, bees visited the now-unrewarding flowers more persistently when they were patterned. 4. On the time-scale of a single foraging bout, our results provide some of the first data on how pollinators learn to forage efficiently using this common floral trait. Our bees' persistent response to patterned flowers even after rewards ceased suggests that, rather than being consistently mutually beneficial to plant and pollinator, nectar guide patterns can at times promote pollen transfer for the plant at the expense of a bee's foraging success.
40963547|1. Soil nutrients influence plant productivity and community composition in tropical forests. In lower montane tropical forests in western Panama, the distribution of understory palm species over a scale of 1-20 km correlates with differences in soil nitrogen (N). We hypothesized that soil N determines seedling performance in the forest understory, and, may therefore influence species distributions along the soil N gradient. 2. We explored the potential for N availability to generate species-habitat associations through species-specific differences in biomass allocation, photosynthetic capacity, N use-efficiency, and susceptibility to herbivory. Seedlings of nine palm species from two sub-families and four habitat types were transplanted into N-addition and control plots at a low N site. Growth, mortality, biomass allocation, photosynthesis, foliar N content and herbivory were measured over 21 months. 3. Foliar N increased for all species (15-68%) following N addition. Most species showed strong (20-200%) increases in photosynthetic rates with N addition except two species with marginal decreases in photosynthetic rates (5-15%). However, shifts in physiological traits did not increase relative growth rate or change in biomass allocation for any species or N treatment combination. Rather, increased leaf quality contributed to greater levels of herbivory in species associated with soils of intermediate and high inorganic N availability. 4. Thus, potential increases in overall growth with N addition were masked by herbivory, resulting in no apparent growth response with increased N. We suggest that for understory palms, and potentially other montane forest plants, distribution patterns are driven by a combination of physiological and herbivore-mediated responses to soil nutrient availability.
2656551|1. Appropriate rates of carbon acquisition by temperate and boreal forests are re-evaluated. Based on continental-scale forestry data it is suggested that the productivity of temperate and boreal forests has been overestimated previously. 2. Using these values, a model of the integrated response of ecosystems to carbon dioxide concentration and soil nitrogen availability is presented. The model does not assume constant C/N ratios in plant or soil and considers effects of increases in atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations and nitrogen deposition separately or together. 3. For temperate-zone forests a co-occurrence of a CO<sub>2</sub> increase and nitrogen deposition doubles the increase in net primary productivity and carbon sequestration that would be the case for nitrogen deposition occurring on its own. Considered separately, the effect of the atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> increase is less than even moderate rates of anthropogenic N deposition for temperate or boreal forests. By contrast, for tropical forests, the atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> increase is sufficient to induce large rates of carbon accumulation in plants and soil. 4. Application of the model at the global scale suggests large localized sinks for CO<sub>2</sub> in either tropical rain forests or in forested or grassland areas of Europe and North America where appreciable N deposition occurs. Overall, the model suggests a terrestrial sink owing to CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization and N deposition of about 0.2 Pmol C per year. About half of this is in the mid-latitudes of the northern hemisphere and about half in the tropics.
10.2307/2389679|The effects of sperm competition can be overcome by males producing and storing many sperm. Literature data on nine mammal species indicate that daily sperm production rates and sperm reserves (number of sperm in the epididymes) show negative allometry to body weight. Reserves held sperm equivalent to approximately 21 ejaculates, independent of body size. Residual sperm production rate and residual sperm reserve, after controlling for the effect of body size, are positively correlated with residual testes weight and with residual number of sperm per ejaculate. The sperm production rate per gram parenchyma and residual sperm transit time are both unrelated to residual testes weight and to residual number of sperm per ejaculate. These results are in agreement with a sperm competition hypothesis suggesting that sperm production rates and sperm reserves have been moulded by selection arising from multiple copulations of a single female with more than one male.
10.2307/2390112|1. Herbaceous plant species native to low and high altitudes in the Alps evolved under CO
40205505|1. Habitat specialization models predict that adaptations to environmental conditions explain species distributions. In tropical rainforests, the ability of the seedlings to survive during drought has been shown to be a key determinant of species distributions. We hypothesize that differences among species in their tolerance to low tissue water status is the mechanism underlying differences in performance during drought. 2. To test this hypothesis we quantified tolerance to low leaf water status for over 20 species from central Panama in screenhouse experiments using two different experimental approaches. Results from both approaches were highly correlated with each other. 3. We found that tolerance to low leaf water status correlated with species drought performance in the field and with their distribution across a gradient of dry season length, with the more desiccationtolerant species having higher survival in dry relative to irrigated conditions, and occurring in drier areas. These results support the hypothesis that, in tropical forests, tolerance to low tissue water status governs seedling performance during drought, as well as being a determinant of species distribution patterns. 4. Lower tolerance to low leaf water status was correlated with greater stem hydraulic conductance. In addition, all species tested, including both desiccation-sensitive and desiccation-resistant species, showed similar losses of xylem conductance, about 80%, when near death. These results suggest that a principal mechanism by which desiccation leads to plant mortality is the loss of xylem conductivity.
3599280| 1. Winter survival rate in Harbour Seal pups is significantly correlated with the autumn body mass of pups. Multi-type mark-recapture statistics were applied to individual re-sighting histories of branded seals, and survival probability was estimated with weight as a covariate. The probability of surviving to an age of 1 year is only 063 for the smallest pups at 17 kg, whereas pups at 32 kg have a survival probability of 096. 2. An energetic model for juvenile Harbour Seals reveals how metabolic rate is related to body mass, skin surface area, blubber thickness and water temperature. There is an increasing thermal stress with decreasing body size of pups. Low winter water temperatures induce a negative energy balance in small pups, which is a probable cause of the observed mass-dependent survival. 3. This study explicitly links a physical property of the environment, sea-water temperature, to energetics and life history. The approach opens possibilities for studying aspects of life-history evolution, such as optimal weaning weight and pupping time, in marine mammals. 
40407767|1. Modulating the adrenocortical response to stress and the corresponding mobilization of energy substrates allows animals to cope with energy-demanding challenges imposed by ecological constraints. Whether such a modulation occurs during the fledging process of the king penguin chick (Aptenodytes patagonicas) was examined. In this seabird species, fledging is associated with moult completion, prolonged fasting and transition from terrestrial to marine life. 2. Specifically, it was tested whether the adrenocortical and metabolic responses to a capturehandling stress i. depended on the developmental/moulting status of pre-fledging birds, ii. were affected by their nutritional status, and iii. were inter-related. 3. The adrenocortical response was 2-3 times lower at moult end and fledging than at the onset of moult, 1 month earlier. No direct evidence for a link between the adrenocortical response and moult-related changes in circulating thyroid hormones was obtained. 4. At the onset of moult, chicks were in a nutritional status corresponding to phase I of fasting whereas those at moult end and fledging were in phase II of fasting. Thus, the adrenocortical response depended on nutritional status, being blunted during phase II when body proteins were spared and fat stores preferentially mobilized. 5. The metabolic response to acute stress was characterized by an increase in plasma glucose, NEFA and uric acid and by a decrease in plasma -hydroxybutyrate. Differences in this response between phase I and phase II fasting chicks suggest that the mix of energy substrates used to fuel energy demand during acute stress is the same as that routinely fuelling daily energy expenditure. We obtained no evidence for an interaction between corticosterone and metabolic responses. 6. Overall, the results suggest that, in pre-fledging king penguin chicks, the nutritional rather than the developmental/moulting status modulates the adrenocortical and metabolic responses to an acute stress. The possible adaptive function of the blunting of these responses by the time of fledging is discussed.
10.2307/2389680|The demonstration of repeatability of relative body size and of locomotor performance in growing lizards is relevant to the functional and genetic basis of these traits as well as to an understanding of how they are influenced by natural selection. Relative locomotor performance of hatchlings was strongly repeatable among body temperatures (28, 33 and 37<sup></sup>C). We estimated the repeatabilities of individual differences in locomotor performance (speed, stamina) and body size (mass, snout-to-vent length, `condition' index) for free-ranging lizards (Sceloporus occidentalis [Baird & Girard]) over three time intervals between near hatching and 13 months of age, during which time the lizards increased in body mass by an order of magnitude. Relative locomotor performance and body size were significantly repeatable between adjacent censuses, even across the winter hibernation period and over periods of rapid growth. However, these traits (especially body size) were usually not significantly repeatable over long time intervals, in part because of small sample sizes of recaptured animals. Even so, stamina of 2-week-old lizards predicted their stamina over a year later. These patterns generally held even when the confounding effects of body size were controlled. Studies of natural selection on performance and on body size of growing lizards should be restricted to short-term intervals.
10.2307/2390165|1. Net primary production (NPP) by terrestrial ecosystems appears to be proportional to absorbed photosynthetically active radiation (APAR) on a seasonal and annual basis. This observation has been used in `diagnostic' models that estimate NPP from remotely sensed vegetation indices. In `prognostic' process-based models carbon fluxes are more commonly integrated with respect to leaf area index assuming invariant leaf photosynthetic parameters. This approach does not lead to a proportional relationship between NPP and APAR. However, leaf nitrogen content and Rubisco activity are known to vary seasonally and with canopy position, and there is evidence that this variation takes place in such a way as to nearly optimize total canopy net photosynthesis. 2. Using standard formulations for the instantaneous response of leaf net photosynthesis to APAR, we show that the optimized canopy net photosynthesis is proportional to APAR. This theory leads to reasonable values for the maximum (unstressed) light-use efficiency of gross and net primary production of C<sub>3</sub> plants at current ambient CO<sub>2</sub>, comparable with empirical estimates for agricultural crops and forest plantations. 3. By relating the standard formulations to the Collatz-Farquhar model of photosynthesis, we show that a range of observed physiological responses to temperature and CO<sub>2</sub> can be understood as consequences of the optimization. These responses include the CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization response and stomatal closure in C<sub>3</sub> plants, the increase of leaf N concentration with decreasing growing season temperature, and the downward acclimation of leaf respiration and N content with increasing ambient CO<sub>2</sub>. The theory provides a way to integrate diverse experimental observations into a general framework for modelling terrestrial primary production.
40205491|1. Viviparous organisms vary greatly in their level of post-fertilization maternal provisioning and extensive provisioning (including very complex placentas) has evolved dozens of times in vertebrates. Through the use of species representing transitional states we aim to explore and develop empirically supported hypotheses that explain how such a complex trait has evolved. 2. In this study, we investigated the life histories and patterns of post-fertilization maternal provisioning in naturally occurring, all-female, hybrids between Poeciliopsis monacha, a viviparous species that produces large eggs and nourishes its embryos via stored yolk (lecithotrophy) and P.lucida, which produces small eggs and nourishes its embryos after fertilization via a follicular placenta (matrotrophy). Hybrids can be diploid or triploid, leading to different levels of gene dosage from the parental species. 3. We found that the extent of superfetation and average brood size of the hybrids did not differ significantly from their sexual parental species even though the latter was much lower in the hybrids. Moreover, the allodiploid, P. monacha-lucida, has intermediate sized eggs, whereas the allotriploid, P. monacha-monacha-lucida, produces eggs of similar size to those of P. monacha. The degree of post-fertilization maternal provisioning was unrelated to genomic dosages, with wild-caught hybrids being lecithotrophic, as seen in the maternal species (P. monacha). 4. Our results with naturally occurring P. monacha-lucida hybrids differed from those obtained with laboratory-synthesized hybrid clones, which were either lecithotrophic or weakly matrotrophic. Consequently, we propose two non-mutually exclusive hypotheses to explain why lecithotrophic clones might be favoured in the wild. One hypothesis suggests that lecithotrophic hybrids minimize competition with the matrotrophic paternal sexual species from which they require sperm to reproduce. Alternatively, we propose that natural selection has eliminated matrotrophic hybrids that suffer from intergenomic conflict in the degree of post-fertilization maternal provisioning. 5. We have thus identified an empirical system and developed testable hypotheses that will help elucidate the selective pressures that caused the evolution of post-fertilization maternal provisioning and potentially provide an opportunity to explore how epigenetic factors (e.g., intergenomic conflict) might influence this complex trait.
10.2307/2389924|1. Summer generations of the Arctic aphid Acyrthosiphon brevicorne experience subzero temperatures that would be lethal or cause sub-lethal effects in both summer and winter populations of temperate aphids. 2. The LT
826608|1. Post-dispersal predation of vertebrate-dispersed seeds has received little attention in the Mediterranean region. We investigated the spatial variation in post-dispersal seed predation of vertebrate-dispersed plants and its potential implications for plant diversity in fleshy fruited plant communities of southern Spain. 2. An experiment was conducted in forests and open scrubland at mid- and high elevations to explore: (a) the possibility of differential seed predation by rodents and granivorous ants; (b) the spatial variation, between and within habitats, in post-dispersal seed predation and predator abundance; and (c) whether the spatial distribution of predation covaries among plant species. 3. Rodents and granivorous ants proved to be important predators of vertebrate-dispersed seeds, and showed significant variation in their preferences for different seed species. Granivorous ant preferences depended on seed size, as seeds heavier than 20 mg were hardly ever removed. Rodents were indifferent to seed size. 4. Sites safe from predators were more frequent at mid-elevations. In contrast to other temperate communities, successional status (open scrubland vs forest) did not determine the probability of predation, probably because ants are more important as seed predators in the early successional stages of Mediterranean habitats than in other temperate communities. The large-scale variations in the occurrence of safe sites for the seeds depended on resource abundance rather than on predator abundance. 5. We found a significant interaction in seed predation rates between microhabitat and seed species at mid-elevations, but not in high-elevation habitats, implying stronger covariance across plant species in the microhabitats adequate for recruitment (e.g. with lower predation risk) at high elevation. This pattern may contribute to the differential plant diversity at mid- and high elevations in Mediterranean fleshy fruited plant communities. Theoretical models predict that seed predators may contribute to the maintenance of species diversity if the spatial distribution of safe sites from predators is uncorrelated across plant species, as it was at mid-elevations.
2390440|1. There are conflicting reports concerning the adaptive features of tree populations originating from cold, high-altitude environments. We hypothesize that such trees will possess adaptive features that will be demonstrated in a common environment, such as elevated rates of net CO<sub>2</sub> exchange, elevated needle nitrogen concentration and high proportional biomass allocation to roots. To test this hypothesis we measured tree and seed properties of 54 populations of Norway spruce [Picea abies (L.) Karst.] located along eight altitudinal transects (from c. 600 to 1500 m) in southern Poland. We also measured growth, biomass partitioning, net photosynthetic capacity (A<sub>max</sub>), needle dark respiration (RS) and carbohydrate, nitrogen (N) and chlorophyll concentration of seedlings originating from these populations grown for 2 to 7 years in a common garden at 150 m elevation. Measured in situ along the elevational transects, there were linear declines in seed mass, average d.b.h. and height growth increment of seed trees with increased altitude or lower mean annual temperature. 2. In the common garden, the Norway spruce populations from colder, high-altitude habitats had higher N concentration in needles than those from low altitudes. Both A<sub>max</sub> and needle RS increased with altitude of seed origin and were significantly related to needle N concentration. High-altitude populations also had higher concentrations of chlorophyll and carotene than those from low elevations. Despite higher photosynthetic rates in high-altitude populations, seedling height and dry mass in the common garden declined with altitude of seed origin. Proportional dry mass partitioning to roots nearly doubled with increasing altitude of origin, while the length of the shoot-growth period was reduced. The high respiration rates, high allocation to roots and reduced shoot-growth period are probably responsible for the low growth rate potential of high-altitude populations, more than offsetting their higher photosynthetic rates. 3. The results of this study showed that Norway spruce populations from cold mountain environments are characterized by several potentially adaptive features. Because these were similar to conifer population responses along a latitudinal gradient of origin, they are probably driven by climate. These climate-driven differences were common to all transects: for a given altitude or mean annual temperature, plant traits were independent of mountain range of origin. However, populations originating from cold high-elevation sites often differed per unit change in altitude or mean annual temperature more than did low elevation populations. The scaling of nitrogen, CO<sub>2</sub> exchange and biomass and allocation patterns may be useful in modelling Norway spruce response on montane forest ecosystems under changing environments.
3599071|1. An experiment was carried out to determine whether the community composition of root-colonizing arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) influences the growth and nutrient status of two congeneric Pulsatilla species, one rare and one common in Estonia. We hypothesized that: (i) establishment and growth of plants is influenced by the composition of native AMF communities; (ii) growth of congeneric plant species with different abundances differs due to their response to specific AMF communities; and (iii) distribution of a plant species may depend on the composition of local root symbiotic AMF communities. 2. Rare Pulsatilla patens and common Pulsatilla pratensis were grown in pots, under homogeneous soil nutrient and microbial community conditions, containing either one from two (grassland and forest sites) of natural AMF soil inocula, or no AMF. 3. Lower establishment was observed in the non-mycorrhizal soil compared to AMF inoculated soils. Plant biomass, phosphorus concentration and root AMF colonization of both species were higher, and nitrogen concentration lower, in grassland as opposed to forest inoculum. 4. The common species displayed more vigorous growth than the rare counterpart in the presence of grassland inoculum. Conversely, slightly better growth of a rare species was recorded in the forest inoculum, in which plant biomass was an order of magnitude lower compared to the grassland inoculum. 5. As Pulsatilla spp. roots hosted site-characteristic AMF small-subunit rDNA sequence groupings, we suggest that the presence of AM fungi that are more beneficial for the common species may be one factor behind the observed differential distribution and performance of the two plant species.
40963567|1. A prevalent question in the study of plant invasions has been whether or not invasions can be explained on the basis of traits. Despite many attempts, a synthetic view of multi-trait differences between alien and native species is not yet available. 2. We compiled a database of three ecologically important traits (specific leaf area, typical maximum canopy height, individual seed mass) for 4473 species sampled over 95 communities (3784 species measured in their native range, 689 species in their introduced range, 207 in both ranges). 3. Considering each trait separately, co-occurring native and alien species significantly differed in their traits. These differences, although modest, were expressed in a combined 15% higher specific leaf area, 16% lower canopy height and 26% smaller seeds. 4. Using three novel multi-trait metrics of functional diversity, aliens showed significantly smaller trait ranges, larger divergences and a consistent differentiation from the median trait combination of co-occurring natives. 5. We conclude that the simultaneous evaluation of multiple traits is an important novel direction in understanding invasion success. Our results support the phenotypic divergence hypothesis that predicts functional trait differences contribute to the success of alien species.
2390529|1. The affinity of photos for CO<sub>2</sub> is calculated here as the initial slope of net-photosynthetic rate against concentration of CO<sub>2</sub>. The affinity for CO<sub>2</sub> for pairs of freshwater macrophytes with similar leaf morphology but able or unable to use HCO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> as a carbon source was compared. 2. Species restricted to CO<sub>2</sub> had a higher affinity for CO<sub>2</sub> than species that were also able to use HCO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> when rates were expressed on the basis of area, dry mass and content of chlorophyll a. 3. Published values for the affinity for CO<sub>2</sub> and the concentration of CO<sub>2</sub> which half-saturated rate of photosynthesis were compiled and compared. Despite a large range of values, affinity for CO<sub>2</sub> was greater for species restricted to CO<sub>2</sub> than for those also able to use HCO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> and statistically different when the slope was expressed on the basis of dry mass and chlorophyll a content. 4. The difference in affinity is consistent with predicted benefits of a high permeability to CO<sub>2</sub> for species relying on passive diffusion of CO<sub>2</sub> and a lower permeability to CO<sub>2</sub> for species able to use HCO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> in order to reduce efflux of CO<sub>2</sub> from a high internal concentration generated by active transport. 5. The implications of the different affinities are discussed in terms of species distribution.
40963551|1. Phenotypic plasticity allows large shifts in the timing of phenology within one single generation and drives phenotypic variability under environmental changes, thus it will enhance the inherent adaptive capacities of plants against future changes of climate. 2. Using five common gardens set along an altitudinal gradient (100-1600 m asl.), we experimentally examined the phenotypic plasticity of leaf phenology in response to temperature increase for two temperate tree species (Fagus sylvatica and Quercus petraea). We used seedlings from three populations of each species inhabiting different altitudes (400, 800 and 1200 m asl.). Leaf unfolding in spring and leaf senescence in autumn were monitored on seedlings for 2 years. 3. Overall, a high phenological plasticity was found for both species. The reaction norms of leaf unfolding date to temperature linearly accelerated for both species with an average shift of 57 days per degree increase. Timing of leaf senescence exhibited hyperbolic trends for beech due to earlier senescence at the lowest elevation garden and no or slight trends for oak. There was no difference in the magnitude of phenological plasticity among populations from different elevations. For both species, the growing season length increased to reach maximum values at about 1013 C of annual temperature according to the population. 4. Since the magnitude of phenological plasticity is high for all the tested populations, they are likely to respond immediately to temperature variations in terms of leaf phenology. Consequently the mid-to high-elevation populations are likely to experience a longer growing season with climate warming. The results suggest that climate warming could lengthen the growing season of all populations over the altitudinal gradient, although the low-elevation populations, especially of beech, may experience accelerated senescence and shorter growing season due to drought and other climate changes associated with warming.
10.2307/2390151|1. We examined the consequences of maternal investment and developmental plasticity for morphology and locomotor performance of early stage larvae of the frog Bombina orientalis. 2. We quantified the stages at which B. orientalis hatch in a natural population in the Republic of Korea. Greater than 95% of embryos hatched with prominent yolk masses and had not yet acquired circulation in the caudal fin (stages 19-21). Stage at hatching did not depend on egg size or the temperature experienced during development. 3. To investigate relationships between egg size, temperature during embryonic development, hatchling morphology and locomotor performance, we reared embryos at either a high or low temperature in the laboratory. Among individuals at the modal stage of hatching in the field (stage 21), egg size had positive effects on both snout-vent length (SVL) and tail length. In contrast, the temperature experienced prior to hatching influenced only tail length, with development at high temperature resulting in shorter tails. These effects of egg size and developmental temperature resulted in a range of hatchling morphologies that in turn influenced maximum sprint speed. Specifically, longer tails but not greater SVLs increased sprint speed. Moreover, development from larger eggs resulted in slower speeds, after controlling for the effects of total length. 4. We also examined morphology-performance relationships after larvae developed for one additional stage (stage 22). Among these individuals, egg size again had positive effects on both SVL and tail length, and a high developmental temperature resulted in shorter tails. But in contrast to individuals at the modal stage of hatching, both longer tails and greater SVLs increased sprint speeds and there were no residual effects of egg size after controlling for total length. 5. These results concur with previously demonstrated relationships between egg size, hatchling morphology and susceptibility to predation in the field (Kaplan 1992). This suggests that locomotor performance may be a functional link between maternal investment in individual offspring and subsequent offspring fitness. Finally, we discuss the rapid ontogenetic changes demonstrated in this study in relation to the causes and consequences of performance variability, as well as the evolution of optimal levels of maternal investment.
2656488|1. Light-saturated rate of photosynthesis (A<sub>max</sub>), nitrogen (N), chlorophyll (Chl) content and leaf mass per unit area (LMA) were measured in leaves of trees of different heights along a natural light gradient in a French Guiana rain forest. The following four species, arranged in order from most shade-tolerant to pioneer, were studied: Duguetia surinamensis, Vouacapoua americana, Dicorynia guianensis and Goupia glabra. Light availability of trees was estimated using hemispherical photography. 2. The pioneer species Goupia had the lowest LMA and leaf N on both an area and mass basis, whereas Duguetia had the highest values. In general, leaf variables of Vouacapoua and Dicorynia tended to be intermediates. Because A<sub>max</sub>/area was similar among species, Goupia showed both a much higher light-saturated photosynthetic nitrogen-use efficiency (PNUE<sub>max</sub>) and A<sub>max</sub>/mass. Leaves of Vouacapoua demonstrated the greatest plasticity in A<sub>max</sub>/area, particularly in small saplings. 3. A distinction could be made between the effect of tree height and light availability on the structural, i.e. LMA, and photosynthetic leaf characteristics of all four species. The direction and magnitude of the variation in variables were similar among species. 4. LMA was the key variable that mainly determined variation in the other leaf variables along tree height and light availability gradients, with the exception of changes in chlorophyll concentration. A<sub>max</sub>/area, N/area, LMA and stomatal conductance to water vapour (g<sub>s</sub>) increased, whereas Chl/mass decreased, with both increasing tree height and canopy openness. A<sub>max</sub>/mass, PNUE<sub>max</sub> and A<sub>max</sub>/Chl increased with increasing openness only. N/mass and Chl/area were independent of tree height and openness, except for small saplings of Goupia which had a much lower Chl/area.
826590|1. Field studies indicate that low Ca concentrations limit the distribution and success of Ca-demanding freshwater crustaceans in soft-water localities. A long-lasting depletion of Ca caused by reversed acidification could thus be detrimental to such species. 2. Experimental studies of Gammarus lacustris and Astacus astacus revealed decreased survival and retarded growth at ambient Ca concentrations <5 mg l
2390321|1. Newly germinated seedlings of six tree and shrub species with very small seeds (31-460  g dry mass), one light-demanding and five shade-tolerant at the stage of establishment in the wild, were grown for 5 months in neutral shade houses with 0.5, 1, 3.5 and 7.5% daylight. 2. The ratio of yield in 7.5% to that in 1% was 8:1 for the light-demanding Melastoma malabathricum but only 2:1 for the confamilial shade-tolerator Pternandra echinata. The Pternandra, Urophyllum hirsutum, Ficus chartacea, Ficus grossularioides and Pellacalyx saccardianus showed a graded series of responses to irradiance, generally consistent with their apparent demands for light in the wild. In contrast, survival of very deep shade was not clearly related to light demand in nature. 3. The results support the conclusion drawn from observational studies that large seed size is not primarily adaptive in resisting shade but in resisting the associated risks of burial by litter, desiccation during dry spells, uprooting by birds and other kinds of damage by animals or falling debris.
2390333|1. Although the plumage of birds is important for flight and thermoregulation, it is also employed in inter- and intraspecific communication. The role in communication of particular plumage features can be studied by experiment or, as here, by correlational analysis. 2. The study was carried out on the 210 species of wading birds, such as plovers, sandpipers, thick-knees and allies, that are placed within the traditional order Charadriiformes. 3. Species differ in the location and extent of `flash marks', patches of white on the plumage that are typically conspicuous when the bird flies. These patches occur, in various permutations in different species, on the wing (primaries, secondaries, coverts), back, rump and tail. 4. Within a phylogenetic framework, it was asked which of several broad ecological variables (migration, habitat choice, feeding technique, propensity to flock) were correlated with the occurrence of flash marks. Only flocking correlated significantly. In particular, taxa that flock have flashier backs and coverts than their non-flocking relatives. 5. Three non-exclusive explanations for this correlation are: (i) individuals that take flight to avoid a predator may benefit from signalling their take-off to flock mates which themselves then take flight; (ii) flash marks could enhance the confusion effect within flocks, making it more difficult for a predator to single out an individual; and (iii) flash marks may facilitate co-ordinated flight within flocks.
3599151|1. We report hydraulic lift in the savanna vegetation of central Brazil (Cerrado). Both heat-pulse measurements and isotopic (deuterium) labelling were used to determine whether hydraulic lift occurred in two common species, and whether neighbouring small shrubs and trees were utilizing this water. 2. Both techniques showed water uptake by tap-roots and reverse flow of water in lateral roots. Roots transferred hydraulically lifted water to the soil, and small shrubs and trees neighbouring the labelled individuals were labelled by deuterated water. 3. Isotopic mass-balance equations and sap-flow measurements showed that water taken up by the central tap-root in each individual constituted only a small percentage of total flux of water through the treated plants. Mass-balance equations also indicated that small shrubs and trees neighbouring the treated plants utilized only a few thousandths of a per cent of the label. 4. The small proportion of water uptake by the tap-root of these two species may be limiting hydraulic lift in this system, unless sinker roots descending from lateral roots contribute to hydraulic lift.
41319628|1. Foraging underlies the ability of all animals to acquire essential resources and thus provides a critical link to understand population dynamics. A key issue is how variation in foraging behaviour affects foraging efficiency and predator-prey interactions in spatially heterogeneous environments. However, there is very little quantitative information available on this topic. 2. We evaluated the impact of variation in predator foraging on population dynamics of the predatory mite, Phytoseiulus persimilis, and its prey, the twospotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae, in a heterogeneous environment. 3. Through artificial selection, we generated predator lines with high levels of prey consumption, conversion efficiency or dispersal, which were otherwise similar in foraging and life history. With these lines, we experimentally compared the effect of these traits on temporal and spatial patterns of predators and prey. 4. We initiated the experiments in a 24-plant landscape, which contained two discrete prey patches (i.e. prey-infested plants) under two initial predator-prey population ratios (1 : 10 and 1 : 30). Predators were introduced into one of the prey patches and were left to forage for 24 days. 5. Predator population growth was similar among the three selected lines, but the high conversion efficiency line produced the most predators and had the highest predator-prey ratio, and the high consumption and high dispersal lines were intermediate. The unselected line showed the least predator growth and lowest predator-prey ratio throughout the experiment. 6. Initial predator-prey ratio did not affect the impact of the selected lines on prey population growth at the high (1: 10) ratio. However, at the low predator-prey ratio (1 : 30), the unselected line had a much greater prey numbers than the selected lines. 7. Predators and prey were each individually aggregated, but the high conversion efficiency and high dispersal lines showed stronger spatial association and correlation with prey, while the high consumption line was less closely associated or correlated with the prey. 8. These results indicate that there may be multiple, equally effective strategies by which predators exploit prey in patchy landscapes, but suggest that the long-term dynamics may not be stable under all of these strategies.
10.2307/2389373|For many applications, it is important to identify the traits of individuals that are essential for the dynamical behaviour of populations. On the basis of computer simulations, which used a realistic model for size-dependent ingestion, reproduction and survival of individuals, we evaluated population consequences in homogeneous simple habitats. Even at constant food supply rates, populations oscillate due to a synchronization of life cycles of individuals. Although such a synchronization is observed in actual populations of Daphnia magna Straus, which the simulations aim to mimic, it is not so pronounced. By introducing a small scatter on the parameter settings of the individuals, the synchronization and so the oscillation is greatly reduced. In situations of strict food limitation the ageing process dominates population dynamics and model details on growth and reproduction prove unimportant, but become important as soon as this condition no longer applies due to, for example, predation. A consequence is that significant sublethal effects of toxic compounds on reproduction will not show up at population level as long as food limitation applies. This confounds the interpretation of field data.
3598963|1. Much research in evolutionary animal ecology is currently focused on issues related to parasite-mediated selection. Because of difficulties in estimation of actual parasite resistance, researchers often rely on surrogate measures of immunocompetence, such as the magnitude of immune responses to artificial antigens, assuming that these measures correlate with individuals' ability to resist disease. 2. This assumption was tested in the Greenfinch (Carduelis chloris L.) coccidiosis model by measuring the association between parasite resistance and two standard assays of immune function -- a swelling response to phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) and antibody production against sheep red blood cells (SRBC). 3. Before performing immune challenge assays, host resistance to the intestinal parasite Isospora lacazei (Labbe) was assessed on the basis of individual infection intensities and responses to challenge infection with alien parasite strains. 4. Increases in infection intensities after inoculation of birds with novel parasite strains correlated positively with magnitude of swelling response to PHA injection. Thus, intense parasite multiplication in the host's digestive tract resulted in the enhancement of the host's cell-mediated immune function. 5. Among birds that were vulnerable to novel infections, no correlations emerged between infection intensities, SRBC antibody titres and condition indices. 6. Among non-vulnerable hosts (whose infection intensities did not increase after experimental reinfection), SRBC antibody titres correlated negatively with infection intensities and positively with indices of nutritional condition. Hence, high SRBC antibody titres reflected good nutritional status and superior resistance to an important parasite species in a subsample of studied Greenfinches. 7. Altogether, our results exemplify the diversity of outcomes when the host's immune system is simultaneously challenged by natural enemies and artificial antigens, and call for the cautious interpretation of the results of standard immune tests in the context of parasite resistance.
10.2307/2389959|1. The interests of a male and a female over whether mating should occur are often in conflict and in insects conflict resolution usually favours the female. 2. A male dung fly Sepsis cynipsea guards a female while she oviposits in fresh cow dung. 3. The amount of time a female spends laying depends only on the number of eggs laid. 4. When she leaves the dung, there is a conflict over whether or not mating should occur. 5. A discriminant analysis shows that features of both the female and male behaviour influence the outcome of the conflict. The proportion of time the female spends shaking to dislodge the male and how long she spends laying were more important than the male behaviour apparently aimed at establishing genital contact. 6. If a pair went on to copulate, only the duration of the conflict influenced the copula duration. 7. We conclude that the female largely determines if copula occurs, possibly on the basis of her sperm reserves, but if copula does take place then the male determines the duration. 8. A female may in general avoid copula because of the risk of internal injury by the male's armoured genitalia.
40205507|1. Improving our knowledge on plant functions underlying shifts in species ranges along altitudinal and latitudinal gradients is a research priority to understand biotic responses to climate change. Although much is known about biological responses to elevation, coupled observations of ecophysiological and reproductive traits with whole-plant performance metrics are rare, and thus our understanding disjunct rather than holistic. 2. We expected growth and reproductive performance to decrease with elevation, irrespective of adjustments in traits, modifications in allocation, or congeneric shifts in populations. To test this hypothesis we assessed growth, reproductive investments and traits related to resource use efficiency and reproductive success in populations of two vicariant species growing along an elevation gradient: Saxifraga trifurcata (lowland species) and S. canaliculata (highland species). 3. For most metrics, a relationship with elevation arose, mostly related to the replacement of species, but also to within-species variation in S. trifurcata. Leaves of S. canaliculata, and of the higher populations of S.trifurcata, were denser, had lower specific leaf area (SLA) and lower N concentration but higher N resorption efficiency. Collectively, these trends indicate a more conservative resource use pattern at the highlands as compared to the lowlands. Despite this, vegetative growth per unit canopy area was higher in S. canaliculata than in S. trifurcata, and in the highland than lowland populations of S. trifurcata. Reproductive investments, measured as the reproductive mass per unit canopy area, were lower, and reproductive maturity was reached later, in S. canaliculata, but reproductive success (fruit set and seed germination) increased at the high altitude limit of each species' range. 4. Performance did not uniformly decrease with altitude. Growth was higher in the uplands possibly because preferential biomass and meristem allocation to the vegetative function compensated for the decrease in growth season length. Similarly, the decrease in reproductive investments in the highland populations was partially compensated for, since fruit set was higher and more viable seeds (per gram invested in reproduction) were produced in the highland limit of each species. 5. This suggests that populations growing in increasingly limiting environments can partially compensate by modifications in allocation and morpho-functional traits.
3599192|1. Anaemia has been reported in wild animals, typically associated with traumatic events or ill health. However, female birds routinely become 'anaemic' during egg-laying; we sought to determine the causes of this reduction in haematocrit. 2. Haematocrit in female European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris Linnaeus) decreased between pre-breeding and egg-laying in 3 out of 4 years (the decrease was marginally non-significant in the fourth year). This was independent of changes in ambient temperature altering the metabolic requirements for thermoregulation. 3. There was a positive relationship between haematocrit and plasma levels of the yolk precursor vitellogenin among egg-laying birds, supporting the hypothesis that the initial reduction in haematocrit is caused by increased blood volume associated with osmoregulatory adjustments to elevated levels of yolk precursors. 4. However, haematocrit did not always recover upon cessation of egg production, remaining low at clutch completion (2 of 4 years), incubation (1 of 2 years) and chick rearing (1 of 4 years), suggesting an additional cause of the prolonged reduction in haematocrit. 5. Given the magnitude and prolonged nature of the changes in haematocrit we report, and the interannual variation in haematocrit even during chick-rearing (47-54%), we suggest that 'anaemia' associated with egg production might have implications for aerobic performance during later stages of breeding.
41239285|1. Social and ecological conditions experienced by individuals during early life can strongly influence their development and survival. Nestlings of many species present important variations in plasma androgens that can be associated with begging and sibling competition and may translate into fitness effects, since broods with higher testosterone (T) production may have better body condition and higher fledging success. However, the positive effects of androgens may be counterbalanced by a reduction of immune defences and a greater susceptibility to diseases. 2. In this study we examined the potential relationships between natural variation in plasma T, immunity and post-fledging survival rate in nestlings of the spotless starling (Sturnus unicolor). 3. We found that nestlings with higher cellular-mediated immune responses (CMI; measured as a swelling response to phytohaemagglutinin injection) were more likely to be recruited in the population than nestlings with lower CMI responses. Males presented higher CMI response than females, possibly due to differences in competitive advantage over food. We also found that CMI response was negatively related to T levels, as predicted by the immunocompetence handicap hypothesis. However, despite this reduction in CMI response, we failed to find an association between nestling T levels and survival prospects. Our results add to the evidence of the role played by immune defences in determining survival prospects in natural populations. 4. In conclusion, our study reveals that CMI response can be considered as a good predictor of post-fledging recruitment. As far as we know, this is the first study attempting to evaluate the relationship between nestling T and post-fledging survival. Our results suggest that the potential benefits accrued by high levels of T in sibling competition during the nestling stage do not translate into increased survival.
2390314|1. The correlation between climatic variables and past (up to 20 years) growth was studied in seven circumarctic populations of the moss Hylocomium splendens, using retrospective analyses of growth. We hypothesized that relationships between growth and climate would be simpler in an ectohydric moss than in higher plants and that the moss could provide high signal-to-noise ratios of responses to climatic variation. 2. Growth parameters of the moss were strongly correlated with early summer temperatures and with the length of the growing season. Annual segment mass, growth rates and degeneration rates were highest at the mildest subarctic sites and lowest at the high arctic site. In contrast, `longevity' (age of the oldest segment) increased at the climatically harsher sites. 3. Between-year growth variations at two contrasting sites were significantly correlated with June and July temperatures and to a lesser extent, with early-season precipitation at one of the sites. 4. The moss currently tolerates a wide range of climates and large interannual variations in temperature and is likely to be at risk from climatic change only at the southern edge of its range. 5. The climate-change component most likely to affect the growth of H. splendens in the Arctic and Subarctic will be a lengthening of the growing season and in increase in early summer temperatures provided that moisture is not limiting. 6. Hylocomium splendens is a suitable species for monitoring climatic change at a circumarctic scale.
4540057|1. Male competition for females often results in the evolution of conspicuous male traits that signal fighting ability or dominance status. Most studies examining mechanisms allowing these traits to function as reliable status signals (or badges) have focused on conspicuous visual or acoustic traits. However, many animals communicate chemically, and chemical traits alone may also signal male dominance status. 2. We examined whether chemicals in femoral gland secretions of male Iberian rock lizards (Lacerta monticola monticola Boulenger 1905) may signal dominance status. 3. In staged encounters, larger males were dominant over smaller ones. While controlling for male body size, males of higher dominance status produced femoral secretions with higher proportions of hexadecanol and octadecanol. 4. Tongue-flick assays showed that males were able to (1) discriminate, by chemosensory cues alone, the different concentrations of hexadecanol from other chemicals presented in femoral secretions; (2) respond aggressively towards hexadecanol while responding neutrally towards other chemicals; and (3) show differential chemosensory and aggressive behaviours towards hexadecanol according to their own dominance status. 5. These results suggest that hexadecanol may be a reliable status badge. Moreover, because hexadecanol elicits male aggressive behaviour, subordinate males signalling high status ('cheaters') may end up paying high fighting costs. In addition, males that had higher dominance status, and that allocated higher proportions of hexadecanol to femoral secretions, had greater T-cell immune responses. This result suggests a possible link between quality of the immune system, dominance status, and chemical signals.
40603109|1. Ecological convergence in morphology among taxa of distinct evolutionary histories is a common illustration of the efficacy of natural selection. Ecological convergence is often enabled by functional redundancy of complex morphological structures, such that modification of existing morphologies in response to similar functional requirements can lead to the development and evolution of morphological diversity. Thus, studies of the mechanisms that enable the development of similar adaptations in taxa with distinct morphologies provide important insights into both the evolution of past adaptations and patterns of future evolutionary divergence. 2. Here, we examine mechanisms that have enabled ecological convergence in foraging morphology among four geographically isolated and morphologically distinct populations of shrews: south-eastern Arizona and north-central New Mexico populations of the montane shrews (Sorex monticolus) and northern California and north-central Montana populations of the vagrant shrew (S. vagrans). 3. We show that despite overlap in diet, populations had distinct skeletal and muscular morphologies of the mandible. This association between ecological convergence and morphological uniqueness among populations was enabled by versatility of foraging morphologies that generated similar functional outputs. 4. In addition, we found that populations exhibited unique skeletal and muscular correlations with diet suggesting that distinct muscular and morphological components of the complex foraging apparatus can be used for a particular resource. This result corroborates a previous finding that extensive modularity in mandibular development allows diverse morphologies to generate equivalent functions and utilize similar resources across taxa. 5. Synthesis. We conclude that the observed functional and ecological convergences resulted from population-specific musculoskeletal interactions, and suggest that the differences in skeletal and muscular morphologies observed among these populations reflect evolved differences in plasticity of the skeletal and muscular components of the mandible.
3806612|1. Immunocompetence is the general capacity of an organism to mount an immune response against pathogens and parasites. We studied the relationship between the immunocompetence of a rodent host, Meriones crassus (Sundevall's Jird) and parasitism by the flea Xenopsylla ramesis. We hypothesized that flea parasitism affects physiological and immunological variables of the host, and that the host's level of immunocompetence affects fitness components in the flea parasite. We wanted to find out (a) the effect of flea parasitism on the haematocrit (Hct), leucocyte concentration (LC) and response to phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) of the host; (b) if and how the level of immunocompetence of the host is related to the fitness of fleas exploiting it; and (c) the relationship between the immunological and behavioural defences of the host. 2. We measured Hct and LC and response to PHA before and after 16 days of flea infestation in Sundevall's Jird and compared these variables between jirds subjected to flea parasitism and non-parasitized (control) animals. We evaluated egg production and hatching success in fleas exploiting hosts with different levels of immunocompetence. 3. The effect of flea parasitism on Hct and LC of rodents was manifested by an increase in among-host variation in the temporal changes of these variables. Response to PHA injection was significantly lower in parasitized than in control animals. 4. Flea egg production and hatching success were not related to either LC, prior to experimental treatments, or to the PHA response of rodents. However, both of these flea fitness traits were negatively correlated with changes in LC between the 1st and the 16th days of infestation. 5. At the end of the experiment, blood consumption of fleas was measured in jirds of both treatment groups. Fleas consumed significantly more blood when they fed on previously parasitized than on non-parasitized animals. Among fleas that fed on previously parasitized animals, blood consumption was positively correlated with the initial LC of the hosts, and negatively correlated with differences in LC between the 1st and the 16th days of flea infestation. We found no correlation between blood consumption in fleas that fed on control animals and either immunological variable of the hosts. 6. No trade-off was found between behavioural and immune defences of the rodent hosts.
2390357|1. Leaf formation, loss, retention, longevity and biomass on male branches of the evergreen mediterranean shrub Pistacia lentiscus, L. correlated strongly with water-use efficiency inferred from leaf <sup>13</sup>C across a gradient of precipitation on the island of Mallorca, Spain. 2. The correlations suggest that the leaf phenology is under control of drought-induced constraints on the carbon balance. 3. In fruiting female branches, the correlations between the inferred water-use efficiency and number of formed and retained leaves, leaf biomass and leaf longevity were non-significant. Leaf formation was strongly reduced by fruiting and the females compensated the reduced photosynthetic capacity by retaining older leaves for a longer time than male plants. 4. It is suggested that leaf longevity in females is under strong control of resource allocation to fruit formation which is `overlaid' on the drought-induced carbon stress, which led to the observed longer leaf longevity in females than in males.
10.2307/2389648|The dimensional relationships (allometry) of understorey trees were contrasted with those of saplings of subcanopy-canopy trees in a humid tropical forest in Panama. The six selected species were all common, shade-tolerant trees of primary forest and were sampled in shaded understorey. The two smallest understorey species had thicker trunks and wider, heavier, leafier crowns than similar height (2.5 m tall) saplings of larger species. The former also showed greater increases in trunk diameter and crown mass per height increment, as inferred from the allometric relationships. Similar trends were observed for an Acer shrub-tree comparison in temperate forests. The above patterns are consistent with the hypothesis that understorey species have morphologies which increase light interception and persistence in the understorey, while saplings of overstorey species allocate their biomass for efficient height growth, i.e. they are adapted to efficiently pass through the understorey to reach the high-light environment of the canopy. Thus, it is important to consider dynamic as well as static functions of form in evaluating the adaptive significance of plant traits.
3599045|1. Although plant growth depends on a balance between source and sink abilities, few studies have examined how sink activities influence plant shoot growth. This study is an examination of how meristem (sink) activities influence interspecific differences in shoot relative growth rate (RGR) among 16 C
3599362| 1. The nectars of hummingbird- and passerine-pollinated plants differ in both sugar type and concentration. Firstly, hummingbird nectars tend to be more concentrated than passerine nectars. Secondly, sucrose dominates hummingbird nectars, whereas glucose and fructose (hexose sugars) are the prevalent sugars in nectar of almost half the passerine-pollinated plants. It has been commonly assumed that these differences can be attributed to selection pressure from birds, largely determined by avian sugar perferences and digestive physiology. 2. Intake and preferences of Whitebellied Sunbirds Nectarinia talatala (A. Smith) and Broadtailed Hummingbirds Selasphorus platycercus (Swainson) were examined across a range of sucrose and equicaloric hexose solutions at two ambient temperatures. Hummingbird energy balance was not affected by sugar type. Sunbird energy balance was only influenced by sugar type on a very dilute diet (01 mol l
2656380|1. This study examines the aggregation behaviour and activity of larvae of the Common Frog Rana temporaria in relation to the early social environment, ontogeny and the presence of chemical cues from a predatory fish to address three main questions: (i) Does previous social interaction influence aggregation behaviour in later developmental stages? (ii) To what extent does aggregation behaviour depend upon the risk level perceived by the individual? (iii) Does aggregation behaviour change through ontogeny? 2. Tadpoles were reared from eggs either in small groups or in complete isolation. In relatively early stages of development, tadpoles showed no preference for the side of the test container containing siblings over the side containing no larvae regardless of the social context experienced (isolation or contact with siblings). 3. The presence of chemical cues from a potential predator did not trigger the aggregation behaviour of tadpoles, but it had a remarkable effect on their activity and spatial distribution. Tadpoles exposed to water preconditioned by a predator spent significantly less time swimming and avoided the central area of the test container more frequently than did controls exposed to unconditioned water. 4. Tadpoles were more active, avoided the central section and associated preferentially with conspecifics (siblings) at later stages of development regardless of the social conditioning they had previously experienced. 5. Individuals reared in groups were twice as active as individuals reared in isolation. This suggests that the early social environment experienced by larvae can influence future behaviour and thereby growth and development rates. 6. The expression of conspecific attraction is probably linked to an ontogenetic shift in larval behaviour. However, reduced activity, rather than aggregation, appears to be the basic antipredator mechanism in larval Common Frog.
40603110|1. Environmental variation during development is common and often has long-lasting effects on phenotypes and survival. In organisms with complex life cycles, such effects may carry over from one life stage into the subsequent stages, affecting reproductive success and survival in both direct and indirect manners. Much research has focused on the transition from the larval to adult stages, but fewer studies have addressed how egg-stage variation may affect the larval stage, development to metamorphosis, and adult fitness. 2. We assessed the short-and long-term consequences of abiotic environmental variation during egg development of the Neotropical treefrog Dendropsophus ebraccatus.Typically, D. ebraccatus eggs are oviposited terrestrially on leaves above water and hydrated by rainfall. However, at our field site in Panama ~ 25% of terrestrial eggs become desiccated during development and ~ 19% become submerged underwater. In addition, in unshaded ponds D. ebraccatus lays eggs directly in water. We assessed immediate and carryover effects of egg development under hydrated, desiccated and submerged conditions. We measured morphology and vulnerability to predators at hatching and at three time points during the larval period. We also measured morphology at metamorphosis. 3. Submerged eggs hatched less developed and later and had higher baseline mortality after hatching than either hydrated or desiccated terrestrial eggs. By 10 days after hatching, the morphology of tadpoles from the three egg environments was indistinguishable. Nonetheless, the egg environment affected prdation, with tadpoles from submerged eggs being least vulnerable; later in development egg environment ceased to affect vulnerability. Tadpoles from all egg environments grew to a size refuge from dragonfly nymphs, whereas vulnerability to water bugs remained constant throughout development. At metamorphosis, froglets from submerged eggs were the largest and those from hydrated eggs were the smallest. 4. With anticipated climate change in the Neotropics, rainstorms are predicted to become more sporadic but larger when they do occur, potentially increasing the chances of both egg desiccation and flooding. The incidence of different egg environments may therefore change, potentially affecting amphibian phenotypes, interactions with predators, and survival across multiple life stages.
10.2307/2389443|Polyphenism, as opposed to polymorphism, refers to the coexistence of several distinct phenotypes having a common genotype. Poly-phenism can be selected for in unpredictable environments. Here we document and analyse a case of diphenism in the north-European fairy shrimp Siphonophanes grubii (Dybowski), in relation to the temporary and unpredictable nature of its habitat. The active part of this species' life cycle usually consists of a single, short-lived, spring cohort. Here we report field observations on autumnal hatching and on a long-lived, overwintering cohort; we show that the winter cohort runs the risk of total failure. due to the pond freezing entirely or drying up during winter. If, however, environmental conditions allow winter survival, animals reach a larger size, reproduce for a longer time, and display higher fecundity, than do animals from the spring cohort. Laboratory experiments support the theory that these differences are purely phenotypic and dependent on temperature. Using an analytical model adapted from Cohen (1966), we propose that the coexistence of both a winter and a spring cohort in the same ponds can be interpreted as a diversified bet-hedging strategy.
4139400|1. Correlations between phenotypic traits are important in a number of contexts in physiological ecology, evolutionary physiology, and behaviour. Correlations can reflect functional connections or trade-offs among performance traits (e.g. bite force, jumping distance) and can reveal causal relationships between whole-organism traits and lower-level biochemical or morphological traits. 2. However, when one or both traits exhibit intraindividual variability (i.e. repeatability < 1), conventional estimates of Pearson product-moment correlation coefficients are biased towards zero (= attenuated). The magnitude of this bias decreases with increases in the number of measurements used to calculate the mean value of the trait for each individual. The bias varies inversely with the repeatability of each trait. 3. We present an estimator for the correlation coefficient that eliminates this bias. This estimator is based on an equation originally presented in 1904 by Spearman, and applied by researchers in psychological testing and nutritional epidemiology. The estimator is a simple function of the within- and among-individual components of variance for each of the two traits. 4. Simulations show that optimal sampling effort usually involves a small number of trials per individual and a large sample of individuals (for a fixed total sample size), although correlations between traits with low repeatabilities may be more precisely estimated with a larger number of trials per individual and a smaller number of individuals. 5. In addition to reducing the accuracy of the estimate, attenuation also reduces statistical power for detecting significant correlations. However, we do not recommend using the unbiased estimator for testing whether correlations differ from zero, because this inflates Type I error rates. Instead, the uncorrected (conventional) estimator should be used for hypothesis testing. 6. The unbiased estimator is not appropriate for correlations involving maximum or minimum values for each individual (e.g. maximum sprint speed) because sampling distributions of these extreme values typically have different properties than the sampling distributions of individual mean values.
3599117|1. Seed mass is widely regarded as a key plant trait, yet is notoriously variable within an individual species. This study reports the first field experiments to disentangle the relative importance of four major correlates of seed mass variation: resource limitation; plant height; seed number; and seasonality. 2. Variation in reproductive traits in Impatiens glandulifera Royle was partitioned among six populations established across an elevation gradient, among plants at each elevation and within individual plants. 3. Seed mass was the least variable trait both at the individual and population levels, while the number of pods per plant varied most. Seed mass variation was greatest among individual plants (42%) and was least among populations (28%). 4. Taller plants produced proportionally more seed pods and more seeds per pod. Seed mass was not related to the number of pods per plant, or the number of seeds per pod. Thus with increasing resources, I. glandulifera allocated resources to produce more seeds rather than larger seeds. 5. Seed mass was negatively correlated with the heat sum over the period of seed maturation, explaining increased seed mass at higher elevations and increasing seed mass over time at most elevations. This may indicate that environmental condition pre- and post-fertilization determines the relationship between seed mass and elevation, thereby limiting the potential for evolutionary selection for seed-size optima. 6. The study warns against correlative studies of seed mass variation that select arbitrary populations or ignore the temporal dynamics in seed mass, as these may generate spurious correlations among life-history traits. 7. The success of I. glandulifera as an invasive species may reflect the extended period of seed release, considerable seed mass variation and large seed size under conditions of environmental severity. These traits will facilitate the exploitation of spatially and temporally heterogeneous natural environments commonly found in riparian ecosystems.
2656518|1. The effects of defoliation on male reproductive traits of plants have received little attention. We conducted two field experiments with Dactylorhiza maculata (L.) Soo to examine the effects of defoliation on both male and female reproductive traits. We removed 0, 50 or 100% of leaves prior to flowering. The quality of pollen was tested by transferring pollen from the differently treated plants to untreated plants of the same population. 2. The non-defoliated plants did not differ from the defoliated plants in mass of pollinia. No differences were found in the weight of seed capsules or in the proportion of embryonic seeds raised by flowers receiving pollen from differently treated pollen donors. 3. The non-defoliated and partially defoliated plants produced relatively more and heavier capsules than the completely defoliated plants. 4. Defoliation decreased leaf area, corm mass and the probability of flowering in the following year. 5. These results demonstrate that defoliation has no acute effects on male traits in the long-living perennial orchid D. maculata. In this respect, D. maculata differs from the two other polycarpic species studied so far. Availability of resources appeared to be insufficient to prevent negative effects of defoliation on the later-occurring and more costly female functions.
10.2307/2389702|Whittaker's data on the forest vegetation of the Great Smoky Mountains are used to test the hypothesis that plant species diversity is related to the type of mycorrhiza prevalent. The type of mycorrhiza, i.e. ecto, vesicular-arbuscular (VA) or ericoid, associated with each tree species was determined from other published sources. Multiple regressions were calculated of species richness and productivity in each vegetation layer against altitude and exposure of the site and various measures of relative abundance of each mycorrhizal type. The number of tree species showed a highly significant decline with increasing altitude but no significant relationship to mycorrhiza. In constrast, herb species richness showed a strong positive relationship to the abundance of trees capable of forming VAM. Possible causes of this relationship are discussed; it was not associated with variations in herb productivity.
2656546|1. The life-history responses of one field and two laboratory populations of Daphnia magna were studied under exposure to cadmium and ethyl parathion to assess by how much the response to toxic chemicals of laboratory populations with low genetic diversity differs from the response of genetically diverse field populations. 2. The field population was represented by at least 50 unique clones hatched from resting eggs (ephippia) collected at the beginning of the growing season from a temporary water-body located in the north-east Mediterranean Spanish coast. The laboratory populations were clonal lines established from two geographically and genetically distinct genotypes, which differed in their tolerance to cadmium and ethyl parathion. Toxicant effects on the mean and the variance of life-history responses of the laboratory and the field populations were determined. For the field population, toxicant effects on the components of variance of primary fitness traits were also studied. 3. In addition to lethal effects, exposure to cadmium had strong sub-lethal effects on clutch size and age at first reproduction whereas ethyl parathion only affected juvenile survival. The results reported for life-history responses showed that the field population had a similar or greater mean tolerance to cadmium and ethyl parathion than the laboratory populations, but the breadth of its tolerance distribution (measured as the coefficient of variation, CV) was higher. Furthermore in contrast with the field population, laboratory populations did not show increased phenotypic plasticity (measured as CV) under increasing toxicant exposure. A further analysis of the components of variability for life-history responses of the field population showed that increases in phenotypic plasticity with exposure levels were explained by increased levels of genetic variability. 4. These results support the conclusion that as the tolerance of a field population is strongly influenced by genetic factors, the use of genetically homogeneous laboratory populations has limited relevance in predicting long-term responses of field populations to toxic chemicals. However, this conclusion must remain tentative until further supporting evidence is obtained from this and other species.
10.2307/2390192|1. In order to understand better the distribution of Australian parrots we tested a model of water regulatory efficiency, based on an ambient temperature (T<sub>a</sub>) at which metabolic water production (MWP) equals evaporative water loss (EWL), in six species varying in body mass from 27 to 390 g. 2. The relationship of MWP/EWL and T<sub>a</sub> has a significant, negative slope for each of the six species. The nature of this relationship is maintained in birds on ad libitum and restricted water and from measurements taken at night. 3. The computed values of T<sub>a</sub> at which MWP/EWL = 1 also scales inversely, but in a regular manner with body mass. Accepting the premise of the model that higher values of T<sub>a</sub> at equality reflect higher relative water regulatory efficiency, we contend that smaller parrot species are superior in this regard to larger species. In most cases from the study, dehydration and night-time result in birds achieving an even more favourable state of water balance. 4. To test the predictions of the model within an ecological context we compared the thermal points of water balance for the budgerigar with ambient temperatures in the habitat of the bird in summer and winter. In winter MWP exceeds EWL for 15.5 h each day, but in midsummer MWP is always less than EWL and the birds are dependent on a preformed water source. We suggest that small size in granivorous parrots imparts a dependence on small seeds rich in carbohydrates and with maximal yields of metabolic water.
2390459|1. Sugary fruits dominate the annual diet of Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum), whereas lipid-rich foods dominate the diets of frugivorous thrushes. Nutrient utilization and preferences of Cedar Waxwings and thrushes fed sugary and lipid-rich natural fruits were assessed to ascertain the potential for nutrient-based specializations that could explain diet selection in nature. 2. Compared allometrically, Cedar Waxwings showed higher rates of sugar assimilation from sugary fruits than did thrushes, by virtue of higher intake rates, and achieved the highest energy assimilation rates when eating a sugary fruit. A trade-off to this digestive strategy appears to be less efficient utilization of lipids when eating exclusively lipid-rich fruits. 3. Thrushes digested lipids more efficiently than Cedar Waxwings as a function of intake rate or estimated retention time, and thrushes achieved the highest energy assimilation rates when eating a lipid-rich fruit. Specialization to a diet rich in lipids appears to limit the rate at which sugary fruits can be processed. 4. Within each bird species, sugar digestive efficiencies were high and were not reduced at higher intake rates. Lipids were consumed at lower rates than sugars, and lipid digestive efficiencies declined with increasing intake rates. Frugivorous birds modulated digestive processing of fruits according to the time needed for efficient digestion and/or absorption of sugars and lipids, respectively. 5. Rate of nitrogen intake, not sugar assimilation, positively influenced body mass changes of birds. Sugary fruits appear nutritionally rich in energy, but limited in protein for avian frugivores. Relatively high intake rates and low protein requirements of Cedar Waxwings suggest that specialization to sugary, low-protein diets involves traits that facilitate acquisition and conservation of protein/amino acids. 6. Cedar Waxwings and thrushes show digestive specialization to the utilization of sugars and lipids, respectively, as dominant dietary nutrients. These traits explain patterns of food selection by these birds in the laboratory and in nature. Variation in the value of particular fruit nutrients to different birds renders the dietary descriptor of `frugivore' ambiguous in a nutritional context.
10.2307/2389287|1. Ecophysiological characteristics of plants from different size and life-history classes were investigated in a field population of Chrysothamnus nauseosus. 2. Juvenile plants (>1-year-old but pre-reproductive) had higher rates of photosynthesis, stomatal conductance and transpiration than reproductive adults, even though pre-dawn xylem pressure potentials of juveniles were slightly lower. Juveniles were also less water-use efficient than adults based on instantaneous gas exchange (photosynthesis/transpiration) and carbon isotope discrimination (). 3. A comparison of -values indicated a gradient of water-use efficiency that was correlated with size: Seedlings < Juveniles = Small Adults < Large Adults. Reproductive status did not account for any variation independent of size. 4. Small establishing plants may experience short-term environmental conditions and long-term selective pressures different from those of larger reproductive plants. 5. The pattern of smaller plants having higher rates of gas exchange and less efficient use of water in the absence of higher pre-dawn xylem pressure potentials suggests a developmental progression in ecophysiological parameters with increasing size, in addition to the environmentally induced variation that has been documented for these characters for many species.
10.2307/2389964|1. Our study addresses two questions. (a) When net primary productivity increases in tropical vines, is there an increasing allocation of the gains to growth in height? (b) Are allocation patterns of vines from different types of tropical forests similar or different? 2. We chose congeneric tuberous vines from two types of tropical forest (Psiguria racemosa from tropical premontane moist forest and Psiguria umbrosa from tropical dry forest) and grew seedlings at three concentrations of ambient CO<sub>2</sub> in controlled environment chambers. 3. Both species increased markedly in height: average height of Psiguria racemosa increased 5.5 times at 1000  mol mol<sup>-1</sup> CO<sub>2</sub>, and average height of Psiguria umbrosa increased 7.1 times, compared to plants at 350  mol mol<sup>-1</sup> CO<sub>2</sub>. In Psiguria racemosa, biomass allocation to shoot growth relative to root growth increased from 55% at 350  mol mol<sup>-1</sup> CO<sub>2</sub> to 78% at 1000  mol mol<sup>-1</sup> CO<sub>2</sub>, whereas allocation ratios remained constant in Psiguria umbrosa. 4. Differences in allocation patterns may reflect adaptive responses to environmental constraints imposed by different habitats. For Psiguria umbrosa, which is deciduous and often dies back during the dry season, allocation to root biomass may be important for the development of storage root tissue that may affect future growth and height.
3599248| 1. Productivity of dryland communities is often co-limited by water and nutrients. Since atmospheric CO
2656565|1. Researchers involved in ecology and toxicology, as well as many other aspects of avian biology, use phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) skin testing as a means of evaluating the immune status of individuals. 2. Immune function, one measure of individual quality, can be used as a sensitive, non-lethal variable that may be negatively affected in animals exposed to degraded, contaminated or otherwise disturbed ecological zones. 3. Typically this test has been applied by challenging one wing web with the immunostimulant PHA, while the other `control' wing is injected with phosphate buffered saline (PBS). Injection sites on the wing web are measured before and 24 h after injection with PHA or PBS. The immune response is considered to be the difference between the two wings. 4. Results from PHA skin tests conducted on 608 birds in seven studies representing passerines, waterfowl, upland game birds and raptors are examined. 5. Numerous advantages to eliminating the PBS injection as the experimental control are: (i) decrease by half, the time required for testing; (ii) decrease handling-related stress on the birds (proportional to handling time); (iii) reduce the probability of errors at injection time; (iv) spare the other wing for different tests or uses (e.g. tuberculin DTH testing); and (v) decrease the coefficient of variation that is due to measurement inaccuracies. 6. The only disadvantage identified is that hypersensitive individuals (outliers) could be missed, which in this case represents 2 of 608 individuals.
826725|1. The gape size of the predator and the body depth of its prey are the main factors deciding whether a gape-limited piscivore can ingest a potential prey fish. The connection between morphological variation in pike and its prey was studied in five lakes with different proportions of pike, perch and roach. 2. At low prey abundance the prey fish are larger than in lakes with a higher prey density. In contrast, the pike are smaller but have relatively high gapes in the lake with the lowest prey availability, and larger but with smaller gapes at the highest prey density. There is a positive correlation with relative gape size of pike and relative body depth of prey among the five lakes. 3. Using the body depth in perch and roach and the gape size in pike, the proportion of the prey populations that could be eaten by the pike was calculated. In the low prey density lakes the pike could ingest a smaller proportion of the prey than in the high prey density lakes where most pike can eat all available prey sizes. 4. Competition for food in a situation where prey are big may cause a selection for a higher gape size. Our results indicate that this mechanism could be the reason that pike from different lakes vary in relative gape size.
2656444|1. To demonstrate evolved sex-based differences in vegetative traits of dioecious plant species, one must consider both pre-reproductive and reproductive individuals, as dimorphic patterns commonly arise secondarily from different effects of reproduction on resource balance. 2. Siparuna grandiflora, a neotropical dioecious shrub in which females allocate significantly more biomass to reproduction than males, was studied for 2 years (three reproductive events) to determine whether sex-based differences in stem growth, leaf production and allocation pattern could be detected in pre-reproductive individuals grown from cuttings in field plots or in mature naturally occurring individuals. 3. Among pre-reproductive individuals, females accumulated more stem and leaves than males, but among mature individuals, no sex-based growth differences were apparent. In mature individuals, both growth and leaf longevity were positively correlated with reproductive frequency. With regards allocation, pre-reproductive males had larger leaves than females, and mature females allocated less biomass per unit stem length than males. 4. The capacity of pre-reproductive females to grow faster than males demonstrates innate differences between the sexes. That mature females achieved equivalent growth to males, despite higher reproductive allocation, indicates that the greater growth capacity of young females is sustained in older females and enables them to compensate for greater reproductive allocation.
2390305|1. Previous studies have found marked inter-annual variation in winter food availability, diet composition and body condition in a population of harbour seals (Phoca vitulina L.) in Northeast Scotland. This study aimed to determine whether there were other physiological consequences of prey switching by comparing haematological parameters in years when the clupeids herring and sprat dominated the diet and in years when seals switched to alternative prey. 2. There were significant differences in leukocyte and erythrocyte parameters in relation to diet composition. In contrast, indices of body condition did not explain the variation in haematological parameters, suggesting that the observed changes did not result from differences in the energetic content of the prey. 3. Leukocyte counts were significantly higher after `good' clupeid years, although the differences in mean counts were small. Such differences could have resulted either from immuno-suppression, for example because of differences in prey nutrient or contaminant levels, or from differences in the pathogen challenge resulting from geographical variations in water quality. 4. The differences in erythrocyte parameters were more marked, and there was evidence of widespread macrocytic anaemia when seals switched from clupeids to alternative prey. Such differences could result either from acclimation, as a result of prey-specific foraging strategies, or from differences in the nutritional quality of prey. 5. These results indicate that generalist predators such as the harbour seal may exhibit physiological responses to changes in the composition of their diet. These data high-light the need to consider the long-term physiological effects of variations in food availability on the population dynamics of generalist marine top predators. In particular, it is hypothesized that fish-induced anaemia may be responsible for declines in certain pinniped populations.
4139358|1. This study investigated the effects on water transport patterns of the transverse water movement in xylem, on a whole-shoot scale, using current-year shoots of kudzu vine (Pueraria lobata (Willd.) Ohwi). 2. The connections between xylem vessels were detected by dye injection and were found to be distributed throughout the internode. This means that short internodes limit the connections between vessels. The hydraulic conductance of the internode-topetiole path decreased with successive cutting of the internodes. 3. To estimate hydraulic patterns at the whole-shoot scale, the hydraulic conductance of the shoot base-to-petiole path (
2656456|1. Direct measurements of water-table depth in a mire were compared with depth to discolouration of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tape left in situ for 15 months. Discolouration depth was highly correlated with positions of highest and lowest water tables; estimates were systematically biased but generally within 5 cm of measured values. 2. The annual range in water-table position indicated by discolouration depth varied 10-fold along a 30 m transect. Discolouration of PVC tape is an indicator of reducing conditions that could be applied in extensive surveys at very low cost.
10.2307/2389403|1 The regulation of germination of Sorghum halepense (L.) Pers. under plant canopies, and its relation with temperature fluctuation requirements of these seeds, were studied. 2 Seed germination was depressed under closed leaf canopies and both seedling emergence and soil thermal amplitude were strongly related to canopy height. 3 A similar effect was observed when seed banks were subjected to increasing artificial shading. Heating the soil under dense canopies resulted in the same germination flux as observed in bare soil. 4 Germination responses to different alternating temperature regimes under controlled conditions were in agreement with the results of field experiments where soil temperature was modified either by shading or heating. 5 These results demonstrate that the alternating temperature requirements for germination of S. halepense seeds have a role in regulating seed germination under leaf canopies. Some ecological implications of this mechanism are discussed.
2656360|1. We analysed the longevity of individual flowers and the effect on pollination success with respect to floral display size of racemes (number of flowers open at one time) for the sequentially blooming plant Narthecium asiaticum (Liliaceae). The longevity of lower- and middle-positioned flowers (about 7 days in 1998 and 6 days in 1999) was much greater than the length of time required for the completion of male (about 3 days) and female (within 3 days) functions. 2. We suggest that such prolonged longevity benefits the plant in terms of pollinator attraction, because prolonged longevity in lower and middle flowers leads to large display sizes of racemes. Increased display size would not have resulted in an increase of geitonogamy in this species, because most pollinators left racemes after probing only one flower. Rather, large displays attracted more pollinators and increased pollen dispersal from individual flowers. 3. The longevity of upper-positioned flowers (about 4 days in 1998 and 3 days in 1999) was less than that of lower- and middle-positioned flowers - almost the same as the length of time required for the completion of male and female functions. This difference is possibly because upper flowers open later within racemes: if there were no subsequent flowers, prolonged floral longevity would not benefit the plants and would only consume resources used to maintain the flower. 4. Floral longevity within inflorescence should be understood in relation to the effects of floral display size and floral positions, in addition to the accrual rates of male and female functions and the maintenance cost of individual flowers.
10.2307/2390005|1. The results of Salisbury (1927) with regard to interspecific patterns of stomatal density have lead to much theorizing as to the causes for the apparent differences. However, Salisbury treated each species as an independent data point, a practice which may not be valid given that similarity can result from taxonomic relatedness independent of ecological effects. 2. In reanalyses of Salisbury's data for stomatal number, we found that the patterns upon which Salisbury based his conclusion that stomatal density is correlated with the degree of 'exposure' of a species were not upheld when taxonomic relatedness was taken into account. Specifically, we found stomatal density to be greater in shrubs than trees, in trees than herbs and in marginal herbs than understorey herbs, but no significant difference between shrubs and herbs, or woody plants (trees and shrubs pooled) and non-woody plants from the same habitat type. 3. In an additional analysis using data only for one life-form from one habitat type (herbs from the forest margin), we found no difference in stomatal density between amphi- and hypostomatous species.
41239355|1. The Northern Clade of the fish genus Poeciliopsis includes six closely related species, three of which lack placentas and three that have placentas but vary in the extent of post-fertilization provisioning. 2. We used this diversity to evaluate a series of hypotheses proposed in earlier publications concerning why the placenta has evolved. All hypotheses share the attribute of arguing that the placenta evolved to enhance the evolution of some other life-history trait, such as to reduce the age at maturation or to increase offspring size. We refer to these hypotheses collectively as 'life-history facilitation hypotheses'. 3. A general way to evaluate the plausibility of such proposals is to ask whether the evolution of the placenta is predictably associated with the evolution of other components of the life history. 4. We evaluated such associations in two ways. First, we performed a multivariate analysis of life-history data for fish collected and preserved in nature. This analysis included 16 populations across all six species. Secondly, we performed a more complete quantification of the life histories of the laboratory descendents from five populations representing four species, then performed a similar multivariate analysis. The laboratory study added information about the timing of reproduction (age at maturity, frequency of reproduction). 5. Both analyses yielded similar results, which were that the evolution of increased placentation is correlated with the evolution of a smaller size at first reproduction, the production of fewer and smaller offspring per litter, but an increase in the number of litters that were developing simultaneously in the ovary (superfetation). Increased placentation is associated with progressively earlier ages at maturation and shorter intervals between the birth of successive litters of offspring. Overall, increased placentation was associated with an increase in the rate of production of offspring early in life. A peculiar attribute of placentation is that this increase in the rate of offspring production can be attained despite a simultaneous reduction in the proportional quantity of resources devoted to reproduction. 6. These trends support one of the life history facilitation hypotheses, which is that placentation facilitates earlier maturity and a higher rate of reproduction early in life. They also suggest a possible connection between the evolution of the placenta and the well-established theory of life-history evolution, since these same life history attributes are predicted to evolve in response to exposure to high extrinsic rates of adult mortality.
2390318|1. Locomotor performance of limbless vertebrates depends on the substrate through which individuals move and may result in selection on vertebral number in different habitats. To evaluate the effect of push-point density on snake locomotion, the density of vegetation and other potential push-points was quantified at two sites in California (coastal and inland), where conspecific snakes differed greatly in vertebral number (230 and 256 average total vertebrae, respectively: Arnold 1988). The coastal site had significantly higher push-point densities than the inland site. 2. Five experimental push-point densities that fell within the natural range of pushpoint densities were employed in laboratory trials of juvenile snake locomotion. Density of push-points significantly affected both crawling speed and head-to-tail distance (HTD), an indirect measure of lateral bending. The fastest speed was achieved at an intermediate push-point density. The shortest HTD occurred when snakes moved through the lowest push-point density. 3. Sex, total number of vertebrae and total length significantly affected HTD, regardless of push-point density. Snakes with relatively more vertebrae had a shorter HTD, suggesting they were able to achieve greater lateral bending than snakes with fewer vertebrae. Coastal and inland populations did not differ in HTD during locomotion. 4. Numbers of body and tail vertebrae significantly influenced speed at different pushpoint densities. In general, snakes with more body vertebrae were slower than those with fewer, while snakes with more tail vertebrae were faster than those with fewer. Snakes of greater total length were faster at all densities. Coastal snakes crawled faster than inland snakes at all push-point densities.
3598959|1. Previous studies in humid forests shown that the
3599350| 1. We used cross-species and phylogenetic analyses to compare seed traits of 36 species with desiccation-sensitive and 189 with desiccation-tolerant seeds from a semi-deciduous forest in Panam. 2. When correcting for phylogenetic dependence between taxa, the desiccation-sensitive seeds were significantly larger than desiccation-tolerant seeds (3383 vs 283 mg) and typically shed during the wet (as opposed to dry) season. Both traits presumably reduce the rate of seed drying and hence the risk of desiccation-induced mortality for the desiccation-sensitive species. 3. Growing-house germination trials in simulated understorey and canopy gap environments revealed that the desiccation-sensitive species germinated most rapidly. Additionally, on a proportion basis, the desiccation-sensitive seeds allocated significantly less resources to seed physical defences (endocarp and/or testa) which may partially facilitate rapid germination. Both relationships were significant when correcting for phylogenetic dependence and seed mass. 4. Our results suggest that, for large-seeded species which will dry slowly, desiccation sensitivity may be advantageous. Rapid germination may reduce the duration of seed exposure to predation, and the low investment in physical defence means that, per unit mass, desiccation-sensitive seeds are a more efficient use of resources in seed provisioning. 
2390433|1. Postponed senescence lines of Drosophila melanogaster have previously been generated by selection for delayed female reproduction. 2. This study addresses the question of whether the selection regime has differentiated lines with respect to oocyte maturation or ovariole number. 3. Oocyte stage and ovariole number were characterized in replicate postponed senescence lines (O) and in replicate control lines (B). 4. Oocyte maturation is delayed in O females. 5. The delay in oocyte maturation in O lines corresponds to reduced early age fecundity. 6. Selection may have resulted in an increased number of ovarioles in O females.
3599055|1. Using a simple technique for assessing constitutive innate immune function recently adapted for use in wild populations, we characterize changes in avian immune system development by repeated measurements of individuals over the period of nestling growth in a wild population of Leach's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma leucorhoa). 2. We measured levels of natural antibodies (NAb) during the early, middle and late phases of storm-petrel development and related these levels and NAb rate of change to mass and wing length growth. We used natural variation in nestling growth to assess the influence of nutritional status on the development of innate immunity. 3. NAb levels increased over the first 50 days of chick development; however, rate of increase was inversely proportional to wing growth. 4. Initial titre levels were inversely proportional to rate of change in NAb levels over the first 50 days of immune development. This suggests that individuals with low initial NAb levels accelerate immune development to reach adult levels, whereas individuals with high initial levels do not. 5. As in previous studies, our results demonstrate an inverse relationship between growth rate and development of components of the avian immune system. While such a relationship is consistent with the idea that immune function development involves trade-offs, the processes involved are more complex than simple energy allocation.
10.2307/2389319|Differences in allometric relationships of understorey saplings (60-300 cm tall) between nine common shade-tolerant species of subcanopy, canopy and emergent trees were examined in an old-growth foothill rain forest in West Sumatra, Indonesia. Interspecific variation was found in the intercept of the regression line between logarithmic dimensions but not in the slope. Detected interspecific differences could be interpreted as a result of a trade-off between height growth (for future exploitation of better-lit conditions at higher levels in the canopy) and leaf area extension (for current exploitation of poor light nearer the base of the canopy). Saplings of emergent Swintonia schwenkii Teijsm. & Binn. ex Hook. f. favoured height growth rather than expansion of assimilative area. Trends of interspecific differences in sapling allometry in tropical rain forest were similar to those in warm-temperate rain forest. Tropical saplings had more slender trunks and greater total leaf area at a given height than warm-temperate saplings, but dry weight proportions among organs were similar. We hypothesize that the advantage of maintaining assimilative area in present height is diminished in a habitat with higher growth rate and/or steeper vertical light gradient such as in tropical forest.
10.2307/2389351|Leaves of Piper auritum H.B. & K., a tropical forest tree common in large gaps and clearings, quickly wilted when exposed to full sun. One consequence of this wilting was a dramatic reduction in the projected leaf area normal to the direct solar beam. As a result, intercepted photosynthetically active radiation decreased by 50-70%, and leaf temperature decreased by 1-5<sup></sup>C, which led, respectively, to decreased photosynthesis and transpiration. Because the decrease in photosynthesis was smaller than the decrease in transpiration, wilting resulted in an increase in the ratio of photosynthesis to transpiration (water-use-efficiency), relative to leaves prevented from wilting. Stomatal conductance decreased when leaves were exposed to high light but did not change dramatically when leaves wilted. By affecting the leaf-air vapour concentration gradient, partial stomatal closure further enhanced the effects of wilting on water-use-efficiency.
40407752|1. Many grass species are associated with maternally transmitted fungal endophytes. Increasing evidence shows that endophytes enhance host plant success under varied conditions, yet studies have rarely considered alternative mechanisms whereby these mutualistic symbionts may affect regeneration from seed. 2. We performed a microcosm experiment to evaluate whether infection with Neotyphodium occultons affects recruitment in the annual grass Lolium multiflorum either directly, by infecting the seeds, or indirectly, by altering the suitability of recruitment microsites through the litter shed by host plants. Endophyte effects on establishment were tested for different litter depths and watering regimes under natural herbivory by leaf-cutting ants. 3. Seed infection increased seedling emergence through the litter as well as final recruitment, irrespective of microsite conditions. However, litter produced by infected plants delayed emergence and decreased density of both infected and non-infected grass populations. 4. Individual plant biomass did not change with seed infection but was increased under deep litter from endophyte-infected plants. Although seed infection did not protect establishing plants from leaf-cutting ants, herbivory was reduced in the presence of deep litter shed by infected plants. 5. We conclude that fungal endophytes may affect host plant recruitment across subsequent generations not only by infecting the seeds but also through the host's dead remains. While the former effect entailed an advantage to infected plants, litter-mediated effects did not discriminate by infection status, and generally promoted the establishment of fewer and larger plants. Thus hidden foliar symbionts may play an underappreciated role in maintaining host species dominance through the litter produced by prior patch occupants.
826747| 1. Anurans exhibit high levels of growth-mediated phenotypic plasticity in age and size at metamorphosis. Although temperature and food quality exert a strong influence on larval growth, little is known about the interacting effects of these factors on age and size at metamorphosis. 2. Plasticity in growth rates, maximum larval mass, mass loss, larval period and size at metamorphosis was examined in Iberian Painted Frogs (Discoglossus galganoi Capula, Nascetti, Lanza, Bullini & Crespo 1985) under different combinations of temperature and diet quality. 3. Temperature and diet had strong effects on the maximum size reached by tadpoles throughout the premetamorphic stages. Larval body mass varied inversely with temperature. The effect of diet depended on temperature; larvae fed on a 'carnivorous' diet (rich in protein and lipids) achieved a larger size than larvae offered an 'herbivorous' diet (rich in carbohydrates) at 17C but not at 12 or 22C. 4. Larval period was insensitive to diet composition, and varied only with temperature. Primarily the interacting effects of food quality and temperature affected size at metamorphosis. Size at metamorphosis varied inversely with temperature under the plant- and the animal-based diets. However, the carnivorous diet resulted in bigger metamorphs at 17 and 22C, but did not influence final mass at 12C. Maximum size over the larval period explained most of the variation in mass loss after the premetamorphic growing phase. 
4540053|1. Temperature is known to affect whole-organism performance capacities significantly in ectotherms, but may potentially alter performance kinematics as well. Locomotor performance is a multivariate phenomenon, hence changes in temperature are probably reflected in multiple aspects of locomotion. 2. We studied the thermal sensitivity of several kinetic and kinematic jump variables, including acceleration and power output, in male and female green anole lizards, Anolis carolinensis Voigt 1832. We hypothesized that temperature would have similar effects on kinetic and kinematic variables. 3. We also tested the hypotheses that males and females would differ in jump performance, but only because of sexual dimorphism for body size, and that males and females would also differ in optimal performance temperature and body temperature (T
40407728|1. Understanding the links between physiological performance and fitness is key to predicting the responses of individuals to environmental change, especially that imposed by climate. Of particular interest are traits linked with metabolic performance. In particular, maximal metabolic rate (MMR; which describes the upper limit to heat production) and basal metabolic rate (BMR; which describes the lower limit to heat production for a normothermic endotherm) are important causal mechanisms that determine the physiological limits for activity under cold conditions. 2. Previous work with deer mice has shown important links between maximal metabolic performance and activity. Selection for elevated MMRs was detected in nature, and higher rates of above-ground activity during periods of cold were associated with elevated MMRs. Here, we investigate further the links between activity and elevated MMRs. 3. We conducted a laboratory study to test whether BMR or MMR was correlated with activity and foraging behaviour of deer mice exposed to a series of cold temperatures (-5, -10 and -15 C). Each mouse had access to a warm nest box, but needed to enter a cold environmental chamber to access food, ice chips and a running wheel. Behaviours were monitored for 2 days under these experimental conditions. Prior to the experimental trials, BMR and MMR were measured. MMR was also measured after the trials. 4. The amount of time that mice spent active in the cold was negatively correlated with ambient temperature. The duration of activity per bout (when mice were out of the nest box) decreased at colder temperatures, but the number of bouts did not. The total duration of activity and duration per bout increased with an individual's MMR and change in MMR over the course of the experiment. Body mass decreased at colder temperatures, and mice with higher MMR and greater increases in MMR consumed more food. 5. Our study suggests that mice with high MMR, or a capacity to increase MMR may be best able to tolerate cold environments. Thus, physiological capacity and behaviour can influence each other in response to environmental conditions. 6. Integrative studies between behaviour and physiology in an ecological context provide greater understanding of the potential responses of organisms to environmental change. With respect to climate, such responses will depend either on the ability of individuals to induce plastic (or acclamatory) responses to environmental Stressors or on the structure of genetic variation for physiological traits within a particular population. Although, some effort has been directed at understanding the evolutionary significance of metabolic traits (particularly with respect to heritabilities), we suggest that priority should be given to studies that explicitly address the mechanistic links between physiology and fitness in light of ongoing climate change.
3599142| 1. In this study we aimed to estimate distance distributions of adhesively dispersed seeds and the factors that determine them. 2. Seed attachment and detachment were studied using field experiments with a real sheep, a sheep dummy and a cattle dummy. Seed-retention data were used in correlated random walk models to simulate adhesive seed dispersal. 3. Seed attachment to the sheep dummy was larger in quantity and in number of species, and stronger in relation to seed density in the vegetation, than was seed attachment to the cattle dummy. Species found on the real sheep were also found on the sheep dummy. 4. Detachment from sheep wool differed little between smooth, bristly, small or large seeds, but smooth seeds detached from cattle fur within a few metres. Seeds applied within reach of vegetation detached sooner than seeds applied higher on the dummy. 5. The simulations showed that sheep are long-distance seed-dispersal vectors for seeds of any morphology (99 percentile distance, 29 km). The virtual cattle and Fallow Deer dispersed bristly and hooked seeds over long distances (99 percentile distance, 435-840 m), but not smooth seeds. Wood Mouse simulations generated only short-distance dispersal (99 percentile distance, 12 m). 
2656412|1. Transgenic manipulation of the gene copy number of hsp70, which encodes the major inducible heat-shock protein of Drosophila melanogaster (Hsp70), affects both Hsp70 levels and inducible thermotolerance in the laboratory; here parallel effects in transgenic Drosophila larvae undergoing natural or simulated natural thermal stress are demonstrated. 2. Necrotic fruit was infested with larvae of either of two transgenic strains, one transformed with 12 extra copies of the hsp70 gene (extra-copy strain) and a sister strain possessing only the wild-type number (10) of hsp70 genes (excision strain), and then allowed to heat to variable extents. 3. As the intensity of thermal stress increased, the consequences of extra hsp70 copies reversed. After no or moderate thermal stress, excision larvae survived better than did extra copy larvae. By contrast, extra copy larvae tolerated intense hyperthermia better than did excision larvae. 4. These results establish that the Hsp70-mediated enhancement of stress tolerance, previously demonstrated only for artificial stress regimes in the laboratory, extends to natural stress regimes. 5. Mortality due to overexpression of Hsp70, however, also increases under mild natural stress regimes, buttressing the ecological relevance of a hypothesized evolutionary trade-off of the benefits and adverse consequences of Hsp70 expression.
4540094|1. While many plant species offer rewards (e.g. nectar) to pollinators, some species, particularly in orchids, do not provide rewards. Ecological factors, such as interactions with rewarding co-flowering species may affect pollinator visitation rates to such deceptive species by influencing pollinator ability to learn to avoid deceptive plants (avoidance learning). 2. We tested the effect of flower colour similarity (similar vs dissimilar) and fine-scale spatial mingling (monospecific vs heterospecific patches) of rewarding and deceptive artificial plants on pollinator visitation in a fully crossed design. We also examined the effect of these factors on learning of initially naive bumblebees. 3. Over time, bumblebees increasingly avoided the deceptive plants, but at a significantly faster rate when deceptive and rewarding plants had dissimilar flower colours than when they were similar. 4. Deceptive plants received more visits when mingled in heterospecific patches with rewarding plants of similar flower colour than when mingled with dissimilar ones. This difference was not significant when rewarding and deceptive plants were spatially separated in monospecific patches. 5. In conclusion, both spatial mingling and flower colour similarity affected pollinator visitation to and avoidance learning of deceptive plants. This proves the validity of artificial experimental systems to study the isolated and joint effect of plant traits, and ecological factors that are crucial for the maintenance of deceptive species in natural populations.
4540050| 1. One of the major impediments to our understanding of avian hatching asynchrony is the difficulty in separating hypotheses that concentrate on the onset of incubation from those that explain hatching asynchrony adaptively. To address this, ideally we need a system(s) in which we can uncouple these two sets of hypotheses. Such a system exists in the skink genus Egernia. 2. We documented birthing asynchrony (analogous to hatching asynchrony) and the mechanisms underlying birthing asynchrony in the White's skink, Egernia whitii (Lacpde, 1804), a medium-sized, viviparous skink species that displays complex sociality. 3. Egernia whitii females gave birth to offspring asynchronously (100% of litters), with an average of >2 days between births. We show that embryo gestation is synchronous with asynchrony first observed at birth. Furthermore, when birth of the entire litter was induced at the birth of the first offspring, there was no difference in development, mass or weight between first (naturally) born offspring and second and third (induced) offspring. 4. These results suggest that birthing asynchrony in this species is not a consequence of the constraint of asynchronous offspring development, but rather, females retain offspring despite all offspring being fully developed. This suggests that birthing asynchrony in this genus may have an adaptive explanation. 5. We discuss the potential adaptive explanations of birthing asynchrony in this genus, taking into account the potential links with indirect parental care and social organization, specifically the advantages that birthing asynchrony may offer to offspring in a highly competitive social environment. 
10.2307/2390194|1. Data on leaf structure, physiology and life span from studies in contrasting plant life forms and biomes - alpine and lowland herbs in Austria, lowland temperate trees in Japan and lowland tropical trees in Venezuela - have led researchers to different conclusions about the relationships between leaf life span and other leaf traits. Results of the alpine/lowland study with herbs questioned the validity of a general theory of leaf life span, whereas results of the tropical forest study supported the theory and the temperate forest study fell in between. 2. In this paper I evaluate whether these different results reflect innate differences among plant life forms, biomes and/or communities in this respect, or whether these apparent discrepancies can be reconciled with one explanation. 3. When the data from all three studies were combined, leaf life span was well correlated (P < 0.001) with maximum mass and area-based net photosynthetic rate (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.86 and 0.70, respectively), specific leaf area (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.69) and leaf nitrogen concentration (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.74), and the relationships were predicted well by equations previously generated in an independent study. Data for alpine and lowland herbs generally fit along the regression lines as well as data from either the temperate or tropical trees. 4. These data thus show that within plant communities where most species have relatively similar leaf traits, minimal or weak relationships among leaf traits may occur, yet without departing from broad general relationships. These results support the idea of a relatively fixed interdependence among leaf life span, specific leaf area, net photosynthetic rate and leaf nitrogen concentration across broad gradients of species, plant life forms and environments.
3599283| 1. A combination field and laboratory study tested the hypothesis that a herbivorous lizard, Cnemidophorus murinus, extends activity at high body temperatures to digest plant material. 2. Body temperatures (T
40863585|1. Maternal and environmental factors influence embryo development and offspring phenotypes in ways that are likely to impact fitness. Most studies that address this issue, however, fail to mimic the complexities of natural environmental parameters and only quantify selection during a single season. 2. In this study, we examined year-to-year variation in how maternal factors (egg mass, nesting phenology and nest-site choice) and external abiotic factors (temperature and precipitation) impact egg survival and hatchling morphology in the painted turtle (Chrysemys piet) over seven nesting seasons in the field. In addition, we quantify annual variation in the strength and form of selection operating on maternal factors. 3. Overall, our results demonstrated very low, if any, consistency in how maternal and environmental factors impact egg survival and hatchling size in the field. That is, different variables had different effects in different years. Accordingly, the strength and form of natural selection operating on egg size, nesting phenology and nest-site choice were inconsistent across years, suggesting low potential for substantive or directional evolutionary shifts in these maternal effects. 4. These results may partially explain why traits like egg size and nest-site choice exhibit variation (i.e. are not perfectly optimized), and highlight the importance of multiyear field studies in gaining a more complete picture of the factors driving variation in critical early life-history events and demographic parameters.
3599209|1. Synchronous dichogamy, the simultaneous change in sex phases of all flowers in an inflorescence or entire plant, has been proposed to reduce self-pollination between flowers within a plant (geitonogamy) and so should leave more pollen for export and/or reduce inbreeding. We tested these hypotheses with Alstroemeria aurea Graham, a self-compatible, clonal herb with synchronous protandrous inflorescences. 2. We manipulated A. aurea inflorescences to compare pollen export, pollen receipt and pollen-tube attrition in synchronous and asynchronous inflorescences. We constructed asynchronous inflorescences by tying together female- and male-phase ramets which were collected within 1 m of each other and so had a high probability of being genetically related. 3. Inflorescences with both male- and female-phase flowers received 27% more pollen than synchronous inflorescences, which was associated with higher pollen-tube attrition. The selfing suggested by these results would reduce genetic contributions to the next generation as a result of the strong inbreeding depression found in this species. 4. In contrast, we found no evidence that asynchronous inflorescences exported less pollen to companion female-phase inflorescences than did synchronous inflorescences. 5. Our results suggest that synchronous dichogamy evolves primarily as an anti-selfing mechanism, rather than to promote outcross siring success.
3806530|1. Nitrogen uptake in the terricolous bryophyte Hylocomium splendens (Hedw.) B.S.G. was studied in a boreal forest long-term N-treatment experiment including control plots, N-addition plots (50 kg N ha
2656505|1. Numerous studies of iteroparous breeders have demonstrated an increase in average breeding performance with parental age. 2. One of the most widely suggested mechanisms to explain this pattern is that the foraging performance of young breeders is relatively poor. Where this is coupled to differences in the costs of rearing male and female offspring, for example because of sexual size dimorphism, young breeders may have difficulties rearing the more expensive sex. 3. This was investigated in the Shag, a monogamous seabird in which adult males are on average 20% heavier than adult females. Young pairs breed later in the season than older pairs, and lay smaller eggs. Differences in timing of breeding and egg quality were controlled for in a cross-fostering experiment in which older and young individuals reared chicks simultaneously from eggs of similar quality. 4. Male chicks reared by young parents grew more slowly and attained a lower peak mass than those reared by older parents, whereas there was no equivalent difference for female chicks. 5. These results suggest that sons are energetically more demanding on their parents than daughters, and the more expensive sex fledges in significantly poorer condition when the parents are young. Therefore, it is predicted that optimal offspring sex ratio will vary with parental age.
826655| 1. This paper describes the germination mechanism of hard seeds of a species of honey locust, Gleditsia japonica, which can germinate only when externally damaged, in relation to four germinating factors: feeding damage by two specialist seed predators, a bean weevil (Bruchidius dorsalis) and a cydid bug (Adrisa magna); feeding damage by a generalist seed predator, a wild mouse (Apodemus speciosus); and physical damage. 2. In laboratory experiments, both the bean weevil and physical damage facilitated germination, while damage by the cydid bug and wild mouse did not. 3. In contrast to laboratory findings, field censuses of G. japonica seed survival revealed that more than 99% were damaged either by B. dorsalis or A. magna. Therefore, less than 05% of the seeds remained intact, preventing formation of a seed bank. 4. In addition, all germinating seeds found in the field contained B. dorsalis larvae. 5. These results strongly suggest that damage by B. dorsalis is a prerequisite for G. japonica germination, in contrast to the conventional view that physical disturbance, possibly flooding, is the primary germinating factor for hard seeds. 
2390359|1. Patterns of stem growth of a mid-successional evergreen Oak species (Quercus glauca) in a mixed hardwood forest were examined to explore the trade-off relationship between stem-diameter growth and height growth. 2. The mean cross-sectional area (and the corresponding mean diameter) of a stem at a point in time was defined as the stem volume divided by tree height. Based on this definition, a simple equation representing the trade-off relationship between the height growth and mean diameter growth was formulated. 3. In the long term, allocation to height growth was encouraged at the seedling stage and it gradually declined with time, with the decline in the suppressed seedlings being more pronounced than in the dominant trees. 4. However, both the suppressed and the dominant trees showed acceleration of height growth at various ages. Such a fluctuation in the allocation of biomass to height growth is likely to have been caused by chronological changes in light conditions, and meandered the trajectory of allometry between the height and mean diameter. 5. The observed stem growth patterns of the individual trees could explain the chronological changes in the diameter-height relationship of the population.
40407723|1. Structural coloration is common among animals that produce sexual displays involving motion or ultraviolet reflection. Different sources of colour may provide multicomponent signals that indicate the location, sex, and fitness of a potential mate or rival. We investigated the proximate basis and ultimate function of the wing coloration of the territorial damselfly Megaloprepus caerulatus, which produces a dynamic, high contrast display during flight. The wings of both sexes have blue and white bands, but the location of the white patches are sex specific. 2. Wax filaments produce diffuse, white areas through broadband scattering of wavelengths between 300 and 700 nm. Blue bands reflect wavelengths between 300 and 500 nm ( $\lambda _{\max }$ = 398 nm) and shift in hue with viewing angle, the result of thin layer interference produced by layers of cuticle and pigment within the wing membrane. Both wing bands strongly reflect UV wavelengths. 3. Both the iridescent UV-blue and white wing patches provide high contrast against the vegetation in forest light gaps where mating occurs. Moreover, the iridescent signal oscillates during flight. Angle-dependent UV-blue iridescence is periodically extinguished during each wing beat cycle, in contrast to the white areas, which remain bright. 4. Males distinguish potential mates from rivals by the presence of a female's white wing tip. Blackening the white wing bands of males and adding white wing tips to resemble a female elicits a sexual rather than aggressive response from males. Conversely, blackening the white wing tips of females reduces sexual responses. 5. The proportional area of the white wing bands of males is indicative of wing symmetry, correlated with body size, and in turn, territory residency suggesting that it may serve as a signal of male condition during intra- and intersexual interactions. 6. We propose that the flashing iridescent UV-blue wing bands provide a beacon to potential mates across forest light gaps, whereas the white patches serve in mate recognition and may indicate male quality or territorial status. Our study identifies a unique combination of interference and broadband reflectors that provide a dynamic multicomponent signal.
3599033| 1. Neonatal Painted Turtles, Chrysemys picta (Schneider 1783), typically spend the first winter of their life inside the shallow, subterranean nest where they completed incubation the preceding summer. This behaviour commonly causes hatchlings in northerly populations to be exposed in mid-winter to life-threatening conditions of ice and cold. Neonates apparently withstand such exposure by remaining unfrozen and becoming supercooled. 2. Recently hatched turtles are unable to resist freezing by inoculation (i.e. freezing that is induced by the penetration of ice crystals through the integument and into body compartments from frozen soil). Consequently, newly hatched animals that make contact with ice are highly susceptible to freezing when temperature goes below the equilibrium freezing point for their body fluids (c. -07 C). Freezing is fatal, even when temperature does not go below -2 C, so newly hatched turtles have only a very limited tolerance for exposure to ice and cold. 3. Acclimation (or acclimatization) by neonatal turtles to low temperatures in the interval between hatching and the start of winter elicits an increase in effectiveness of the cutaneous barrier to the penetration of ice into body compartments from the environment. Acclimated hatchlings coming into contact with ice in frozen soil usually remain unfrozen and supercooled, and survival by supercooled turtles is uniformly high. This thermally induced enhancement of the cutaneous barrier to inoculation is key to an overwintering strategy based on supercooling. 
10.2307/2390233|1. We evaluated the ability of the perennial bunchgrass Bouteloua gracilis to exploit resources in central and outer portions of root systems. Morphological constraints were hypothesized to explain scales of strong neighbour interaction and gap dynamics observed in shortgrass steppe. 2. Water or water plus nitrogen were supplied at horizontal distances greater or less than 10 cm from tillers in containers. 3. Growth was significantly less when water was supplied only to the outer root system than when water was supplied only to the central root system. Reduced growth was associated with asymmetrical distribution of roots relative to direction of tiller growth. N addition did not affect plant growth. 4. Although adventitious roots were mostly <10 cm from crowns, root length density and water use were similar in central portions of root systems and at distances >10 cm from leading ends of tillers, which corresponded to distances >10 cm from intact plants. 5. Given typical plant spacings in shortgrass steppe (<15 cm), established B. gracilis individuals are likely to compete strongly and pre-empt resources in most openings. 6. Results suggest that enhanced resource availability and colonization in small gaps (50 cm) in shortgrass communities do not reflect strong morphological constraints on the outer root system of B. gracilis plants.
10.2307/2390190|1. The effect of tannin on herbivores varies depending on the tannin type and level fed, and on the consumer. We measured some nutritional effects of quebracho, a condensed tannin, on two marsupial foregut fermenters, a grazer and a browser. 2. At 6% dietary quebracho, effects on dry matter digestibility, digestible dry matter intake, digestible energy and protein digestibility varied. The effects were greatest in the grazer (Macropus parma) and least in the browser (Thylogale billardierii). These results support the hypothesis that feeding niche correlates with impact of tannin on consumers. 3. A low level of quebracho (3%) did not affect protein digestibility in T. billardierii (M. parma not tested). 4. Faecal tannin recovery was higher in M. parma than in T. billardierii. 5. We could not detect other costs of absorbed quebracho in terms of the conversion of digestible to metabolizable energy, or by excretion of glucuronic acid conjugates.
3806623|1. Prey species that defend themselves with toxins operate under constraints that affect both the benefits and costs associated with this trait. To date, there has been only limited work on understanding these benefits and costs. 2. We present a mathematical model that accounts for costs incurred by toxic animals throughout their life cycle, using known parameters from the ecological literature. These costs are traded against the benefit of a reduced predation risk. Factors involved in modifying this risk are discussed, particularly the relationship to population density. 3. Explicit, quantitative predictions of the model include: an increase in the optimal level of toxicity as predation pressure increases; a decrease in the optimal level of toxicity as cost increases; and an increase in optimal toxicity as the length of juvenile life stages increases. 4. We show that toxicity will not be favourable under a combination of high cost and high predation, and cite examples to support this case.
10.2307/2389376|1 The variation in the physiognomy of the mangroves Avicennia germinans L., Rhizophora mangle L. and Laguncularia racemosa (L.) Gaertn., as related to salinity in two different geomorphic habitats (mudflats and interdistributary basins) was investigated. 2 Due to the high intercorrelation between variables, principal component analysis was used to examine data on (a) water salinity on two sampling dates and in two geoforms and (b) diameter at breast height, height and per cent cover of each of the three species. The first component of each of these four data sets summarized 77, 64, 90 and 93% of the total variance in the intervening variables. 3 The projections of the intervening variables on their respective principal component was calculated, and response curves of species against environmental component scores were fitted by generalized linear models. The resulting curves were bell-shaped, except for A. germinans. 4 The highest diversity and the maximum height and diameter for the three species is at low salinities and in interdistributary basins but the cover of A. germinans is higher in the mudflat and under high salinities. The range of response to environmental change is wider in A. germinans. 5 There was a negative association between the cover of A. germinans and that of the other two species, and the slope of the regression line suggests a substitution of one unit of cover of A. germinans by one unit of cover of any of the other two species in the interdistributary basins as salinity decreases. 6 The results suggest that while abiotic environmental conditions may account for the absence of L. racemosa and R. mangle in the mudflats, biological interactions are more important in the formation of the mixed forests in the interdistributary basins.
2390343|1. The relative growth rate of saplings of 12 species from an oligotrophic lowland rain forest were measured in treefall gaps and understorey. Mean relative height growth (R<sub>H</sub>) within treefall gaps was found to be slowest for tall-tree species with branched saplings, intermediate for subcanopy trees and fastest for tall-tree species with unbranched saplings. Most species had similar R<sub>H</sub> within the understorey. R<sub>H</sub> values were not related to leaf mass per unit area (LMA) or foliar N concentrations. 2. Allometric relationships between the total leaf area (TLA) and height were dependent upon light conditions; in general saplings of a given height had a greater TLA in treefall gaps than in understorey. The species with the largest estimated TLA values in gaps tended to have the greatest R<sub>H</sub> values in gaps; no such trend emerged in the understorey. The values of the allometric coefficients were not related to foliar properties. 3. The relationship between stem diameter and height was only weakly dependent on light conditions and the relationship between the growth rates in these dimensions was also weak. The lack of plasticity may reflect the fact that the height-diameter relationship has little bearing on a sapling's tolerance of shade. 4. One way of accommodating the dependence of allometry upon irradiance is to add R<sub>H</sub> as a covariate. We derive a relationship between growth rates from this resource-dependent allometric equation and show that it reasonably describes measurements taken in the caatinga forest.
40863572|1. Organisms with low mobility, living within ephemeral environments, need to find vehicles that can disperse them reliably to new environments. The requirement for specificity in this passenger-vehicle relationship is enhanced within a tritrophic interaction when the environment of passenger and vehicle is provided by a third organism. Such relationships pose many interesting questions about specificity within a tritrophic framework. 2. Central to understanding how these tritrophic systems have evolved, is knowing how they function now. Determining the proximal cues and sensory modalities used by passengers to find vehicles and to discriminate between reliable and non-reliable vehicles is, therefore, essential to this investigation. 3. The ancient, co-evolved and highly species-specific nursery pollination mutualism between figs and fig wasps is host to species-specific plant-parasitic nematodes which use fig wasps to travel between figs. Since individual globular fig inflorescences, i. e. syconia, serve as incubators for hundreds of developing pollinating and parasitic wasps, a dispersal-stage nematode within such a chemically complex and physically crowded environment is faced with the dilemma of choosing the right vehicle for dispersal into a new fig. Such a system therefore affords excellent opportunities to investigate mechanisms that contribute to the evolution of specificity between the passenger and the vehicle. 4. In this study of fig-wasp-nematode tritrophic interactions in Ficus racemosa within which seven wasp species can breed, we demonstrate using two-choice as well as cafeteria assays that plantparasitic nematodes (Schistonchus racemosa) do not hitch rides randomly on available eclosing wasps within the fig syconium, but are specifically attracted, at close range, i. e. 3 mm distance, to only that vehicle which can quickly, within a few hours, reliably transfer it to another fig. This vehicle is the female pollinating wasp. Male wasps and female parasitic wasps are inappropriate vehicles since the former are wingless and die within the fig, while the latter never enter another fig. Nematodes distinguished between female pollinating wasps and other female parasitic wasps using volatiles and cuticular hydrocarbons. Nematodes could not distinguish between cuticular hydrocarbons of male and female pollinators but used other cues, such as volatiles, at close range, to find female pollinating wasps with which they have probably had a long history of chemical adaptation. 5. This study opens up new questions and hypotheses about the evolution and maintenance of specificity in fig-wasp-nematode tritrophic interactions.
10.2307/2389595|The factors determining residual pesticide toxicity to insects were investigated using the stochastic model of Salt & Ford (1984). This model simulates the encounter and transfer of insecticide from treated plant surfaces to lepidopteran larvae and predicts the proportion of insects responding. Sensitivity analysis indicated that the walking velocity of an insect, the proportion of pesticide transferred per encounter and its area of contact with the leaf surface have an important influence on mortality following residual exposure. Simple formulae based upon these variables have been used to predict dosage uptake and mortality following residual exposure. These formulae were tested against data sets describing the response of larvae of Spodoptera littoralis Boisd exposed to cypermethrin and deltamethrin ECs and adults of Coccinella septempunctata L. exposed to dimethoate EC. The prediction of residual uptake underestimated the observed transfer, but only at high concentrations of active ingredient. Concentration-dependent behavioural responses were implicated in the shortfall. A simple hazard index based on contact area, track width, walking speed and tolerance to pesticide correctly predicted the ranking of susceptibility of three coleopteran species to residual deposits of insecticide.
3599036|1. We examined the relative importance of resource composition (carbon: phosphorus molar ratios which varied between 9 and 933) and growth rate
10.2307/2389917|1. The physiological basis of life-history trade-offs is poorly understood. A useful system in which the underlying physiological mechanisms can be studied is wing polymorphism in insects. 2. The sand cricket, Gryllus firmus (Orthoptera, Gryllidae), exists in natural populations as either a fully-winged (LW), flight-capable morph or as a short-winged (SW) morph that cannot fly. 3. We characterized the morphs with respect to physiological features that influence a potential trade-off between flight capability and fecundity. We measured nutritional indices, flight muscle development and ovarian development in the LW and SW morphs. 4. In adults, ovarian growth occurred after the completion of flight muscle growth which precludes a direct trade-off of resources devoted to the growth of these two organs. 5. In feeding trials with adult female crickets, the efficiency with which assimilated nutrients were converted to new tissue growth was significantly lower in LW vs SW morphs. This result is consistent with the existence of a metabolic cost resulting from the maintenance of the large flight muscles in the LW morph, which are not present in the SW morph. 6. Despite this reduced efficiency, total biomass gain, ovarian growth and the number of eggs oviposited did not differ between morphs. This was the result of increased food acquisition by LW vs SW females in these trials, in which crickets were fed a nutritious diet ad libitum. 7. The LW morph of G. firmus can counter the energetic demands of flight capability by consuming additional food and thus can avoid a cost in terms of reduced fecundity and so obviate the trade-off. 8. Trade-offs may be generally obviated when neither environmental supply nor the organismal processes of digestion and absorption limit resource availability.
826745|1. Sex allocation theory predicts that when resources are limited in simultaneous hermaphrodites, the allocation to one sexual function will automatically reduce the resources available to the other function. This study examines the effect of nutritional stress on mating behaviour and male and female reproductive output (dry mass and nitrogen contents of spermatophores, sperm delivered and eggs deposited) in individuals of the simultaneously hermaphroditic land snail Arianta arbustorum kept under three different food regimes: ample (100%), restricted (50%) and extremely restricted (25%) food supply. 2. Independent of the extent of nutritional stress, 10-12% of the resources taken up were invested in reproductive output (both gender functions together) and 88-90% in maintenance (including faeces and excretion). 3. Courtship and copulation behaviour was affected by nutritional stress. Snails with an extremely restricted food supply did not mate, except one pair. Individuals with restricted food supply tended to court longer, and copulated for a shorter period, than individuals with ample food supply. 4. Nutritional stress did not affect the number of sperm delivered. However, snails with a restricted food supply produced fewer eggs. Thus, snails kept under nutritional stress invested relatively more resources in the male function than in the female function. Nevertheless, the absolute reproductive output remained highly female biased (>95% in all experimental groups). 5. At the individual level, the existence of a trade-off between resources invested in the male vs the female function could not be confirmed. However, there was a trade-off between nitrogen allocated to reproductive function and maintenance in snails with a restricted food supply.
10.2307/2390254|1. Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar) cease feeding before entering their home river to undertake upriver migration and spawning. Here we examine whether the onset of this anorexia is related to body condition and/or gonad development. 2. The food intake and growth rate of 100 individually marked one-sea-winter fish (stocked in an outdoor tank) were monitored regularly over 11 weeks during summer. The relative size of body lipid reserves, lean mass and gonad size were estimated in all maturing females in midsummer and at the end of the experiment. 3. The date on which individual fish stopped feeding varied greatly; after ceasing to feed all lost weight at a consistent rate of 0.1% per day. 4. The onset of anorexia was significantly correlated with estimates of fat reserves, lean mass and gonad size. However multivariate analysis showed that lean mass was most important. Female salmon thus appear to continue feeding until their lean mass has reached threshold levels. The evolutionary implications of these findings are discussed with respect to inter-population variation in the length and relative difficulty of upriver migration.
20142767|1. Phenotypic plasticity has long been suggested to facilitate biological invasions where a general purpose genotype or 'Jack-of-all-trades' strategy could facilitate invasion should native species be, on average, more specialized. Current understanding of the importance of phenotypic plasticity is limited by methodological difficulties yet glasshouse experiments, paralleling those used in evolutionary biology, are increasingly being used to assess whether invasive species have high phenotypic plasticity or not. Unfortunately, these studies have several major limitations. 2. In general, glasshouse experiments have quantified relatively labile means of expressing phenotypes, such as plant biomass, rather than changes in plant development. As some environments favour plant growth and reproduction more than others, simply quantifying allometric or physiological responses relating to differential plant growth may not reveal much about phenotypic plasticity. 3. Plasticity is often a comparative rather than an absolute measure. A range of comparators have been used, for example, unrelated natives, congeneric natives, other congeneric aliens or conspecifics from the source region. Thus, unlike many life-history traits used in analyses of invasion, phenotypic plasticity is strongly context-dependent and limits comparison across different studies. 4. Phenotypic plasticity is assumed to lead to a greater breadth of environmental conditions across which a species can maintain positive population growth and increase the likelihood of invasiveness. Yet, most studies examine only a partial subset of the full environmental range experienced by the species. If the reaction norm of a target species and its comparator vary independently across an environmental gradient, this partial approach can present different interpretations of phenotypic plasticity. 5. Rather than simply quantifying greater phenotypic plasticity in invasive species, research questions should be directed at better understanding its role in the geographic distribution, successful colonization, population persistence and/or high local abundance of invasive species in the introduced range. These issues require integrated measures of plant performance rather than crude differences in individual traits across an environmental gradient. As yet, there is only limited appreciation of the role of phenotypic plasticity in any one of these areas and there is a need to extend studies beyond glasshouse experiments.
20142772|1. The shade-tolerant conifer Abies alba Mill. (European silver fir) is a favoured browse species of several large herbivores. We performed an experiment to investigate how sun or shade conditions influence the recovery of A. alba saplings following simulated browsing. The browsing treatment involved clipping the leader and/or lateral shoots. For two growing seasons after applying the treatment, we recorded various measures of plant growth including bud development and the origin of new leaders. We then harvested the trees to determine patterns of above-ground biomass allocation. In the discussion, we consider the physiological basis for the observed responses to damage and evaluate the hypothesis that they represent an evolved defensive strategy against herbivory. 2. After 2 years, most saplings in the sun had compensated for lost height due to leader clipping, whereas saplings in the shade lagged 1 year behind. The degree of height recovery was influenced less by the length of the new leader than by its mode of origin; thus, there was overcompensation if the new leader developed from a side-shoot turning upwards ('flagging'), while there was under-compensation if it was produced from an interwhorl or a secondary whorl bud. Leader origin, in turn, proved to be light-dependent, with flagging occurring twice as often in sun as in shade. Some trees, mostly in the shade, produced no leader in the first year but several leaders from secondary whorl buds in the second year (i.e. multiple stemming). Clipping of the leader also induced local bud development and led to greater allocation of resources to new leaders than in unclipped trees. Clipping of lateral shoots had no effect on either height increment or growth of lateral branches. 3. We conclude that, by influencing how the new leader is produced, light availability also affects the degree to which A. alba can compensate for loss in height from browsing. A possible interpretation of the overcompensation under high-light is as a defensive reaction to escape future browsing. However, an alternative explanation is that overcompensation and other morphological reactions, for example, multiple leaders, are merely contrasting physiological responses to release from apical dominance under different environmental conditions.
3599306|1. Birds respond to unpredictable events in the environment by releasing corticosterone, which triggers alternate responses to overcome stressful situations. However, it has been questioned whether altricial nestlings perceive and respond to ecological stressors. Although some studies show adrenal responsiveness in non-precocial species, others report a hyporesponsive period postulated to avoid deleterious effects of corticosterone. 2. To test whether the environmental surroundings of nestlings modulate their stress levels we used a multi-tier comparative approach of plasma corticosterone: (1) within an individual, (2) among nestlings within a brood hierarchy, (3) among broods within a colony and (4) among individuals from different colonies. 3. Nestlings reacted to our protocol by elevating their corticosterone. Baseline levels differed between colonies, and were higher in singleton nestlings compared with two-and three-chick broods, but there were no differences related to within-brood hierarchies, age or condition index. 4. Acute levels were higher in older birds, suggesting a developmental change in adrenal responsiveness. Body condition also explained acute levels but only in singleton nestlings, with higher concentrations in heavier birds. 5. Overall our results indicate that altricial nestlings do respond to a variety of environmental stressors, and variation in aspects of environmental quality (e.g. food supply, parental care) may be associated with the differences in stress.
3599109| 1. Interspecific variation in leaf life span of woody plants should have important consequences for ontogenetic variation in biomass distribution, and hence carbon balance, in low light. This proposal was examined by measuring foliage turnover, growth, biomass allocation and biomass distribution of juveniles (25-1180 micrometers tall) of four evergreens differing in shade tolerance, growing in low light (2-5% canopy openness) in temperate rainforest understoreys in south-central Chile. 2. As predicted, ontogenetic trends in leaf area ratio (LAR) of two very shade-tolerant species with long-lived leaves (Aextoxicon punctatum and Myrceugenia planipes) contrasted strongly with those of mid-tolerant Eucryphia cordifolia and intolerant Aristotelia chilensis. Low-light LAR fell rapidly with increasing plant size in Eucryphia and Aristotelia, but was size-invariant in the two shade-tolerant taxa. As a result, although small seedlings of Eucryphia and Aristotelia displayed more leaf area than shade-tolerant seedlings of similar size (largely because of differences in specific leaf area), this relationship was reversed for plants over 500 micrometers tall. 3. Although the slower foliage turnover of the shade-tolerant species at least partly explains this reversal, allocational differences may also be involved. Root mass fraction of both shade-tolerant species was significantly negatively correlated with size, possibly reflecting declining allocation to roots in larger plants. In contrast, root mass fraction was not correlated with size in Eucryphia or Aristotelia. 4. Above-ground relative growth rate in low light followed similar ontogenetic trends to LAR, declining more quickly in light-demanding species than in shade-tolerant associates. As a result, large seedlings (>400 mm tall) of shade-tolerant Myrceugenia and Aextoxicon grew more quickly than their light-demanding associates at the same height. The steeply declining LAR and growth of Eucryphia and Aristotelia suggest that these taxa will eventually die of energy starvation in low light. 5. Results are consistent with the idea that accumulation of an extensive leaf area eventually gives juvenile shade-tolerant evergreens a net carbon gain advantage over their light-demanding associates in low light. Awareness of long-term ontogenetic trends will enhance understanding of relationships of shade-tolerance variation with morphology and growth of woody evergreens. 
2656338|1. In the laboratory, a microcosm experiment was set up to study (1) the interaction between two collembolan species Onychiurus furcifer (Borner) and Heteromurus nitidus (Templeton) during 24 weeks of incubation; (2) the influence of slug (Arion rufus L.) cast material on the outcome of this interaction; and (3) the influence of collembolan activity on microbial biomass, respiration and nutrient mobilization. 2. The CO<sub>2</sub> production was monitored every other week and NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>, NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> and PO<sub>4</sub><sup>3-</sup> contents of leachates were determined every 4 weeks. After 12 and 24 weeks of incubation, the number of collembolans, basal respiration (O<sub>2</sub> consumption), microbial biomass (substrate-induced respiration method), specific respiration (qO<sub>2</sub>) and the content of NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>, NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> and PO<sub>4</sub><sup>3-</sup> in soil were determined. 3. Generally, the number of collembolans in microcosms with cast material exceeded that of microcosms without cast material considerably on average by factors of 20 and 26 for O. furcifer and H. nitidus, respectively. This increase was attributed to the additional food supply provided with the cast material. Numbers of collembolans declined during the experiment. 4. At both sampling dates, the presence of H. nitidus led to a reduction in the number of O. furcifer, whereas H. nitidus benefited from the presence of O. furcifer. Either trophic or non-trophic mechanisms, or both, may have caused this interaction (contramensalism, sensu Arthur & Mitchell 1989). 5. Both collembola species caused a decrease in microbial respiration, decomposition rates and tentatively also microbial biomass at high densities, whereas at low densities microbial respiration was stimulated while decomposition rates and microbial biomass remained unaffected. These effects were more pronounced for O. furcifer than for H. nitidus. 6. In treatments with cast material N-mobilization was increased by collembolan activity.
40205501|1. Many mammalian herbivores continually face the possibility of being poisoned by the natural toxins in the plants they consume. A recent key discovery in this area is that mammalian herbivores are capable of regulating the dose of plant secondary compounds (PSCs) ingested. 2. The 'regulation model' describes the factors driving ingestion of PSCs by mammals and can be dissected into two separate hypotheses related to meal size and inter-meal interval (IMI). Testing these hypotheses independently yields a more thorough understanding of the underlying and potentially interconnected mechanisms. 3. Three mechanisms could influence the size of meals that contain PSCs. These are the plasma concentration of PSCs, conditioned learning, and activation of bitter receptors in the intestine. 4. Two mechanisms are proposed to govern the IMI. The first predicts that IMI is dependent on the concentration of PSC metabolites in the plasma; feeding will not resume until metabolite concentrations are acceptable for further ingestion of PSCs. The second hypothesis proposes that the intestinal bitter receptors modulate IMI through release of satiety compounds.
10.2307/2389827|1. Although carotenoid pigments cause much of the red, orange, yellow and violet coloration in feathers, the processes by which carotenoids are transported from the diet to those feathers are poorly understood. 2. Male house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) display substantial variation in expression of carotenoid-based plumage coloration, an ornamental trait known to influence female choice. 3. To test the hypothesis that variation in carotenoid pigmentation of feathers is caused by processes that occur before the uptake of carotenoids by follicle cells during moult, we compared the hues of blood plasma and growing feathers in three populations (two in California and one in Mexico) of house finches that differed in median male plumage brightness. 4. In all three populations, there was a significant positive correlation between the hues of plasma and plumage in males, but there were no significant correlations between the hues of plasma and plumage in females. 5. In all three populations, the plasma hue of adult males was significantly brighter red than that of adult females; the plasma hue of males from the two brightly plumaged populations was also significantly brighter red than that of males from the drabber population. 6. These results suggest that sex-specific differences in the expression of carotenoid pigmentation and intraspecific variation in the expression of male plumage coloration is the result of processes that occur before carotenoid uptake by follicle cells during feather growth (e.g. due to the influence of foraging behaviour, gut parasites or food quality).
10.2307/2389711|The feeding selectivity and reproductive rates of a Mayorella sp., an amoeba isolated from a salt marsh in Morecambe Bay, Lancashire, UK and fed on the cyanobacteria Anabaena cylindrica Hemmerman, Anabaena sp., Nostoc sp. and Calothrix sp. and the green alga Chlorella, were investigated at 26<sup></sup>C. Different rates of plaque extension and, in the case of cyanobacteria, reduced nitrogen fixation (acetylene reduction), occurred with different food species. Calothrix was not observed inside food vacuoles; its morphology prevented it from being ingested. When Calothrix was fragmented by an ultrasonic disintegrator, Mayorella was observed ingesting the fragments which were retained and digested in the food vacuoles. As expected, amoeba reproductive rates varied in relation to diet, with generation times ranging between 41.6h and 100h, but the rates of reproduction did not relate to the rates of plaque extension or acetylene reduction on any given diet, thus suggesting varying degrees of digestive efficiency on different algal and blue-green diets. The ecological implications of feeding selectivity are discussed.
3599102| 1. Manipulative experiments are often used to identify causal linkages between biodiversity and productivity in terrestrial and aquatic habitats. 2. Most studies have identified an effect of biodiversity, but their interpretation has stimulated considerable debate. The main difficulties lie in separating the effect of species richness from those due to changes in identity and relative density of species. 3. Various experimental designs have been adopted to circumvent problems in the analysis of biodiversity. Here I show that these designs may not be able to maintain the probability of type I errors at the nominal level ( = 005) under a true null hypothesis of no effect of species richness, in the presence of effects of density and identity of species. 4. Alternative designs have been proposed to discriminate unambiguously the effects of identity and density of species from those due to number of species. Simulations show that the proposed experiments may have increased capacity to control for type I errors when effects of density and identity of species are also present. These designs have enough flexibility to be useful in the experimental analysis of biodiversity in various assemblages and under a wide range of environmental conditions. 
10.2307/2389940|1. The relationship between daily energy expenditure (DEE), measured using the doubly labelled water technique, and flight activity, rate of food delivery, daily mass change and body condition was studied in a population of the Eurasian Kestrel in Finland. Only female Kestrels were recorded for flight activity. 2. In female Kestrels, the time that the bird was in sight was negatively associated with DEE, while ambient temperature, flying activity, daily mass change and body condition were not related to DEE. When body mass and temperature were controlled for, there were still no associations between residual DEE and variables of flight activity, rate of food delivery, daily mass change, or body condition. 3. In male Kestrels, there was a tendency for DEE to be associated with condition at the initial capture, but this relationship disappeared when body mass and ambient temperature were controlled for in the analysis. Daily mass change and rate of delivery were not associated with DEE or residual DEE in male Kestrels. 4. Energy expenditure in both male and female Kestrels increased faster than expected with body mass, suggesting that heavy individuals were more active than light ones, that expenditure increased faster than expected with body condition, or that the relative costs of flight increased with body mass.
41319584|1. Comparative evidence from several animal taxa suggests that juveniles hatching from larger eggs have fitness benefits when growing up in a harsh environment, whereas under benign conditions egg size should be of less importance. However, the physiological and behavioural mechanisms responsible for these context-dependent fitness differences are as yet poorly understood. 2. We studied the interactions between the phenotype of developing offspring and their environment in the mouthbrooding cichlid Simochromis pleurospilus. We hand-raised young from large and small eggs, and measured their initial body size and burst swimming speed. Thereafter we raised half of each egg-size class on high and half on low food ration and followed their growth trajectories and behavioural development until the age of 12 weeks. 3. We found that larger eggs gave rise to larger young that had a higher burst swimming speed. Food ration greatly influenced long-term growth, while egg size predominantly affected fish size during the first 2 weeks of life. However, large egg size caused a size advantage of juveniles persisting throughout the experimental period. 4. Egg size and food ration interactively affected the hiding and foraging behaviour of young. In the low-food treatment, individuals from small eggs spent less time in shelter and showed a higher commitment to foraging than individuals from large eggs. In a natural setting, this should markedly increase prdation risk of young originating from small eggs, particularly in poor environments. In contrast, when food was plentiful juveniles behaved similarly, irrespective of egg size. 5. Our results show that egg size affects juvenile growth trajectories and behaviour differently in different environments. While it is well-established that a large egg size raises offspring fitness particularly in harsh environments, our study suggests that this advantage arises through riskaverse behaviour being tightly linked to offspring size.
4139334|1. Leaf-cutting ants (LCA) are highly polyphagous but at the same time highly selective dominant herbivores of neotropical rainforests. While a whole range of leaf properties has been identified to influence interspecific host choice, the mechanisms underlying intraspecific and intra-individual herbivory patterns remain obscure. Here, we evaluate the plant-stress hypothesis by analysing whether and how drought stress of food plants positively affects LCA food plant selection. 2. In bioassays with whole plants of Piper marginatum, Atta colombica workers harvested more than twice the leaf area of stressed than of vigorous control plants. Within individual plants, the attractiveness of a given leaf increased with its stress level. 3. Drought stress induced an accumulation of proline and non-structural carbohydrates in the plant tissue by a factor of
10.2307/2390144|1. The effect of size-related functional and energetic constraints (respiration, production of mucus, ingestion rate) on the foraging behaviour of a population of the limpet Patella vulgata L., inhabiting a sheltered shore at Menai Bridge (Anglesey, UK), was examined. 2. The minimum acceptable energy content per unit area (u
10.2307/2389304|Alternatives to changing from reproductive to vegetative growth during periods of resource limitation are possible in annual plants and are dependent on the metameric construction of plants and the abortion of either flowers, fruits or seeds. Two categories for annuals that allow them to cope with temporary resource limitations are proposed: (1) reproductive shutdown - where meristems allocated to reproductive growth stop differentiating additional structures; and (2) reproductive-vegetative switch - where metamer production continues but vegetative metamers are produced when resources are limited. Under reproductive-vegetative switch two subdivisions are recognized: (a) structural switch; and (b) functional switch. A series of control experiments using Capsella bursa-pastoris (L.) Medic. and Thlaspi arvense L. were conducted to demonstrate several of these alternatives using temporary resource limitations of either carbon or water. Temporary limitation of water resulted in a functional reproductive-vegetative switch in Capsella whereas Thlaspi exhibited reproductive shutdown. Leaf removal as a form of carbon limitation for reproduction of Thlaspi resulted in reproductive shutdown if it occurred early in reproduction but resulted in a functional reproductive-vegetative switch if it occurred later in inflorescence development.
10.2307/2389677|Deciduous species (graminoids, forbs and deciduous shrubs) completed accumulation of biomass, nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in new leaves and current-year's twigs by midsummer in arctic Alaska, whereas these processes continued throughout the growing season in the same tissue of evergreen shrubs. N- and P-use-efficiency increased from deciduous species to evergreen shrubs to lichens and mosses. Fertilization with N-plus-P had no effect on N-use-efficiency in deciduous leaves but caused a decline in N-use-efficiency in evergreen leaves, mosses and lichens. P-use-efficiency declined with nutrient addition in leaves of all growth forms. Approximately half of the maximum pools of leaf N and P were withdrawn from leaves prior to autumn senescence, but this resorption was unaffected by nutrient addition treatment or by growth form.
40603056|1. Many animals are adapted for a ' feast or famine' existence, and will opportunistically engage in gluttonous foraging bouts. However, how gluttonous feeding influences individual performance (e. g. running speed) and the fitness consequence of modified performance are not frequently considered. 2. Using laboratory track trials I establish baseline locomotor performances (burst speed) for four spider species: two active foragers (Hogna helluo and Schizocosa ocreata (family: Lycosidae)), and two sit-and-wait foragers {Agelenopsis emertoni and Barronopsis texana (family: Agelenidae)). I then fed each species ad libitum, assessed what influence this meal had on individuals' burst speed relative to baseline performance, and performed a field census to assess selection on running speed for all four species. 3. Sit-and-wait foragers fed significantly more than active foragers and slowed significantly after feeding; however, neither active forager was slowed by their meal. 4. My field census detected no selection on speed for sit-and-wait foragers, and positive directional selection on speed for both active foragers. 5. The negative association between the amount of food consumed and selection on burst speed suggests that selection pressures to maintain locomotor performance may set an upper limit to how much an animal can, or will, eat during a foraging bout.
10.2307/2389420|Net CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation (A) was analysed in situ in 12 pairs of altitudinally separated, herbaceous plant species in the Austrian Alps at 600 and 2600 m. Both groups of species show a similar average response to light, saturating at quantum flux densities (400-700 mm) (QFD) of more than 1200  mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. Temperature optimum of QFD-saturated A differs little (3K) and corresponds to the median of air temperature at leaf level for hours with rate-saturating light conditions and not to mean air temperature which differs by 10K. Species with an exclusive high altitude distribution show steeper initial slopes and higher levels of saturation of the response of A to internal partial pressure of CO<sub>2</sub> (CPI) than low elevation species. Mean A at local ambient partial pressure (CPA) does not differ between sites (c. 18  mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), despite the 21% decrease in atmospheric pressure. Plants at high altitude operate at mean CPI of 177  bar as compared to 250  bar at low altitude. The higher ECU (efficiency of carbon dioxide uptake [linear slope of A/CPI curve]) as well as the steeper CO<sub>2</sub> gradient between mesophyll and ambient air of alpine plants are explained by (1) greater leaf and palisade layer thickness and (2) greater nitrogen (protein) content per unit leaf area. We hypothesize that alpine plants profit more from enhanced CO<sub>2</sub> levels than lowland plants (Fig 7).
2656311|1. The role of physiological complexity in animal foraging ecology was investigated through experiments to determine how animals manage time and energy during patch use under thermoregulatory costs. The Degu Octodon degus (Molina 1782), a diurnal rodent inhabiting the semiarid environments of central Chile, was studied. 2. Previous studies reported that Degus are constrained to specific foraging areas mainly by limits to thermal tolerance and food quality. Predation risk may also be important. Because new evidence shows that physiological processes are important in shaping foraging ecology, it was hypothesized that Degu foraging behaviour is influenced by the risk of hyperthermia as well as by the advantages of gathering food efficiently. 3. Feeding trials were conducted in an experimental arena with food offered in an experimental patch containing sand and placed under a heater. Using video cameras, the overall time budget was measured, including frequency and duration of patch visits, and events of food gathering. Besides ambient temperature (high or low), handling time was manipulated by using husked and unhusked sunflower seeds, and searching time by using two seed distributions. 4. Ambient temperature and husk state as well as ambient temperature and seed distribution interacted in their influence on both handling time and searching efficiency. These results imply that a thermally risky patch affects both parameters associated with patch use and diet selection and that this effect disappears when animals are not risking hyperthermia. 5. Degus decreased the frequency of patch visits under thermoregulatory costs. This behaviour resulted exclusively from the effect of ambient temperature. Data on time use suggest that direct exposure to higher environmental temperatures is avoided through changes in the duration of patch visits. Degus harvested food items in shorter foraging bouts when food was under a stressful thermal patch. 6. In conclusion, a time-minimizing foraging behaviour, in face of Degus' thermoregulatory physiology and related risks, was observed.
3599159|1. Spergularia marina (L.) Grieseb. is a cosmopolitan, autogamous herb that produces winged and unwinged seeds. In Europe, large-seeded populations tend to produce a higher proportion of winged seeds than small-seeded populations. 2. This pattern has prompted speculation that winged seeds evolved because they increase the dispersability of large-seeded genotypes. Alternatively, winged seed production may be an adaptive plastic response to stress, resulting in increased dispersal. A third hypothesis is that wing production is favoured among maternal plants with high fecundity because it reduces postdispersal sibling competition. 3. We present the results of a greenhouse experiment conducted to test these hypotheses using California genotypes of S. marina. Twenty-four maternal families (N = 230 plants) were replicated across three nutrient treatments. Within treatments, large-seeded fruits, individuals and families tended to produce a higher proportion of winged seeds than small-seeded ones. We found no evidence that winged seeds are induced by stress or high fecundity. 4. These results are consistent with evidence that winged seed production in S. marina is positively associated with the evolution of mean seed mass, representing an adaptation that enhances the dispersability of large seeds. The low frequency of winged seeds in the population sampled here suggests that the heteromorphism may not be an important current adaptation in small-seeded populations of S. marina.
826625|1. The effects of global climate change are predicted to be strongest in the Arctic. This, as well as the suitability of tundra as a simple model ecosystem, has led to many field experiments investigating consequences of simulated environmental change. 2. On the basis of 36 experiments reviewed here, minor light attenuation by clouds, small changes in precipitation, and increases in UV-B radiation and atmospheric CO
3599191|1. Atlantic bryophytes are of European conservation importance, yet the effect on them of excess atmospheric nitrogen is relatively unknown. This study assesses the effects of increased atmospheric N deposition on the growth and tissue N of epiphytic Atlantic bryophytes, and their potential to recover following a decline in N deposition. 2. The N received in stemflow by bryophytes at two sites was measured and compared to model predictions. 3. Four species of epiphytic bryophytes (Isothecium myosuroides, Dicranum scoparium, Frullania tamarisci and Ulota crispa), typical of Atlantic Oak woods, were studied in a 12-month reciprocal transplant experiment between a pristine Oak woodland receiving a modelled atmospheric deposition of 12 kg N ha
10.2307/2390252|1. Fish cues are associated with changes in Daphnia behaviour, however, the causes of these responses are generally unknown. 2. Two kinds of experiments were done in order to test whether the predator cue inducing changes in Daphnia galeata mendotae was: in solution and molecular; whether the cue came from fish or from other Daphnia; whether the presence of fish was sufficient to generate the cue; whether a predator had to be eating and digesting prey; if the type of food was important. 3. Results of the two experiments indicated that : the cue was molecular. It was only generated by fish digesting live food, unlike bioassay experiments on Daphnia magna. It did not require that naive Daphnia were pre-conditioned. There was between-clone variation for responses to water conditioned by fish feeding on commercial worms, whereas all the clones tested in these experiments responded strongly to fish feeding on Daphnia. 4. Between-genotype variation for specificity and sensitivity to chemical cues suggests the potential for different Daphnia species in different habitats to evolve disparate responses to the same kind of predator.
10.2307/2390161|1. Carbohydrate (glycogen, fructose and other sugars) and lipid contents of mate-searching males were analysed in the Yellow Dung Fly, Scathophaga stercoraria. Males were classified into three relative age classes according to wing wear. 2. Fructose content increased towards the afternoon suggesting that males feed on nectar during the daytime. 3. Both carbohydrate and lipid contents were positively related with male body size. When controlled for body size, males that caught a female contained more glycogen and fructose as compared to males that failed to do so within each age class. 4. Among males copulating with a female, males on cow pats differed significantly from those in the surrounding grass by having more glycogen, sugars and lipids. 5. The results suggest that males successful in mate searching are in a better energetic condition than unsuccessful males. Energy acquisition can be an important component of mating success in species where mate searching involves frequent flying.
10.2307/2389649|The expression of C<sub>3</sub> and CAM in the temperate succulent Sedum telephium L. was investigated in response to varying photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and watering regimes. Plants accumulated malic acid under all light and watering regimes although this was enhanced by drought and higher PAR. The transition from predominantly C<sub>3</sub> metabolism to net dark fixation of CO<sub>2</sub>, however, was not regulated exclusively by plant water status. Under drought stress and high PAR approximately 36% of malic acid accumulated overnight was derived from external sources of CO<sub>2</sub> as calculated both directly, in CO<sub>2</sub>-free air, and indirectly, as the difference between net dark fixation of CO<sub>2</sub> and nocturnal accumulation of malic acid. Under all other light and watering regimes recycling of respiratory CO<sub>2</sub> accounted for all the malic acid accumulated overnight. Direct and indirect estimates of recycling compared well with the availability of respiratory CO<sub>2</sub>, with droughted plants recapturing a higher proportion of respiratory CO<sub>2</sub> than well-watered plants. Consequently CAM is initially enhanced in S. telephium through an increase in the amount of respiratory CO<sub>2</sub> which is recaptured by the enzyme PEP carboxylase.
10.2307/2389901|1. The goal of this study was to estimate the impact of the metabolic cost of growth (COG) on the energy budget of chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) during embryonic and larval development. 2. In attempting to estimate COG, it was assumed that, as with juvenile and adult fish, energy is allocated in an additive fashion with respect to routine metabolism and mass-specific COG remains constant during early life. According to this model, there should be a direct relationship between metabolic intensity and specific growth rate. 3. In chinook salmon, however, there was no significant relationship between the two variables during embryonic development, during larval development, or during the combined embryonic-larval period at any of the four test temperatures (5.0, 7.5, 10.0 and 12.5
826741|1. There is increasing awareness that similar suites of plant traits may govern foliage palatability and litter decomposability, but whether there is an association between the response of vegetation to herbivory and litter decomposition rates across plant species remains unexplored. 2. We collected 141 samples of litter from 59 understorey and 18 canopy tree species from a total of 28 sites under natural forest throughout New Zealand. We assessed whether variables related to decomposition and quality of litter of the understorey species showed a statistical relationship with the response of vegetation density (assessed using a pole-intercept method) of the same species at the same locations to browsing by deer and goats. Decomposition and nutrient-loss data from litter were obtained using standardized laboratory bioassays. 3. There was a significant positive correlation between litter decomposition rate and the extent to which vegetation density was reduced by browsing mammals (r = 0.488, P < 0.001). Further, decomposition rate and vegetation response to herbivory were both correlated with several of the same litter quality variables. 4. The proportion of total initial phosphorus and nitrogen released from litter during decomposition was correlated with litter decomposition rate, but not with vegetation density response to browsing. This suggests that effects of browsers on vegetation composition are more likely to influence ecosystem carbon flow than nitrogen or phosphorus flow. 5. Litter-mixing experiments showed that good quality litters produced by plant species reduced by browsers tended to promote the decomposition of other litters. Meanwhile, poor quality litters from species promoted by browsers tended to decompose more rapidly when mixed with other litter types than when by themselves. However, these effects were weak and likely to be less important than the more direct effects of browsing mammals on vegetation composition. 6. The relationships between litter decomposition and effect of herbivory on vegetation density were driven primarily by differences among the main plant functional groups, which showed the same decreasing rank order for both variables: large-leaved dicots, small-leaved dicots, Nothofagus, ferns, and monocots. 7. The implications of these results for understanding how herbivores affect the decomposer subsystem are considered. Because the results of this work are only partially consistent with those of an earlier study on how browsers affect decomposer organisms and processes, conducted at the same 28 field sites, other mechanisms through which browser effects are manifested below-ground must often override that investigated in this study.
3599156|1. Baby Painted Turtles, Chrysemys picta (Schneider 1783), ingest soil and fragments of eggshell as they are hatching from their eggs. The ingested soil typically contains bacterial nucleating agents that can cause water in the gut to freeze at high subzero temperatures. If ice forms in the gut, however, the crystals penetrate the wall of that organ and cause water in body compartments to freeze. Thus, newly hatched turtles freeze spontaneously at high subzero temperatures owing to the nucleation of ice by bacteria in the gut. 2. Painted Turtles purge their gut of soil in the weeks after hatching, but removing particulate material from the GI tract does not, by itself, result in elimination of the bacterial nucleating agents. The purging of nucleating agents requires that hatchlings also be exposed to low (but non-freezing) temperatures. The response to low temperature is completed in little more than 1 month; a longer exposure does not elicit a demonstrable improvement in the capacity for supercooling. 3. The limit of supercooling does not vary significantly among turtles hatching on different kinds of soil, despite the fact that different soils typically harbour different concentrations of nucleating agents. Thus, the risk of heterogeneous nucleation probably does not vary appreciably among turtles hatching and overwintering in different kinds of soil in the field. 4. Hatchling Painted Turtles that have become acclimatized to low temperatures in the field presumably have acquired a high resistance to freezing by inoculation (as shown by prior study) and an enhanced capacity for supercooling (current study), thereby enabling many animals to withstand exposure to ice and cold during winter by remaining unfrozen and supercooled.
3598962|1. For many adult nectar-feeding parasitoids food and moisture are essential for survival in the field. Early in the season, when floral nectar is not yet available in cotton, extrafloral nectar (EFN) is already present on young cotton plants. 2. The parasitoid Microplitis croceipes (Cresson) can use EFN cotton plants as an only food source. The longevity and reproduction of EFN-fed female wasps was comparable to wasps fed with honey and water provided on nectariless (NL) cotton plants, and was significantly higher compared with wasps kept on NL plants with no additional food source. 3. Wasps that were given preflight experiences on EFN cotton plants choose EFN cotton over NL cotton plants in two choice experiments in the flight tunnel. The parasitoids are more willing to search on an EFN plant at their second and third encounter with a plant previously visited, compared with an NL cotton plant. 4. Wasps can locate EFN from short distances by its odour alone, and find it almost as fast as honey, but much faster than odourless sucrose, which is only found randomly. Experience with EFN increased the retention ability of parasitoids on a flower model.
10.2307/2389339|The responses of Carex roots to anoxia were investigated in species which differ in their flooding tolerance. Forty days of oxygen deficiency induced several changes in root growth, morphology and anatomy in C. extensa Goodenough, C. remota L. and C. pseudocyperus L. Under anaerobic conditions C. extensa showed strong decreases in root biomass, number, average and total root length, and number of exocortex cell layers. Adventitious roots, intercellular space in the cortex, development of root hairs and lignin content of endodermis increased under these conditions. In C. remota, average and total root length were reduced, but total root biomass increased by 47%, due to greater root number, adventitious root formation and root thickness. The lignin content of endodermis and exodermis was enhanced. Under anaerobic conditions C. pseudocyperus showed a reduction of the adventitious roots by 25%, but all other measured root characteristics increased. These results indicate that tolerance to oxygen deficiency is associated with a number of adaptations to root morphology and anatomy, besides enhanced aerenchyma formation, and that it varies between species of different flooding tolerance.
2656330|1. In many organisms, males provide nutrients to females via ejaculates that can influence female fecundity, longevity and mating behaviour. The effect of male mating history on male ejaculate size, female fecundity, female longevity and female remating behaviour in the seed beetle Callosobruchus maculatus was determined. 2. The quantity of ejaculate passed to females declined dramatically with successive matings. Despite the decline, a male's ability to fertilize a female fully did not appear to decline substantially until his fourth mating. 3. When females multiply mated with males of a particular mated status, the pattern of egg production was cyclic, with egg production increasing after mating. Females multiply mated to virgins had higher fecundity than females mated to non-virgins, and females mated to twice-mated males had disproportionately increased egg production late in their life. 4. Females that mated to multiple virgins, and consequently laid more eggs, experienced greater mortality than females mated only once or mated to non-virgins, suggesting that egg production is costly, and rather than ameliorating these costs, male ejaculates may increase them by allowing or stimulating females to lay more eggs. 5. Females mating with non-virgin males remated more readily than did females mated to virgins. Females given food supplements were less likely to remate than females that were nutritionally stressed, suggesting that females remate in part to obtain additional nutrients.
10.2307/2389691|The daily field metabolic rates (FMR) during winter of 3 species of coniferous forest tits, the willow tit Parus montanus Conrad, the crested tit Parus cristatus L. and the coal tit Parus ater L. were measured with the doubly-labelled water technique in the vicinity of Uppsala, central Sweden. FMR-values (kJ/day) did not differ between species in spite of the 20% difference in body mass between the coal tit (9 g) and the other two species (11-11.5 g). As a consequence, coal tits had significantly higher metabolic intensities (multiples of basal metabolism) than the larger species. Coal tits tended to fly more frequently while foraging than the other species. Maintenance (basal metabolism plus thermoregulation) accounts for 90% of FMR for the willow tit (according to published laboratory measurements), which is the highest value yet reported for any bird species. The coal tit expends as much energy as predicted by allometric equations, while the other two species have surprisingly low field metabolic rates for their body size. The pattern found may explain the migratory tendencies and more southerly distribution of the coal tit. Energy-saving mechanisms may be more important than mere consequences of body size to explain the northern distribution of small wintering birds.
3599077|1. The impact of the genotype of symbiotic micro-organisms on ecologically important traits of their animal hosts was explored using the symbiosis between aphids and the bacterium Buchnera. This symbiosis has a nutritional basis, with aphids dependent on Buchnera-derived essential amino acids. The genetic variation studied was copy number of the Buchnera genes trpEG, coding for anthranilate synthase in the biosynthetic pathway of the essential amino acid tryptophan. TrpEG amplification has been predicted to enhance tryptophan biosynthesis rates by Buchnera. 2. TrpEG amplification of Buchnera varied from 2 to 16-fold relative to other trp genes among aphids from natural populations of the Pea Aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris). 3. The fitness of aphids on Vicia faba plants of low phloem tryptophan content under field conditions and on tryptophan-free chemically defined diets under laboratory conditions did not vary significantly with trpEG copy number of Buchnera. It is concluded that naturally occurring variation in trpEG copy number does not have large and readily detectable effects on aphid fitness. 4. This first study on the impact of genetic diversity of Buchnera on ecologically important traits of the insect host illustrates the importance of empirical checks on the validity of plausible inferences made from genomic or other molecular data.
40603104|1.Recent evidence suggests that metabolic scaling exponents should shift from  1 to ~  as plants grow from seedlings to mature trees. This study examines whether there is an ontogenetic shift in the scaling exponent of dark respiration with whole-plant biomass and whether the allometry of dark respiration vs. plant total nitrogen content is consistent with these metabolic scaling relationships. 2. We examined seedling mass, dark respiration, biomass allocation, water and nitrogen contents, and relative growth rates for 351 seedlings of seven shrub species that span three orders of magnitude in total plant mass (i.e. <1 mg to >1 g). 3. Dark respiration increased with increasing seedling mass in each of three growth stages for each species. The scaling exponents for dark respiration vs. plant mass were c. 1  during the earliest stage of seedling development (< 60 days after germination) but declined in the later two growth stages (> 90 and < 120 days after seed germination) for five of the seven species studied.However, the metabolic scaling relationship was isometric when the data were pooled for each species across all size classes. 4. With increasing plant size, the biomass allocated by each species to the metabolically active organ (leaf) generally scaled against whole plant biomass with a slope smaller than 1  but significantly larger than . 5. Water and nitrogen contents declined with increasing seedling mass and whole plant dark respiration increased disproportionally (i. e. scaling slope >1) with increasing total plant water or nitrogen content, possibly because small seedlings have a lower water and nutrient-use efficiency compared to larger ones in water-and nutrient-unlimited habitats. 6. The change in relative growth rate paralleled the ontogenetic shift in the dark respiration vs. mass relationship, which may explain the isometric metabolic scaling relationship if growth efficiency is inversely proportional to seedling mass. 7. We therefore demonstrate an ontogenetic shift in the metabolic scaling during plant ontogeny. Although the proximate mechanisms underlying the shift are not fully understood, we speculate that a contributing factor is the accrual of less metabolically active tissues or organs with increasing total body mass in the form of secondary tissues with high cell wall volume fractions (e.g.wood and phellum).
20142747|1. Populations of Metrosideros polymorpha establish across a broad range of precipitation in Hawai'i -- from &lt400 to &gt10000 mm per year. To determine whether adjustment of hydraulic and photosynthetic traits could contribute to this success in both high and low rainfall, we sampled populations on the wet and the dry sides of Hawai'i Island, replicated on two different-aged lava flows at similar elevation and mean annual temperature. 2. We quantified 24 stem and leaf traits in an integrated study of hydraulics, gas exchange, leaf chemistry and anatomy. 3. Values for traits associated with capacity for water transport through the plant and gas exchange per leaf area were higher at dry sites, including photosynthetic capacity, nitrogen per leaf area and hydraulic conductivity on both sapwood area and leaf area basis. These adjustments, due to plastic and/or heritable differentiation, would partially compensate for generally lower water availability. 4. Specific leaf area shifted towards lower values at the dry sites. However, several other traits associated directly with drought tolerance were inflexible across sites, including stem vulnerability to embolism and leaf cuticular conductance, indicating that the ability to persist through dry periods is sustained across the species' range. 5. The ability of M. polymorpha to establish across a wide range of habitats is associated with, on one hand, adjustments in traits that would enable sustained growth across a dramatic range of moisture supply while simultaneously maintaining as fixed other traits that would contribute to survival through extended drought.
10.2307/2389715|1 Production of new roots leads to increased water uptake and increased respiration. Water uptake can be considered as the revenue from root production, and root respiration divided by the water-use-efficiency as the water cost. Using an analogy to economics, the optimal root mass occurs when the marginal cost of root production equals the marginal revenue of root production. 2 Agave deserti Engelm. has two types of roots, established and rain-induced; the latter were shed three times as the soil dried during the year considered. Per unit dry mass, respiration required for growth was 90-fold higher and respiration required for maintaining living tissue was 40-fold higher for rain roots compared with established roots. Conductance to water flow per unit dry mass was 11-fold higher for rain roots compared with established roots. 3 Previous excavations showed that A. deserti can have an established-root length of 44  8 m (mean  SD) and a rain-root length of 13  3 m. Optimal root lengths predicted for this plant were 51 m of established roots and 31 m of rain roots, which were within 1 SD of the measured lengths for established roots but greater than 6 SD for rain roots. Thus, water may be the currency for the production of established roots but not for rain roots.
40603061|1. Plants use a range of sophisticated strategies to protect themselves against herbivores and pathogens, such as the production of jasmonates, a group of plant hormones that prime the plant's defense system upon attack. However, defense-related mechanisms, such as the jasmonate response, play a more diverse role than previously appreciated. Jasmonates also regulate key mutualist relationships, leading to a suit of potential conflicting selection pressures as a single response is employed to mediate multiple species interactions. 2. Here, we experimentally manipulate the host's jasmonate response and document the impact on two key plant mutualisms: (i) changes to arbuscular mycorrhizal symbionts belowground (ii) modifications to floral traits affecting pollinator mutualists aboveground. By exogenously applying a range of methyl jasmonate solutions to cucumber plant roots grown with and without mycorrhizal fungi, we are able to examine the potential costs of the jasmonate response to both above and belowground mutualists. 3. We demonstrate that the negative effect of jasmonates on floral traits depends on whether the plant is mycorrhizal or nonmycorrhizal. Mycorrhization had a positive effect on floral traits, but benefits were lost with jasmonate application. While low levels of jasmonate decreased floral traits, these same jasmonate levels increased colonization by the mycorrhizal symbiont threefold, but only under high phosphorus conditions. 4. Our results highlight potential conflicts for the host in the regulation of their mutualists under different conditions and suggest that the overall impact of the jasmonate response depends on the plant mycorrhizal status and its nutrient context. 5. These findings suggest that increasing the jasmonate response may lead to differential costs and benefits for plants and their mutualists, and highlight potential conflict in planta, with mycorrhizal symbionts benefiting from intermediate levels of jasmonates while certain floral traits can be depressed at this same level.
2656512|1. Ericameria nauseosus (Asteraceae) is a highly variable shrub species of western North America, whose achene mass varies sevenfold among subspecies and populations. We examined trade-offs between seedling fitness and dispersal ability by asking: does greater achene mass reduce dispersal ability, and is this potential disadvantage to large achenes compensated for by increased pappus investment? Does smaller achene mass reduce seedling fitness, and is this potential disadvantage to small achenes compensated for by increased relative growth rate (RGR)? 2. Dispersal ability was measured as fall rate in still air, while seedling fitness was measured as dry mass at two ages for 21 populations belonging to nine subspecies. 3. Fall rate was positively correlated with achene plume loading<sup>-1/2</sup>, but because of variation in pappus investment and geometry, both plume loading<sup>-1/2</sup> and fall rate were only weakly positively correlated with achene mass. Relative pappus investment did not show a consistent increase with achene mass. 4. Seedling dry mass was strongly positively correlated with achene mass for 2-week-old seedlings grown without added nutrients. This correlation was significant but weak with added nutrients at 2 weeks, and by 4 weeks it was no longer significant. Seedling RGR was strongly negatively correlated with achene mass. 5. Achene mass variation was related to both seedling fitness and dispersal ability, but compensation was evident mainly as faster RGR in populations with small achenes.
2390400|1. The chief objective was to develop a functional model for the growth of parr (0+, 1+) of Atlantic Salmon, Salmo salar, from two populations (Rivers Leven and Lune in northwest England), using a model similar to that developed previously for Brown Trout, Salmo trutta. Parr bred from Leven parents were acclimatized to nine fairly constant temperatures (two 0+, two 1+ parr per temperature) in the range 3.8-21.7 <sup></sup>C (variation \pm 0.3 at 3.8 <sup></sup>C to \pm 1.0 at 21.7 <sup></sup>C). Each fish was kept in a separate tank and fed to satiation on shrimps. The mass and length of each fish was recorded at the start and finish of a growth period of 30 days. Parr (0+, 1+) bred from Lune parents were separated into slow and fast growers, and acclimatized to six very constant temperatures. There were three slow and three fast growers at each of 5.0, 10.0, 15.0 <sup></sup>C for 0+ parr and each of 5.0, 10.0, 13.0, 15.0, 18.0, 20.0 <sup></sup>C for 1+ parr. Procedures were the same as for Leven parr except that the growth period lasted 30 days for the 18 0+ parr and 42 days for the 36 1+ parr. 2. The growth model was an excellent fit (P < 0.001) with no significant differences between parr from the two rivers, fast-growing parr of different ages (0+, 1+), or fast- and slow-growing 1+ parr. The optimum temperature for the combined data (81 parr) was 15.9 <sup></sup>C with a range for growth of 6.0-22.5 <sup></sup>C. The model failed to fit the data for slow-growing 0+ Lune parr in experiments from November to February. Growth was reduced in these fish, even though the temperatures were suitable for growth (10, 15 <sup></sup>C). 3. The model described approximately the growth of three year-classes of Atlantic Salmon parr in the River Eden in northwest England. Some of the discrepancies between actual masses and those predicted from the model were consistent and possible reasons for this are discussed.
10.2307/2389483|As estuarine environments are often rich in both natural and man-induced stresses, estuarine species may provide important insights into the study of how organisms respond to stress. Exposure to cadmium concentrations of 100-200 g l<sup>-1</sup> significantly reduced growth rate of the estuarine gastropod, Hydrobia ventrosa (Montagu). Snails acclimated to 23% salinity sea-water (S) showed reduced growth rates at 13 and 33% S relative to snails grown at 23% S. At 13% S snails did not grow, and any additional effects of cadmium exposure on growth were masked. The results are not consistent with expectations based on estimated cadmium bioavailability as the relative reduction in growth in response to cadmium increased with increasing salinity. The growth trajectory of H. ventrosa at 23% S (no cadmium) fitted a logistic growth model. Changing salinity and exposure to cadmium altered daily specific growth rates (% day<sup>-1</sup>) in a size- (or time-) dependent manner such that a logistic model no longer described the growth trajectory of this species. Maximum growth rates occurred at a higher salinity than expected, based on reports of the natural distribution of H. ventrosa, and the results suggest substantial intraspecific variability in salinity tolerance in this species.
4139385|1. Above-ground structure was analysed in saplings of 56 sympatric species in a Bornean rain forest with consideration of the phylogenetic background to elucidate interspecific variation in the dry-mass cost and its ecological consequences. 2. The extension cost (total above-ground mass) in 1-5-m tall saplings varied eightfold among the 56 species. However, no significant differences in extension cost were observed among saplings of three crown types (branched, monoaxial simple-leaved, and monoaxial compound-leaved), although the mono crown type has been considered an adaptation for achieving rapid height growth. The lack of differences arose because the advantages of monoaxial saplings in structural cost for displaying a given leaf area were unexpectedly small. 3. Understory species had a significantly higher extension cost than canopy species because of their thicker, and consequently, heavier trunks. This trend was common to the three crown types; thus, the higher extension cost was not caused by the prevalence of a specific crown type in understory species. 4. For all 56 species combined, the trade-off between height growth efficiency and light-interception-enhancing morphology was prominent. This structural trade-off, which makes efficient vertical growth incompatible with survival in the understory, potentially enables the stable coexistence of these species in a temporally heterogeneous light environment.
10.2307/2390075|1. Seeds of Eucalyptus tetrodonta and E. miniata were sown in duplicated airconditioned tents which were ventilated with either ambient or CO<sub>2</sub>-enriched (700 mol mol<sup>-1</sup>) air. Growth, foliar nutrient content, soluble protein and biomass allocation were investigated over the subsequent 32-week experimental period. 2. It was found that CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment significantly increased the total biomass and tree height of E. tetrodonta, but had no effect on total biomass or tree height of E. miniata. 3. Allocation of biomass to main-stem wood and main-stem leaf mass increased and allocation to branch wood and branch leaves declined, under CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment for E. tetrodonta. No change in allocation patterns for E. miniata was observed in response to CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment. 4. Foliar nitrogen, manganese and phosphorus contents were decreased under CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment in E. tetrodonta, but there was no effect of CO<sub>2</sub> concentration in E. miniata. Soluble protein contents were not affected by CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment in either species. These results are discussed in relation to the competitive relationship between these two species in northern Australia.
40407764|1. Prominent theories of plant defence have predicted that plants growing on nutrient-poor soils produce more phenolic defence compounds than those on richer soils. Only recently has the Protein Competition Model (PCM) of phenolic allocation suggested that N and P limitation could have different effects because the nutrients are involved in different cellular metabolic processes. 2. We extend the prediction of the PCM and hypothesize that N will have a greater influence on the production of phenolic defensive compounds than P availability, because N limitation reduces protein production and thus competition for phenylalanine, a precursor of many phenolic compounds. In contrast, P acts as a recyclable cofactor in these reactions, allowing protein and hence phenolic production to continue under low P conditions. 3. We test this hypothesis by comparing the foliar concentrations of phenolic compounds in (i) phenotypes of 21 species growing on P-rich alluvial terraces and P-depleted marine terraces in southern New Zealand, and (ii) 87 species growing under similar climates on comparatively P-rich soils in New Zealand vs. P-depleted soils in Tasmania. 4. Foliar P concentrations of plants from the marine terraces were about half those of plants from alluvial soils, and much lower in Tasmania than in New Zealand. However, foliar concentrations of N and phenolic compounds were similar across sites in both comparisons, supporting the hypothesis that N availability is a more important determinant of plant investment in phenolic defensive compounds than P availability. We found no indication that reduced soil P levels influenced plant concentrations of phenolic compounds. There was wide variation in the foliar N and P concentrations among species, and those with low foliar nutrient concentrations produced more phenolics (including condensed tannins). 5. Our study is the first trait comparison extending beyond standard leaf economics to include secondary metabolites related to defence in forest plants, and emphasizes that N and P have different influences on the production of phenolic defence compounds.
10.2307/2389535|Skoog's lizards (family Cordylidae) live on and in the slipfaces of shifting sand-dunes in the hyperarid Namib Desert. We measured field metabolic rate (FMR) and water flux (doubly labelled water), diet (stomach content analysis), chemical composition of food items (water, energy and mineral contents), evaporative water loss in the field, and standard metabolic rate (SMR) in the laboratory. These lizards had FMRs and food requirements that are about half those of other lizards, although their SMR was not notably low. Water intake rates in the field were high due to consumption of very succulent growing shoots of nara, a perennial shrub in the cucumber family that stays green all year round on underground water obtained via a long tap-root. Consumption of wind-blown, dry plant material (detritus, comprising about 20% of the dry matter in the average diet) may be related to mineral nutrition. Behavioural adaptations (reduced above-ground activity, which lowers food and energy requirements, and selection of succulent plant food) rather than physiological adaptations that reduce resource requirements, appear to be most important in permitting survival of this lizard in its bleak habitat.
826738| 1. The taxonomic and functional composition of reef fish assemblages are quantified in three biogeographical regions: Great Barrier Reef, French Polynesia and Caribbean. Assemblages are described in three habitats of differing wave exposure. Functional abilities are estimated based on published analyses linking fin morphology and swimming performance. 2. Two questions were addressed: (1) To what extent are labrid assemblages similar among habitats and regions? (2) To what extent are functional characteristics of fish assemblages shaped by differences in biodiversity, evolutionary history and species composition? 3. All three regions display highly congruent patterns of habitat use, in terms of assemblage structure and functional characteristics, despite a five-fold difference in species richness, limited or no species overlap, and a 32-Myear history of isolation. Exposed reef crest assemblages were dominated by fishes with fins reflecting lift-based high-speed locomotion. In contrast to abundance-based patterns, species presence/absence data were uninformative. 4. The relationship between swimming ability and habitat use reveals underlying assembly rules at a functional level, emphasizing the utility of functional attributes as a metric for comparing system-level properties in taxonomically distinct faunas. 
10.2307/2389315|The body size differences between male and female insects of a species can result in different flight and thermoregulatory abilities, potentially causing marked behavioural differences between the sexes. In the butterfly Euphydryas phaeton Drury (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae), females are twice the size of males, with greater wing loadings throughout most of their lives. Males are able to fly at lower body temperatures than females, but multiple-regression analysis of body temperature as a function of weather variables reveals that females are better able to maintain elevated body temperatures against short-term thermal fluctuations. Males perch in exposed sites where they are more vulnerable to convective cooling; heat loss is counteracted by basking for the majority of the daylight hours. Females inhabit a warmer, more sheltered microenvironment and spend less time basking. I argue that the flight of females is sluggish and more constrained by environmental conditions than that of males due to their greater wing loading, yet in spite of the difference in the degree of environmental constraint, males and females spend an equal amount of time in flight. These results show that small behavioural differences can place ectotherms in different thermal environments, dramatically off-setting the physical constraints imposed by a given body size.
2390416|1. A compartmental model of the limpet alimentary system was designed to simulate the effects of functional constraints and substrate characteristics on the temporal patterning of grazing in these gastropods. Limitations are imposed by gut capacity and processing time. A maximum operating frequency is set for the radula activity, and a negative feedback on the grazing frequency is related to gut replenishment. 2. When holding constant the `morphofunctional' parameters of the model, variations in the `richness' of the substrate (i.e. in the amount of matter extracted per single rasp) generated different patterns of grazing activity, from constant grazing at different frequencies, to the appearance of distinct grazing-non-grazing subphases with a periodicity corresponding to the processing time. Moreover, when varying the digestibility of the matter (i.e. its processing time), temporary saturations were produced. 3. Automatic recording of radula activity in specimens of Patella caerulea L. collected from a Mediterranean boulder beach and transferred to tidal tanks showed that each activity phase (performed during the high-tide period) may be differently structured: from almost continuous grazing, with more or less pronounced and sometimes periodic oscillations, to alternation of grazing and non-grazing subphases. Continuous and non-continuous grazing patterns are shown also by the same specimen during subsequent activity phases. 4. The results of the model are consistent with empirical observations and suggest that satiation events related to the characteristics of the substrate encountered by the limpets when foraging, can produce highly variable grazing patterns with implications for the energetics of foraging in this group of grazers.
20142751|1. The allometric relationship between growth rate and body mass has received considerable attention but different taxa have not been equally studied. In particular, a limited amount of information is available on growth allometry of insect larvae. 2. In life-history studies, it is often assumed that insect larvae grow exponentially. This leads one to expect that potential rewards of extending growth periods are high in terms of increased adult body masses and fecundities. Therefore, it has been a challenge to find costs of large size that counterbalance the fecundity advantage of attaining larger sizes. 3. This study examines the intraspecific growth allometry of lepidopteran larvae. Original methodology is proposed to address problems arising from the complexity of the insect growth curve, and the high sensitivity of growth rates to environmental conditions. To facilitate generalizations, larvae of 11 unrelated lepidopteran species were subjected to an identical study design. 4. Instantaneous absolute growth rates of larvae were related to body size by an intraspecific allometric exponent in the range between 0.41 and 0.88. There were significant differences between the species but values of the exponent as high as 1 (exponential growth), and as low as 0 (linear growth) could safely be excluded. 5. Instantaneous relative growth rates of larvae were typically 35% lower in their last instar when compared to the penultimate one. Using the exponential growth curve (i.e. assuming the constancy of relative growth rates) in modelling insect life-histories may therefore lead to substantially biased conclusions.
2656385|1. Detailed understanding of the specific physiology of sexes in dioecious species is required to explain patterns in gender dimorphism. Under controlled-environment conditions we tested the hypothesis that sexes of the dioecious tree holly Ilex aquifolium L. (Aquifoliaceae) differed in growth and long-term potential water-use efficiency, as measured by carbon isotope discrimination (<sup>13</sup>C), and that these differences were dependent on the environmental context. 2. Patterns of response in <sup>13</sup>C to the various combinations of light and water were gender-specific. Under more xeric conditions, females maintained significantly higher <sup>13</sup>C than males. 3. Female plants exhibited significantly greater relative diameter growth rates than male plants. 4. As expected, <sup>13</sup>C significantly increased with decreasing irradiance, and decreased with increasing limitation in water supply. Light and water effects were not independent, with a more pronounced drought effect in decreasing leaf <sup>13</sup>C under unshaded than under shaded conditions. 5. Our results suggest that between-sex differences in physiology are context-dependent. Future studies attempting to assess gender dimorphism should take more account of gender-specific interactions with the environment. Gender-specific efficiency in water use could play a decisive role in explaining gender differences in growth and ecological interactions.
2656481|1. The Eastern Brownsnake, Pseudonaja textilis, is a large (to 2 m), slender-bodied, highly venomous elapid that causes most snakebite human fatalities in Australia. The response of recently captured snakes to human harassment was quantified. Using high-speed film, the type of neck display, time taken to strike, strike accuracy, strike speed and effectiveness of bite were recorded. 2. The snakes were surprisingly tolerant of harassment, especially at body temperatures similar to those that they exhibit in the field during the activity season. Smaller snakes spent more time trying to escape than did larger snakes. Most snakes gave warning prior to the strike, 58% by full (high) display and 19% by partial (low) display. Some 25% of strikes were bluff. 3. Body temperature (over the range 18-36<sup></sup>C) had little effect on most of the variables measured, including: the frequency of display and bluff, the duration of the strike (mean 0.28 s), the strike distance (mean 0.34 m), the mean overall strike speed (1.1 m s<sup>-1</sup>, range 0.25-1.80), the mean fastest strike speed (during 1/25 s, = 1.7 m s<sup>-1</sup>, range 0.3-3.4), or the accuracy of the strike. 4. Instead, the type of prestrike display was related to strike speed and accuracy: strikes preceded by a full neck display were slower but more accurate (and more likely to involve venom transfer) than those preceded by minimal display. 5. Contrary to popular opinion, Eastern Brownsnakes are reluctant to deliver firm bites in response to human harassment even when continuously provoked. It is estimated that only 15% of the strikes recorded had the potential to cause significant envenomation.
40407755|1. For decades, organisms with inducible defences have been used extensively as model systems for addressing the ecology and evolution of phenotypic plasticity. However, our current understanding of inducible defences comes largely from studies that have examined the survival benefits of an inducible defence in a predator environment vs. the growth or reproductive costs in a no-predator environment. Moreover, this work has focused on a single point in prey development. Unfortunately, this approach neglects the role that functionally different predator species (with divergent selection pressures) may play in maintaining inducible defences in prey populations and overlooks the dynamic nature of prey responses and prey vulnerability over development. 2. In this study, we used freshwater snails and a subset of their predators to address the survival costs and benefits of predator-induced plasticity in response to functionally different predators at multiple points in development. 3. We found that snails altered unique suites of traits over development in response to three different caged predator environments. Moreover, short-term prdation trials demonstrated that the phenotype induced by one predator had higher survival with that predator than any alternative phenotype but lower survival with a different predator species (i. e. survival trade-offs). However, the trade-off was only strongly detected midway in development before a size refuge was attained from prdation and after morphological defences had formed in the snails. 4. Our study suggests that functionally different predators favour inducible defences in freshwater snails, and that incorporating development into tests of the adaptive plasticity hypothesis can provide valuable information about the dynamics of trait induction and variation in fitness trade-offs over time.
826584|1. Inasmuch as virtually all studies on mortality and reproduction in insects are conducted under conditions in which food availability is constant, little is known about the demographic response of insects to variable food environments. For example, it is not known if and to what extent the life expectancy of insects subjected to shortages of high-quality food will increase and/or whether this increase is associated with major decreases in lifetime reproduction. 2. Therefore cohorts of 100 individual female medflies were subjected to different sets of conditions of protein availability (interspersed with sugar-only diets) including ad libitum sugar-only (no protein), ad libitum protein and full (protein) diet either every 2nd, 4th, 6th, 11th or 21st day, as well as two lag-treatments (1 day full diet followed by 30 days sugar-only, followed by one of two cyclical treatments). 3. Both life expectancy and lifetime reproduction were strongly affected by specific treatments. Specifically (i) mortality was inversely related to frequency of protein availability whereas lifetime reproduction was directly related; (ii) distinct cycles in reproduction began to appear when food pulse cycles were as short as every 4 days. However, egg-laying peaks and troughs were particularly pronounced in the 10- and 20-day food pulse cycles; (iii) the peak and trough levels were inversely related to cycle length; and (iv) the within-cycle height was independent of cycle length, occurring 4 days after protein food was made available to the cohort whether the cycle length was 5, 10 or 20 days. 4. The results shed new light on the within- and between-cycle and lifetime dynamics of reproduction when insects are subjected to variable food environments and indicate that medfly females track food level very closely.
2656410|1. The importance of locomotor performance to the social status of male lizards may lie in its effect on the outcome of agonistic interactions and territorial contests. Presumably, dominant males are able to acquire and defend larger territories, encounter more potential mates and have greater reproductive success. 2. Therefore, the hypothesis that dominance status should covary with locomotor performance was tested using the Tree Lizard, Urosaurus ornatus. 3. Two components of locomotor performance, maximum sprint speed and stamina, in males were measured. The former variable was estimated as the fastest speed on a 0.25-m length along a 2-m long racetrack. The second variable was measured as the elapsed time a lizard could sustain a walking pace on a canvas belt moving at 0.50 km h<sup>-1</sup>. 4. The relative social status of size-matched males was independently determined by staging paired encounters in a novel arena. Dominance was measured by behavioural scores of aggression and submission. 5. The dyadic encounters resulted in the unambiguous determination of dominant individuals for 48 of 50 trials. Dominant males were significantly faster than submissive males. In addition, endurance capacity of dominant males exceeded the submissive males. 6. Dominance behaviour and locomotor performance are strongly associated. Although the exact underlying mechanism is unknown, the results suggest a link between hormones, performance and behaviour in territorial lizards.
3806536|1. Adaptation to cold environments of ectotherm populations is expected to result in increased standard metabolic rates if resources are not limiting. However, it is still unclear how the maintenance of high standard metabolic rates would affect locomotor performance and its impact at the population level. 2. We compared standard metabolic rate and swimming performance of Brown Trout populations inhabiting rivers with contrasting thermal conditions. To avoid environmental confounding effects, we tested offspring raised in controlled conditions. There were significant differences among populations and families for both traits, suggesting that the observed differentiation pattern has a genetic basis. 3. We found a significant negative relationship between standard metabolic rate and swimming performance at the population level. On the other hand, standard metabolic rates tended to be negatively related to the temperature in the rivers of origin, whereas swimming performance was positively related to river temperature, but these trends were not significant. 4. These results suggest that selection for traits positively linked with standard metabolic rates may result in lower relative prolonged swimming performance. The potential evolutionary consequences of the observed negative relationship are discussed.
10.2307/2389767|Growth rate increases with latitude in the Atlantic silverside, Menidia menidia, and the population differences have a genetic basis. Understanding the evolution of this latitudinal gradient in somatic growth requires knowledge of the physiological basis of the growth-rate variation. In theory, the faster growth of northern fish must be achieved by higher consumption rates and/or higher somatic growth efficiencies. If, as is frequently assumed, physiological efficiencies are often maximized by natural selection, the faster growth of higher-latitude silversides should result solely from higher consumption rates. We compared the consumption rates and gross growth efficiencies of fish from laboratory-reared stocks that were originated with fish from Nova Scotia (NS) and South Carolina (SC). Experiments were conducted on young, immature fish at a variety of excess ration levels under conditions of controlled fish density at low (17<sup></sup>C) and high (28<sup></sup>C) experimental temperatures. NS fish consumed more food (1.7 times) than SC fish and also had significantly higher (1.8-2.2 times) growth efficiencies. Genetic variation in both consumption rate and growth efficiency is therefore responsible for the interpopulation variation in growth rate. This suggests that costs and trade-offs associated with both high consumption rates and high growth efficiency may be the reason why low-latitude populations have submaximal growth rates. The assumption that growth efficiencies are generally at the maximum level that a species is physiologically and genetically capable of achieving should be viewed with caution.
4540043|1. Natural and human mediated perturbations present challenges to the fate of populations but fuel contemporary evolution (evolution over humanly observable time-scales). Here we ask if such evolution is sufficient to make the difference between population extinction and persistence. 2. To answer this question requires a shift from the usual focus on trait evolution to the emergent 'eco-evolutionary' dynamics that arise through interactions of evolution, its fitness consequences and population abundance. 3. By combining theory, models and insights from empirical studies of contemporary evolution, we provide an assessment of three contexts: persistence of populations in situ, persistence of colonising populations, and persistence under gene flow and in metapopulations. 4. Contemporary evolution can likely rescue some, but not all, populations facing environmental change. Populations may fail partly because of the demographic cost of selection. 5. Contemporary evolution that initiates positive population growth, such as selective founding processes, may create a 'persistence vortex' that overcomes the problems of small populations. 6. Complex, even shifting, relationships between gene flow and adaptation may aid the persistence of subpopulations as well as the persistence and expansion of metapopulations. 7. An eco-evolutionary perspective suggests that we expand our focus beyond the acute problems of threatened populations and growing invasions, to consider how contemporary evolutionary mechanics contribute to such problems in the first place or affect their resolution.
2390455|1. Modifications and improvements in the hardware and software of a free-air CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment (FACE) system are described. The modifications were undertaken to minimize the amount of structure required and to improve software control of CO<sub>2</sub> set points. 2. A new low-cost CO<sub>2</sub> flow controller which provides increased reliability is described. 3. Analysis of system performance during a 79-day evaluation period of operation (13 h day<sup>-1</sup>) showed that for 1 min averages, the system is capable of maintaining a 550 p.p.m.  10% CO<sub>2</sub> set point during 78% of the operating time and a 550 p.p.m.  20% set point during 95% of the operating time. Ten-minute averages were within  10% and 20% during 87% and 96% of the operating time, respectively. 4. Continuous measurements of the spatial variation in CO<sub>2</sub> concentration inside the FACE ring over an 18-day period showed that of the total 16-m diameter treatment area, the central 11-m diameter portion remains within the 550 p.p.m.  10% set point. 5. Daily course gas-exchange measurements in matched individuals of the chaparral shrub Adenostoma fasciculatum just prior to and following a 6-week fumigation period at 550 p.p.m. CO<sub>2</sub> in the FACE treatment ring showed the FACE plants with reduced photosynthetic rates and higher (less stressful) water potentials compared with control A. fasciculatum plants measured at the same times and conditions, indicating the responsiveness of this species to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> conditions.
4540092|1. By comparing plant species under the same experimental field conditions, the direct effects of plant traits on ecosystem processes can be studied. We have analyzed the role of leaf traits (leaf lamina dry matter content, LDMC; leaf lamina N content, LNC and specific leaf lamina area, SLA) for the annual above-ground primary productivity (ANPP) and quality (pepsin-cellulase digestibility, crude protein content) for herbivores of 13 perennial C3 pasture grass species. 2. These relationships were investigated over 2 years with monocultures grown in a fully factorial block design crossing the plant species, the cutting frequency and the N supply factors. 3. The within species variation in leaf traits, ANPP, digestibility and protein content was less than between species variation. Species ranks for leaf traits were conserved among N supply and cutting frequency levels. Highly significant (P < 0-001) between species allometric relationships were found for LNC x SLA and SLA x LDMC, with common slopes but differences in intercept and shifts among factor levels. 4. The between species variation in ANPP was strongly (P < 0-001) and negatively correlated with the fresh-matter based leaf N content (i.e. LDMC x LNC) and was not affected by SLA, apparently because of a trade-off between SLA and leaf lamina fraction. Digestibility increased with SLA and declined with LDMC. Protein content increased with both fresh and dry-matter based LNC. 5. N supply increased LNC and SLA but reduced LDMC. Cutting frequency increased LDMC and reduced LNC. In response to cutting frequency, changes in digestibility and in fresh-matter based LNC were positively correlated. 6. We conclude that the between species variation in the annual production of digestible energy and of proteins by pasture grasses is controlled in an additive way by two leaf traits: LNC and LDMC.
826706|1. A joint live-recapture/live-resighting/dead-recovery mark-recapture model was used to investigate the effect of serum gammaglobulin (IgG) levels, sex, mass and condition (mass/length as a surrogate for total body fat) at weaning on the probability of survival from weaning to age 1, in Grey Seal (Halichoerus grypus Fabricius 1791) pups born at two different breeding colonies (Isle of May and Farne Islands) in two different years (1997 and 1998). 2. It was found that increased mass or condition at weaning had a positive effect on the first year survival of Grey Seal pups born at both colonies. Males had a lower probability of survival than females. 3. Higher postweaning circulating IgG concentrations also decreased the probability of survival. It is not known if those pups with high IgG were individuals with naturally higher circulating concentrations or because titres were elevated due to antigenic challenge.
40205543|1. Recent studies suggest that long tail streamers (narrow outermost tail feathers) of the barn swallow Hirundo rustica, Linnaeus have initially evolved purely via natural selection for enhanced manoeuvrability. According to an alternative view, streamers have evolved initially solely via sexual selection for costly signalling, and their slender profile is merely an adaptation reducing the aerodynamic cost of a long tail ornament. 2. In order to distinguish between these alternative hypotheses we performed a standardized flight-maze experiment, in which we imitated the initial elongation of outermost tail feathers in a streamer-less hirundine, the house martin Delichon urbica, Linnaeus, contrasting the effects on flight manoeuvrability from adding either a broad or a narrow piece of feather. 3. 'Narrow-feathered' house martins (which had initial tail streamers modelled on a natural streamer of the barn swallow) manoeuvred better than 'broad-feathered' house martins (which had the natural shape of tips of experimentally elongated outermost tail feathers left unchanged), independent of elongation of the feather. 4. A small elongation of outermost tail feathers did not significantly improve manoeuvrability either in the case of 'narrow-feathered' or 'broad-feathered' birds. 5. These results suggest that it is the slender shape, but not elongation of streamers that is important for manoeuvrability, and thus streamer elongation is better explained by the sexual-selection than the improved-manoeuvrability hypothesis. We discuss hypothetical scenarios for evolution of hirundine tail streamers.
10.2307/2390567|1. Disturbed habitats in Amazonia, like active pastures and abandoned agricultural areas, are characterized by significant diurnal and seasonal drought stress that may restrict successful colonization by many plant taxa. Some species, however, show a remarkable capacity to withstand these water-limited conditions. We investigated, under controlled conditions, the bulk tissue-water relations and the gas-exchange characteristics in response to soil moisture stress of Solanum crinitum Lam. and Vismia guianensis (Aubl.) Choisy, two co-occurring gap-invading small trees known to dominate, disturbed, drought-prone habitats in the eastern Brazilian Amazon region. 2. Bulk tissue-water relations of these two species were very different. Vismia guianensis had significantly higher bulk tissue elastic modulus (more rigid tissues) and lower bulk tissue osmotic potential at full hydration and at turgor loss than S. crinitum. 3. The elastic and osmotic properties could either enhance turgor maintenance or increase the ability of a plant to extract soil water. In turn, this may help explain their ability to succeed in drought-prone habitats. With more elastic tissue properties, S. crinitum is able to maintain turgor and thus leaf gas exchange over greater changes in tissue water content, whereas having relatively more rigid tissues would aid V. guianensis in developing water potential gradients from the leaves to the soil with little tissue water loss, thus enhancing water uptake from drier soils. 4. Photosynthetic capacity in S. crinitum was less affected by soil moisture stress than V. guianensis. Furthermore, because S. crinitum maintained stomatal conductance (g), but photosynthesis (A) declined under moisture stress, intrinsic water-use efficiency (A/g) actually dropped when water was limiting for this species. In contrast, V. guianensis maintained high A/g under both watering regimes and was always more water-use efficient than S. crinitum. Moreover, S. crinitum had two- to fourfold higher dark respiration than V. guianensis. We believe that it is this combination of traits that leads to lower growth in S. crinitum when compared to V. guianensis in the field. 5. We suggest that the different gas-exchange responses and tissue water relations properties represent two different strategies for dealing with water deficits. Solanum crinitum, appears to be more able to cope with short-term water stress and is regarded to be a successful stress tolerator. In contrast, V. guianensis, appears to be able to cope better with chronic, long-term water stress, what we call a successful stress-avoider.
10.2307/2390135|1. The heterogeneity of the light environment (in time and space) in a tropical rain forest understorey and its effect on germination response of the heliophile tree Piper auritum was studied in the field and the laboratory. 2. In the laboratory we found responses to a range of R : FR (red : far-red) ratios and to the length of exposure to them. Blue light promoted a small effect on germination. Piper auritum germinated even at very low levels of red light (0.005 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>). 3. In the rain forest R : FR ratios were typically low (0.25-0.41), with sporadic high values. In field conditions, seed germination was controlled by the R : FR ratio during periods of diffuse illumination. Sunflecks had no effect on germination. 4. Germination in the field is greater at some R : FR ratios than in the laboratory, perhaps because of contributions of other photobiologically active wavelengths in the field.
40205568|1. Organisms frequently encounter environments with different productivity. Fitness of an individual then depends on decisions made concerning energy allocation to particular life-history traits in a given environment. In reptiles and other ectotherms, individuals on a poor diet commonly reach smaller size and invest less in reproduction, but they often produce larger eggs than well-fed individuals. 2. Several lineages of reptiles including geckos have evolved an invariant clutch size as a derived mode of reproduction. Gecko females produce maximally two large eggs per clutch, but clutches are unusually frequent. Therefore, geckos serve as an interesting group for studying the generality of nutrition-dependent plasticity in life-history. 3. In a laboratory experiment, we manipulated diet in adult females of the Madagascar ground gecko Paroedurapicta. Both food-limited and well-fed females followed the same growth trajectory in body and head length. In contrast, allocation to reproduction was highly nutrition-dependent. Although females in both treatment groups reproduced, food-limited females compromised both quantity and quality of their progeny: they laid clutches of smaller eggs in longer intervals. Fat storage was formed only in well-fed females. 4. We propose that the results are best explained by the consecutive hierarchical allocation of resources to growth, reproduction and storage, and discuss the consequences for investigation of life-history trade-offs.
40205553|1. Thermonastic leaf movements (TLM) are induced by freezing and are correlated with freezing tolerance, and our goal was to determine the significance of TLM to photosynthesis during the winter and early spring. 2. We performed field experiments in which we prevented TLM of Rhododendron maximum leaves and determined the consequences of that prevention to photoinhibition (measured by chlorophyll fluorescence) from fall to spring, photosynthesis (measured by gas exchange) in the winter, and recovery of photosynthesis in the spring. 3. TLM significantly reduced photoinhibition in the winter for leaves on branches in the outer canopy of R. maximum plants, but not for leaves on inner canopy branches. 4. During warm periods in the winter, TLM were associated with significantly lower photoinhibition, but TLM did not have a significant effect on photosynthesis during these times. 5. In early spring, leaves with TLM recovered from photoinhibition more quickly than for leaves prevented from TLM. 6. Photosynthesis in the early spring was higher at any stomatal conductance for leaves with TLM than for leaves prevented from TLM for outer canopy leaves only. 7. Our results demonstrate that TLM during the winter prevent excessive photoinhibition and promote rapid recovery of photosynthesis in the early spring.
40603058|1. Maternal hormones during embryogenesis act as a bridge between the maternal and the offspring environment and consequently may allow maternal pre-programming of offspring phenotype to the environment, assuming that maternal environment is a reliable predictor of offspring environment. 2. We use an orthogonal experimental design in which we increase plasma corticosterone concentration (vs. control) in placentotrophic gravid female spotted skinks (Niveoscincus ocellatus) and their offspring. We hypothesize that high concentrations of maternal corticosterone allow offspring phenotype to be pre-programmed to better cope with high concentrations of corticosterone after birth and, consequently, offspring would not suffer from its deleterious effects. We use growth as a measure of performance as corticosterone typically affects growth in reptiles. 3. High concentrations of maternal corticosterone had significant effects on offspring body condition at birth which could have resulted from corticosterone passing through the complex placenta and/or from the indirect effects of corticosterone on maternal body condition. 4. There was no indication of maternal pre-programming to high concentrations of corticosterone postpartum: growth rate of offspring placed in the same treatment (corticosterone vs. control) than their mother was not different to growth rate of offspring placed in a different treatment than their mother. 5. Maternal pre-programming to corticosterone may not have been selected for in this species either because maternal chronic stress is not a reliable predictor of offspring chronic stress or because maternal pre-programming does not outweigh the costs of having reduced sensitivity to the hormone, resulting in slower, less appropriate reactions in stressful conditions. This study further demonstrates the highly versatile and context-dependent nature of maternal effects and the trade-offs between costs and benefits of maternal pre-programming.
826708|1. The relationship between maximal acceleration capacity and flight morphology was tested experimentally in the butterfly Pararge aegeria. Such relations are often assumed but seldom tested. 2. In both sexes acceleration capacity was positively correlated with total body mass, thorax mass, forewing area, forewing length, wing loading, aspect ratio and centre of forewing area (centroid). Relationships with total body mass, forewing area, forewing length and wing loading were stronger in males. This can be explained by different mass allocation: males allocate proportionally more mass to the thorax, females more to the abdomen. 3. Evidence for the combined effect of morphological traits on acceleration capacity was found by multivariate analysis. In males and females, a more distant relative centroid and higher relative thorax mass were related to a higher flight capacity. In addition, aspect ratio was positively related to acceleration capacity in males only. 4. Our results support the assumed mechanism behind the relationship between flight morphology and mate-locating behaviour.
40407725|1. Physiological mechanisms such as allocation and release of nutrients are keys to understanding an animal's adaptation to a particular habitat. This study investigated how two detrivores with contrasting life-history traits allocated carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) to growth, reproduction and metabolism. As model organisms we used the collembolans, Proisotoma minuta (Tullberg 1871) and Protaphorura fimata (Gisin 1952). 2. To estimate allocations of C and N in tissue, we changed the isotopic composition of the animal's yeast diets when they became sexually mature and followed isotope turnover in tissue, growth and reproduction for 28 days. In addition, we measured the composition of C, N and phosphorus (P) to gain complementary information on the stoichiometry underlying life-history traits and nutrient allocation. 3. For P. minuta, the smallest and most fecund of the two species, the tissue turnover of C and N were 13% and 11% day, respectively. For P. fimata, the equivalent rates were 5% and 4% d, respectively. Protaphorura fimata had the lowest metabolic rate relative to total body mass but the highest metabolic rates relative to reproductive investment. Adult P. fimata retained approximately 17% of the nutrient reserves acquired while a juvenile and adult P. minuta about 11%. N and P contents of total tissue were significantly higher in P. minuta than in P. fimata, suggesting that tissue turnover was correlated with high protein-N and RNA-P. 4. Our results suggest that the lower metabolism and nutritional requirements by P. fimata than P. minuta is an adaptation to the generally low availability and quality of food in its natural habitat. 5. The methodological approach we implemented tracking mass balance, isotope turnover and elemental composition is promising for linking nutrient budgets and life-history traits in small invertebrates such as Collembola.
40863637|1. Ecological conditions and constraints are considered to be important for the evolution of cooperative breeding. However, the importance of the costs of resource acquisition to the decision of subordinates to stay or leave and to help or not have been hardly studied experimentally. Here we reduced the overall food availability (zooplankton) for experimental populations of the cooperatively breeding cichlid fish Neolamprologus pulcher in the field and measured effects on subordinates' spacing, dispersal, interactions, and helping behaviour. 2. When plankton availability was reduced, all helpers increased feeding rate and moved further away from shelter. Helping correlated negatively with feeding, which suggests a trade-off between foraging effort and cooperation. All group members attacked experimentally presented Qgg predators later in the food reduction treatment and small helpers in particular decreased their defence effort against them. Furthermore, all subordinates tended to perform less work when food was reduced. 3. This is the first study where food availability was generally reduced in the environment of a cooperative breeder, without affecting the resource distribution between territories. Thereby, our experimental manipulation did not provide dispersal incentives to the test animals, which might have interfered with the decision of subordinates to cooperate. The experimental variation of the costs of resource acquisition for group members revealed significant effects on foraging, spacing, social interactions, and helping behaviour, which highlights the potential importance of ecological constraints on the behaviour, social structure and cooperation propensity in highly social vertebrates.
2390420|1. Although there is some evidence that exposure to heavy metals can disrupt osmoregulation in crustaceans, most studies have been carried out on relatively pollution-tolerant, marine or estuarine species. Consequently the effects of waterborne zinc (Zn) on osmoregulation by the freshwater amphipod, Gammarus pulex (L.), from two populations that differ in their heavy metal sensitivity, have been compared. 2. `Clean' site animals (Clowne, Derbyshire) exhibited a marked haemoconcentration (after 4 days at 37.0  mol Zn l<sup>-1</sup>, 5 days at 18.2  mol Zn l<sup>-1</sup>) shown by an increase in haemolymph osmotic pressure (OP<sub>h</sub>) and \lbrackNa<sup>+</sup>\rbrack and \lbrackK<sup>+</sup>\rbrack. However, after 5 days at 37.0  mol Zn l<sup>-1</sup>, haemolymph of survivors exhibited an OP<sub>h</sub> significantly less than controls. `Contaminated' site animals showed a reduction in OP<sub>h</sub> (but not ions) only after 5 days at 76.2  mol Zn l<sup>-1</sup>. 3. There were differences in the threshold and nature of osmoregulatory response to Zn between animals from `clean' and `contaminated' sites, but only at concentrations in excess of those (a) known to affect growth and reproduction in `clean' site animals and (b) occurring at the `contaminated' site. Clearly population differences in physiological capacity and tolerance do exist but their ecological significance is unclear.
3598994|1. Many birds sequester carotenoid pigments in colourful patches of feathers to advertise or compete for mates. Because carotenoids can be scarce in nature and serve valuable physiological functions, only the highest-quality individuals are thought to acquire or allocate more pigments for use in sexual displays. 2. A critical but rarely tested assumption of carotenoid-based signals is that the colour of pigmented feather patches directly reveals the total amount of carotenoids contained within them. 3. We studied the relationship between carotenoid-based coloration (hue, chroma and brightness) and the pigment content of tail feathers in wild-caught and captive male greenfinches (Carduelis chloris [Linnaeus]). Greenfinches incorporate two main carotenoids -- canary xanthophylls A and B -- into feathers to develop yellow patches of colour in their tail. 4. Variation in feather carotenoid content explained 32-51% of variation in chroma and hue of the yellow parts of tail feathers, while feather brightness was not significantly related to carotenoid concentration. Hence, chroma and hue appear good candidates to indicate feather carotenoid content. 5. Birds with the most colourful feathers deposited significantly more of both canary xanthophylls into plumage. Thus, there does not appear to be a specific biochemical strategy for becoming colourful in greenfinches; males instead follow the general decision rule to deposit as many xanthophylls as possible into feathers to become yellow.
10.2307/2390250|1. Data from permanent grassland plots, collected yearly over a 10 year period were analysed for correlation between weather variables and plant performance. Number of modules and mean biomass of the module were recorded separately. Because the two variables are inter-related, both with each other and with the values in preceding years, regression residuals were used to quantify the response in the particular year. The performance variables were correlated with the monthly averages of temperature and bimonthly averages of precipitation. 2. There was a large year-to-year component of variation in species performance. For biomass, the year-to-year variation is largely explained by correlations with weather; in number of modules, some species show variation which is not explained by the weather variables studied. Weather variables of both current and preceding years showed significant correlations with species performance. 3. Species responded characteristically to weather variables and in any one species, the number of modules and the biomass do not necessarily respond in the same way. This may be an important mechanism creating time lags in the community response to weather variables and, more generally, may be responsible for non-linearity of the community response to the weather.
10.2307/2389394|Allometric scaling in ants with polymorphic castes often remains curvilinear after logarithmic transformation. A technique for comparing non-linear scaling is developed and used to compare caste polymorphism in the leaf-cutting ant Atta colombica Guerin and the army ant Eciton hamatum (Fab.). Of the five morphological characters compared, the scaling of leg length to the cube root of body mass (M<sup>1/3</sup>) differed the most: relative leg length increased with M<sup>1/3</sup> in E. hamatum and decreased with M<sup>1/3</sup> in A. colombica. This difference reflected species differences in the energetics and foraging behaviour.
2656509|1. The effects of microhabitat and plant form on sunlight interception, leaf temperatures, frost occurrence and photosynthesis were evaluated for Caltha leptosepala DC and Erythronium grandiflorum Pursh. Both plants are perennials that commonly emerge from alpine snowbanks where the combination of cool temperatures and strong sunlight is among the most extreme for vascular plants. 2. Caltha leptosepala occurred in microsites where colder air accumulates, and has larger, less inclined and more densely clustered leaves compared to E. grandiflorum (which has two steeply inclined leaves). 3. These differences in microsite and plant form led to leaf temperatures below 0 <sup></sup>C on 70% of nights during the summer growth season in C. leptosepala, compared to only 38% in E. grandiflorum. Leaves of C. leptosepala warmed more slowly on mornings following frosts compared to E. grandiflorum, due to less aerodynamic coupling between leaf and air temperature, and also a 45% smaller ratio of sunlit to total leaf area due to mutual shading among leaves. 4. As a result, night frost did not affect subsequent CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation (A) in E. grandiflorum, while frostless nights and warmer mornings led to 35% greater A in C. leptosepala in the early morning. 5. There were no appreciable differences in the temperature and light response of photosynthesis between the two species. The apparent quantum yield of A declined only 8% in both species following frost and exposure to strong sunlight, indicating little adjustment of photosynthetic physiology. 6. Greater daily carbon gain probably occurs for E. grandiflorum because of its plant form and microclimate, rather than differences in photosynthetic physiology.
2390518|1. Two species of voles were fed high fibre (barnyard grass) and low fibre (alfalfa) diets to test the integrated processing response (IPR) hypothesis. This hypothesis states that many herbivores are able to maintain their required intake of digestible nutrients and energy on diets with very different fibre content because of compensatory changes in intake of food, size of gastro-intestinal (GI) tract, passage rates of fibre and absorptive capacity of the GI tract. 2. As predicted by the IPR hypothesis, each species of vole maintained a similar intake of digestible dry matter on the two different diets. Both species also had greater intake, larger GI size, shorter mean retention times and greater GI mass (an indicator of epithelial mass and absorptive capacity) when fed grass than when fed alfalfa. 3. The two species differed in that meadow voles, the more active species, had greater total intake and obtained a greater amount of digestible dry matter from either diet than did prairie voles. Meadow voles also consume more grass in the field than do prairie voles, and they digested grass better than did prairie voles. Prairie voles, which consume more dicots in the field, digested alfalfa better than did meadow voles. 4. Meadow voles had longer GI tracts, particularly small intestines, than did prairie voles, which may be linked to their greater ability to digest grass. However, meadow voles did not have larger caeca than prairie voles, even though caecal size increased on grass diets for both species. The GI size of prairie voles fed grass increased more than did the GI size of meadow voles, and this may have enabled prairie voles to utilize a grass diet, though they prefer to eat dicots. Greater selection of leaves, which have less fibre than stems, and longer mean retention times of food may account for better digestion of alfalfa by prairie voles.
10.2307/2389823|1. Plant leaves were collected from four sites in Kenya, East Africa and analysed for %N, 
2390352|1. A simple experimental device was designed, in which seeds can be exposed to natural fluctuation of surface soil temperature under a constant soil moisture condition maintained by an automatic water supply system based on the principle of a Mariotte siphon. 2. Except for the period during summer drought, surface soil temperature at a depth of 5 cm and its fluctuation within the device were largely similar to the temperature of the surface soil subjected to natural fluctuation of moisture. 3. The seeds of Persicaria lapathifolia placed at the depth of 0.5 cm in the soil within the device germinated during the natural germination season of the species, while the seeds placed at the depth of 5 cm or beneath the 10 cm-thick layer of litter failed to germinate. 4. The ungerminated seeds retrieved in August did not germinate at the favourable alternating temperature in the laboratory test unless exposed to previous moist chilling, suggesting the induction of secondary dormancy. Therefore, higher summer temperatures but not summer drought or moisture fluctuation seem to have been responsible for the dormancy induction, because the dormancy was induced in the fully hydrated seeds.
10.2307/2389402|We have investigated the combined effects of three temperature regimes before and after chilling of the seeds, and seven light regimes, on the germination of four chalk grassland species with different life spans. The light regimes differed in red/far red ratio and in photon flux density. The relation between the occurrence of the species in the field, their life span and their germination characteristics is discussed. The long-lived perennial Origanum vulgare L. and the monocarpic perennial Carlina vulgaris L. showed the same response in most treatments. The germination of unchilled seeds was positively correlated with temperature and with the red/far red ratio of the light. After the seeds had been chilled almost complete germination was recorded in all treatments with light. In darkness after chilling Carlina showed a much higher germination than Origanum. The biennial Linum catharticum L. germinated only after chilling. Its germination was correlated positively with the red/far red ratio and negatively with temperature; very little germination occurred in darkness. Chilling inhibited germination of seeds of the winter annual Arenaria serpyllifolia L. Germination of unchilled seeds of this species was positively correlated with temperature and red/far red ratio. The relation between the micro-habitat preference of the plants in the field and the germination characteristics of the seeds is more readily interpretable for Linum and Arenaria than for Origanum and Carlina.
10.2307/2389461|Older year classes of Nucula turgida (Leckenby and Marshall) (6+, 7+) were selectively predated by Natica and the chances of survival beyond this age were slight. At this size, the energy required for respiration exceeded that acquired through absorption. Therefore both predation and energy balance studies suggested a maximum size of some 15 mm shell length, which agreed closely with field data. The energy balance was optimum for reproduction (W<sub>opt</sub>) at a size of 5-7 mm shell length, again in close agreement with field data. The reproductive strategy of N. turgida changed from `restraint' to `recklessness' (sensu Calow, 1981) with age and, despite the high lipid content of the eggs, there was little difference between males and females in reproductive investments.
4540062| 1. Previous studies have demonstrated that wind dispersal is an effective mode of seed dispersal for pines (Pinus, Pinaceae) with seeds weighing <90 mg, but not for largerseeded (90 mg) pines. Consequently, most large- pines rely on birds in the family Corvidae for seed dispersal, but some do not, and most of their seeds fall near the parent tree. Why seeds of these pines are not dispersed by corvids, and have not evolved traits that facilitate seed dispersal by corvids, is enigmatic. 2. One factor that may constrain the evolution of seed dispersal by corvids in pines, or in other plants that rely on birds for seed dispersal, is predispersal seed predation. The most important predispersal seed predators of pines are often tree squirrels in the genera Tamiasciurus and Sciurus, which have repeatedly been shown to drive the evolution of seed defences in conifers. 3. We first use published data showing how selection on cone traits of two birddispersed pines by tree squirrels (Tamiasciurus) favouring increased seed defences, conflicts with selection by a corvid (Nucifraga columbiana Wilson) for cone traits that facilitate seed dispersal, to make predictions about changes in cone and seed structure of large-seeded pines that should evolve in response to selection by either tree squirrels or corvids. 4. The cone and seed structures from several other large-seeded pines in regions with and without pine squirrels were consistent with these predicted changes. Consequently, large-seeded pines that co-occur with Tamiasciurus or other tree squirrels are well defended against both squirrels and corvids, and instead probably rely on other animals, such as ground-foraging rodents, that disperse fallen seeds (secondary seed dispersal). Only where tree squirrels are uncommon or absent are conifers likely to evolve traits that enhance seed harvest by corvids in large-seeded pines. 
10.2307/2389935|1. We develop a general model to show how the energy delivered by a parent bird to its young may be limited by either time constraints or energy constraints acting on the parent. The model gives explicit equations for each constraint. 2. We illustrate the model using data from the Thick-billed Murre, which raises a single chick. The chick leaves the nest site at less than one third of the adult mass and unable to fly. Although this behaviour has been discussed in terms of adaptations to foraging constraints that operate on the breeding adults, these constraints have hitherto not been examined in detail. 3. We show that the maximum size of chick depends strongly on the distance that a parent must travel on a foraging trip. When the round-trip distance is more than 100 km, the Thick-billed Murre is unlikely to be able to raise the chick's fledging mass above 65% of the adult mass, and hence is unable to adopt a semi-praecocial chick-rearing strategy. 4. Our results suggest that if the parent bird is limited by energy expenditure then the time spent brooding does not have much of an effect on maximum chick size.
3599032|1. Associational refuges -- reduced herbivory on plants in presence of other plant species -- may be caused by general and species-specific plant characteristics. However, the species specificity of associational refuges has rarely been evaluated. 2. This study examined the species specificity of one known example of associational refuges, the forb Lythrum salicaria and the monophagous insect herbivores Galerucella calmariensis, G. pusilla and Nanophyes marmoratus. The underlying mechanism was examined in order to evaluate connections between mechanisms and species specificity. 3. Laboratory studies showed that N. marmoratus but not Galerucella individuals were attracted by odour from undamaged host plants, and that neither species was distracted by odour from Myrica gale. 4. Field experiments showed that three non-host plant neighbours with an appearance similar to M. gale, and artificial shrubs, reduced the abundance and egg-laying of Galerucella species by 70-90%. The abundance of N. marmoratus was increased 18-fold on plants in thickets compared with outside. 5. The different responses by N. marmoratus and the Galerucella species to plant neighbours appear to be because N. marmoratus, but not Galerucella, uses olfactory information in the initial host-finding process.
3599121| 1. While cycads are often considered to be wind-pollinated, it is now clear that insects are pollen vectors in many species. This study addresses the role of thermogenesis in pollination biology of the dioecious cycad Macrozamia machinii P.I. Forster & D.L. Jones. 2. The patterns of thermogenesis in intact male and female cones were assessed with thermometry and respirometry throughout the pollination period in the field. 3. Thermogenic episodes in male cones occurred from about 17.00-00.00 h on successive evenings, in association with dehiscence of sporangia and presence of their pollinating weevils (Tranes sp.). 4. Temperatures of the 167 g male cones rose 6 C above ambient, and mean rate of oxygen consumption peaked at 77 mol s
10.2307/2389485|The quantitative relationship between the emission rate of host attractants (whether olfactory or visual) and the host-seeking rate of insect vectors of disease will determine the relationship between host group size and the prevalence of vector-borne diseases within each group. A comparative study was carried out to test whether interspecific differences in social behaviour significantly influence the malaria infection rates of different Amazonian primate species. The aetiological agent of monkey malaria in Amazonia is Plasmodium brasilianum Gonder & Berenberg-Gossler, 1908, and blood smear examinations of 3599 Amazonian primates over three decades have demonstrated an average infection rate with P. brasilianum of 10.4%. P. brasilianum has been detected in only 17/33 species examined, and the infection rate of those 17 species ranged from 2.1 to 50.0%. Logistic and standard linear regressions, at three different taxonomic levels, demonstrate that a significant proportion of the interspecific variation in infection rate can be explained by variation in average body weight (W) and average sleeping group size (G). Infection rate could increase with W and G due to enhanced odour production attracting a greater number of anopheline mosquito vectors of monkey malaria per host. Given that parasites reduce host fitness, the results suggest that, contrary to conventional wisdom, mosquito-borne diseases are a significant cost associated with larger group size.
41319619|1. Theory predicts that herbivores will regulate doses of potentially toxic plant secondary compounds (PSCs) by adjusting meal size, the interval between meals and water intake. Furthermore, the PSC concentrations at which these behavioural modifications are employed are predicted to be species dependent because of interspecific variation in biotransformation capacities. 2. To investigate these hypotheses, we examined ingestive behaviour of two species of rodents that differ in diet breadth and biotransformation capacity. We compared the spontaneous feeding behaviour of Neotoma stephensi, a juniper specialist, and Neotoma albigula, a generalist, fed a series of diets with increasing concentrations of one-seeded juniper (Juniperus monosperma). Juniper contains significant quantities of PSCs, particularly alpha-pinene, a diuretic. We fed each species a series of diets with increasing concentrations of juniper. 3. The specialist, N. stephensi, did not regulate PSC intake at any juniper concentration nor did it alter its drinking behaviour. The generalist, however, showed PSC regulation by decreasing meal size in a dose-dependent manner, by increasing the interval between meals, and by substantially increasing water intake. 4. Water consumption was the only factor that could significantly predict an individual's ability to maintain body mass, which suggests that water consumption may be exceptionally important as the PSC content of an individual's diet varies. 5. These data provide support for the hypotheses that generalist herbivores can and do behaviourally regulate PSC intake and suggest that the differences in foraging behaviour may be correlated with diet content and biotransformation capacity.
10.2307/2390504|1. To investigate the underlying causes of the inherently low relative growth rate (RGR) in alpine plants, we compared the carbon economy of six altitudinally contrasting Poa species. These included two alpine (P. fawcettiae and P. costiniana), one sub-alpine (P. alpina) and three temperate lowland (P. pratensis, P. compressa and P. trivialis) species. 2. All species were grown hydroponically under identical controlled conditions. The RGRs of each of the selected species were: P. fawcettiae (111 mg g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>), P. costiniana (125 mg g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>), P. alpina (166 mg g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>), P. pratensis (179 mg g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>), P. compressa (188 mg g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>) and P. trivialis (255 mg g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>). 3. The slow growth of the alpines could not be attributed to lower rates of photosynthesis per unit leaf area. Similarly, higher rates of shoot and root respiration rates per unit dry mass per se could not explain the slower growth exhibited by the alpine species. The differences in RGR were also not owing to differences in whole plant carbon concentration or the proportion of whole plant biomass allocated to the leaves, stems and roots. 4. The only parameter that did explain the variation in RGR was specific leaf area (SLA, leaf area per leaf dry mass), with the alpine species exhibiting significantly lower SLAs than the sub-alpine and lowland species. Consequently, the rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf dry mass was substantially lower in the slow-growing alpine species. The alpine species also used a greater proportion of their daily fixed carbon in respiration than did the fast-growing lowland species. 5. We conclude that low SLA is the primary cause of the inherently low growth rates of the selected alpine Poa species in our controlled environment. The possible causes of low RGR of field-grown alpine plants are discussed.
10.2307/2389462|Two pierid butterflies show conditional oviposition strategies, where low-ranked hosts are selected only when primary hosts are rare or absent. These two butterflies are of highly divergent ecologies; in these and other species, conditional oviposition does not obviously correlate with population parameters. We suggest that conditional host use may be more frequent than is presently recognized and that there is a systematic bias against discovering a behaviour which is only occasionally expressed.
10.2307/2389736|Hatchlings of the land snail Arianta arbustorum (L.) were used to test whether the ingestion of conspecific eggs confers nutritional advantages to a cannibal in terms of increased growth rate and survival. In the field, hatchlings of A. arbustorum consume unhatched sibling eggs as well as eggs from neighbouring batches. In a laboratory experiment, 20 newly hatched sibling snails from each of 24 egg batches were divided into two groups and fed either conspecific eggs or lettuce for 10 days. Growth during this period was recorded, as well as subsequent growth and survival to maturity. During this latter period the animals of both groups were kept under identical conditions and fed on lettuce. Hatchlings fed a cannibalistic diet during their first 10 days of life experienced an increase in wet weight 2.6 times as high as those fed on lettuce. Diet did not affect hatchling survival, but it did influence future survival: 66.6% of the individuals initially fed on eggs attained adulthood compared to 38.0% of those fed on lettuce. Cannibalistic hatchlings tended to complete shell growth more rapidly and thus became mature earlier than non-cannibalistic ones, but the two groups did not differ in adult shell size. Thus, a cannibalistic diet during the hatchling stage will give accelerated growth and higher survival.
2390545|1. Trophic breadth may be correlated with behavioural and functional versatility or flexibility (Liem 1984), such that species with limited diets would be predicted to be less versatile or flexible in their feeding capabilities than would trophic generalists. The relationship was examined between the trophic breadth of a species and the degree to which muscle activity is influenced by prey type in two species of pufferfishes: Chilomycterus schoepfi, a specialist on hard-shelled prey, and Sphoeroides nephalus, a generalist predator. It was predicted that the specialist would show a decreased ability to alter its motor pattern in response to prey type and an increased amount of motorpattern variability when feeding on different prey. 2. Electromyographic recordings of five feeding muscles were made from five individuals per species feeding on four prey types that differed in their hardness and escape abilities. Muscle-activity duration, relative onset and integrated rectified area were analysed for prey capture and manipulation behaviours for each prey type. 3. Prey-type effects on mean motor-pattern variables for capture were limited to one of 14 variables in each species. Prey effects on buccal manipulation were not significant for any of the 14 variables for C. schoepfi, but S. nephalus exhibited prey effects for seven out of 14 variables. No differences in motor-pattern variation were found for the strike, but species differed significantly in overall motor-pattern variability during buccal manipulation; C. schoepfi, the dietary specialist, exhibited greater motor variability than S. nephalus, the dietary generalist. 4. The results therefore support a direct relationship between the trophic breadth of a species and its functional versatility for buccal manipulation. In contrast, prey capture was a relatively stereotyped behaviour for both species, as few prey-type effects were found.
2390437|1. A three-dimensional geometric simulation model of crown architecture was utilized to investigate the efficiency of light capture and its relationship to whole-plant CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation of Adenocaulon bicolor. 2. Positioning of the leaves by the combined effects of ontogenetic variations in petiole length and angle and leaf size, and the leaf divergence angles were shown to be effective in minimizing self shading. The efficiency of light absorption varied from 0.64 to 0.70 among individual plants that were sampled. 3. Plant to plant variation in simulated daily carbon gain was strongly influenced by variations in the direct and diffuse PFD received by the individual plants. When simulations were run for all plants under a single common light environment, the carbon gain was strongly dependent on the efficiences of the light absorption of the different plants. 4. Simulations in which petiole length was varied showed a non-liner dependence of light absorption efficiency of petiole length. When both petiole length and leaf size were varied in a way that maintained a constant biomass then an optimal length that corresponded to the observed petiole length and leaf size were varied in a way that maintained a constant biomass then an optimal petiole length that corresponded to the observed petiole length was apparent. The observed divergence angle between successive leaves also maximized light absorption efficiency as compared to greater or lesser angles, but increases in internode length had no significant effect. 5. the results of this study provide evidence for selection for an `optimal design' of crown architecture in Adenocaulon bicolor that maximizes light capture.
2390434|1. Temperature has an important effect on all physiological processes in animals that rely on external sources of heat (ectotherms). In an attempt to elucidate the interaction between temperature and the response of ectotherms to heavy metals, a study was made of growth (increase of body mass) of the isopod Porcellio scaber under four constant temperature regimes (12, 16, 20, 24 <sup></sup>C), and four different exposures to cadmium (0.016, 0.071, 0.14 and 0.31  mol g<sup>-1</sup> in the diet), in a factorial experiment. 2. There were significant effects on growth rate for both cadmium and temperature, and the interaction between cadmium and temperature was also significant. The average growth rate per week increased with increasing temperature, but the results showed that when cadmium was present at concentrations higher than 0.071  mol g<sup>-1</sup>, it disturbed the temperature-induced growth enhancement. 3. There was a tendency for cadmium to be least toxic at intermediate temperature (16<sup></sup>C), but the 50% and 10% effect concentrations in the diet, estimated by loglogistic curve fitting, did not significantly vary with temperature. The average values were EC<sub>50</sub>=0.330  mol g<sup>-1</sup> and EC<sub>10</sub>=0.041  mol g<sup>-1</sup>. 4. The Arrhenius model was used to describe the temperature-growth rate relationship, and activation energies were estimated for each cadmium exposure. At the highest cadmium concentration the Arrhenius model did not describe the data very well. The lowest activation energy was observed at 0.14  mol g<sup>-1</sup>. 5. Cadmium accumulation in isopods was linearly related to the cadmium concentration in food, for all temperature levels. The significant increase in cadmium concentration with temperature indicates that the effect of temperature on cadmium accumulation is stronger than its effect on body growth. As a whole the data illustrate the importance of taking temperature into account when conducting ecotoxicological studies with soil invertebrates.
40863576|1. In vertebrates, bite force is a measure of whole organism performance that is associated with both cranial morphology and dietary ecology. Mechanistic studies of bite force production have identified morphological features associated with bite force, and linked bite force with diet, but this approach has rarely been used in mammals. 2. Mammals are a good system with which to investigate the function of the feeding apparatus because of the relative simplicity of their skulls and their high dietary diversity. Phyllostomid bats are one of the most trophically and morphologically diverse groups of mammals, but we know little about the relative importance of biomechanical variables in producing bite force or how these variables vary with diet. 3. We combined in vivo measurements of bite force with assessments of muscular and bony morphology to build and validate a model describing the mechanics of bite force production in 25 species of bats. We used this model to investigate how bats with different diets vary in biomechanical parameters that contribute to bite force. In addition to traditional dietary categories, we used a functional definition of diet that reflects the mechanical demands (hardness) of the food items in the natural diet. 4. Our model provided good predictions of in vivo bite forces and highlighted behavioural variation that is inherent in the in vivo data. The temporalis generates the highest moment about the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) axis, but the moment generated by the masseter is the most important variable in explaining variation among species. The dietary classification based on the hardness of the diet was more effective than traditional dietary categories in describing biomechanical differences among groups. The temporalis generated the highest proportion of the moment about the TMJ axis in species with very hard and hard diets, the masseter was most important for species with soft diets, and the medial pterygoid was most important for species with liquid diets. 5. Our results highlight the utility of combining a modelling approach with in vivo data when conducting ecomorphological studies, and the importance of ecological classifications that reflect functional importance of performance traits.
40205503|1. Primates meet their nutritional goals by prioritizing certain nutritional parameters when choosing the types and quantities of different foods. 2. There are five major models applied in primate nutritional ecology, each of which proposes that diet selection subserves a different primary nutritional goal: (i) energy maximization; (ii) nitrogen (protein) maximization; (iii) avoidance or regulation of intake of plant secondary metabolites; (iv) limitations on the intake of dietary fibre; and (v) nutrient balancing. 3. Here, we review the evidence in support of each of these nutritional goals as drivers of primate diet selection. We discuss some of the costs and benefits associated with different methodological approaches used in primate nutritional ecology. 4. New approaches developed outside of primatology have provided better frameworks for understanding the nutritional goals of some primate species. We suggest that the field of primate nutritional ecology needs to take greater advantage of the techniques developed by nutritional ecologists working in other fields. 5. Specifically, we recommend (i) the increased application of the Geometric Framework for nutrition, (ii) the application of methodological approaches that enable the estimation of nutrient and energy availability from food sources, and (iii) continuous follows of individual primates in the wild for determining primary nutritional goals.
826720|1. Previous studies have shown that cadmium exposure of blowfly populations (Lucilia sericata [Meigen 1826]) results in reduced population growth rate, but also in higher individual mass, because of reduced competition for food. In this study, the discrepancy between the positive effect on individual growth and the negative effect on population growth is investigated, by measuring direct and delayed effects of cadmium in the adult stage. 2. Blowfly populations were exposed to cadmium through the diet in four treatment combinations: larval stage, adult stage, both stages or neither stage. The effects on accumulation of cadmium, survival, development time, mass and reproductive rate were measured. 3. Cadmium was accumulated from both stages. 4. Individuals exposed to cadmium in the larval stage had higher mean pupal and adult mass (because of reduced densities), but also reduced adult longevity and fecundity. 5. Adult longevity and fecundity were also reduced by cadmium exposure in the adult stage. 6. In stage-structured populations, the link between individual-level and population-level responses to a toxicant may be complicated by stage-specific sensitivities to the toxicant, by delayed responses in the adult stage to sublethal effects in the juvenile stage, and by density-dependent compensatory responses to toxicant-induced mortality.
3599252|1. By randomly dividing adult females of the butterfly Bicyclus anynana, reared in a common environment, among high and low temperatures, it is demonstrated that oviposition temperature induces a plastic response in egg size. Females kept at a lower temperature laid significantly larger eggs than those ovipositing at a higher temperature. 2. Cross-transferring the experimentally manipulated eggs between temperatures and investigating hatching success showed that a lower rearing temperature is more detrimental for the smaller eggs produced at a higher temperature than for the larger eggs produced at a lower temperature, supporting an adaptive explanation. 3. However, when examining two potential mechanisms for an increased fitness of larger offspring (higher desiccation resistance of larger eggs and higher starvation resistance of larger hatchlings), no direct link between egg size and offspring fitness was found. Throughout, i.e. even under benign conditions, larger offspring had a higher fitness. 4. Therefore, egg size should be viewed as a conveniently measurable proxy for the plastic responses induced by temperature, but caution is needed before implying that egg size per se is causal in influencing offspring traits.
4139346|1. Natural selection is generally thought to operate on organisms' maximal abilities to perform ecological tasks in nature (i.e. whole-animal performance). However, selection may instead operate on the manner in which that performance trait is used (i.e. 'ecological performance'). 2. I tested whether survival of adult Collared Lizards (Crotaphytus collaris) depended on maximal sprint speed capacity or on the speed at which they actually performed two important ecological tasks: chasing a prey item and escaping a predator. 3. Maximal sprint speed did not significantly predict annual survival as determined by daily censuses of the site the following season, nor did speed while foraging, but speed while escaping a predator did. Survival also was positively related to the proportion of maximal capacity used while escaping. 4. These results suggest that selection may operate on ecological performance that is constrained, but not necessarily determined, by maximal performance capacity, suggesting that researchers should consider how organisms utilize maximal performance in nature when testing for a performance-survival relationship.
10.2307/2389728|An investigation of resources allocated to soma vs reproductive reserves at adult eclosion in a satyrine butterfly Pararge aegeria (L.), reveals that heavy females have a higher proportion of both their total carbon and total nitrogen allocated to the abdomen compared to light females. Males allocate differently, with smaller amounts of resources allocated to the abdomen. As among females, heavy males have a higher proportion of their total carbon allocated to the abdomen compared to light males, but abdominal nitrogen is unaffected by body size. These resource allocation patterns are predicted to affect reproductive output, particularly in butterflies with insignificant adult intake of nitrogenous compounds. In accordance with this, heavy females in this study have a proportionately higher lifetime fecundity compared to light females. Females that were deprived of sucrose during their oviposition period have a reduced lifetime fecundity, but the allometric pattern between fecundity and body size remains. Longevity among both males and females is influenced by sucrose feeding. Longevity is also influenced by body weight among unfed females.
2656534|1. The number of eggs, their size, mass and development time, and the starvation time of newly hatched young, was examined in four populations of Gammarus lacustris along an elevation gradient from prairie to alpine lakes (730 m to > 2300 m above sea level). Water temperature and ice-free season decreased with increasing altitude. 2. Females in the alpine lake produced fewer but larger and heavier eggs than females in the prairie lake. Eggs produced by females in montane and subalpine lakes were intermediate in size, mass and number. Within populations, egg size was not related to the number of eggs or female size. 3. The development time of eggs declined with an increase in incubation temperature. At all incubation temperatures, large eggs had a longer incubation time than small eggs. All eggs incubated at 4<sup></sup>C failed to produce young. Young from large eggs were larger in size than young from small eggs. 4. The starvation time of newly hatched young increased with decreasing temperature. However, slopes of regressions relating starvation time to temperature differed among populations. At 4<sup></sup>C young from large eggs survived longer than young from small eggs. 5. The high phenotypic plasticity in reproductive traits contributes to the success of G. lacustris in a wide range of aquatic habitats. It is predicted that in response to climate-induced warming, populations in currently cold montane and alpine lakes would shift their reproduction to produce more eggs of smaller size. However, the accurate prediction of the fate of populations between ecoregions will require knowledge of the extent to which these traits are under genetic control.
3599148|1. We provided equal feeding opportunities for bark-foraging bird species across seasons, cleared and uncleared woody understories, edge-to-interior habitat and tree diameters in a deciduous oak forest in north-eastern Illinois, USA, to determine habitat preferences of these bird species. We determined habitat preferences by quantifying patch-use intensity. 2. Patch-use intensity was greater in the breeding season than in the non-breeding season, and in interior than in edge habitat. In addition, however, we found interactions among the habitat variables. For instance, these bird species showed significant preferences for foraging in woodland interior habitat and on large diameter trees in the breeding season, but not in the non-breeding season. 3. Foraging preferences were further affected by understorey clearing, with preference for interior over edge habitat reversed in the cleared habitat in the non-breeding season. This effect may reflect unintended consequences of topography, an uncontrolled factor outside the experiment protocol. 4. Overall, the results suggest that patch-use results from the response of the bird species to effects of vegetation variation from edge to interior habitat on both microclimate and predation risk. Those effects of vegetation may disappear or diminish when understorey vegetation is removed or reduced.
41239305|1. In species inhabiting a seasonal environment, timing of birth may be highly correlated with fitness. However, we know little about the relative effects of conception date and gestation length in determining birth date in wild mammalian populations. 2. Here, we tested for variation in gestation length using long-term data from a wild ungulate population (red deer, with observations running from 1971 to 2007). High March temperatures during gestation were associated with shorter average gestation length (a decrease of 0.77 days for every degree warmer), but we found no significant correlations with female age, recent reproductive history or offspring sex. 3. We also tested whether early or late conceiving females adjusted gestation length to give birth closer to an optimum time. Simply fitting conception date as a fixed effect in a model of gestation length is not statistically sound as errors in determining conception date could drive an observed negative covariance; consequently we also approached this problem using a novel technique of bivariate models. We found that late conception was indeed correlated with shorter gestation length, but this was not repeatable within females, suggesting either that the observed association may have been a statistical artefact or that gestation length adjustment may only be apparent on the rare occasions that females conceive outside an optimum time window. 4. Although there were no consistent differences between females in gestation length, there were differences between males in the gestation lengths of females with whom they mated. This possibly reflects a local environment effect, grouping females who were primarily in the same area during conception and gestation. 5. We conclude that observed variation in birth date is predominantly due to systematic variation in conception date as opposed to gestation length. Additionally, we highlight the broad range of reproductive tactics utilized by a number of closely related species, and consequently the difficulties inherent in cross-species comparisons of gestation length.
20142853|1. The intake of antioxidants confers health benefits to consumers by reducing oxidative stress and improving immune functions. Therefore, several life-history traits such as growth, immunity, senescence and the expression of sexually selected traits might be affected by dietary antioxidants. 2. Flavonoids are strong antioxidants in vitro, and are among the commonest found in fruits, which are a primary source of antioxidants for many animals. It is therefore likely that flavonoids play a beneficial role as dietary antioxidants, but their potential has been ignored in evolutionary ecology. 3. We investigated the ecological importance of flavonoids, using wild-caught blackcaps (Sylvia atricapilla), a frugivorous European songbird. 4. We verified the assumption that flavonoids can be absorbed and circulated by blackcaps. 5. In a food selection experiment, we showed that, when given a choice between food with and without fruit flavonoids, blackcaps actively select food with flavonoids. 6. We found a positive effect of flavonoids on humoral immune response. Birds supplemented for 4 weeks with a modest quantity of flavonoids were more likely to mount a humoral immune response after an immune-challenge, compared with control birds. 7. To conclude, our study demonstrates that birds select food with flavonoids and that these antioxidants increase consumer humoral immune response. Since these effects occurred at a moderate dose that is obtainable also by many omnivorous consumers, we suggest that flavonoids may play a beneficial role in ecological immunology for several wild species.
20142884|1. Accumulating evidence suggests that the phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI) locus is under thermal selection. In the Copper butterfly Lycaena tityrus PGI allele frequencies show altitudinal variation, with a single genotype occurring in c. 90% of high-altitude animals. In low-altitude populations variation at this locus is much higher. 2. Here, we investigate variation in life-history traits and temperature stress resistance across PGI genotypes in L. tityrus from different lowland populations reared at two temperatures (19 and 24 C). 3. PGI genotype significantly affected larval and pupal development time, growth rate, pupal mass and chill-coma recovery time, but had no effect on heat knock-down resistance. The latter suggests that heat and cold stress resistance are based on differential mechanisms. 4. As expected temperature also influenced all traits under investigation, its effect being more pronounced compared to that of PGI genotype (except for pupal mass). 5. Patterns found for the PGI genotype dominating in high-altitude populations were consistent with those found for high-altitude animals. Therefore, and because of the direct link between PGI genotype and cold stress resistance, we conclude that PGI is likely to contribute to thermal adaptation in L. tityrus. 6. Genotypes promoting rapid development and largest body size were rather rare, suggesting weak selection on both traits and/or rather high associated costs.
20142883|1. Despite the obvious importance of spermatozoa to individual reproductive success a general explanation of variation in spermatozoan form and function is still lacking. In species with internal fertilization, sperm not only have to interact with the physical and biochemical environment of the female reproductive tract, but frequently face competition from the sperm of rival males. Both sperm competition theory and adaptation to the selective environment of the female reproductive tract have been implicated in the evolution of spermatozoan morphological diversity. 2. Using the comparative method, we examine variation in sperm length in relation to (i) sperm competition intensity (as measured by relative testis size) and (ii) female reproductive characters, across 15 species of beetle belonging to the family Bruchidae. 3. Stepwise multiple regression within a phylogenetic framework revealed sperm length to be positively correlated with female spermathecal duct length and negatively related to spermathecal volume, but not testes size, indicating that the female reproductive environment rather than sperm competition per se exerts selection on sperm length in this taxonomic group. 4. A positive association between testes volume and the volume of the female spermatheca was also evident suggesting correlated evolution of these traits. 5. A number of models of sexual selection could lead to the correlated evolution of male and female reproductive characters, although the underlying mechanisms of cause and effect remain elusive. Divergence between species (and populations) in primary reproductive traits is likely to present a significant barrier to hetero-specific fertilization, and thus contribute to reproductive isolation.
3806581|1. Wildfires strongly influence the biotic composition and carbon cycle of many ecosystems. Plant species provide the fuel for wildfires, but vary widely in their flammability. This study aimed to determine what plant characteristics control leaf litter flammability and to clarify how they are related to other functional traits. 2. Litter flammability varied across 14 tree species occurring in a mosaic of five floristic associations. 3. Differences in heat-release rate between species were driven by leaf size, from small-leaved conifers, casuarinas and acacias to large-leaved eucalypts and Brachychiton. 4. Large leaves created an open litter-bed structure that burned more rapidly because it was better ventilated. The results on heat-release rate were partitioned according to fundamental principles for the transport of oxygen through a packed fuel bed, showing that heat-release rate scaled linearly with estimated gas-flow rates, as expected in ventilation-controlled fires. 5. Species that were able to resprout after fire had litter that burned more intensely and was more likely to sustain a spreading fire than litter from obligate seeders, and were correspondingly larger-leaved. 6. Many fire-prone wooded ecosystems in the region consist of large-leaved resprouting tree species co-occurring with small-leaved obligate seeders.
10.2307/2390106|1. Skinks (Chalcides ocellatus) used 50% more energy to crush and swallow hard-bodied insect prey (Tenebrio molitor beetles) than medium- and soft-bodied prey (Tenebrio molitor larvae and Manduca sexta larvae, respectively). 2. Even for beetles, however, the energy cost of prey handling was no more than 1% of the energy assimilated. 3. Differences in handling times are probably more important than differences in energetic costs in determining the desirability of different types of prey.
40407705|1. Metabolie rate is conventionally assumed to scale with body mass to the 3/4-power, independently of the metabolic level of the organisms being considered. However, recent analyses in a variety of animais and plants indicate that the power (log-log slope) of this relationship varies significantly with metabolic level, ranging from c. 2/3 to 1. 2. Here I show that the scaling slopes of rates of respiration and growth are related to the metabolic level of a variety of unicellular organisms, as similarly occurs for respiration rates in multicellular organisms. 3. The recently proposed 'metabolic-level boundaries hypothesis' provides insight into thse effects of metabolic level. As predicted, the scaling slopes for resting (endogenous) respiration rate in prokaryotes, algae and protozoans are negatively related to metabolic level; and in protozoans, the scaling slope increases with starvation. Also as predicted, the scaling slopes of growth rate in algae and protozoans are negatively related to growth level. Unexpectedly, opposite effects of starvation on the metabolic scaling slopes of unicellular prokaryotes (compared to that of eukaryotes) may be a spurious resuit of respiration measurements that did not adequately consider the effects of rapid celi multiplication in prokaryotes with extremely short generation times. 4. Analyses of both unicellular and multicellular organisms show that there is no universal metabolic scaling relationship, and that variation in metabolic scaling relationships is systematically and possibly universally related to metabolic level.
20142800|1. Aerodynamic theory predicts that migrant fliers should reduce their speed of flight as endogenous energy reserves are gradually consumed. This prediction was tested for butterfly species (Pieridae and Nymphalidae) that engage in annual rainy season migrations through central Panama. 2. Direct airspeed measurements were made on butterflies in natural free flight, followed by chloroform: methanol extractions of abdominal lipids from the same insects. 3. Among individuals within particular species/gender subsets, airspeeds during flight were higher with greater lipid content following adjustment for body mass. Although it was not possible to measure lipid content repeatedly on a single insect, these comparisons among individuals for five migratory species suggest that butterflies reduce their flight speed as lipid reserves are progressively depleted. 4. Because choice of airspeed can strongly influence the rate of energetic expenditure, these results together with previously described strategies of wind drift compensation in the same taxa demonstrate sophisticated long-distance orientation and optimization strategies by migratory Neotropical butterflies flying within the boundary layer.
3599113|1. Inflorescence architecture and floral morphology vary extensively within the Poaceae, but the functional significance of this variation remains largely unknown. As grasses are wind-pollinated, their inflorescence diversity probably reflects alternate solutions to manipulating airstreams to enhance pollen export and import. We tested this hypothesis with two field experiments that contrasted pollen removal and receipt by compact and diffuse inflorescences. 2. In the 'aggregation' experiment, we tied together panicle branches of two species with diffuse inflorescences, creating more compact inflorescences. Aggregation reduced pollen removal from both species, probably by increasing boundary-layer thickness. The effects of inflorescence aggregation differed between the two species in a manner that is consistent with pollen-size differences, which could affect the ability of pollen grains to pass through the thickened boundary layer around stigmas. 3. The 'staking' experiment constrained inflorescence motion and revealed that culm characteristics contribute to the interaction between grass inflorescences and airstreams. In particular, inflorescence oscillation principally serves pollen removal for species with compact inflorescences, but is of primary importance in pollen receipt for species with diffuse architectures. 4. These results suggest that inflorescence architecture interacts with wind in a complex manner to facilitate pollination and supports the hypothesis that the extensive diversity of inflorescence architecture within the Poaceae represents evolutionary solutions to the physical constraints of wind pollination.
4139330|1. Resprouting is a primary persistence mechanism in fire- and drought-prone ecosystems. Plants with this mechanism (resprouters) tend to exhibit deeper root-system and higher stem and leaf water potential. We test the extent to which non-resprouters counteract their lower root allocation by means of leaf traits that confer higher drought resistance. 2. Leaf mass per area (LMA), leaf dry matter content (LDMC), area-based leaf nitrogen content (
2656436|1. Respiration in eight lichen species was related to thallus hydration status, external temperature and to total nitrogen, chitin and ergosterol concentrations. Chitin is a nitrogenous and major compound of the fungal cell wall, and ergosterol is a sterol of the plasma membrane in fungi and sometimes in algae. 2. Hydration of previously dry thalli resulted in an initially high rate of respiration. Both the amplitude of this resaturation respiration and the time required to reach steady state varied among species. Generally, peak rates were one to three times higher than steady-state rates, which were reached 3-7 h after hydration. 3. Increases in external temperature also resulted in transient bursts in respiration. Again, both the amplitude of the burst and the time required to reach steady state varied among species. Also depending on species, a temperature increase from 5 to 15<sup></sup>C resulted in two- to fivefold increases in steady-state respiration. 4. Steady-state respiration, at optimal thallus hydration and a given temperature, varied three- to sixfold among the species, when related to thallus dry mass. This difference correlated best (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.89) with their ergosterol concentration, where a doubling in ergosterol resulted in more than a doubling in respiration. Respiration correlated less well to total nitrogen or chitin. 5. The chitin to ergosterol ratio varied more than one order of magnitude between the species, where species with high nitrogen concentrations had the highest ratio. This implies that species with access to ample amounts of nitrogen can make more fungal cell walls in relation to plasma membrane surface area.
10.2307/2389332|It has been argued that metabolic rate is an important variable in the evolution of life-history variation: high metabolic rates relative to body size are associated with high fecundity and short life-spans. We present here the first analysis in birds of the relationship between life-history variation and metabolic rate, controlling for the effects of body size. Our results from 325 species belonging to 18 different orders do not support the prediction that metabolic rate is positively correlated with the rate of offspring production and neonatal growth. Further, no evidence is found for the predicted negative association between metabolic rate and life-span. We conclude that there is no empirical evidence, based on the available data, that metabolic rate differences are associated with life-history variation in birds independently of body weight and phylogenetic association.
2656361|1. Plants adjust their phenotype in response to environmental signals, but little is known about the interaction of plastic responses to simultaneously occurring environmental stresses. 2. To examine the costs of induced resistance on reproductive performance in plants subjected to other important environmental variables, resistance was elicited with a jasmonate treatment (MeJA) to one, both or neither of two Nicotiana attenuata plants growing competitively in either high- or low-N soils. Half the plants were subjected to leaf removal (LR). K<sup>15</sup>NO<sub>3</sub> was used to quantify differences in N acquisition and allocation. Transgenerational effects were measured with seed germination and seedling performance tests. 3. An induced plant competing with an uninduced plant produced significantly fewer seeds, acquired less <sup>15</sup>N and allocated less <sup>15</sup>N to seed production. Uninduced plants competing with induced plants realized a comparable fitness benefit. 4. The costs of induction were greater under high N. Plants grown under low N minimized costs by allocating significantly more N to seeds. LR decreased seed production independently of any other effect. Low N and LR both reduced germination rates. 5. The effects of MeJA on seed germination depended on competition and N supply. The differences in germination rates resulted in dramatic fitness differences among offspring. 6. N. attenuata plants appear to use N availability and their induced status to alter their current phenotype and their offspring's phenotype to adjust to environmental changes that occur predictably over time in their natural environment.
41239448|1. As understanding of the energetic costs of reproduction in birds and mammals continues to improve, oxidative stress is an increasingly cited example of a non-energetic cost of reproduction that may serve as a proximal physiological link underlying life-history trade-offs. 2. Here, we provide the first study to measure daily energy expenditure (DEE) and oxidative damage in a wild population. We measured both traits on eastern chipmunks (Tamias striatus) and assessed their relationships with age, reproductive status, litter size and environmental conditions. 3. We found that both physiological traits were correlated with environmental characteristics (e.g. temperature, seasons). DEE tended to increase with decreasing temperature, while oxidative damage was lower in spring, after a winter of torpor expression, than in autumn. We also found that DEE decreased with age, while oxidative damage was elevated in young individuals, reduced in animals of intermediate age and tended to increase at older age. 4. After controlling for age and environmental variables, we found that both female DEE and oxidative damage increased with litter size, although the latter increased weakly. 5. Our results corroborate findings from laboratory studies but highlight the importance of considering environmental conditions, age and reproductive status in broader analyses of the causes and consequences of physiological costs of reproduction in wild animals.
10.2307/2389701|Responses of phenotypic features of grass species (Holcus lanatus L., Deschampsia flexuosa (L.) Trin., Poa annua L. and Lolium perenne L. cv. S.23 and cv. `Norlea') to the availability of nitrogen (0.02, 0.21 or 4.0 mol m<sup>-3</sup> nitrate or ammonium) were measured after 28 days' growth in solution culture. Plasticity was measured by relating phenotypic variations to the state of the plant growing at a maximum relative growth rate (R). The degree of plasticity of a phenotypic feature was independent of its level of organization but was species-dependent. Mean root radius was always the least plastic feature. Different degrees of plasticity occurred in different features of the same plants. There was little difference between species in overall plasticity. R was attained by each species adopting a unique phenotype which always included optimal values for root/shoot ratio and of total nitrogen concentrations in roots and shoots, other features being optimized, minimized or maximized depending on species. Root/shoot ratio was stabilized close to the optimum in D. flexuosa but varied widely in other species. At low concentrations of either nitrate or ammonium, the nitrogen concentrations in shoots of D. flexuosa and L. perenne cv. `Norlea' were maintained optimally for growth but those in the roots were reduced.
10.2307/2390253|1. The Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis proposes that within species, individuals with more elaborate secondary sexual traits signal their higher resistance to parasites. 2. Intraspecific tests of the correlation between secondary sexual traits and parasite load have given equivocal results, probably because of difficulties in deciding which parasite species are important for the process of sexual selection. 3. In this study we use a different approach by relating secondary sexual traits to the level of immune response in the hosts rather than the parasite load. It is well known that the number and proportions of different types of leucocytes reflect the health status of individuals, as these cells quickly respond to stress and infectious diseases. 4. The number and proportions of different types of leucocytes were counted in blood smears from male Great Tits, Parus major, and the intensities of the males' yellow plumage coloration were scored, in 1991 and 1992 on Gotland, SE Sweden. 5. We found a positive correlation between number and proportion of heterophils and colour intensity. 6. More than one interpretation is possible though we favour the view that brighter males signal low parasitation intensity as a result of their superior immunity.
40205500|1. Many insects derive nutritional advantage from persistent associations with microorganisms that variously synthesize essential nutrients or digest and detoxify ingested food. These persistent relationships are symbioses. 2. There is strong experimental evidence that symbiotic microorganisms provide plant sap-feeding insects with essential amino acids and contribute to the digestion of cellulose in some wood-feeding insects, including lower termites. Basic nutritional information is, however, lacking for many associations, including the relative roles of microbial and intrinsic sources of cellulose degradation in many insects and B-vitamin provisioning by microorganisms in blood-feeding insects. 3. Some nutritional interactions between insects and their symbiotic microorganisms vary among conspecifics and closely related species. This variation can, in principle, contribute to nutritional explanations for variation in the abundance and distribution of insects. For example, the plant utilization traits of phloem-feeding aphids and stinkbugs have been demonstrated to depend on the identity of microbial partners. Evidence that associations can evolve rapidly comes from the demonstration that the impact of the bacterium Wolbachia on natural populations of its insect host can change from deleterious to beneficial within two decades. 4. Developing genomic tools, especially massively parallel sequencing and metagenomic analyses, offer the opportunity to explore the metabolic capabilities of symbiotic microorganisms and their insect hosts, from which defined hypotheses of nutritional function can be constructed. Nutritional ecology provides the appropriate framework to test these hypotheses in the relevant ecological context.
10.2307/2390251|1. The relationship between clutch size and encounter time, escape behaviour and survival was studied by subjecting egg-carrying females of the copepod Eudiaptomus gracilis to fish predation in laboratory tanks. 2. Observation of the predation cycle of Zebra Fish showed time to prey encounter and prey survival time to be negatively correlated with clutch size. Prey with large clutches performed more evasive jumps when attacked but overall success in escaping was not related to clutch size. 3. In tanks with pure Eudiaptomus populations, both Zebra Fish and Roach fed selectively on individuals with large clutches. This demonstrates a clutch-size-dependent survival cost in a copepod. 4. The higher visibility of prey with large clutches, resulting in an increased encounter probability, is probably the cause of their increased predation risk. The ability to escape after detection may also be influenced by prey visibility.
41319612|1. An increasing body of knowledge suggests that the estimation of critical upper thermal limits (CT max ) is highly dependent on the experimental methodology employed. Here, we employ a theoretical approach to analyse how estimates of CT max (knock-down temperatures and times) are affected by measurement protocol. 2. Our model is able to reproduce the results of empirical studies on Drosophila rnelanogaster, suggesting that it adequately mimics organismal responses during assays. With simulated data sets, we also show that many experimental protocols result in unreliable and often highly biased estimates of CT max in Drosophila and possibly in other ectotherms. 3. The confounding effects of stochasticity, resource depletion (or fatigue) and short-term acclimatory responses are expected to be higher in longer assays, and therefore, short assays should be generally preferred. The experimental protocol of choice must also take into consideration the range in which measurement accuracy is not affected and the potential problems of thermal inertia in larger organisms. 4. Our findings justify previous concerns that the methodology may have a greater impact on estimates of CT max than the biological process under study, and explain why many studies on the subject have often reported inconsistent and even contradictory results.
2390526|1. A more general contingency model of optimal diet choice is developed, allowing for simultaneous searching and handling, which extends the theory to include grazing and browsing by large herbivores. 2. Foraging resolves into three modes: purely encounter-limited, purely handling-limited and mixed-process, in which either a handling-limited prey type is added to an encounter-limited diet, or the diet becomes handling-limited as it expands. 3. The purely encounter-limited diet is, in general, broader than that predicted by the conventional contingency model. 4. As the degree of simultaneity of searching and handling increases, the optimal diet expands to the point where it is handling-limited, at which point all inferior prey types are rejected. 5. Inclusion of a less profitable prey species is not necessarily independent of its encounter rate and the zero-one rule does not necessarily hold: some of the less profitable prey may be included in the optimal diet. This gives an optimal foraging explanation for herbivores' mixed diets. 6. Rules are shown for calculating the boundary between encounter-limited and handling-limited diets and for predicting the proportion of inferior prey to be included in a two-species diet. 7. The digestive rate model is modified to include simultaneous searching and handling, showing that the more they overlap, the more the predicted diet-breadth is likely to be reduced.
3598979|1. Physiology and life history of ex-ephippial and parthenogenetic offspring of Daphnia magna Straus were compared to test the hypothesis that females hatching from resting eggs are well adapted to the predictable high-food conditions of the spring algal bloom. 2. Although ex-ephippial neonates were smaller than parthenogenetic neonates, they showed higher juvenile growth rates that compensated for the size difference by the time of maturation. 3. At high food concentration, ex-ephippial females were even larger at maturation than parthenogenetic females, produced more eggs, and reached a higher rate of population increase. 4. The high activity of the ex-ephippial females was accompanied by higher metabolic rates, which in combination with the low initial mass resulted in reduced survival times under starvation. 5. Thus, the two phenotypic types of offspring produced by Daphnia are adapted to differing conditions. Ex-ephippial females are superior to parthenogenetic offspring under high food conditions, but inferior when food is limiting. 6. This pattern selects for synchronous hatching of resting eggs in spring when the spring algal bloom is to be expected.
41319575|1. Evidence suggests that developing and maintaining an effective immune system may be costly and that an organism has to make a trade-off between immune function and other fitness-enhancing traits. To test for a trade-off between growth and immune function we carried out a meta-analysis of data from lines of poultry that had been divergently selected for either growth (body mass) or an aspect of immune function. This is relevant to our understanding of the evolution of immune function, but also because the increased prevalence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and calls to restrict the use of antibiotics in the agricultural industry has made immune function of livestock an important theme. Has the selection of animals for rapid growth unintentionally resulted in reduced immune function? 2. The lines selected for increased growth all showed a strong and significant decrease in immune function (standard difference in means = 08; P < 0001). No difference was found between the effects on cellular or humoral immunity, although there were few data on cellular immunity, and hence this deserves more study. However, in the lines selected for immune function the effect on growth was heterogeneous and overall it was close to zero. 3. Testing for publication bias revealed that the effect of selection for body mass on immune function was robust. However, there was considerable heterogeneity in both body mass and immune function data. The heterogeneity in the growth-selected lines cannot be accounted for by gender or species: the only turkey line had an effect size between that of the two chicken lines. 4. In conclusion, we found that selection for growth does indeed compromise immune function, but selection for immune function did not consistently affect growth. This is in agreement with the supposition that the costs of growth are large relative to the costs of immune function, and on a practical level this suggests that it may be possible to breed animals for increased growth without loss of immune function.
10.2307/2389991|1. Little is known about how exposure to UV-B radiation affects rhizosphere microbes. Rhizosphere organisms are fed primarily by root-derived substrates and fulfil functions such as mineralization, immobilization, decomposition, pathogeneity and improvement of plant nutrition; they form the base of the below-ground food web. 2. In this study, we exposed Sugar Maple (Acer saccharum) seedlings to UV-B radiation in order to determine if UV-B influences the activities of mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal fungi, bacteria and microbe-feeding arthropods in the rhizosphere. 3. Below-ground organisms are greatly affected by UV-B radiation. Overall, carbon-flow in the plant soil system was shifted from a mutualistic-closed, mycorrhizal-dominated system to an opportunist-open, saprobe/pathogen-dominated one.
40205560|1. The extent to which variability in desiccation resistance among ecologically diverse Drosophila species is related to their ability to resist starvation is unknown. Resistance to desiccation and starvation was measured in females and males of ecologically and phylogenetically diverse Drosophila species. 2. We measured resistance to both stressors in ecologically and phylogenetically diverse species. In general females exhibited greater resistance to both stressors than males. Correcting for body size produces a highly significant correlation between resistances to both stressors in both sexes. 3. Phylogenetic relatedness, however, appears to have a large influence not only on resistance to both stressors, but also on the observed correlations between stressors. 4. Species of the Drosophila subgenus Sophophora examined in this study tend to be fruit breeders inhabiting more temperate and mesic habitats, whereas many of the species in the other major subgenus, Drosophila, tend to be cactophilic flies living in more xeric environments. 5. The difference between these two major subgenera, the Sophophora and the Drosophila, in the nature of the association we observed between desiccation and starvation resistance suggests that selection may have led to different mechanisms underlying resistance to these stressors in the two groups.
3599178| 1. The wetland sedge Scripus olneyi Gray displays fast rates of CO
41239225|1. Induced resistance is now widely accepted as a potent and widespread ecological force although several pieces of the story remain very poorly known. Theory predicts that induced defences should be favoured in variable environments especially when plants can use cues to reliably predict future conditions; however, this idea has not been seriously evaluated for plants. 2. Theory also predicts that plastic, induced defences should be favoured over permanent, constitutive defences if defences are costly and not always needed. This hypothesis has received considerable attention and limited support; resource allocation costs have been difficult to detect although ecological costs of defence may be more common. Recently, priming has emerged as a mechanism that may further reduce costs. Primed plants do not immediately produce the gene products associated with induced resistance but later respond more rapidly and strongly to severe or repeated attacks. It remains to be determined how common priming is. 3. Much of what we know about induced resistance is from the herbivore's point of view. Induced resistance will be beneficial from the plant's point of view if herbivores avoid induced plants, but the behavioural responses of herbivores to induced plant variation are still poorly studied. 4. Recent progress in understanding the detailed spatial and temporal extent of induced resistance has improved our appreciation of the phenomenon. Although some induced responses are systemic throughout entire plant individuals, many others have been found to be localized to damaged tissues. Plant vascular architecture and transpiration rates greatly constrain the distribution of vascular cues. Some plants rely on volatile cues that are active over relatively short distances and may be subject to eavesdropping by other plants, herbivores, and carnivores. Similarly, the temporal duration of induced responses may have important consequences on effectiveness although limited information is available concerning lag times before induction and relaxation times following induction. 5. Limited spatial and temporal scales of induced responses make plants more variable from the herbivore's point of view. Recent work suggests that plant heterogeneity may be difficult for herbivores to cope with although this hypothesis awaits further empirical testing.
4139332|1. The transfer of pollen among flowers is an important determinant of mating patterns in plants, and considerable attention has been devoted to understanding animal-mediated pollen transfer and its causal mechanisms. Conventionally, pollen carryover has been envisioned as a one-step process, but a pollen grain's journey may not be so simple. Potentially, pollen deposited on a flower's stigma could be remobilized and transferred to the stigma of a second flower. Alternatively, pollen may be deposited on unreceptive floral surfaces, such as petals, by either a pollinator or the wind and then remobilized and transferred to the stigma during a pollinator visit. 2. We quantified the potential for secondary dispersal of pollen by bumble bees (Bombus terrestris L.) visiting flowers of Brassica napus L., chosen because it typifies a generalized animal-pollinated flower and because of concern about pollen escaping from genetically modified varieties in agriculture. 3. We tested whether genetically marked pollen that was initially deposited by a bumble bee on a flower's stigma could later be transferred by another bee and thereby fertilize ovules on a different flower. In a second experiment, we tested whether marked pollen deposited on a flower's petals (as if by a pollinator or the wind) could later be transferred to the stigma by a bee and thereby fertilize the flower's ovules. In both experiments, the numbers of genetically marked progeny were recorded and a model was developed to quantify the relative effectiveness of direct vs secondary pollen dispersal. 4. Our analysis revealed that only small numbers of pollen grains achieved secondary dispersal by a pollinator, and that the probability of fertilization being achieved through secondary dispersal was minute.
10.2307/2389655|Female mating frequencies, in different insect species, may be related to which sex is able to control the opportunity for mating, given the species' mating system. The argument assumes that, in most species, males are selected to favour higher female mating frequencies than are females. In some mating systems, such as those in which females release long-range pheromones, females can prevent mating; whereas in others, for example those in which males defend crucial food resources, the males are in a position of control. This paper tests, by the comparative method, for an association between the two variables (mating frequency and which sex controls mating opportunities); the frequencies of the character states are inferred cladistically. The insects as a whole generate 22 trials, of which 16 fit the hypothesis and six contradict it; the evidence points in the direction that the hypothesis predicts but is not convincing. `Control' may be one among several factors influencing the comparative distribution of mating frequencies in female insects.
10.2307/2389993|1. Patches of Primula vulgaris occur across a range of light conditions within forests. To understand how light affects the stages of the life cycle involved in reproduction and recruitment, several fecundity-related variables (flower and capsule production, seed set, seed germination and seedling establishment) were studied in eight populations across a range of light conditions. 2. The mean number of seeds per plant varied greatly, from seven to 136, and the percentage of seedling establishment varied from 0.4 to 17.2%. These variables, as well as the number of flowers per plant and fecundity, were positively correlated with the light conditions. 3. Primula vulgaris populations establish in newly opened gaps. How this species colonizes new clearings was investigated by looking at seed survival in the soil and seed removal by potential dispersers, in particular rodents and ants. 4. After 14 months in the greenhouse, only three P. vulgaris seedlings were observed germinating from 200 soil samples taken from two populations. Germination of retrieved seeds from buried samples was generally lower than 10%. This suggests that only a small number of seeds remain viable in the soil for long periods of time. 5. Seed removal was high in the populations studied (more than 70% in 10 days). Rodents harvested a greater proportion of seeds than ants. Seed dispersal by ants is known to occur within short distances but rodents may be long-distance dispersers, which may be important for the long-term persistence of P. vulgaris in a site because it allows seeds to reach newly opened gaps.
10.2307/2389598|One way of assessing ecotoxicological effects of pesticides at the farm level is by longterm environmental monitoring coupled with time-series modelling. This is illustrated with 20 years of data on the density of sawflies (Symphyta: Hymenoptera) in cereals on a 62-km<sup>2</sup> area of West Sussex. The summer use of aphicides in the area first became important in 1989, when 7 km<sup>2</sup> were treated with dimethoate. Based on pre-1989 data, annual sawfly densities were found to be related, with a 1-year lag, to the proportion of cereal fields which were undersown and to summer rainfall and temperature, with a strong autoregressive component. In 1989, sawfly density in the area treated with dimethoate was less than one-tenth of that predicted by the model.
10.2307/2389713|The energy budget of the predatory beetle Notiophilus biguttatus F. has been established at three rations. Rates of egg production, respiration and defecation and the energy value of the faeces increase with an increase in ration. From these parameters we have estimated the amounts of energy that are allocated to reproduction and maintenance.
10.2307/2390211|1. On the usually wet, sub-Antarctic Marion Island, interspecific competition for refugia during low humidity or dry periods is thought to have been responsible for patterns of body-size and microhabitat distribution of the ectemnorhinine weevils inhabiting the cryptogam-dominated epilithic biotope, whereas this process is thought to be unimportant in the angiosperm-dominated vegetated biotope. 2. Adults of the six weevil species indigenous to the island were tested in the laboratory for their ability to resist desiccation at 10 <sup></sup>C and 5% r.h., and to replenish lost water by drinking, and these results were compared with the body water content of field-collected individuals. 3. Once corrected for body mass, no meaningful differences in maximum tolerable water loss were found between the species. However, time to maximum water loss and rate of water loss were inversely related and showed two clear trends. Species inhabiting dry, rockface habitats had relatively low rates of water loss, took longer to reach the maximum tolerable water loss, and had a relatively high body water content, whereas species from moist, angiosperm-dominated habitats had a relatively high rate of water loss, reached maximum tolerable water loss faster, and had a relatively low body water content. 4. The very small (1.55 mg), fellfield-inhabiting Antarctonesiotes elongatus differed from the other epilithic species by having rates of water loss similar to species from the moist lowland habitats and larvae of the supra-littoral Palirhoeus eatoni are known to have a greater tolerance to salt-water than any of the other epilithic species. 5. These results suggest that in at least two of the syntopic species pairs showing body-size differences, these differences are unlikely to have promoted coexistence via the elimination of competition for refugia due to similarities in desiccation resistance, although this may have been the case in a third pair. The overriding difference in physiology between Palirhoeus eatoni and the remaining epilithic species suggests that Palirhoeus eatoni should be omitted from the epilithic biotope species pool when generating species pairs for null distributions.
3599004| 1. The thermal regimes experienced by a reptilian egg can influence phenotypic traits (size, sex, shape, locomotor performance, etc.) of the hatchling that emerges from that egg. Natural nests of the oviparous scincid lizard Bassiana duperreyi in the Brindabella Range of south-eastern Australia show strong seasonal shifts in temperature: first and last weeks of incubation often differ by >5C. 2. Eggs of B. duperreyi were incubated under thermal regimes with indentical overall mean values for average temperature and diel range, but differing in the sequence of temperatures. Some eggs were kept at 18  5C throughout incubation; others went gradually from cool (16  5C) to warm (20  5C); and others from warm (20  5C) to cool (16  5C). 3. These treatments significantly modified not only incubation periods (stable mean temperatures delayed hatching), but also hatchling traits: progressively decreasing temperatures yielded hatchlings with a higher incidence of deformities, smaller body size, relatively longer tails, and reduced locomotor performance than siblings from increasing temperatures. 4. Seasonal shifts in incubation temperatures are widespread, and may generate important variation in hatchling phenotypes. Sensitivity to such shifts may influence phenomena such as nest-site selection, the seasonal timing of nesting, and the evolution of viviparity. 
20142832|1. It has been proposed that habitats with low productivity, and hence low resource availability, may favour individuals with lower rates of resource use and energy expenditure. In birds, some studies have shown that basal metabolic rate (BMR) and total evaporative water loss (TEWL) are reduced in desert bird species compared to those that live in more mesic areas. However, the contribution of the phenotypic plasticity of birds to this pattern has been poorly studied. 2. We evaluated the phenotypic flexibility of BMR, TEWL and organ size in sparrows (Zonotrichia capensis) from three populations along an aridity gradient that differ in environmental temperature, rainfall and seasonality. We also tested the hypothesis that populations from variable environments exhibit more physiological flexibility than populations from stable environments. 3. BMR and TEWL in Z. capensis exhibited a positive association with latitude. Additionally, the population from the more stable environment was unaffected by thermal acclimation, but birds from seasonal environments were affected. 4. Our results support the hypothesis of the existence of a correspondence between environmental variability and phenotypic flexibility; that is, birds from localities with a drastic climatic seasonality have a greater response in BMR to thermal acclimation than birds from a more stable environment.
10.2307/2389747|We present a simple mathematical method for evaluating the amount of food consumed (C) and the amount of faeces (FU) voided by chicks in consecutive days of development. The method starts from a set of equations, describing the balance of the elements, in which C and FU are unknowns. The solutions are found by means of the least squares method. To verify the model we analyse changes in N, P, K, Mg and S concentrations in carcasses and faeces, and ash content in carcasses of little auk (Alle alle) chicks during their stay in the nest. We also report concentrations of these elements, water, ash and energy content of food of chicks older than 20 days of age, and energy content of their faeces. For chicks older than 20 days of age, for which we possessed a full set of input data, the evaluations of C and FU agreed well with the results presented in other studies. We also discuss the nutrient requirements of little auk chicks as a possible limit on their growth. We conclude that development of chicks is not constrained by the fat (energy) or protein content of food. However, the chicks may face Ca deficiency during their stay in the nest.
2390489|1. The aim of the study was to investigate effects of enhanced UV-B radiation on the balance between biomass production and decay in an ombrotrophic bog which is dominated by one species of Sphagnum (S. fuscum). This paper concerns production. 2. Enhanced UV-B radiation (simulating 15% ozone depletion under clear sky conditions) was applied by means of fluorescent tubes during two growing seasons. 3. In S. fuscum, shoot density, mass relations and length increment over time were measured and productivity was estimated. Pigment concentration, rates of dark respiration and maximum net photosynthesis were recorded. 4. Sphagnum fuscum productivity was not changed by enhanced UV-B radiation while properties determining production were highly influenced although in opposite directions. 5. Height increment was decreased by 20% in the first growing season and by 31% in the second growing season under enhanced UV-B radiation. After two growing seasons spatial shoot density was decreased by 8% by enhanced UV-B radiation. The shoots became stunted as capitulum dry mass and stem dry mass per unit length were increased by 21 and 17%, respectively, under enhanced UV-B radiation. 6. Dark respiration was significantly decreased by 31% after growth under enhanced UV-B radiation. 7. The UV-B induced change in shoot biometry together with the reduced spatial shoot density involve potential long-term effects on peat structure with possible feedback on productivity, decomposition and the strength of the system as a carbon sink.
826572|1. Explaining variation in reproductive effort is fundamental to understanding diversity in male mating and life-history strategies, although relatively little is known about environmental influences on such variation and associated trade-offs. 2. Plasticity in reproductive effort was examined in male Yellow Dung Flies (Scatophaga stercoraria) reared under two larval density treatments. Relative testis size, thorax size and mate-searching effort were compared, and relationships between these traits examined to look for correlational evidence of predicted trade-offs in gonadal and mate-searching expenditure. 3. Males reared under high larval density conditions developed relatively larger testes than those reared at low density but no evidence was found for a corresponding reduction in mean mate-searching effort at the population level. 4. A negative relationship was found between testis size and mate-searching activity among males within the high larval rearing density treatment but not among those reared at low density. 5. Willingness to engage in struggles for possession of females increased in relation to body size among males reared at high larval density, and the opposite relationship was found among those reared at low density. 6. Plasticity in male reproductive effort in relation to environmental conditions may be more widespread among insects than has previously been appreciated.
2390443|1. Great Tits (Parus major) derive the carotenoid pigments for their yellow plumage via the prey items in their diet. Air pollution is known to affect the abundance of many forest insects, e.g. green caterpillars, which are an important source of food and pigments for tits. This study investigates whether air pollutants indirectly affected the intensity of the yellow colour in P. major plumage via the reduced access to carotenoid sources. 2. The intensity of the yellow colour in the plumage of P. major nestlings was scored and the relative abundance of green herbivorous larvae in territories around a polluting copper smelter in SW Finland was simultaneously measured. 3. Both the intensity of yellow colour in nestling plumage and caterpillar abundance increased with increasing distance from the pollution source. The colour intensity correlated significantly with the density of green herbivorous larvae in a territory. 4. Parus major nestlings were significantly heavier at distant sites than close to the pollution source which suggests that the future survival probability of pale nestlings may be lowered. 5. Young birds, after their first moult, were studied for the relationships between condition, size and plumage colour by the means of ptilochronology. The plumage colour intensity did not correlate with the size corrected width of the growth bars in fifth rectrix (condition at moult) but was correlated positively with the length of the rectrix (size). 6. The implications of colour change for survival and mate choice are discussed.
20142786| 1. Effects of CO enrichment on leaf transpiration are well-documented, but our understanding of how CO interacts with other variables to regulate evapotranspiration from plant communities is more limited. 2. A series of weighing lysimeters in which tallgrass prairie species had been planted were exposed to a subambient to elevated gradient in CO in a field chamber. Lysimeters with intact monoliths of three soil types were represented along the CO gradient. We used regression analysis to determine how CO effects on evapotranspiration per unit of soil surface area (
826613|1. Tail loss has repeatedly been associated with the impairment of locomotor performance in lizards. However, although the immediate impact of tail loss may be severe, most previous studies have failed to establish how long such locomotory costs persist. 2. We investigated both the short-term (24-36 h) and long-term (4 and 12 weeks) consequences of tail loss on locomotor performance in a viviparous ground-dwelling skink, Niveoscincus metallicus (O'Shaughnessy 1874). Sprint speed, climbing ability and stamina were measured as performance variables. The locomotor performance of both adult males and pregnant females were tested during the study. 3. Male and female lizards responded differently to tail loss, although the immediate impact of autotomy on performance was generally minor. In males caudal autotomy imposed a significant immediate impact on sprint speed, while in females stamina was reduced immediately after autotomy. 4. Females regenerated their tails significantly faster than males. Recovery of locomotor performance over the 3-month duration of the study was observed in females (for endurance capacity) but not males (for sprint speed). 5. Overall, the impact of tail loss on locomotor performance was generally limited or short-lived in N. metallicus.
10.2307/2389447|This study examines the interactive effects of (a) the rate at which water stress is applied and (b) simulated browsing on seedling morphology, physiology and survival of blue oak (Quercus douglasii (Hook and Arn.)). The experiment employs two rates of soil water depletion and three intensities of defoliation. Tissue water relations, growth, stomatal conductance to water vapour, and second year survivorship were assessed. Severe defoliation, which included removal of apical meristem, resulted in a 50% increase in total and osmotic water potential, and a similar increase in the water potential at zero turgor, only where water stress was applied rapidly However, the total growth period and subsequently total biomass was reduced by 60 days and 100%, respectively Only those seedlings which experienced slow rates of induced water stress and received severe defoliation survived to produce green leaf tissue in the second year. Water stress and herbivory may thus significantly interact to affect both physiological acclimation to drought and tolerance to browsing in juvenile blue oaks. Under the current conditions of oak seedling association with annual species in blue oak savannas and woodlands, tolerance to periodic browsing is severely reduced because of the rapid rates of soil water depletion caused by annual grass and forb transpiration.
3598964| 1. Mass-specific metabolic rates of 173 animal species under various conditions of prolonged food deprivation (aestivation, hibernation, sit-and-wait existence) and/or living at temperatures near the freezing point of water were analysed. 2. These minimum life-supporting metabolic rates are independent of body mass over a nearly 80-million-fold body mass range and independent of temperature over a range of -17 to 30 C, with a mean value of
40407734|1. Habitat selection has profound ecological and evolutionary consequences. For example, there may be strong selection for nest-site choice such that oviparous females, lacking parental care, may adaptively manipulate their offspring survival or phenotype. Alternatively, nesting decisions may be a passive by-product of other processes leading to similar nonrandom nesting patterns. 2. Here we examined the nesting ecology of the turtle Podocnemis unifilis at multiple spatiotemporal scales to determine whether randomness, adaptive nest-site selection or social facilitation best explained the observed population-level patterns. We addressed these alternative strategies by exploring how environmental and geographic variation in nest sites influences embryonic survival within and across four nesting beaches in three years. 3. We found nonrandom spatial and environmental patterns of nesting within beaches and years, consistent with both the adaptive nest-site selection and social facilitation hypotheses. However, nesting patterns were unpredictable among beaches and among years. Furthermore, environmental conditions at nest sites and offspring survival were not associated, and nests from the most gregarious nesting night clustered more tightly geographically and suffered lower predation than nests laid on other nights. 4. Together, our findings provide more extensive support for social facilitation as compared to the adaptive nest-site selection hypothesis. Our results suggest that selection for female nest-site choice in reptiles may be acting more strongly via offspring survival through nest clustering derived from conspecific cueing and less strongly via environmental cueing than previously anticipated. 5. Our findings underscore the importance of examining multiple sites during multiple seasons. This approach permits testing critical predictions about the consistency of population-level patterns across space and time that enable the distinction between models. 6. Our results support a shift with regards to the trait that is usually considered the target of selection for female nest-site choice in a way that exemplifies the classic dichotomy between selection for (survival of nests and perhaps of females) and selection of (offspring phenotype, such as sex).
41319617|1. Environmental factors such as temperature, humidity and partial oxygen pressure can affect avian eggshell structure because gas exchange across the shell must allow sufficient water loss while preventing dehydration of the embryo. Studies of species with known chronology of colonization of novel environments provide a powerful insight into the relative importance of ecological factors shaping the evolution of eggshell structure. 2. Here, we examined changes in eggshell structure that accompanied rapid range expansion of house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) across North America. We analysed thickness and pore density in eggshells from three ecologically distinct populations: the native desert population in southwestern Arizona and two 30-year-old populations in the northwestern (north-west Montana) and southeastern (south-east Alabama) parts of the species' range. We also conducted cross-foster exchanges of freshly laid eggs within and between the northwestern and southeastern populations to examine consequences of population differences in eggshell structure on embryo development. 3. Eggshell structure was most distinct in a recently established population inhabiting higher humidity environment (southeastern Alabama), where eggs were the largest, eggshells the thickest and pore density the lowest. Populations that experienced highly distinct ambient temperatures (southwestern Arizona and northwestern Montana) nevertheless had similar eggshell structure. These results were corroborated by experiments where humidity differences between cross-fostered nests had twice the effect on embryo survival compared to the effect of change in ambient temperature. Correspondingly, experimental egg exchanges between southeastern. Alabama and northwestern Montana populations were associated with fourfold increase in embryo mortality compared to within-population egg exchanges. 4. We document rapid evolution of eggshell structure in response to colonization of novel environments and establish the relative importance of environmental factors on avian eggshells. We discuss these results in relation to population variation in incubation behaviour and its ability to shield eggshell structure from the selection exerted by novel environments.
41239441|1. Little is known about the role of deep roots in the nutrition of forest trees and their ability to provide a safety-net service taking up nutrients leached from the topsoil. 2. To address this issue, we studied the potential uptake of N, K and Ca by Eucalyptus grandis trees (6 years of age -25 m mean height), in Brazil, as a function of soil depth, texture and water content. We injected NO-N, Rb (analogue of K) and Sr (analogue of Ca) tracers simultaneously in a solution through plastic tubes at 10, 50, 150 and 300 cm in depth in a sandy and a clayey Ferralsol soil. A complete randomized design was set up with three replicates of paired trees per injection depth and soil type. Recently expanded leaves were sampled at various times after tracer injection in the summer, and the experiment was repeated in the winter. Soil water contents were continuously monitored at the different depths in the two soils. 3. Determination of foliar Rb and Sr concentrations and N atom % made it possible to estimate the relative uptake potential (RUP) of tracer injections from the four soil depths and the specific RUP (SRUP), defined as RUP, per unit of fine root length density in the corresponding soil layer. 4. The highest tracer uptake rates were found in the topsoil, but contrasting RUP distributions were observed for the three tracers. Whilst the RUP was higher for ${\rm{NO}}_3^ - - {}^{15}{\rm{N}}$ than for Rb and Sr in the upper 50 cm of soil, the highest SRUP values for Sr and Rb were found at a depth of 300 cm in the sandy soil, as well as in the clayey soil when gravitational solutions reached that depth. 5. Our results suggest that the fine roots of E. grandis trees exhibit contrasting potential uptake rates with depth depending on the nutrient. This functional specialization of roots might contribute to the high growth rates of E. grandis trees, efficiently providing the large amounts of nutrients required throughout the development of these fast-growing plantations.
10.2307/2390141|1. Themeda triandra plants were grown individually in pots until they reached the stage of approximately 10 tillers per plant. Half the plants were placed in the dark for 48h to lower their pool of reserve carbon before applying treatments. Thereafter, two clipping treatments were applied (partial and severe) and plants were allowed to regrow under both normal and etiolated conditions. 2. Plants were sequentially harvested for a period of 12 days after defoliation. Daily gas-exchange measurements were also made on all treatments during this period. 3. The maximum possible contribution of reserve carbon (includes etiolated plant respiration and carbon in etiolated regrowth) was compared with carbon assimilated by photosynthesis. In all cases, carbon assimilated by photosynthesis exceeded the maximum contribution from reserves within a few days of clipping. 4. Despite this, plants with high levels of reserve carbon regrew more rapidly than low reserve plants, even after partial defoliation. Reserve carbon therefore seems to play a potentially important, but indirect role in regrowth of this species after defoliation - specifically by facilitating rapid emergence of new photosynthetic substrate. 5. Although Themeda is a species highly preferred by herbivores, it does not persist under heavy continuous grazing. From the results of this investigation, I suggest that the declining competitive vigour of the species under heavy grazing is probably contributed to by reserve run-down associated with frequent defoliation under these conditions.
4540084|1. The feeding rates of many predators and parasitoids exhibit type II functional responses, with a decelerating rate of increase to reach an asymptotic value as the density of their prey or hosts increases. Holling's disc equation describes such relationships and predicts that the asymptotic feeding rate at high prey densities is set by handling time, while the rate at which feeding rate increases with increased prey density is determined by searching efficiency. Searching efficiency and handling time are also parameters in other models which describe the functional response. Models which incorporate functional responses in order to make predictions of the effects of food shortage thus rely upon a clear understanding and accurate quantification of searching efficiency and handling time. 2. Blackbird Turdus merula exhibit a type II functional response and use pause-travel foraging, a foraging technique in which animals search for prey while stationary and then move to capture prey. Pause-travel foraging allows accurate direct measurement of feeding rate and both searching efficiency and handling time. We use Blackbirds as a model species to: (i) compare observed measures of both searching efficiency and handling time with those estimated by statistically fitting the disc equation to the observed functional response; and (ii) investigate alternative measures of searching efficiency derived by the established method where search area is assumed to be circular and a new method that we propose where it is not. 3. We find that the disc equation can adequately explain the functional response of blackbirds feeding on artificial prey. However, this depends critically upon how searching efficiency is measured. Two variations on the previous method of measuring search area (a component of searching efficiency) overestimated searching efficiency, and hence predicted feeding rates higher than those observed. Two variations of our alternative approach produced lower estimates of searching efficiency, closer to that estimated by fitting the disc equation, and hence more accurately predicted feeding rate. Our study shows the limitations of the previous method of measuring searching efficiency, and describes a new method for measuring searching efficiency more accurately.
2390484|1. Photosynthetic characteristics of an annual herb, Chenopodium album, and an ever-green tree, Quercus myrsinaefolia, were compared to clarify causes of the difference in photosynthetic nitrogen-use efficiency (photosynthetic capacity per unit nitrogen) between leaves of herbaceous and evergreen species. 2. When leaves with the same nitrogen content on an area basis were compared, photosynthetic capacity of C. album was twice as high as that of Q. myrsinaefolia. Gas-exchange measurements showed higher intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> concentration in C. album. Biochemical analyses indicated larger allocation of nitrogen into ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase, a key enzyme of photosynthesis, and higher specific activity of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase in C. album. However, these differences were not large. 3. Compositional deviation of <sup>13</sup>C in leaves of the two species suggested that the drop of CO<sub>2</sub> level between the intercellular space and the chloroplast was slightly larger in Q. myrsinaefolia when compared between the leaves with the same photosynthetic capacity. 4. It is concluded that the difference in photosynthetic nitrogen-use efficiency between C. album and Q. myrsinaefolia is not caused by a sole factor that is markedly different between the two species but by several factors each of which is slightly disadvantageous to Q. myrsinaefolia compared with C. album.
10.2307/2389355|The relative growth rates of seedlings of the deciduous tree Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman and the evergreen tree Pinus sylvestris L. were compared in a subarctic environment using material grown in pots. The species showed similar growth rates under low nutrient conditions, while Betula grew faster under high nutrient conditions. The higher growth rate of Betula under high nutrient conditions is apparently a function of a larger leaf area per unit plant mass combined with a larger proportion by weight of roots. Intraspecific variation in the growth rates of both species was mainly caused by differences in unit leaf rates. The unit leaf rate was higher for Pinus than for Betula under nutrient poor conditions but there was little difference when species were growing under nutrient rich conditions. The leaf productivity per unit leaf nitrogen was similar for both species when grown under nutrient poor conditions but Betula was more productive per unit N under high nutrient conditions. The species showed similar relations between nitrogen uptake and root mass. Betula lost 5-25% of the whole plant nitrogen at leaf abscission, while Pinus lost 0-2.6% of the nitrogen in the leaves which were shed during a year. The plasticity in dry matter partitioning was relatively small for both species when compared with woody plants in more southern environments.
10.2307/2390093|1. There were interspecific differences in salt-tolerance. Sonneratia alba grew in salinities ranging from fresh water to sea water, with growth being maximal in 5 to 50% sea water. In contrast, Sonneratia lanceolata grew in salinities ranging from 0 to 50% sea water, with maximal growth occurring in 0 to 5% sea water. 2. Under optimal conditions for growth of both species (i.e. 5% sea water), the less salt-tolerant species, S. lanceolata, achieved twice the height, leaf area and biomass of the more salt-tolerant species. It appears that increasing salt-tolerance is at the expense of growth and competitive ability under low salinity conditions. 3. Growth analysis showed that change in net assimilation rate accounted for most of the differences in growth between species and for changes in growth by a species with increase in salinity from 0 to 100% sea water. 4. Interspecific differences in salt tolerance were consistent with (but do not fully explain) differential distribution of S. alba and S. lanceolata along natural salinity gradients in northern Australia, with seasonal variation in salinity apparently being an important factor to their survival in many environments.
2656485|1. It is well known that animals can increase their stress resistance by prior exposure to sub-lethal conditions, but this acclimation process is often accompanied by deleterious fitness effects. These may reflect a cost of acclimation, or more general costs arising from damage due to sub-lethal exposures. 2. Acclimation for increased adult resistance to a 40<sup></sup>C heat shock was tested in the egg parasitoid, Trichogramma nr. brassicae, following exposure of immature stages to 33<sup></sup>C for different periods. Prepupal exposure did not increase heat resistance, but daily exposures at the pupal stage for 2 h day<sup>-1</sup> and 3 h day<sup>-1</sup> over 4 days increased survival of the shock. 3. Pre-pupal exposure for 3 h day<sup>-1</sup> over 4 days led to decreased parasitism reflecting general damage costs. Pupal exposure for 3 h day<sup>-1</sup> and 4 h day<sup>-1</sup> also decreased parasitism rates, but there were no deleterious effects when pupae were acclimated for 2 h day<sup>-1</sup>. 4. These findings indicate that acclimation can occur without costs in Trichogramma nr. brassicae and suggest a general phenotypic approach for separating acclimation costs from other fitness costs caused by sub-lethal exposures. The potential for using acclimation to increase field parasitism success of this important group of parasitoids is discussed.
2656426|1. The highly stable conditions in Montezuma Well, Arizona, have contributed to a very close predator-prey relationship between the endemic leech, Erpobdella montezuma, and its endemic amphipod prey, Hyalella montezuma, which forms nearly 90% of the leech diet. 2. Using a simple bioenergetic model, it was determined why a benthic opportunistic foraging strategy, typical of most other erpobdellids, is inferior to the specialized foraging behaviour utilized by E. montezuma and why reproduction by the leech is restricted during certain times of the year. 3. Our model demonstrated that to attain a biomass in excess of 2000 mg (maximum field size) during periods of low amphipod densities in the winter E. montezuma must feed on alternative prey types and have a foraging activity < 4 h per day. 4. Leech reproduction 4-6 months prior to the onset of winter food shortages of prey increases juvenile and adult survivorship with highest reproductive success for E. montezuma occurring in June-July. 5. Rather than being an obligate forager on H. montezuma, E. montezuma exploits a periodically abundant amphipod during most of the year in addition to alternate prey types during the winter thereby achieving an overall higher rate of energy gain than could be achievable by other closely related species of erpobdellids utilizing an opportunistic foraging approach.
10.2307/2389754|Four bioassays for the light environment, obtained from three Veronica species, were critically compared for 20 field sites using instantaneous electronic readings as a standard. Among total chlorophyll (leaf dry weight and leaf area basis), specific leaf area and the chlorophyll a to chlorophyll b ratio, the last provided the most realistic correlation, increasing with available light. The ratio is physiologically flexible, is least influenced by soil magnesium status or water availability, and is dissociated from patterns imposed by changes in leaf density.
10.2307/2389527|1. Seasonal plant and tissue-water relations were examined in fully expanded twigs of three sclerophyllous, evergreen Quercus species (Q. chapmanii, Q. inopina and Q. myrtifolia) in south-central Florida, USA. In these species we observed `plateau effects' when obtaining pressure-volume curves. Such effects may cause significant interpretational errors in osmotic potentials and elastic moduli, and be confounded with seasonal changes in these parameters. 2. New leaves are produced and mature in late-March to early-May of each year. Older leaves or twigs sampled between September 1989 and February 1990 generally exhibited higher conductance to water vapour diffusion (g<sub>wv</sub>) and lower osmotic potentials (<sub></sub>) than did new leaves sampled in May 1990. 3. However, over this 5-month period without significant drought older leaves of Q. inopina and Q. myrtifolia exhibited significant increases in <sub></sub> and decreases in g<sub>wv</sub>, which may be attributed to leaf age rather than environment. Q. chapmanii also had declining g<sub>wv</sub>, but it displayed decreases then increases in <sub></sub> that were correlated with temperature changes during this period. 4. Maximum bulk modulus of elasticity () of 23.2 to 26.5 MPa in the study species were among the highest values reported for Quercus species in North America. 5. Despite not artificially rehydrating twigs prior to pressure-volume analysis, 55-73% of the samples exhibited plateaux from excess apoplastic water during the wetter sampling dates. No plateaux were observed during the driest period. The general effects of plateaux on estimating pressure-volume parameters included obscuring the true turgor loss point, increasing <sub></sub> at full turgor and decreasing  and the relative water content at zero turgor. Correcting for plateaux greatly reduced errors in pressure-volume curves associated with non-constancy of apoplastic water above the turgor loss point.
826632|1. There is an established relationship between metabolism and behavioural dominance in several fish species, such that individuals with higher standard metabolic rates tend to be more dominant. It has also been suggested that metabolic scope increases with standard metabolic rate. 2. Energetically expensive behaviours attributable to dominance, such as aggression, can be carried out to a greater extent within larger metabolic scopes. This study therefore tests the hypothesis that juvenile salmon with higher standard metabolic rates (which tend to be dominant) have larger metabolic scopes. 3. It was found that salmon with high standard metabolic rates (corrected for body mass) in fact had smaller metabolic scopes than conspecifics with relatively low standard metabolic rates. Possible reasons for their potential dominance while having small metabolic scopes and high relative standard metabolic rates are discussed.
40205531|1. In the absence of wind, tree height is limited by elastic instability, which occurs when a tree becomes too spindly to erect itself when bent from the vertical. To assess the extent to which trees approach this limit and characterize species stature in diverse tropical forests, we measured tree dimensions in tall, dense forests at Lambir Hills, National Park, Sarawak, Malaysia and Pasoh Forest Reserve, Peninsular Malaysia. From these measurements we determined characteristic adult heights and trunk diameters for 91 species. 2. Across all species, adult height scaled with adult diameter to the 2/3 power, as predicted for a column at its buckling limit. These heights were, on average, 65% of the buckling limit calculated for a cylindrical column with typical wood properties. 3. At a given diameter, the species of Lambir were 9% taller than those of Pasoh, a pattern related to the greater rainfall and density of trees at Lambir. 4. On the topographically rugged Lambir plot, large emergent trees were shorter on ridges than in hollows, whereas small, sheltered trees showed no relation between allometry and elevation. 5. Thus, trees may approach gravitational limits to height in favourable environments for growth where there are large advantages of height for light interception and trees are sheltered from wind.
40205478|1. Understanding the mechanisms regulating the efflux of carbon dioxide (CO) from the soil to the atmosphere via soil respiration (SR) is a critical component of understanding terrestrial carbon (C) cycle responses to climate change, but requires high-quality measurements of SR fluxes. Thus, measurements of SR have become one of the primary tools used in terrestrial C cycling research. 2. When developing a sampling strategy for SR measurements, researchers must consider the ultimate use of the data set. A weekly or bi-weekly manual sampling strategy is likely sufficient if the desired outcome is an annual estimate of CO efflux. However, if modelling SR on time scales from minutes to days is the purpose of the study, automated SR measurements are advantageous. 3. Automated SR systems produce large volumes of data that present new challenges for quality assurance and quality control. A relatively efficient protocol to analyse large SR data sets is proposed here. 4. Analysis of two large data sets provides information about systematic sampling uncertainties as well as random measurement errors. These must be taken into account when using automated SR measurements in any data-model fusion context.
41319616|1. Herbivores show stronger control of element homoeostasis than primary producers, which can lead to constraints in carbon and nutrient transfer efficiencies from plants to animals. Insufficient dietary phosphorus (P) availability can cause reduced body P contents along with lower growth rates of animals, leading to a positive relationship between growth and body P. 2. We examined how a second limiting food component in combination with dietary P limitation influences growth and P homoeostasis of a herbivore and how this colimitation influences the hypothesized positive correlation between body P content and growth rates. Therefore, we investigated the responses in somatic growth and P stoichiometry of Daphnia magna raised on a range of diets with different amounts of P and the sterol cholesterol. 3. Somatic growth rates of D. magna increased asymptotically with increasing P as well as with increasing cholesterol availability. The body P content increased with increasing dietary P and stabilized at high dietary P availability. The observed plasticity in D. magna's P stoichiometry became stronger with increasing cholesterol availability, i.e. with decreasing colimitation by cholesterol. 4. At P-limiting conditions, the positive correlation between body P content and growth rate, as predicted by the growth rate hypothesis (GRH) applied to the within-species level, declined with increasing cholesterol limitation and disappeared entirely when cholesterol was not supplied. Thus, even when Daphnia shows no growth response owing to strong limitation by the colimiting nutrient, the body P content may vary substantially, calling into question the unconditional use of herbivores' P content as predictor of a potential P limitation in nature. 5. The observed interaction between dietary P and cholesterol on Daphnia's growth and stoichiometry can be used as a conceptual framework of how colimiting essential nutrients affect herbivore homoeostasis, and provide further insights into the applicability of the GRH within a consumer species.
41239362|1. A major hypothesis of life-history theory is that conditions of early development affect future survival and reproductive success. Responses to detrimental environments during early ontogeny may involve trade-offs between current and future fitness. Yet, the functional mechanisms involved in such evolutionary trade-offs remain poorly documented. 2. The physiological and behavioural ontogeny of diving abilities was examined in subantarctic fur seal (Arctocephalus tropicalis Gray) pups to assess whether the repeated extreme fasts they naturally endure throughout the period of maternal dependence impacts on their development. 3. The ontogeny of pup body oxygen storage capacity was slow, in particular for the muscle compartment, which shows limited increase in myoglobin content (023-085 g 100 g wet muscle). As a consequence, by the time of weaning, mass-specific oxygen stores had only reached 76%, 24% and 61% of adult female capacity for blood, muscle and total, respectively. Concomitantly, in marked contrast to other pinniped infants, they spent decreasing amounts of time in water (16-7%) with age and exhibited very little diving experience and skills. 4. Overall, in addition to experiencing the longest fasting durations throughout the maternal dependence period, subantarctic fur seal pups demonstrate the lowest levels of mass-specific total oxygen stores and maximum dive duration of any otariid near the age of weaning reported to date. 5. Furthermore, dives that exceeded the calculated aerobic dive limit occurred with a very low frequency (004%), suggesting that behavioural limitations linked to the necessity to conserve energy to survive repeated fasting, rather than restricted oxygen storage capacity, constrained pup diving behaviour. 6. Hence, these animals appear to trade-off the early development of both their physiological and behavioural diving abilities in favour of body fat accumulation to survive the prolonged fasts they must endure and, potentially, provide a nutritional buffer while they locate appropriate food patches after weaning. While promoting pre-weaning survival, this strategy renders pups more vulnerable to unpredictable changes in environmental conditions and food availability at the transition to independent foraging and, thus, could have negative impact on post-weaning survival.
10.2307/2389541|Cuttings from 20 Lotus corniculatus L. individuals were inoculated with Rhizobium and grown under one of three nitrogen regimes, including a treatment where plants relied solely on symbiotic N-fixation. Plants of a single genotype were then grouped so that Spodoptera eridania Cramer larvae could chose to feed among plants from the different N-treatments for a 3 1/2-week period. Shoot and root biomass, condensed tannin and cyanide concentration, astringency, flower, fruit and seed number and fruit biomass were measured in damaged and undamaged plants when flowering had ceased (3 weeks after herbivory ceased). Larvae did not appear to exert a choice among the different nitrogen treatments. N-fertilized plants had larger shoots, larger roots and more seeds than N-fixing plants. Astringency and both protein and cyanide concentrations were not influenced by treatment. Damaged plants were lower in shoot biomass and seed production, but had larger root biomass and higher protein concentrations. Tannin concentrations appear to have been induced in damaged plants, while cyanide concentrations were not influenced by herbivory.
3599111|1. We examined biomass and root proliferation responses of Abutilon theophrasti Medic. to the density of high nutrient patches and the patch-background contrast. Contrast in nutrient content between a patch and the background soil, as well as patch density, are important features of heterogeneous soil environments that have received little research attention. 2. Plants were grown in pots with no, one or two organic nutrient patches, and the equivalent nutrition of no, one or two patches in the background soil in a factorial design. Plant performance (root and shoot biomass) and root proliferation (root length inside and outside high-nutrient patches) were measured. 3. Root and shoot biomass increased with increasing nutrient heterogeneity, and root biomass declined with increased background soil nutrient availability. Patch-background contrast did not alter root or shoot biomass, nor allocation to roots. Biomass responses appeared to be driven by heterogeneity, as plants with access to the same total nutrients were larger when nutrients were concentrated in patches. The root proliferation response was not affected by either the density of patches or the degree of contrast. 4. A conceptual model is presented describing how a plant's overall nutrient status could respond to changes in the patch-background contrast. The model predicts that nutrient-sufficient plants should not respond to patches, but nutrient-limited plants should proliferate roots proportionally to the contrast. The proliferation response should saturate when the total nutrients in both patch and background are no longer limiting.
10.2307/2389638|Measurement of nitrogenase activity, growth and C and N composition of seedlings of lupins that colonize disturbed sites at Mount St Helens, revealed: 1 Nitrogen fixation can begin within 2 weeks after germination. 2 Germination patterns, growth and allocation of C and N are related to initial seed size or phenology. 3 Dense seedling populations may be significant contributors to soil C and N pools.
826582|1. Many plant species germinate from herbivore dung. However, there has been little assessment of how widespread this dispersal mechanism is. 2. A survey of the germinable seed in rabbit and sheep dung from 10 sites in the UK was used to identify the characteristics of species dispersed internally by animals. 3. A wide range of species germinated; the commonest species being 'weeds' of grazed communities. 4. Species that did germinate were characterized by small seed size and the capability of forming a persistent seedbank. 5. A substantial quantity and range of seeds are dispersed by herbivores in grazed ecosystems, and this could have a significant effect on the dynamics and species richness of these systems.
40603105|1. Non-native invasive and nitrogen (N)-fixing plant species can cause large ecosystem-level impacts, particularly when they differ in functionally important plant traits from native and non N-fixing species. However, it remains unclear as to whether and how plant invasion status and  fixation ability consistently influence key plant leaf and litter traits, and trait-driven processes like herbivory and decomposition. 2. We compared leaf and litter traits, leaf palatability and litter decomposability for 41 co-occurring woody species, including native N-fixers, native non N-fixers, invasive N-fixers and invasive non N-fixers, from a New Zealand floodplain. We tested the hypotheses that: (i) invasive and N-fixing species have higher foliar  and specific leaf area, and lower concentrations of defensive phenolics and structural compounds than do native and non N-fixing species, and (ii) invasive and N-fixing species generally produce more decomposable litter and palatable foliage than do native and non N-fixing species. 3. Consistent with our hypotheses, invaders had higher foliar N and N : P ratio, and lower C : N ratio, than did native species. However, in contrast to our hypotheses, foliar phenolics were higher for the invaders while other leaf and litter traits were unaffected by invasion status. Further, N-fixers had higher  and  :  ratios, and lower C : N ratios than did non N-fixers, but other leaf and litter traits were unaffected by  fixation ability. 4. Leaf palatability was unaffected by invasion status but was higher for N-fixers than for non N-fixers. Litter decomposability was unaffected both by invasion status and N fixation ability. We found a significant positive relationship between leaf palatability and litter decomposability across all species, because similar traits, particularly the C : P ratio and total phenolic concentrations of plant tissues, were correlated with both processes. 5. Our results demonstrate that a small number of key traits, such as C : P ratio and total phenolic concentrations, drive both herbivory and decomposition irrespective of plant invasion status or N fixation ability. As such, they highlight that interspecific differences in particular plant traits, rather than plant functional group memberships based on invasion status and N fixation ability, are more effective in predicting palatability and decomposability.
20142769|1. Time is an important dimension for any ecological niche. 2. Most higher organisms show adaptations that are related to daily or seasonal timing, and these adaptations are regulated by endogenous clocks. At the molecular level, these clocks are encoded by a network of proteins interacting with each other and with their own transcripts. 3. Recent expression studies suggested that a large fraction of the transcriptome and the proteome both in mammals and insects may show significant daily oscillations. Here, we review some of the recent genomic approaches to studying circadian clocks, including transcriptomic, proteomic and quantitative trait loci (QTL) analyses, in a wide variety of organisms, from plants to mammals. 4. We also discuss some of the methodological problems that are inherent in these types of studies. Understanding how the circadian system interacts with the environment at the molecular level is perhaps the most important challenge of chronobiology and we anticipate future developments with these methods using experimental paradigms that are more environmentally and ecologically focused. 5. The identification of novel clock genes using more ecologically relevant experimental designs will provide a reservoir of genetic variation whose function can be studied in natural populations.
10.2307/2390272|1. Lignified stone cell masses in Spruce bark are an important physical defence against insects and fungi and in Sitka Spruce and this defensive trait was influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Single-tree, family and provenance mean heritability of the trait were 0.22, 0.68 and 0.79-0.95 respectively. 2. There was a distinct, clinal, increase in bark lignin with increasing latitude of provenance origin. Relative differences in bark lignin content between provenances were similar at four sites but absolute amounts were strongly site dependent. 3. Tree growth also varied systematically between provenances and differed between sites but we found no compelling evidence of a direct trade-off between growth and this quantitative defence. 4. Variation in growth and defence between provenances appeared to reflect, independently, climatic limitations in the native habitat.
2390308|1. It is frequently asserted that the adaptation of metal tolerance involves a cost, i.e. tolerant individuals have a lowered fitness on uncontaminated soil. To date, however, evidence for a cost has been highly circumstantial. One well-known example of metal tolerance, copper tolerance in Mimulus guttatus, is used in this paper to search for a cost. 2. The absence of highly tolerant plants in the field, despite the ability to select, rapidly and artificially, for extreme levels of tolerance, indicates that strong selection against extreme tolerance occurs in this species. 3. Negative genetic correlations between plants selected for increased degree of tolerance and other fitness traits were sought to test the trade-off hypothesis that energy/resources needed to manifest tolerance are diverted away from other essential traits. 4. The case for using replicated selection lines when using this methodology to demonstrate a cost is put forward. It is argued that replication is required to show unambiguously that any correlations found result from the pleiotropic effects of the gene(s) that govern the adaptation and not the consequence of linkage disequilibrium. 5. No clear evidence to support the trade-off hypothesis was found.
10.2307/2389269|Rumex maritimus L. occurs in frequently flooded sites of lowland flood plains. Upon submergence this species exhibited rapid elongation of shoots, but the response depended upon the developmental stage when flooding was initiated. In the rosette stage, petioles showed a fast and large response; during early stem elongation the response of petioles was less, but the extension of the lower internodes considerable; during flowering stem development, high internodes extended and the contribution to final stem length diminished. Ethylene production by an intact plant before, during and after submergence was measured with a laser-driven photoacoustic technique. Internal ethylene concentrations increased within 12 h of submergence. Ethylene accumulated in the submerged plant due to increased synthesis as well as a reduced diffusion from the plant to the water (instead of air). The elongation response could in part be mimicked by exogenous ethylene. Directly after submergence a further increase of ethylene synthesis was observed, which may be of vital importance in causing shoots to continue their rapid elongation even after the water surface is reached. The responses of shoots were related to fitness in experimental field plots. Survival of submerged R. maritimus depended on its ability to emerge above the water surface, while seed production was positively correlated with shoot height above the water.
10.2307/2389651|Infrared reflectance occurs in a wide diversity of vertebrates, but its biological significance remains largely unknown. Biological roles of visual crypticity, thermal crypticity, and reduction in heat load were explored in frogs with quantitative data on reflectance capability. Reflectance spectra between 450 and 1000 nm were measured on two categories of green treefrogs, one of which was thought to reflect near infrared radiation, the other of which was not. In a paired comparison, leaf-sitting frog species from five genera (Litoria infrafrenata Gunther, Agalychnis callidryas Cope, Phyllomedusa sauvagii Boulenger, Pachymedusa dacnicolor Cope, and Rhacophorus malabaricus Jerdon) were selected on the basis of previous infrared photographic observations. Analyses of reflectance spectra revealed that in all cases, the leaf-sitting, near infrared reflecting frogs had a reflectance spectrum that contrasted significantly from that of the confamilial non near infrared reflecting frog species (Osteopilus septentrionalis Dumeril & Bibron, Hyla cinerea Schneider, and Polypedates leucomystax Gravenhorst). In all cases, there was a strong convergence in the reflectance spectra of these distantly related near infrared reflecting frog species. Additionally, for all five near infrared reflecting frogs, their reflectance spectra was very similar over the 450-1000 nm waveband to that of leaves, their typical resting sites. An energy budget analysis of the reflectance spectra suggests that thermoregulation by itself is not the primary biological role of high near infrared reflectance. Rather, this capacity appears to be most likely associated with predator avoidance, functioning to make frogs visually and, perhaps, thermally cryptic to their predators. The convergence of similar patterns of spectral reflectance between distantly related species within the same family and between unrelated species in different families further suggests that reflectance in the near infrared wavelengths has adaptive significance.
40603121|1. How mothers balance the trade-off between offspring size and number to maximize maternal fitness has long been of interest to ecologists seeking to understand the evolution of offspring size. Predictions of the optimal offspring size depend fundamentally on the relationship between offspring size and offspring performance, which may in turn vary with environmental conditions. 2. Selection for larger offspring is expected to intensify as environmental quality deteriorates. Models also predict that variable selection on offspring size may favour the evolution of larger offspring than those favoured when selection is constant, or of strategies of variable offspring provisioning (e. g. bet-hedging, plasticity). To date, there is mixed empirical support for the first expectation and few tests of the second. Given, however, that offspring size effects are often estimated under controlled laboratory conditions that presumably downplay their strength and variability, we may not yet understand how selection shapes offspring size in nature. 3. We examined several relationships between offspring size and performance in controlled (laboratory) and natural (field) environments over time for a colonial marine invertebrate, Bugula neritina, and assessed the variability of these relationships by doing so for replicate cohorts. We further developed a simple optimality model to examine whether predictions of the optimal offspring size were similar (or similarly variable) across environments. 4. We found that selection on offspring size varied substantially among laboratory and field environments, and among cohorts in the latter. In the laboratory, our model consistently predicted that mothers should maximize their fecundity by producing the smallest possible offspring. In the field, however, the predicted optimal offspring size varied from the smallest possible size to the largest possible size for different cohorts. 5. Our study suggests that laboratory estimates of offspring size effects, though often necessary, may not always reflect the direction or variability of selection on offspring size under natural conditions. The optimal offspring size for mothers in nature may be an ever-shifting target that shapes provisioning strategies such as bet-hedging or plasticity in offspring size.
41239450|1. Polyandry is common in insects. Nevertheless, the evolutionary causes and consequences of this phenomenon remain contentious, in part because of a lack of information about natural mating rates and the fact that most post-copulatory processes are hidden from view within female reproductive tracts. 2. We captured wild female yellow dung flies (Scathophaga stercoraria) over the whole spring season and genotyped the sperm from their spermathecae to obtain information on sperm transfer, sperm storage and natural levels of polyandry for this model species of post-copulatory sexual selection research. 3. On average, females stored sperm from a minimum of 2-47 males (based on the most conservative estimate). Incorporating knowledge of population allele frequencies yielded a slightly higher estimate of 3-33 mates per female. 4. Sperm storage and therefore sperm competition intensity showed high temporal variation. The proportion of multiply mated females (i.e. females with sperm from  2 males within their sperm stores) and the absolute number of ejaculates detected within females increased strongly over the spring season before sharply decreasing as midsummer approached. 5. Interestingly, we detected a positive relationship between the number of stored ejaculates and females' wing injuries, suggesting that mating not only causes measurable cumulative damage to wild females but also provides a potential mechanism by which males may be able to assess the intensity of sperm competition within a female. 6. Our study found no evidence for intraejaculate sperm sorting, but importantly, the number of ejaculates in storage differed amongst the three sperm storage organs (spermathecae) of female yellow dung flies. Different sperm mixtures across the spermathecae could enable females to bias paternity towards certain males if females can selectively use sperm from a certain spermatheca at the time of fertilization.
10.2307/2389886|1. Resistance to the anticoagulant poison warfarin in the brown rat is commonly thought to incur a cost: resistant rats are prone to vitamin K deficiency, show reduced growth rates and reduced viability resulting in a lower fitness for resistant rats in a warfarin-free environment. 2. We investigated the costs of warfarin resistance in terms of body weight, an indicator of resistance costs and a component of fitness, in two populations of wild rats containing resistant individuals from Southern England. 3. In a warfarin-free environment, resistance remained high and contrary to predictions, the vast majority of resistant individuals were significantly heavier than susceptible animals in both populations. 4. This is the first report of a possible selective advantage of warfarin resistance in the absence of poison, a finding with important implications for the dynamics and management of resistance.
2390375|1. The external mycelia of the ectomycorrhizal fungi Thelephora terrestris and Suillus luteus, associated with Pinus sylvestris roots, exhibited a substantial extracellular acid phosphatase activity. The activity was positively correlated with the ergosterol concentration in the growth substratum and decreased with an increasing P nutrition. 2. The pioneer species T. terrestris grew best at a high P<sub>1</sub> nutrition level whereas S. luteus, a `late-stage' mycobiont, produced more active biomass at a low P<sub>1</sub> nutrition level. 3. The phytase activity of the external mycelia could not be detected; at the root surface a phytase activity was observed. Mycorrhizas had significantly higher activities than uninfected roots. 4. The addition of a relatively high concentration of a soluble phytate to the growth substratum resulted in an increased relative growth rate (RGR) in both mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants. The influence of the mycorrhizal fungi on the use of the phytate-P was small, despite the phytase activity of the mycorrhizal feeder roots. 5. The addition of phytate fixed on a HPLC resin did not result in an increase of the RGR and P uptake neither in the non-mycorrhizal nor in the mycorrhizal Pines. The experiment did not support the hypothesis that phytate, which has a low solubility in soils, is a useful P source for ectomycorrhizal plants.
10.2307/2389561|Three germination attributes (lag time, maximum germination rate, and final germination proportion) were measured for 64 species of herbaceous wetland plants. The environmental conditions approximated the drawdown environment known to stimulate germination in wetland plants: a period of cold stratification followed by position of the seed on the surface of wet, but not inundated, substrate in the presence of light and with a 20/30<sup></sup>C daily temperature cycle. Correlations were sought between the three germination attributes and average individual seed weight, seedling relative growth rate and a categorical variable indicating miminum time to reproduction (annuals, facultative annuals and obligate perennials). Average seed weight was not correlated with any of the three germination attributes. Seedling relative growth rate was negatively correlated with time to initiation of germination. Species capable of setting seed their first year (annuals and facultative annuals) initiated germination sooner, a larger proportion germinated per day once germination began, and a larger proportion of seeds had germinated by the end of the experiment in comparison with species which require more than 1 year to set seed (obligate perennials). A discriminant analysis showed that the time to initiation of germination could accurately classify 89% of the perennial species as being either facultative annuals or obligate perennials.
10.2307/2390055|1. The orchid Tipularia discolor possesses two to five subterranean corms containing a high concentration of total non-structural carbohydrates (TNC). We investigated the role of corms in the initiation of new growth following seasonal dormancy, in reproduction, and in the response of plants to artificial defoliation. 2. Severance of older corms (representing c. 30% of total corm biomass) influenced new shoot initiation, but had little or no effect on plants during fruit production or in their response to defoliation. 3. Shading of plants during growth initiation had no detectable impact on shoot growth or storage use. Growth initiation caused a reduction in corm mass but no change in per cent TNC in corms. Reproduction was associated with reductions in both corm mass and per cent TNC. 4. Artificial defoliation had little impact on the utilization of existing carbohydrate stores. 5. It is concluded that carbohydrate storage in corms was relatively unimportant for the recovery of plants from herbivory in comparison to its role in growth initiation and reproduction.
10.2307/2389480|The dung of African grazing mammals varies in nutrient and moisture content according to the condition of the pasture on which the animals feed. This study investigated the effect of variation in quality of herbivore dung on the survival and reproduction of coprophagous insects. Seasonal variation was recorded in physical and chemical characteristics of zebra, wildebeest and impala dung. Dung was collected from free-ranging animals grazing in natural habitat in Mkuzi Game Reserve, a hot summer-rainfall region of South Africa. Interspecific differences in dung were related to the feeding ecology, digestive physiology and size of each species. Seasonal changes in water and nitrogen content of dung were related to patterns of rainfall and hence pasture growth. Dung moisture was significantly correlated with the amount of rain that fell in the preceding 2 weeks for wildebeest, in the preceding 4 weeks for impala and in the period 2-6 weeks before collection for zebra dung. Seasonal variability in wildebeest dung affected the reproductive rate of the dung beetle Euoniticellus intermedius (Reiche). Egg production at 25<sup></sup>C ranged from 0.1 per female per week in winter dung to 12.1 in summer dung, and was significantly correlated with dung moisture. Euoniticellus intermedius and the African buffalo fly Haematobia thirouxi potans (Bezzi) could not breed in fresh wildebeest dung of 62% water content. However when the water content was raised to 68% and above, breeding by Euoniticellus intermedius increased; and at moisture contents of 73% and above, buffalo fly size increased and survival improved. Higher water content was correlated with an increase in availability of dung fluid, the component of dung used by these insects.
2390370|1. Most animals are active by day or by night, but not both; juvenile salmonids are unusual in that they switch from being predominantly diurnal for most of the year to being nocturnal in winter. They are visual foragers, and adaptations for high visual acuity at daytime light intensities are generally incompatible with sensitive night vision. Here we test whether juvenile Atlantic Salmon Salmo salar are able to maintain their efficiency of prey capture when switching between diurnal and nocturnal foraging. 2. By testing the ability of the fish to acquire drifting food items under a range of manipulated light intensities, we show that the foraging efficiency of juvenile salmon is high at light intensities down to those equivalent to dawn or dusk, but drops markedly at lower levels of illumination: even under the best night condition (full moon and clear sky), the feeding efficiency is only 35% of their diurnal efficiency, and fish will usually be feeding at less than 10% (whenever the moon is not full, skies are overcast or when in the shade of bankside trees). Fish were unable to feed on drifting prey when in complete darkness. 3. The ability of juvenile salmon to detect prey under different light intensities is similar to that of other planktivorous or drift-feeding species of fish; they thus appear to have no special adaptations for nocturnal foraging. 4. While winter drift abundance is slightly higher by night than by day, the difference is not enough to compensate for the loss in foraging efficiency. We suggest that juvenile salmon can nonetheless switch to nocturnal foraging in winter because their food requirements are low, many individuals adopting a strategy in which intake is suppressed to the minimum that ensures survival.
2390453|1. We report the short-term effects of simulated nitrogen (N) deposition on the understorey of a boreal forest in northern Sweden. Doses of <sup>15</sup>N double-labelled NH<sub>4</sub>NO<sub>3</sub> (0.5, 12.5, 25.0 and 50.0 kg N ha<sup>-1</sup>) were applied to 1 m<sup>2</sup> plots in the summer of 1995 and plants were harvested the following autumn. 2. No significant treatment effects were found in either above- or below-ground biomass which was distributed as follows: the ericaceous shrub Vaccinium myrtillus contributed 76%, the grass Deschampsia flexuosa 4%, and the bryophytes Dicranum majus and Pleurozium schreberi 20%. 3. The recovery of applied N in these species was 24, 27, 27 and 32% of the 0.5, 12.5, 25.0 and 50.0 kg N ha<sup>-1</sup> applications, respectively, and thus the recovery increased with the N dose. 4. In the 0.5 kg N ha<sup>-1</sup> treated plots, the highest concentrations of fertilizer-derived <sup>15</sup>N were found in the bryophytes, while in plots given the three higher N applications, leaves of D. flexuosa had the highest concentrations. 5. N application resulted in elevated concentrations of free amino acid N, which indicate increased storage of N in plant tissues. Furthermore, the N application resulted in increased damage to V. myrtillus by natural enemies. The severity of disease caused by two foliar parasitic fungi showed a clear numerical response to N treatment, as did the amount of herbivory as a result of Lepidoptera larvae.
2390335|1. In amphipod crustaceans the ventral chamber plays an integral role in a number of physiological processes and in the female forms the marsupium in which eggs are brooded. The ventral chamber can be viewed as a pre-adaptation to the colonization of land by the family Talitridae. The hypothesis that the female of the terrestrial species, Mysticotalitrus cryptus, can control the osmotic concentration of the marsupial fluid ([MF]) bathing the eggs, thereby buffering the brood from potential physiological stresses presented by the terrestrial environment, is examined. 2. [MF] was maintained significantly higher than the concentration of the external medium ([Medium]) on both dechlorinated tap-water and 400 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup> media. In each case, [MF] was intermediate to [Medium] and the concentration of the female haemolymph ([Haem]): when [Medium] = 40 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup>, [MF] = 277 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup> and [Haem] = 590 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, and when [Medium] = 413 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup>, [MF] = 516 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup> and [Haem] = 722 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. 3. Evidence is provided that females produce urine that is isosmotic with the haemolymph and that the urine is directed, by capillarity, into the marsupium via cuticular channels. It is suggested that this urine plays a role in controlling [MF] in combination with other behavioural mechanisms. 4. Some preliminary observations are presented on the ontogeny of embryonic osmoregulation in M. cryptus which suggest that osmoregulatory ability improves with developmental stage. There is also limited evidence for the ability of the late embryonic stages to hypo-osmoregulate on concentrated media, even though adults lack this capacity. 5. The results are discussed in relation to the colonization of the terrestrial environment by the Talitridae.
40963552|1. While many studies of flower evolution have relied on the assessment of selection coefficients, these estimates represent correlative evidence of selection. Few studies have combined correlative with experimental evidence, and hence the mechanisms underlying selection processes are not well understood. 2. In this study we quantified the magnitude, direction and form of pollinator-mediated selection acting upon morphological traits in the Chilean endemic orchid Chloraea bletioides. Results revealed strong selection differentials for plant height and flower number, and absence of total selection for morphological flower characters. Multivariate analysis of selection revealed a strong and positive directional selection gradient for flower number. 3. The labellar lobe and flower tube were under negative correlational selection, indicating that selection promoted alternative combinations of traits. Plants with long floral tubes and small labellar lobes, and short floral tubes with large labellar lobes were selected for. Interestingly, selection on flower number increased at a higher rate through the female function than through the male function, which suggests that size-dependent resource limitation may be more important than pollinator-mediated selection for fruit set. 4. In addition to estimates of phenotypic selection, we evaluated through phenotype modification the impact of pollinators on the correlation and potential integration of flower traits coming from different whorls. We removed the tip of the lateral sepals and the labellar lobe in a 2  2 factorial design. 5. Results revealed that phenotypic modification had no effect on male and female fitness. The absence of effect was consistent with the low and non-significant selection coefficients. Nevertheless, the observation of significant correlational selection for labellar lobe and flower tube suggests that experimental studies performed on these characters may be of interest to evaluate the functional and adaptive integration of flower design in orchids.
40407763|1. Food webs, the set of predator-prey interactions in an ecosystem, are a prototypical complex system. Much research to date has concentrated on the use of models to identify and explain the key structural features which characterize food webs. 2. These models often fall into two general categories: (i) phenomenological models which are built upon a set of heuristic rules in order to explain some empirical observation and (ii) population-level models in which interactions between individuals result in emergent properties for the food web. Both types of models have helped to uncover how food-web structure is a product of factors such as foraging behaviour, prey selection and species' body sizes. 3. Historically, the two types of models have followed rather different approaches to the problem. Despite the apparent differences, the overlap between the two styles of models is substantial. Examples are highlighted here. 4. By paying greater attention to both the similarities and differences between the two, we will be better able to demonstrate the ecological insights offered by phenomenological models. This will help us, for example, design experiments which could validate or refute underlying assumptions of the models, By linking models to data, scaling from individuals to networks, we will be closer to understanding the true origins of food-web structure.
10.2307/2389375|The ability to rapidly invade disturbed soil unoccupied by living roots (soil gaps) was examined for two tussock grass species that differ in competitive effectiveness. When soil gaps were created by removing a neighbouring tussock, the rate of root invasion into this space was more rapid for the grass of greater competitive ability. Agropyron desertorum (Fisch. ex Link) Schult, than for Agropyron spicatum (Pursh) Scribn. and Smith. Both species invaded gaps created later in the spring more rapidly than those created soon after snow melt. Acquisition of <sup>32</sup>phosphorus placed in a soil gap varied greatly among individual tussocks of the same species that bordered the gap, even though the shoots of the tussocks were approximately the same distance from the radioactive soil and were of similar biomass. Total <sup>32</sup>phosphorus acquisition from the gap was similar for the two grass species when the gap was created soon after the snow melted. Radiophosphorus acquisition tended to be greater for A. desertorum when the gap was created later in the spring (P = 0.08). Rapid root growth into soil gaps can allow a plant to occupy a greater soil volume and soil microsites richer in resources. However, greater resource acquisition due to this rapid root growth may not be immediately apparent.
3599103|1. We investigated effects of declining plant species richness (S) on resistance to extremes in grassland communities. 2. Synthesized model ecosystems of different S, grown outdoors in containers, were exposed to a stress peak combining heat and drought. The heat wave was induced experimentally by infrared irradiation in free air conditions. 3. Before the heat wave, the more species-rich communities produced more biomass as a result of a large and positive complementarity effect that outweighed a small negative selection effect. 4. Water use during the heat wave was likewise enhanced by S, which could not be attributed to dominance of 'water-wasting' species. Instead, water consumption at high S exceeded that expected from changes in community biomass and biomass composition. The observed enhancement of resource (water) acquisition under stress with increasing S therefore probably originated from complementarity. 5. Despite enhanced water use in the more diverse communities, plant survival was significantly less, affecting all species alike. Physiological stress, recorded as photochemical efficiency of photosystem II electron transport, was significantly greater. Before the heat wave, the changes in biomass composition that coincided with increasing S did not favour species that would later prove intrinsically sensitive or insensitive. 6. Complementarity in resource use for biomass production had a cost in terms of reduced survival under stress, despite the likelihood of complementarity in water acquisition during exposure. The greater loss of individuals from the more diverse grasslands suggests enhanced risk of local extinction.
2656319|1. The largest eucalypt subgenus Symphyomyrtus survives and grows better in diverse native and exotic environments than the second largest subgenus Monocalyptus. Previously postulated reasons for this difference, including differential resistance to native insect pests and dependence on specific ectomycorrhizal symbiotic associations with soil fungi, do not fully explain the marked adaptive differentiation. 2. This work shows that differences between the subgenera in survival and growth performance are related to respiratory parameters. We propose that effects of climatic temperature on respiratory metabolism result in Symphyomyrtus being more successful than Monocalyptus in adapting to diverse environments. This suggests a new paradigm for adaptation and evolution of eucalypts.
10.2307/2390079|1. Field and laboratory experiments were conducted to test the hypothesis that heavy grazing promotes Lolium multiflorum seed germination at least partially via phytochrome perception of red (R)/far-red (FR) ratios. 2. The crucial experiments were conducted with `field seeds', in contrast to most of the previous work in this area which used only dry-stored seeds. 3. Germination was promoted by severe canopy defoliation even in the absence of ammal treading, by preventing canopy-filtered light from reaching seeds exposed to a R light pulse and subsequently placed at the bottom of a natural sward and (in laboratory experiments) by R light pulses perceived by phytochrome. 4. Plastic filters were used in the field to obtain different R/FR ratios but similar R+FR irradiances (and hence similar temperature regimes at soil level). Seed germination was promoted only by very high R/FR ratios, equivalent to those established by heavy grazing. 5. These results are consistent with the above hypothesis and suggest that phytochrome-mediated effects on ryegrass seed germination could be part of a strategy of population survival.
10.2307/2389390|This paper presents a numerical analysis of 78 published field trials with vesicular-arbuscular (VA) mycorrhizal fungi. Increased VA mycorrhizal colonization of the roots of crops and pasture herbs, produced by inoculation with these fungi, resulted in yield increases of 37% on average. However, there was no relationship between the size of the increase in infection and the size of the increase in yield. In addition, in approximately one-fifth of the trials, yield of plants with higher infection was depressed. VA mycorrhizal fungi are abundant and widespread in the roots of plants in both agricultural and natural vegetation. It is concluded here that the function of these symbiotic associations in field ecosystems warrants further study, particularly in terms of the influence of the type and degree of host infection on plant nutrient uptake and yield. For the present, direct evidence for a mutualistic function of VA mycorrhizal symbioses in the field is scant.
3599179|1. Fluctuating asymmetry (FA), small random deviations from perfect bilateral symmetry, is a widely used measure of developmental stability, and has been linked to fitness measures including male primary reproductive traits such as sperm quality. However, there have been relatively few investigations of potential associations between these male traits and FA, and hence the current balance of evidence is equivocal. 2. There is also evidence that levels of FA vary across populations with, for example, organisms inhabiting marginal populations often displaying increased FA. Moreover, environmental variation may select for different levels of developmental buffering across populations that are only revealed in 'common garden' experiments. 3. Investigations of potential associations between male leg FA and testis and sperm size in Yellow Dung Flies are reported here. In addition, levels of FA in a mainland and two island populations were compared when flies were reared under common conditions. 4. No associations were found between any measure of FA and sperm size (or variation) or testis size. Additionally, no evidence was found that FA varied across the three populations when flies were reared under identical controlled conditions.
40205556|1. Indirect plant defence, the recruitment of antagonists of herbivores, is well-known above the ground. In spite of various soil microorganisms acting as antagonists to root herbivores, it is still largely unknown whether plants can promote antagonistic microorganisms as an indirect defence mechanism. 2. In a greenhouse study we examined whether soil microorganisms could mediate plant defence against plant-feeding nematodes. Growth, nutrient contents and root exudation of three plant species (Plantago lanceolata, Holcus lanatus, Lotus corniculatus) and the performance of nematodes and fungal communities in the rhizospheres were measured. 3. The plant species differed in their effects on plant-feeding nematodes; however, the addition of soil microorganisms did not enhance nematode control. Nematode addition changed root exudation patterns and rhizosphere fungal community structure in a plant species-specific manner. Glucose levels in the root exudates of all three examined plant species were enhanced, and P. lanceolata root exudates contained higher levels of fumaric acid when nematodes had been added. 4. We conclude that nematodes have plant species-specific effects on root exudate chemistry and rhizosphere fungal community composition, but these effects do not necessarily enhance indirect control of nematodes by antagonistic microorganisms. More studies on below-ground plant defence are definitely needed.
826646|1. Studies focusing on the physiological variation between populations and its connection to fitness-related traits are rare, even though integrating these fields would increase knowledge on the evolution of traits. Standard metabolic rate (SMR) has been suggested to influence an individual's social status and the level of aggressiveness, as dominant individuals tend to have higher SMR than subordinate individuals. 2. The SMR of juvenile Brown Trout (Salmo trutta) from four populations was measured, and the population-level relationship between SMR and aggressiveness, which is a fitness-related behavioural trait, was investigated. 3. SMR differed between the populations, but no differences were found in the amount of aggression. Nevertheless, a significant positive correlation between aggressiveness and SMR between the populations was found. 4. Unlike many previous studies on geographical variation of metabolic rate, SMR correlated negatively with the latitude of origin of the populations. 5. The results suggest that SMR and aggressiveness are correlated not only at the individual level as shown by previous studies, but also at the population level. The costs and benefits of high metabolic rate depend largely on the environment, and local differences in environmental conditions, as for example in food availability, may select for local differences in SMR.
3599122| 1. Murray's law states that the hydraulic conductance per blood volume of the cardiovascular system is maximized when the sum of the vessel radii cubed (
3599084| 1. The rate of CO
10.2307/2389920|1. Sperm numbers are important for fertilization and sperm competition success but the importance of sperm size is not known. 2. We forced males of a meal moth (Plodia interpunctella) to develop on a low-protein diet with intense competition for food and compared their sperm sizes and numbers with sperm produced by males developing on a normal diet. 3. We find that males suffering resource restrictions for spermatogenesis reduce sperm numbers but not sperm sizes for both the fertile `eupyrene' and non-fertile `apyrene' sperm types. Under a restrictive larval diet, males do not alter the relative proportion of apyrene to eupyrene sperm produced from a 9:1 ratio. 4. We conclude that apyrene sperm play a critical role in the ejaculate and that both sperm sizes are constrained about narrow optima. The results suggest that males would suffer more drastic fitness losses for their ejaculate if they varied sperm sizes rather than numbers, as predicted by recent ESS sperm competition models.
10.2307/2390048|1. We report laboratory studies that aim to characterize the microphyte community composition and metabolic features of crusts covering dunes in the Negev. 2. The crusts are formed by at least one moss, four blue-green (Cyanobacteria) and two green (Chlorophyta) algal species with Microcoleus sociatus being dominant. The sheaths of the latter procaryotic alga, together with a contribution by moss rhizoides and protonemata, are responsible for stability of the topsoil crusts. 3. Following moistening of the dry crust, CO<sub>2</sub> release took place, even in the light, until positive net photosynthesis was achieved. This delay was mainly due to the high CO<sub>2</sub> buffer capacity of the soil solution. In moist crusts, growth of the microphytes soon took place, and CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation increased continuously. Net photosynthesis seemed to be adapted to relatively low light and temperature conditions. 4. Maximal photosynthesis was still possible with a crust water content equivalent to precipitation of 0.2-0.3 mm, but was suppressed at less than 0.1 mm. Dew and fog inhibition would be expected to allow photosynthetic activity and growth. Chlorophyll-related maximal rates of carbon gain were of similar magnitude to leaves of arido-active phanerogamous Negev plants. Area-related maximal rates reach more than 20% of desert shrubs. Thus, in the short term, carbon input into the ecosystem through the soil crusts can become substantial.
3599261| 1. In central Corsica, Helicodiceros muscivorus (Schott ex. K. Koch) produces a protogynous inflorescence that resembles the anal area of a dead mammal and produces a foetid scent during the few hours after sunrise. Flies enter the floral chamber, pollinate the female florets and become trapped until the next morning, when pollen is shed from the male florets and the flies are released. 2. The exposed appendix exhibits a strong, unimodal episode of thermogenesis associated with scent production, reaching a maximum of 30 C at 15 C ambient temperature. The male florets in the floral chamber are highly thermogenic throughout the second night and generally maintain stable floret temperatures of about 24 C at ambient temperatures down to 13 C. 3. Maximum respiration rates of the appendix (045 mol
10.2307/2389545|An advantage of the short half-life (20.3 min) <sup>11</sup>C isotope method is the simultaneous measurement of several crucial plant processes without hindering or destroying whole-plant function. The <sup>11</sup>C technique was used to examine the effects of the herbivorous soil nematode, Meloidogyne javanica (Treub) Chitwood, on carbon assimilation and redistribution in tomato (Lycopersicum esculentum L.) and in two ecotypes [grazing adapted (GA) and non-grazing adapted (NGA)], of an African C<sub>4</sub> grass, Panicum coloratum L. Preliminary tests, based on nematode eggs and galls, showed that M. javanica reproduced differentially on both P. coloratum ecotypes and suppressed GA shoot growth (weight), but had little effect on fresh root weight. In tomatoes, control plants had a higher pool of labile C in the roots than the nematode-infected plants. With P. coloratum, there were no differences in <sup>11</sup>C parameters between ecotypes. Plants with herbivorous nematodes had a lower stem sink activity, root activity and root transport speed than control plants. The technique proved valuable for measuring instantaneous changes in photosynthate accumulation and movement induced by herbivorous soil nematodes.
10.2307/2389966|1. The C<sub>3</sub> annuals, Avena sativa and Brassica kaber, and C<sub>3</sub> and C<sub>4</sub> perennials, Prosopis glandulosa and Schizachyrium scoparium, respectively, were grown in a 38-m long chamber along a continuous gradient of daytime CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations ([CO<sub>2</sub>]) from near the current 350  mol mol<sup>-1</sup> to 150 (annuals) or 200  mol mol<sup>-1</sup> (perennials). Diurnal CO<sub>2</sub> and water fluxes were calculated for plant stands in five consecutive, 7.6-m lengths of the chamber arranged linearly along the [CO<sub>2</sub>] gradient. 2. The ratio of night respiration (R<sub>N</sub>) to daytime net assimilation (P<sub>D</sub>) was greatest in A. sativa/B. kaber exposed to mean [CO<sub>2</sub>] below 200  mol mol<sup>-1</sup>, while R<sub>N</sub>/P<sub>D</sub> differed little among five stands of P. glandulosal S. scoparium that were grown at mean [CO<sub>2</sub>] from 219 to 331  mol mol<sup>-1</sup>. 3. Evapotranspiration was reduced and water-use efficiency (WUE) was increased in A. satival B. kaber stands by higher [CO<sub>2</sub>]. 4. P<sub>D</sub> and WUE of P. glandulosal S. scoparium were not related to [CO<sub>2</sub>] across either of two growing seasons. Both P<sub>D</sub> and WUE, however, were greater at higher [CO<sub>2</sub>] in three of four stands when [CO<sub>2</sub>] was varied on consecutive days. 5. We conclude that past increases in atmospheric [CO<sub>2</sub>] have promoted higher WUE and increased carbon uptake in C<sub>3</sub>-dominated ecosystems.
41319625|1. Animals exploiting renewable resource patches are faced with complex multi-location routing problems. In many species, individuals visit foraging patches in predictable sequences called traplines. However, whether and how they optimize their routes remains poorly understood. 2. In this study, we demonstrate that traplining bumblebees (Bombus terrestris) make a trade-off between minimizing travel distance and prioritizing the most rewarding feeding locations. 3. Individual bees trained to forage on five artificial flowers of equal reward value selected the shortest possible route as a trapline. After introducing a single highly rewarding flower to the array, they re-adjusted their routes visiting the most rewarding flower first provided the departure distance from the shortest possible route remained small (18%). When routes optimizing the initial rate of reward intake were much longer (42%), bees prioritized short travel distances. 4. Under natural conditions, in which individual flowers vary in nectar productivity and replenish continuously, it might pay bees to prioritize highly rewarding locations, both to minimize the overall number of flowers to visit and to beat competitors. 5. We discuss how combined memories of location and quality of resource patches could allow bees and other traplining animals to optimize their routing decisions in heterogeneous environments.
10.2307/2389847|1. Scope for growth (SfG) is an integrative physiological indicator reflecting the net energy gain of an organism. It correlates well with growth and reproduction. An experiment was set up to test whether SfG also reflects the capacity to cope with environmental stress. 2. Five groups of Daphnia magna were fed different algal rations to induce different SfG. On day 21, SfG was measured. Thereafter, each ration group was subdivided into a control and a saltwater treatment in which salinity was raised to 0.7%. 3. In the first part of the experiment, mortality was dependent on ration only for the first 6 days. Afterwards, mortality rates did not differ between the rations. SfG increased hyperbolically with increasing ration. Growth and reproduction correlated with SfG. In the second part of the experiment, mortality rates were higher in the salt- stressed groups, but did not differ between rations in either group. Reproduction correlated with SfG in the freshwater group but not in the saltwater group. 4. The results indicate that differences in SfG do not imply different capacities to cope with future stress.
10.2307/2389652|The optimal size-to-age at maturity depends on growth and mortality rates, which vary with environment. Therefore, organisms in spatially or temporally changing environments should develop adaptive phenotypic plasticity for this trait. Experimental work by Alm (1959) on several fish species shows a dome-shaped norm of reaction for size-to-age at maturity: size at maturity is smaller in both fast-growing and slow-growing fishes, than it is in fish with a medium growth rate. Using computer simulations, we show that such a dome-shaped norm of reaction is optimal when assuming a finite life span and a negative relationship between production and survival rates. This latter assumption is supported by empirical data, as well as by physiological and demographic arguments.
10.2307/2389817|Maximum lift production during take-off is proportional to flight velocity and acceleration. Therefore, lift production may be an important component of flight performance for two reasons. First, increased lift production could decrease mortality due to predation by increasing the velocity of take-off. Second, increased lift production could be correlated with higher levels of reproductive success in both males and females. In this paper I measure age-specific maximum lift production in male and female flesh flies, Neobellieria (= Sarcophaga) bullata Parker. Lift production in N. bullata ranges from 12.3 to 34.5 mg in flies with an adjusted average mass of 56.5 mg. Female flies suffer a 40% reduction in net lift production during egg development and this reduction is due to the increase in abdomen mass associated with ovarian maturation. I also determine the influence of flight muscle mass and three wing aerodynamic characters on lift production with the effects of body size removed. Residual flight muscle mass is positively correlated with residual lift production, but residual wing area, wing loading, and wing length are not. The results of this study suggest that lift production during take-off may be an important component of the overall flight performance of flying insects and a potential mechanism for a trade-off between reproduction and mortality due to predation.
2656398|1. Birds have been shown to lose mass upon predator encounters. This mass loss has generally been assumed to be caused by the feeding interruption the birds experience upon encountering the predator. However, birds may lose this mass because of predator stress and because they prepare themselves for flight (fit-for-flight). In this experiment the aim was to distinguish between effects of feeding interruptions and stress or fit-for-flight on the mass loss of Yellowhammers (Emberiza citrinella L.) upon predator exposure. 2. When exposed to a 45-min feeding interruption, the birds lost only a quarter of the mass they lost when they were moved to another room and exposed to a stuffed Sparrowhawk (Accipiter nisus) for 1 min at that beginning of the feeding interruption. This indicates that mass loss upon predator exposure is not just due to the feeding interruption birds experience upon encountering a predator, but is probably, to a large extent, due to both predator stress and fit-for-flight. 3. When the stuffed Sparrowhawk was replaced with a dummy (an opaque plastic bottle), mass loss upon exposure was similar to the loss in the Sparrowhawk treatment. This indicates that moving the birds to another room, which occurred in both these treatments, may to a large extent be the cause of the mass loss. 4. During the same day, the birds regained 92% of their losses. However, regaining those losses was partly postponed to the end of the day, which indicates that the birds faced a trade-off between starvation and predation risk, and were able to respond to that trade-off by altering their diurnal trajectory of mass increase. By postponing foraging to the end of the day, the birds decreased the mass-dependent costs of predation risk.
10.2307/2389852|1. Stipa tenacissima is a perennial tussock grass of arid and semi-arid zones around the Mediterranean basin that occupies extensive areas in south-eastern Spain. The environment of this region is extreme, with low irregular rainfall, high temperature and high irradiance, so that S. tenacissima tussocks are subjected to a high degree of environmental stress, especially during the summer months. 2. The ability of S. tenacissima to use a pulse of water applied in midsummer was tested in a field experiment in which extension growth and physiological performance of leaves of watered and unwatered plants were measured. 3. In unwatered plants, when leaf extension had ceased, leaf water potential, relative water content, leaf conductance and net photosynthetic rate were low and minimum fluorescence was high. 4. Leaf conductance and net photosynthetic rate doubled, leaf extension resumed, minimum fluorescence (F<sub>0</sub>) fell and photosynthetic efficiency of photosystem II (F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>) rose with watering. As the soil dried out again, values of these variables approached or equalled those of unwatered plants. 5. These changes in F<sub>0</sub> and F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub> suggested that the photosynthetic apparatus had not been damaged permanently, i.e. that S. tenacissima has reversible photoprotective mechanisms. 6. We conclude that the decreased photosynthetic rate of unwatered plants in summer results from non-damaging photoinhibition and low leaf conductance. The latter is partly a consequence of the folding of leaves, which was inversely proportional to relative water content. 7. The arrested development of S. tenacissima leaves was apparently not due to summer dormancy because leaves responded opportunistically within days to an applied pulse of water.
40863586|1. Indices quantifying the functional aspect of biodiversity are essential in understanding relationships between biodiversity, ecosystem functioning and environmental constraints. Many indices of functional diversity have been published but we lack consensus about what indices quantify, how redundant they are and which ones are recommended. 2. This study aims to build a typology of functional diversity indices from artificial data sets encompassing various community structures (different assembly rules, various species richness levels) and to identify a set of independent indices able to discriminate community assembly rules. 3. Our results confirm that indices can be divided into three main categories, each of these corresponding to one aspect of functional diversity: functional richness, functional evenness and functional divergence. Most published indices are highly correlated and quantify functional richness while quadratic entropy (Q) represents a mix between functional richness and functional divergence. Conversely, two indices (FEve and FDiv respectively quantifying functional evenness and functional divergence) are rather independent to all the others. The power analysis revealed that some indices efficiently detect assembly rules while others performed poorly. 4. To accurately assess functional diversity and establish its relationships with ecosystem functioning and environmental constraints, we recommend investigating each functional component separately with the appropriate index. Guidelines are provided to help choosing appropriate indices given the issue being investigated. 5. This study demonstrates that functional diversity indices have the potential to reveal the processes that structure biological communities. Combined with complementary methods (phylogenetic and taxonomie diversity), the multifaceted framework of functional diversity will help improve our understanding of how biodiversity interacts with ecosystem processes and environmental constraints.
2656340|1. Constant-power heat-balance sap flow gauges were used to compare sap flow in vertical and lateral roots of Grevillea robusta trees growing without access to ground water at a semiarid site in Kenya. 2. Reversal of sap flow occurred when root systems crossed gradients in soil water potential. Measurement of changes in the direction of flow was possible because of the symmetrical construction of the sap flow gauges; gradients in temperature across the gauges, and thus computed rates of sap flow, changed sign when reverse flow occurred. 3. Reverse flow in roots descending vertically from the base of the tree occurred, while uptake by lateral roots continued, when the top of the soil profile was wetter than the subsoil. The transfer of water downwards by root systems, from high to low soil water potential, was termed `downward siphoning'; this is the reverse of hydraulic lift. 4. Downward siphoning was induced by the first rain at the end of the dry season and by irrigation of the soil surface during a dry period. 5. Downward siphoning may be an important component of the soil water balance where there are large gradients in water potential across root systems, from a wet soil surface downwards. By transferring water beyond the reach of shallow-rooted neighbours, downward siphoning may enhance the competitiveness of deep-rooted perennials.
40407709|1. Ecological interactions that involve aggressive confrontations between animais are important in shaping the evolution of morphology, behaviour and life history. However, as such confrontations are rarely witnessed, direct quantification of the intensity of these processes in naturai populations is notoriously difficult. While the utilization of the frequency of non-lethal injuries is fraught with difficulties, it may provide information concerning different types of interaction, such as predation, intraspecific aggression and interspecific interference competition. 2. In this paper, we report on an exceptionally large difference in toe loss incidence between two populations of Podarcis sicula lizards living on small, neighbouring islands in the Adriatic Sea. We caught 900 lizards and recorded the number and location of missing toes. Subsequently, we investigated five non-mutually exclusive hypotheses concerning differences in bite force capacity, bone strength, predation intensity, average age and intraspecific aggression that may provide proximate explanations for the observed differences in injury frequencies. 3. Bite force differences differed considerably between the populations, but bone strength was found to be stronger in the populations with a higher frequency of naturai scars. Predation pressure clearly differed between the populations, but we found higher injury rates under predation relaxation. 4. Our results indicate that density and consequently an increased intraspecific competition is the most likely explanation for the observed high frequencies of injuries. We suggest that the intensity of toe amputation between lizard populations may be a useable indirect indication for the intensity of intraspecific competition. 5. This study shows how a combination of morphological, physiological, behavioural and ecological measurements can be used to test assumptions implicit to alternative explanations of an observed phenomenon. Such tests can reveal how likely each of these explanations is, even if the processes leading to the phenomenon are difficult to observe directly.
3599031| 1. Estimates of basal rate of metabolism in fruit pigeons and flying foxes, derived from the mean of individual means, were compared to the mean basal rate obtained by pooling all data into a single estimate. 2. Pooled estimates of basal rate differ by 1% of the basal rates obtained from the mean of individual means in 7 of 10 species of pigeons and 4 of 11 species of flying foxes. 3. The coefficient of variation of the mean of individual mean basal rates decreased with an increase in the mean number of measurements per individual, which, given that the number of measurements per individual was 84 in pigeons and 38 in flying foxes, partially accounts for the smaller coefficients in pigeons. 4. The maximal absolute difference between individual mean basal rates and the mean of individual means within a species decreased with an increase in the number of measurements per individual to 8, beyond which the difference remained constant. 5. Repeated measurements on a single individual usually gave an estimate of basal rate within 2-8% of the species' mean when eight or more measurements were made. 6. The analysis of limited samples most often occurs in the study of elusive or endangered species, when the availability of individuals for study is greatly limited. 
41239444|1. The 'temperature-size rule' (TSR) is a widely observed phenomenon within ectothermic species: individuals reared at lower temperatures grow more slowly, but are larger as adults than individuals reared at warmer temperatures. Although the TSR is common and of widespread ecological importance, it is not known whether there is a general physiological mechanism causing the TSR or even if species share a similar pattern of thermal response across ontogeny. 2. We constructed a conceptual model to show that binary division forces growth (g) and development (D) rates to return to a fixed ratio in unicellular organisms exposed to a change in temperature. After a period of decoupling during thermal acclimation, these rates must be restored to maintain a fixed ratio of adult: progeny size. However, the relationship between adult and progeny size need not be fixed in multicellular organisms at different temperatures, and hence growth and development rates need not have a fixed ratio either. 3. We conducted a meta-analysis on data of metazoan ontogenetic responses to temperature which demonstrates that adult size shows a much stronger temperature-size response than progeny size, and reveals variation in size response among other life cycle phases. 4. This study shows fundamental differences in the operation of the TSR in unicellular and multicellular organisms, suggesting that a general physiological mechanism causing the TSR is unlikely. Our findings also reveal the value of analysing shifts in size through the life cycle and across generations: these will yield a more complete quantitative description of how, and potentially provide clues to why, body size responds to temperature.
10.2307/2389619|Studies of the reproductive biology of the Proteaceae have often assumed that pollinator activity and possibly resources limit reproductive output of an individual. To date no studies have demonstrated that members of this family could produce more progeny if provided with more resources while many studies have shown that seed production is often limited by pollinator availability and seed predator activity. In this study the reproductive capacity (ovules/plant) of a rare West Australian Banksia, Banksia laricina C. Gardner, was determined as was the percentage of this capacity which was fulfilled. Only 2.6% of the reproductive capacity was realized, which is a low value typical of most hermaphroditic Proteaceae. The stages at which seed production was reduced were also investigated and this species appears to regulate maternal investment at all reproductive stages. It was also found that removal of 50% of the pollinated inflorescences of an individual did not affect final seed set. This suggested that some endogenous factor, probably resources, limited final seed output. Manipulation of resources available to the plant by nutrient addition was undertaken and increased seed production was evident upon the addition of either nitrogen, phosphorus or a balanced nutrient solution. Thus, it appears that low seed set in B. laricina is the result of selection for obligate outcrossing and high seed mineral composition so as to maintain genetic diversity of a restricted number of high quality propagules suitable for establishment in the low nutrient soils of their natural habitat.
10.2307/2390035|1. Two-year-old sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa) and beech (Fagus sylvatica) seedlings were grown in large pots of forest soil, at ambient (\pm 350  l l<sup>-1</sup>) and double (700  l l<sup>-1</sup>) atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration in constantly ventilated mini-greenhouses during an entire growing season. 2. CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment caused very different changes in these two temperate deciduous species. A 20% dry weight enhancement was obtained for sweet chestnut, and a 60% enhancement in beech. This greater effect of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> in beech was the result of a significant increase of net photosynthesis of the seedlings occurring during the whole season. However, in sweet chestnut, this increase in photosynthesis lasted only a few weeks and then an acclimation process took place. 3. No effect of increased CO<sub>2</sub> could be found on sweet chestnut leaf area or leaf number, while a significant effect was found with beech, in which total leaf area per plant increased, owing to a greater number of growth flushes, of progressively larger leaves. 4. The partitioning of the biomass increase due to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> was very different in the two species. All additional dry matter was allocated to the roots in sweet chestnut, while it was partitioned equally amongst all organs of the beech seedling. 5. The reactions to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> of different tree species is discussed in relation to their specific growth strategy.
3806544|1. This study examines the impacts of plant litter species identity and the composition of litter mixtures on seedling recruitment in the context of land-use change (abandonment) in conservationally important southern Swedish semi-natural grasslands. 2. We found that plant litter had marked positive effects on the seedling recruitment of two common grassland species, and that these effects varied strongly with the species identity of the litter. 3. There was no consistent evidence that litters of species typical of earlier succession had a greater positive impact on recruitment than those typical of late succession. 4. The impact of mixtures of the five litter types examined was generally as expected based on the impacts of single-species litters and their contribution to the litter mixture, as predicted by the biomass ratio hypothesis. However, this was not the case for all litter and seedling species combinations, and some interactions were evident. 5. Species identity of litter is important even in multispecies litter mixtures. Changes in plant species dominance (and hence the proportions of litter of different species), as a result of shifts in land use, are likely to result in changes in seedling performance, with potential consequences for the persistence of plant populations in former semi-natural grasslands.
10.2307/2389593|A new interpretation is presented of the concept of `critical concentrations' of metal pollutants for invertebrates in terrestrial ecosystems. Four critical concentrations are proposed for essential metals such as zinc and copper in the diet (C<sub>a</sub>, C<sub>b</sub>, C<sub>c</sub>, C<sub>d</sub>) which separate five `levels of performance'. These range from `deficiency' (level 5) through `homeostasis' (level 4), `low excess' (level 3), `high excess' (level 2) to `lethal' (level 1). Level 5 does not exist for non-essential metals such as cadmium and lead. The values of the critical concentrations for a specific metal and species may fluctuate with time and will depend on the presence or absence of additional stress factors which act on the animal such as other metals in the diet, climatic changes and food availability. C<sub>c</sub> may be set at any concentration between C<sub>b</sub> and C<sub>d</sub> and could represent the maximum `acceptable' level of pollution; its precise value will depend on the parameters used to indicate when an individual or a population of a particular species passes from `low excess' (level 3 - acceptable) to `high excess' (level 4 - unacceptable) of the metal in the diet. C<sub>b</sub>, C<sub>c</sub> and C<sub>d</sub> are defined for zinc in the diet of the terrestrial isopod Porcellio scaber Latreille, 1804 and the intracellular pathways for the detoxification of metals are compared with those of a predator, the woodlouse-eating spider Dysdera crocata C.L. Koch, 1838. The difficulties of defining C<sub>c</sub> in a `regulator' of metals (D. crocata) in comparison to a metal `accumulator' (P. scaber) are discussed.
10.2307/2389370|Two models were developed with the aim of predicting the optimal inattentive period (i.e time off the nest) of bird species in which only one sex of parent incubates the eggs. The models assumed that fitness was increased in individuals which maximized either total (TOTAL GAIN model) or net rate of metabolizable energy (NET RATE model) gained while foraging. Both models considered the energetic cost of reheating eggs cooled during inattentive periods. The models were evaluated in a study of incubation behaviour in female swallows Hirundo rustica (L.), by using laboratory data on egg cooling rates and field information on instantaneous mass changes while foraging (and hence energy gains). Both models predicted that inattentive periods longer than 5-6 mins would result in energy deficit and 84% of all observed inattentive periods were indeed shorter than 5-6 mins. The predicted optimal inattentive period (4-5 mins) was slightly longer than that most frequently observed (3-4 mins) when TOTAL GAIN was used and slightly shorter (2-3 mins predicted optimum) than the most frequent inattentive period class when using the predictions of NET RATE. The models are evaluated and possible non-energetic constraints on incubation behaviour are discussed.
40205492|1. 'Decorating' describes behaviours in which animals attach foreign matter to themselves or their external structures. Decorating is widespread, occurring in morphologically and ecologically diverse organisms representing nearly 25% of the major metazoan phyla. 2. Decorating is often limited to juvenile or small life stages. This pattern may suggest that decorating incurs cost-benefit trade-offs limiting its net adaptive value within and across species. Theory predicts that such costs, if present, could strongly influence selection for decorating. 3. We investigate the potential costs of carrying decoration and their evolutionary ramifications, using decorator crabs (Brachyura: Majoidea) as a test system. We demonstrate that decoration is energetically costly for the species Oregonia gracilis. 4. We experimentally link those costs to sexually dimorphic ontogenetic shifts in O. gracilis claw size and decoration. 5. We show that negative correlations between claw size, body size and decorating occur widely in the Majoidea, suggesting that energetic costs have played an important role in majoid evolution. 6. This study demonstrates linkages between physiological constraints, sexual selection, and predation risk.
3806598|1. We use a large interspecific data set on diving variables for birds and mammals, and statistical techniques to control for the effects of phylogenetic non-independence, to assess evolutionary associations among different elements of diving behaviour across a broad and diverse range of diving species. Our aim is to assess whether the diving ability of homeothermic vertebrates is influenced by factors other than the physiology of the species. 2. Body mass is related to dive duration even when dive depth is controlled for and thus for a given dive depth, larger species dive for longer. This implies that larger species have a greater capacity for diving than is expressed in their dive depth. Larger animals that dive shallowly, probably for ecological reasons such as water depth, make use of the physiological advantage that their size confers by diving for longer. 3. Dive duration correlates with dive depth more strongly than with body mass. This confirms that some animals are poor divers for their body mass, either because of a lower physiological capacity or because their behaviour limits their diving. 4. Surface duration relates not only to dive duration but also to dive depth, as well as to both independently. This indicates a relationship between dive depth and surface duration controlling for dive duration, which suggests that deeper dives are energetically more expensive than shallow dives of the same duration. 5. Taxonomic class does not improve any of the dive variable models in the present study. There is thus an unsuspected consistency in the broad responses of different groups to the effects on diving of the environment, which are therefore general feature of diving evolution.
40863592|1. One way to simplify the high taxonomic diversity of plant species in vegetation models is to place species into groups based on shared, dominant traits. Many studies have suggested that morphological and physiological traits of tropical dry forest tree species vary with leaf habit (i. e. leaves from evergreen, deciduous or semi-deciduous species) and thus this characteristic may serve as a useful way to distinguish ecologically meaningful functional types. 2. In this study we examine whether 10 plant traits vary with leaf habit in replicated leaves and individual trees of 87 species from a tropical dry forest in Costa Rica. We also looked for evidence of phylogenetic conservatism, i. e. closely related species sharing similar trait values compared to more distantly related taxa. 3. While some of the traits varied within and among individual trees of the same species, interspecific variation accounted for 57-83% of the variance among samples. Four traits in addition to leaf habit showed evidence of phylogenetic conservatism, but these results were strongly dependent on the inclusion of the 18 species of legumes (Fabaceae) in our dataset. Contrary to our predictions, none of the traits we measured differed among leaf habits. However, five traits (wood density, leaf C, leaf N, N/P and C/N) varied significantly between legumes and other functional types. Furthermore, when all high-nitrogen non-legume taxa were compared to the high-nitrogen legumes, six traits excluding leaf N differed significantly, indicating that legumes are functionally different from other tree species beyond high N concentrations. Similarly, the 18 legume taxa (which all have compound leaves) also differed from other compound-leaved species for six traits, thus leaf type does not explain these patterns. 4. Our main conclusions are that (i) a plant functional type classification based on leaf habit alone has little utility in the tropical dry forest we studied, and (ii) legumes have a different suite of traits including high leaf carbon and wood density in addition to high leaf nitrogen. Whether this result generalizes to other tropical forests is unknown, but merits future research due to the consequences of these traits for carbon storage and ecosystem processes.
10.2307/2389969|1. The effects of a sudden increase in irradiance and the high leaf temperatures characteristic of a canopy gap environment were studied with chlorophyll fluorescence and gas-exchange measurements on shade- and sun-acclimated leaves of Alocasia macrorrhiza. 2. Photoinhibition occurred in both sun and shade leaves during a 2-h simulated gap treatment (1900  mol photons m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) in which leaf temperatures rose to 40<sup></sup>C. Dissipation of excess energy was more efficient in sun leaves, which showed rapid quenching of fluorescence. The quantum yield of photosystem II as calculated from fluorescence in low light was considerably lower for shade than sun leaves after the gap treatment. 3. Fluorescence relaxation kinetics showed that sun leaves recovered overnight from photoinhibition even when leaf temperatures during treatment reached 40<sup></sup>C. By contrast, shade leaves given the same treatment had not recovered after 4 days in low light. Shade leaves given the same light treatment but held at 30<sup></sup>C instead of 40<sup></sup>C recovered within 4 days. Shade leaves treated at 40<sup></sup>C in moderate, saturating light (375  mol photons m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) recovered overnight. Thirteen days of 3-h gap treatments on whole plants previously grown in shade showed that after initial depressions both fluorescence and photosynthetic capacity partially recovered. 4. Thus, the degree of photoinhibition and the potential for recovery are dependent on the synergistic roles of leaf temperatures and high light during initial gap conditions. Although quantum efficiency and photosynthetic capacity can be impaired by strong light and heat stress, shade leaves have significant capacity for repair and contribution to the whole-plant carbon budget during acclimation following gap formation.
10.2307/2389730|A number of investigators have shown that larval development can be affected by conditioning of the food medium resulting from the accumulation of waste products such as faeces, silk, pheromones, etc. Gordon et al. (1988) found that larvae of the stored product moth Cadra cautella (Walker) were able to continue growing even after the complete exhaustion of their food supply, an effect which the authors attributed to re-use of faecal material deposited in the conditioned medium. In this paper we develop a model describing the growth, development and survival of a cohort of stored product larvae from egg hatch to pupation. Growth and survival rates are assumed to depend only on energy uptake, which in turn depends both on the quantity and quality of the food medium. We compare the predictions of this model with the experimental observations described and modelled by Gordon et al. (1988). At low initial densities our model behaves in a way that is essentially indistinguishable both from the experimental observations and the predictions of their model. However, at high larval densities, where the Gordon et al. model fails to match observed behaviour, our model predicts survival, development times and weights at maturation closely in accord with those observed.
3598980|1. We tested the hypotheses that (i) reproductive ramets of Linnaea borealis L. (Caprifoliaceae) compensate for reproductive investments by enhanced resorption of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) from leaves before abscission, and that (ii) resorption is decreased by increased soil nutrient availability. We also investigated (iii) the significance of resorption for ramet growth and nutrient pool sizes. 2. Leaves from reproductive, post-reproductive and non-reproductive ramets were used to investigate compensatory resorption of N and P. To study resorption responses to increased nutrient availability, slow-release fertilizer was applied and differences between defoliated and shaded ramets were noted. 3. No compensation for reproductive investments via resorption from senescing leaves was detected. Resorption efficiency increased with increased nutrient availability for N, but showed no response for P. No effect of experimentally denied resorption was seen. 4. We propose that extensive physiological integration within clonal fragments of L. borealis buffers resource alterations in ramets associated with reproduction, fertilization and prevented resorption. 5. Our results show that the performance of a ramet of a physiologically well integrated plant is not governed by local conditions -- ramets can exceed patch nutrient availability without reduced growth and nutrient status.
3599363|1. Organisms are forced to make trade-offs when allocating energy reserves during sustained periods of fasting. 2. For most animals, lipid catabolism is the preferred source of energy to safeguard important protein sources. However, marine mammals also have a compounding pressure to conserve some lipid stores. The main site of lipid storage in these animals is the blubber layer, which is not only an important energy source during fasting, but is also the primary thermal barrier when at sea. 3. To explain how the allocation of protein and lipid reserves during fasting are influenced by body condition (body mass and percentage lipid of total body mass), a dynamic state variable model that takes into account fitness consequences of different allocation strategies was developed. 4. This model was parameterized with respect to conditions faced by weaned Northern Elephant Seal (Mirounga angustirostris Gill) pups. It incorporates the independent effects of body mass and protein mass (the two state variables) on survival and the costs of utilizing either lipid or protein during the postweaning fast. 5. Predictions of lipid and protein allocation by the model were not significantly different from measurements on wild seals. Finally, the model showed that body lipid content and fasting duration both influence allocation of energy reserves.
3599107|1. The significance for whole-plant carbon gain of plasticity in between-leaf and within-leaf partitioning of photosynthetic resources was investigated using an experimental and modelling approach. Lysimachia vulgaris L. was grown at two contrasting stand densities and two levels of nutrient availability in a glasshouse. Whole-plant daily C gain was calculated for the four treatments. The importance of the two forms of plasticity in photosynthetic resource partitioning was investigated by switching distribution patterns of leaf nitrogen and photosynthetic capacity per unit chlorophyll between plants in the two stand densities and recalculating whole-plant C gain, which was used as a measure of fitness. 2. The plants had a high photosynthetic capacity per unit leaf area in top leaves in the dense stands, and a low capacity in bottom leaves. The distribution over plant height was more homogeneous in the open stands. This plasticity in between-leaf resource partitioning was not very important for whole-plant C gain, provided the plants had a dense-canopy type of partitioning. It is argued, however, that this result of the model calculations is valid only for low, but not high, nutrient availability. 3. Photosynthetic capacity per unit chlorophyll, a parameter representative of within-leaf partitioning of photosynthetic resources between capacity and light harvesting, also showed plasticity in response to stand density. High values were found in open stands and in the top leaves in dense stands, whereas a low capacity per unit chlorophyll was found in shaded bottom leaves in dense stands. Plasticity in this trait was also not very important for C gain of plants in stands of contrasting densities. Here the condition was that plants have a distribution pattern found for open-stand plants. However, in the case of subordinate plants that have all their leaves in the shade cast by their taller neighbours, adjustment of photosynthetic capacity per unit chlorophyll to the level of irradiance is much more important for whole-plant C gain.
41319576|1. Immune defence is an incredibly complicated system, but to understand how it functions in an ecological context is challenging. Our focus is to outline the diversity of ways to measure immune function for ecologists, and to provide some details on the limitations in interpretation of results. 2. There are two broad questions that ecological immunologists have to deal with. The first is what assays are appropriate for the research question of interest? Some researchers assume the biological relevance of an immune assay without investigation or a complete understanding of the immune response. Therefore, the second question is, what parasite challenge does one choose, and does a measurement of immune function reflect the response of the host towards that parasite? There are many assumptions, caveats, and pitfalls facing ecological immunologists, and investigating the relationships between immune assays and whole organismal defence will help us to understand variations in immune responses. 3. We provide an extensive listing of immune function measures, presenting examples from both the vertebrate and invertebrate literature, and wherever possible from non-model organisms. We also outline how these responses are part of an integrated immune defence and encourage thinking about immune function as a hierarchical defence model. We describe how immune responses interact with one another, identify concerns regarding when to measure an immune response, and describe general problems faced when trying to collect a measure of immune function in wild organisms. 4. Extrinsic factors influence immune measurements and the importance of parasites is often overlooked. We give several examples of how parasites interact with organism's immune systems, suggest greater inclusion of parasites into ecological immunology experiments, describe how micro-organisms may interact symbiotically with their host's immune system, and advocate the inclusion of tolerance and resistance in ecological immunological thinking.
10.2307/2390014|1. Earlier life-history studies suggested that the mammalian iteroparous/semelparous gradient may be particularly important in shaping patterns of post-natal development in the hyaenids. Apparent anomalies between Aardwolf metabolic rates and post-natal development patterns are investigated. 2. Age-specific post-natal growth in the Aardwolf supports sexual size monomorphism in the species and no statistical difference in goodness of fit was evident among various growth curves. Nevertheless, the Gompertz equation consistently provided the better fit and is recommended. 3. Significant seasonal trends in adult body weights were evident with low weights at the end of winter (August). Seasonal adjustment of growth data failed to improve the goodness of fit of growth curves. 4. Asymptotic weight is approached by 1.8 years of age but may be reached as early as 3.6 months by some individuals. Maximum growth rate is achieved at 3 months of age. 5. The power coefficient (c) which scales growth between birth and independence is 0.61, and falls below the mean value of 0.81 for carnivores. 6. However, previous life-history analyses and the implementation of the Charnov (1991) model suggests that the Aardwolf has an above average weight and a below average age at maturity. In addition, this species reached final weight before sexual maturity, an uncharacteristic feature for mammalian species. 7. This peculiar suite of life-history characteristics suggests that the Aardwolf tends towards an iteroparous life style, which serves to reduce juvenile mortality. However, species-specific constraints do not allow it to pursue this strategy by maximizing growth rate. Instead growth is sustained using an extended lactation period and intensive parental care to enable final body size to be reached as soon as possible. 8. These results not only suggest that the adoption of a universal growth power coefficient (c) to model mammalian life histories is unrealistic but also that c should also be interpreted within the broader context of the complete suite of species specific life-history constraints and characteristics.
40205514|1. Variation in the quality of the offspring environment can lead to the evolution of variable offspring provisioning. For variable offspring provisioning to evolve, the magnitude of provisioning per offspring must have effects on offspring and parental fitness. 2. Females of the quacking frog, Crinia georgiana, produce clutches of eggs in which egg size varies between individuals in the population and also within clutches, independent of female size or condition. A trade-off between egg size and number exists. 3. Using microsatellite markers to trace offspring to parents, and therefore clutch type, we tested the performance of tadpoles from clutches of large, small and variable-sized eggs in ponds in the field. 4. Clutches of large eggs resulted in the highest parental fitness and clutches of small eggs resulted in lower parental fitness values. 5. The parental fitness indicated that conditions in these ponds were harsh. Clutches with variable egg sizes had intermediate parental fitness but may be of benefit as a bet-hedging strategy when the qualities of ponds are unpredictable. 6. This study provides new empirical evidence of important offspring and parental fitness consequences of variable maternal provisioning under natural conditions in the field and demonstrates the importance of moving experimental life-history studies out of the laboratory into the field where realistic selection pressures act on developing offspring.
10.2307/2390576|1. A growth model for brown trout, developed almost 20 years ago, has been used to investigate growth potential in at least 40 populations over a wide geographical range. The chief disadvantages of the model are: it is based on growth data for only 55 hatchery trout kept in tanks without strict control of temperature and oxygen, it is not continuous and is restricted to the range 3.819.5<sup></sup>C, it requires six parameters and only one of these can be interpreted biologically. 2. For the new model, growth data were obtained for an additional 130 trout bred from wild parents and kept in tanks at five constant temperatures (range 0.1 or 0.2<sup></sup>C) and 100% oxygen saturation. The new model is continuous over the range 3.8-21.7<sup></sup>C and has five parameters, all of which can be interpreted in biological terms. It was fitted to growth data for individual fish and was an excellent fit (P<0.001, R<sup>2</sup> > 0.99) to the dat6a for the 55 trout of the original experiment, the 130 trout of the new experiment and both experiments combined. The procedure for applying the model to field data is critically examined and a suitable test for maximum growth potential is described. The model ceases to be robust when mean temperatures are estimated over periods of more than 3 months. 3. Although parameter estimates for the new model are similar for the original and new experiments, they are significantly different. An iterative exercise, varying common and different parameters, showed this to be the result of slight differences between two parameters; the optimum temperature for growth and the growth rate of a 1-g fish at this temperature. Possible reasons for this are discussed and it is concluded that these differences have a negligible effect on values predicted from the model.
10.2307/2389992|1. This paper describes the large-scale spatial and temporal patterns of grazing on salt-marsh by Dark-Bellied Brent Geese Branta bernicla bernicla in winter and examines them in relation to grazing optimization theory. The numbers and spatial distribution of geese feeding on salt-marsh were recorded, on average, every 2.5 days from October to April 1991/92, and the data analysed for regular cyclic patterns of grazing within areas of the marsh. The mean percentage ground cover of the main food plant, Puccinellia maritima (Poaceae), was estimated in all areas and the proportion of each area composed of short vegetation was measured. The effects of grazing on the age structure of leaves of P. maritima, and on the patterns of regrowth following grazing, were monitored in swards of high, medium and low mean P. maritima cover. 2. Eleven of 23 defined areas of salt-marsh were grazed by geese infrequently (fewer than five records) or never. These areas were clearly distinguished from those used frequently for at least part of the winter by their lower coverage of short vegetation (average 9%, compared with 40% for frequently used areas). Of the 12 frequently grazed areas, six showed evidence of cyclic patterns of grazing, with the interval between grazing bouts ranging from 7 to 15 days. The remaining six areas showed only weak evidence or no evidence of cyclic grazing patterns. The available evidence suggested that disturbance, position in relation to roost and inland feeding areas, and the occurrence of night-time feeding may influence whether or not grazing cycles occur. 3. The time required for the complete regrowth of grazed leaf tissue was greater than 50 days but on cyclically grazed areas, regrazing intervals were much shorter than this. The geese were therefore grazing partially depleted swards. The lengths of cycles were unrelated to the intensity of grazing (measured in goose min m<sup>-2</sup>) but positively related to the percentage cover of P. maritima in the sward. Grazing resulted in a younger leaf age structure on tillers of P. maritima, particularly in swards of low cover. Because geese showed no selection for younger leaves or unbitten tillers, it is suggested that the shorter cycle lengths on lower biomass swards represent a preference for the higher nutrient quality provided by the younger leaf age structure following grazing.
3599366| 1. Recent studies have resurrected the debate over the value for the allometric scaling exponent that relates whole-organism metabolic rate to body size. Is it  or 2/3? This question has been raised before and resolved in favour of . Like previous ones, recent claims for a value of 2/3 are based almost entirely on basal metabolic rate (BMR) in mammals. 2. Here we compile and analyse a new, larger data set for mammalian BMR. We show that interspecific variation in BMR, as well as field metabolic rates of mammals, and basal or standard metabolic rates for many other organisms, including vertebrates, invertebrates, protists and plants, all scale with exponents whose confidence intervals include  and exclude 2/3. Our analysis of maximal metabolic rate gives a slope that is greater than and confidence intervals that exclude both  and 2/3. 3. Additionally, numerous other physiological rates that are closely tied to metabolism in a wide variety of organisms, including heart and respiratory rates in mammals, scale as M
3599052|1. Past studies on phenotypic plasticity usually focus on ultimate (evolutionary) issues. More recently, proximate (developmental) factors explaining how plasticity is achieved are starting to be addressed. 2. Here, we examine the importance of resource level and temperature on growth rate and burst swimming speed in tadpoles of Spea hammondii (Western Spadefoot Toad). 3. Food and temperature manipulations alter growth rate via different developmental processes (cell growth and cell recruitment, respectively) and these processes appear to have consequences for swimming performance in tadpoles. 4. Tadpoles reared at warm temperatures were slower swimmers than those reared at cooler temperatures while food level had no effect on size-specific burst speed. Tadpoles reared at warm temperatures also had more fibres in the tail muscle, probably due to an earlier onset of recruitment. Tadpoles reared at higher food levels had larger muscle fibres, but little differences in fibre number compared to those reared at low food levels. 5. These results indicate that growth by adding cells comes at a performance cost not seen when growth is due to increasing cell size. This developmental difference also has implications for how body size manipulations are carried out in behavioural and ecological studies.
826639|1. In many root parasites, chemical substances from the host are necessary for the successful initiation of germination and holdfast formation, and are the basis for host recognition and localization within the rhizosphere. In contrast, bird-dispersed mistletoe seeds have no need for the chemical localization of a host, and possible mechanisms of host recognition are poorly understood. Many studies claim that mistletoes germinate readily in the absence of a host and independent of the substrate. 2. In this study, the possible occurrence of substrate dependence and host recognition in mistletoes during the establishment of Plicosepalus acaciae Zucc. seeds on Acacia raddiana Savi was tested experimentally. 3. In a laboratory experiment, no influence of substrate on germination could be found, but a significantly higher proportion of the germinated seeds developed a holdfast on natural (bark) substrate than on artificial (plastic) substrate. Moreover, the origin of the bark had a significant influence on holdfast formation frequency. 4. Host influence was additionally tested in a reciprocal transplant experiment in two field sites with genetically different populations of the same host species. Those mistletoes of local origin germinated significantly more often than their non-local counterparts. 5. These results suggest the existence of interactions between mistletoe seed and host branch on the basis of chemical cues that are active at an early stage of seedling development and are host-specific at the level of populations.
826648|1. Clonal plants can share resources such as carbon and nitrogen among connected, separately rooted plant units or ramets. In many cases, resource sharing tends to equalize the performance of ramets, suggesting that differences in resource supply drive the sharing process, with resources moving from ramets with high access to resources to those with low access to resources. However, some patterns of apparent C and N sharing in the stoloniferous wild strawberry Fragaria chiloensis make the growth of ramets less equal, which is inconsistent with this model of resource sharing. As hormones are a mechanism by which non-clonal plants can make the growth of the branches of a shoot less equal, we hypothesized that clonal plants might use hormones to modify patterns of resource sharing between ramets. 2. Auxin (IAA) or cytokinin (BA) was applied to the shoot tip of ramets using a noninvasive protocol previously shown to increase internal hormone concentrations.
826657|1. Organisms live surrounded by air or water, which exert drag on an organism when moving. These forces are significant ecologically because they can affect organisms' distribution, behaviour or dispersal. 2. Appropriate techniques for measuring or estimating these forces vary greatly depending on the magnitude of the forces and the flow pattern of the moving fluid (air or water; both gases and liquids are fluids). A simple method for estimating the drag in uniform steady flow is described. This technique is particularly well suited for forces of small magnitude (micronewtons) and slow flows (1 < Re < 100), and provides very uniform and well-characterized ambient flow relative to the object. 3. This method capitalizes on the force balance that exists when a falling object reaches terminal velocity. At terminal velocity, all of the forces sum to zero, and therefore the drag may be estimated from the other (known) forces (buoyancy and gravitational force). Orientation during falling may be controlled if necessary.
10.2307/2390559|1. The measurement of energy expenditures in free-ranging animals is essential if we are to understand fully the interaction between a species and its environment. This study examined the validity of heart rate (f<sub>H</sub>) and doubly labelled water (DLW) as measures of field metabolic rate (FMR) in California Sea Lions (Zalophus californianus). 2. Oxygen consumption and CO<sub>2</sub> production were measured over 24 h by direct respirometry in six juvenile sea lions. The respirometer consisted of a hood over a flume in which the sea lions were exercised to various levels for 15 min periods throughout each experiment. The exercise regime produced a mean metabolic rate which was 2.3 times the predicted basal metabolic rate (BMR) with mean maxima of 6.27 times the predicted BMR. 3. Simultaneously with direct respirometry, mean CO<sub>2</sub> production was estimated using DLW and O<sub>2</sub> consumption was estimated using f<sub>H</sub>, which had previously been calibrated against O<sub>2</sub> consumption. 4. The mean\pmSD O<sub>2</sub> consumptions from direct respirometry, f<sub>H</sub> and DLW were 11.80\pm2.40, 11.95\pm2.17 and 15.01\pm3.77 ml min<sup>-1</sup> kg<sup>-1</sup> respectively. Paired Student's t-tests showed no significant difference between O<sub>2</sub> consumption by direct respirometry and the estimates from DLW and f<sub>H</sub>. DLW measurements ranged from -10% to +86% of the direct respirometry measurements (mean +36.4%) and f<sub>H</sub> measurements ranged from -28% to +23% of the direct respirometry measurements (mean +2.7%). 5. The range of estimated metabolic rates from f<sub>H</sub> was largely owing to individual differences in the slopes of the linear relationship between f<sub>H</sub> and O<sub>2</sub> consumption. The range of metabolic rates from DLW could be partly attributed to the short duration of the experiments (24-25 h) but this was shown not to be the cause of the tendency to overestimate metabolic rate from DLW. It was concluded that both DLW and f<sub>H</sub> are valid methods for measuring FMR in California Sea Lions although it is possible that FMR could be overestimated when using DLW.
3599273|1. Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) chicks accumulate fat through most of the nestling period, near the end of which they typically weigh 50-100% more than their parents. Much of this excess mass is lost abruptly prior to leaving the nest and fledging itself marks the termination of parental care. 2. In this study, we evaluated the hypothesis that the onset of the prefledging mass loss period coincides with the end of the development period and the completion of structural growth. 3. We characterized the pattern of prefledging mass loss and the timing of fledging with respect to a point (T), based on wing growth, at which structural development stops. Variation in T suggested that development rate is partially influenced by parental food provisioning, particularly early in the nestling period (age 16-20 days) just prior to the onset of rapid primary feather growth. 4. The timing of mass loss and fledging in relation to T suggested that prefledging mass loss begins upon completion of wing growth and that fledging occurs after chicks have reached a mass compatible with sustained flight. Thus, the time to fledging is positively correlated with nestling mass at the end of the development period. 5. The prefledging period of mass loss is a unique phase of anorexia placed between parental feeding and self-feeding in the life of the young petrel.
40603064|1. Fungal endophyte -grass symbioses can have dramatic ecological effects, altering individual plant physiology, plant and animal community structure and function, and ecosystem processes such as litter decomposition and nutrient cycling. 2. Within the tall fescue (Schedonorus arundinaceus) -fungal endophyte (Neotyphodium coenophialum) symbiosis, fungal produced alkaloids are often invoked as the putative mechanism driving these ecological responses. Yet few measurements of alkaloids exist in the ecological literature. In this study, we quantified alkaloid levels in live, standing dead and decomposing endophyte-infected (E+) and -free (E-) plant material and simultaneously evaluated the direct and indirect effects of endophyte presence on tall fescue decomposition. 3. Loline and ergot alkaloid levels were consistently high in live E+ (common toxic strain of N. coenophialum) tall fescue biomass throughout the sampling period (May-November 2007), whereas, E-live and standing dead material had non-detectable alkaloid concentrations. Standing dead E+ biomass had significantly reduced alkaloid levels (6-19x lower than the levels measured in the corresponding live E + biomass) that were equivalent to E-live and dead for loline but were still somewhat higher than E-material for ergots. 4. In an effort to test the role of alkaloids in directly inhibiting decomposition, as has been suggested by previous studies, we conducted a litter bag experiment using green, alkaloid-laden E+ and alkaloid-free E-tall fescue plant material. We incubated E+ and E-litter bags in both E+ and E-tall fescue stands for 170 days, and measured mass loss, carbon and nitrogen content, and ergot and loline alkaloid concentrations over the incubation period. 5. Consistent with previous reports, both direct and indirect effects of endophyte presence on litter decomposition were observed: endophyte presence in the litter and surrounding microenvironment significantly reduced decomposition rates. Surprisingly, despite large differences in alkaloid content between E+ and E-litter from Day 0-Day 21 of the incubation, direct effects of the endophyte on litter decomposition, while significant, were relatively small (differences in mass loss between E+ and E-litter were never > 3%). Alkaloids were gone from E+ material by day 56. 6. We propose that results from this study indicating alkaloids are largely absent in standing dead material (the typical input to the decomposition process), and that despite being present in our litter bag experiment, failed to produce large differences in mass loss between E+ and E-material questions the supposition that fungal produced alkaloids directly inhibit decomposition.Additional studies exploring the mechanisms behind the direct and indirect effects of endophytes on this ecosystem process are needed.
10.2307/2390563|1. Plasticine snake replicas were used to demonstrate that free-ranging avian predators generalize avoidance of Coral Snake ringed patterns to similar patterns, supporting the argument that the convergence on ringed and banded patterns among neotropical snakes is a result of the mimetic advantage of resembling venomous Coral Snakes. 2. The study was conducted at a tropical dry forest site in Costa Rica, where only one species of Coral Snake occurs. The Coral Snake has a tricolour (red-yellow-black-yellow-red) ringed pattern and no snakes at the site have bicolour (red-black) ringed patterns. Neither tricolour nor bicolour ringed replicas were attacked by birds, whereas an unmarked brown replica was. 3. The avoidance of the bicolour ringed pattern is attributable to generalized avoidance of Coral Snake-like patterns. No red-and-black ringed prey have been observed at the site, so birds could not have learned specific avoidance of the bicolour pattern. Historical biogeographical evidence suggests that the avifauna at the site did not evolve in the presence of red-and-black ringed snakes, so it is unlikely that birds evolved a specific innate avoidance of the bicolour ringed pattern.
10.2307/2389504|Changes in pre-dawn water potential, soil-to-leaf hydraulic conductance, and leaf diffusive conductance were well correlated in oak trees during natural drying cycles in the field. Maximum daily leaf conductance was highly correlated with pre-dawn water potential for blackjack oak (Quercus marilandica Muenchh.) and northern red oak (Quercus rubra Lam.), while leaf water potential at the time of measurement of leaf conductance was not significantly correlated with leaf conductance. Soil-to-leaf hydraulic conductance was positively correlated with pre-dawn water potential and with maximum daily leaf conductance in both species. The relationships between leaf conductance, soil-to-leaf hydraulic conductance, and pre-dawn water potential were similar for blackjack oak at three sites along a moisture gradient, despite large differences in those values across sites. Soil-to-leaf hydraulic conductance declined more in co-occurring northern red oak than blackjack oak as pre-dawn water potential in both species declined from near zero to -1.0 MPa. These results suggest that bulk leaf water potential may not be as important a limitation to gas exchange in the field as soil/root water potential and/or vapour pressure gradient.
2390320|1. Root competition can be an important determinant of the performance of neighbours within plant populations and communities. Because plants often maintain larger root systems and allocate more of their carbon to root systems under elevated atmospheric CO
826729| 1. Three experiments were performed, using laboratory mice (Mus musculus) as a model species, to evaluate the potential of using measurements of carbon isotope ratios in expired CO
10.2307/2389519|1. An ecotoxicological risk analysis was applied to data on the effects of SO<sub>2</sub> on a heathland ecosystem to study the merits of this analysis for use in setting safety standards for air pollution. 2. Fourteen species native to heathland vegetation were exposed to a range of SO<sub>2</sub> concentrations up to 520  g m<sup>-3</sup> in controlled fumigation chambers. 3. The effect of fumigation on visual injury and several growth parameters was determined after 6 weeks. 4. Species dominating heathlands in The Netherlands were hardly affected by the fumigations, while the bryophytes and species from the Violion caninae alliance were much more sensitive to SO<sub>2</sub>. 5. The threat of elevated SO<sub>2</sub> concentrations to heathland vegetation from injury was estimated by incorporating SO<sub>2</sub> effect threshold levels for these species into an ecotoxicological risk analysis. 6. Based on this analysis and within the limitations of the available data set, the air quality standard would have to be lowered to that equivalent to a 42-day mean of 8  g m<sup>-3</sup> to protect 95% of the species native to heathland vegetation in The Netherlands from injury.
3598973|1. Free-living animals make complex decisions associated with optimizing energy and nutrient intake. In environments where ambient temperatures fall below the thermoneutral zone, homeotherms must choose whether or not to forage, how long and what to forage for, and whether or not to perform activities that conserve energy. 2. Huddling in groups has long been thought of as a possible means of conserving energy. Laboratory studies have shown that at low ambient temperatures individuals in groups expend less energy than individuals by themselves. However, studies have yet to demonstrate that thermoregulatory savings can have an impact on the overall daily energy expenditure (DEE) of free-living animals. 3. Here we show that, in the laboratory, African Four-Striped Grass Mice (Rhabdomys pumilio) expend less energy per individual in large groups than smaller groups. We also show that when free-living groups were experimentally reduced to one-half of their original size, DEE and water turnover increased by 19% and 37%, respectively. 4. The magnitudes of the reduction in free-living DEE were comparable with calculated energy saving from the laboratory. One of the reasons why this species may sometimes occur in groups is that energetic benefits can be gained through huddling in habitats in which food and water are scarce.
3599035|1. Chemical analyses of ecologically diverse species of Drosophila reveal substantial variation among them in their nitrogen and phosphorus contents, determined as a percentage of adult dry mass. Across Drosophila species, the nitrogen content of flies is positively correlated with phosphorus content. 2. For both N and P, the concentration in the flies is correlated with that of their breeding sites. The variation in the elemental composition of breeding sites, and therefore of the flies themselves, may affect the ecology and life-history variation of Drosophila. 3. The range of variation in N and P contents and the N: P ratio is considerably less among Drosophila than among their breeding sites, indicating that there is substantial constancy for elemental composition across Drosophila species. The N: P ratio varies somewhat among species, indicating that the nitrogen and phosphorus contents do not change in perfect proportion across species. 4. An important, but unanswered, question concerns the relation between intraspecific homeostasis and interspecific constancy for elemental composition. Three possible mechanisms by which such interspecific constancy is brought about are discussed.
10.2307/2389407|Extreme topologies for root systems can be viewed either as minimizing cost or maximizing efficiency of soil exploration. Plants of red clover Trifolium pratense L., lettuce Lactuca sativa L., four species of Festuca and three of Geranium were grown in a range of nutrient supply conditions, to test this hypothesis. Topology was generally insensitive to changes in the supply of N and P but large differences between species were found: slow-growing perennials had efficient, herring-bone systems, whereas annuals were at the opposite extreme. This accords with earlier predictions. Lengths of external links were reduced by N and of internal links by P. There were large differences between species in mean link lengths. These data confirm the value of topological analyses in understanding the functional architecture of root systems.
3599013|1. Pollinators visiting large floral displays may probe several flowers in sequence, leading to geitonogamous (among-flower) self-pollination. To investigate the relationship between floral display size and patterns of pollinator movement, we studied foraging by several pollinator species in four replicate arrays of Mimulus ringens (Scrophulariaceae). In each array displays were trimmed to two, four, eight and 16 flowers per plant. 2. Bees preferred large displays, and probed more flowers in sequence on large than on small displays. However, the proportion of available flowers probed decreased with display, resulting in nearly equal floral visitation rates across treatments. 3. Because pollinators probed more flowers in sequence on large displays, plants with numerous flowers should experience more geitonogamous self-pollination than plants with small displays. 4. In all four treatments, pollinators frequently visited only one flower before leaving the plant. As the first flower probed on a plant cannot receive geitonogamous pollen, this potentially reduces selfing rates for those flowers, compared to flowers probed late in a long visitation sequence on a plant. Such differences among flowers in pollination history should increase variation in geitonogamous self-pollination among fruits within plants. 5. The three most abundant pollinator species differed significantly in behaviours that could influence plant mating patterns, including number of flowers probed per plant; interplant movement distances; and grooming. Variation in foraging patterns was also evident among individuals within species. These subtle differences in response should affect the pollination services provided to plants.
10.2307/2389810|Features of an individual's life history are the product of its genotypic background and environmental experience. For the gypsy moth, Lymantria dispar L., the earliest environmental experience comes via maternal nutrients supplied to the egg. To estimate the importance of maternal provisions to the expression of offspring life history in the gypsy moth, egg weights of siblings were measured 1 week before hatch in each of 18 families. Siblings representing the range of egg weights produced by each mother were reared individually under homogeneous conditions and monitored for time until hatch, larval development time and pupal weight. There was significant variation among families in each life-history trait for both sexes suggesting the presence of genetic variation. Life-history expression also had a strong maternal effect component. Based on partial correlation coefficients which control for familial differences in life-history expression, the following relationships were seen: when individuals came from larger eggs, they hatched earlier (both sexes), daughters finished the larval period faster, and became heavier pupae. Maternal effects generate phenotypic variation within a family. This may represent a bet-hedging strategy in response to the environment typically encountered by this species: an unpredictable one.
41239438|1. Life histories evolve as a response to multiple agents of selection, such as age-specific mortality, resource availability or environmental fluctuations. Predators can affect life-history evolution directly, by increasing the mortality of prey, and indirectly, by modifying prey density and resources available to the survivors. Increasing survivor densities can intensify intraspecific competition and cause evolutionary changes in their selectivity, also affecting nutrient acquisition. 2. Here, we show that different life-history traits in guppies (Poecilia reticulata) are correlated with differences in resource consumption and prey selectivity. We examined differences in wildcaught guppy diet among stream types with high (HP) and low predation (LP) pressure and how they are related to benthic invertebrate biomass. Fish and invertebrate samples were collected from two HP and two LP reaches of two distinct study rivers in Trinidad. 3. Our results reveal a strong association between life history and diet. Guppies from HP environments mature earlier and have higher fecundity and reproductive allotment than those from LP environments. Prior work revealed that their population densities are lower and that they grow faster than their LP counterparts. Here, we show that these life-history differences are repeated and that HP guppies feed primarily on invertebrates. In contrast, guppies from LP sites feed primarily on detritus and algae, which are a poorer quality food. LP guppies fed on invertebrates according to their availability, while HP guppies were selective towards those invertebrates with the lower carbon/nitrogen body ratio and thus with higher nutritional value. 4. Our study suggests that as predators shape the life histories of their prey and alter prey population densities, they can also indirectly shape their prey's foraging and diet selectivity. This is, to our knowledge, the first report on how intraspecific differences in life-history traits are correlated with prey selectivity, where prey stoichiometry is included. Although there are clear limitations of association data, our study suggests that the patterns of resource use and life history evolve in concert with one another. However, further research is needed to investigate the possible causal links between risk of predation, the indirect effects of predators on guppy population density, the evolution of life-history traits and nutrient acquisition.
