3697490|Aim: To evaluate the utility of island biogeography theory as a model for understanding and conserving native communities of nonvolant terrestrial vertebrates at prairie dog towns. Location: Oklahoma Panhandle, USA. Methods: We surveyed mammal, reptile and amphibian communities on 36 black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) towns during the summers and falls of 1997 to 1999. We used a Geographic Information System (GIS) to characterize the landscape within 10 km of each town. We used Principal Components Analysis (PCA), Correlation Analysis, and Linear Regression to test for patterns in species richness relative to area and isolation of towns, local habitat characteristics, and characteristics of the adjacent landscape. Results: Species richness was not significantly correlated with town size, town isolation, or local habitat characteristics. On the other hand, species richness was significantly correlated with characteristics of the landscape within 10 km of the focal town. In addition, species richness of mammals at prairie dog towns during the summer increased in a northerly direction, while richness of mammals at towns during fall increased to the west. Main conclusions: These results, albeit contrary to traditional island biogeography theory, are consistent with an emerging view that communities on relatively small islands are strongly influenced by characteristics of the adjacent landscape (or seascape). We recommend that to the extent possible, networks of reserves for prairie dogs and their associated species should include clusters of large towns (i.e. larger than those studied here), as well as large but isolated towns, and that conservation efforts should include management of the intervening matrix of anthropogenic habitats.
40602947|Aim: To investigate large-scale patterns of above-ground and below-ground biomass partitioning in grassland ecosystems and to test the isometric theory at the community level. Location: Northern China, in diverse grassland types spanning temperate grasslands in arid and semi-arid regions to alpine grasslands on the Tibetan Plateau. Methods: We investigated above-ground and below-ground biomass in China's grasslands by conducting five consecutive sampling campaigns across the northern part of the country during 2001-05. We then documented the root : shoot ratio (R/S) and its relationship with climatic factors for China's grasslands. We further explored relationships between above-ground and below-ground biomass across different grassland types. Results: Our results indicated that the overall R/S of China's grasslands was larger than the global average (6.3 vs. 3.7). The R/S for China's grasslands did not show any significant trend with either mean annual temperature or mean annual precipitation.Above-ground biomass was nearly proportional to below-ground biomass with a scaling exponent (the slope of log-log linear relationship between above-ground and below-ground biomass) of 1.02 across various grassland types.The slope did not differ significantly between temperate and alpine grasslands or between steppe and meadow. Main conclusions: Our findings support the isometric theory of above-ground and below-ground biomass partitioning, and suggest that above-ground biomass scales isometrically with below-ground biomass at the community level.
40405756|Aim: Senesced-leaf litter plays an important role in the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems. While green-leaf nutrients have been reported to be affected by climatic factors at the global scale, the global patterns of senesced-leaf nutrients are not well understood. Location: Global. Methods: Here, bringing together a global dataset of senesced-leaf N and P spanning 1253 observations and 638 plant species at 365 sites and of associated mean climatic indices, we describe the world-wide trends in senesced-leaf N and P and their stoichiometric ratios. Results: Concentration of senesced-leaf N was highest in tropical forests, intermediate in boreal, temperate, and mediterranean forests and grasslands, and lowest in tundra, whereas P concentration was highest in grasslands, lowest in tropical forests and intermediate in other ecosystems. Tropical forests had the highest N : P and C : P ratios in senesced leaves. When all data were pooled, N concentration significantly increased, but senesced-leaf P concentration decreased with increasing mean annual temperature (MAT) and mean annual precipitation (MAP). The N : P and C : P ratios also increased with MAT and MAP, but C : N ratios decreased. Plant functional type (PFT), i. e. life-form (grass, herb, shrub or tree), phylogeny (angiosperm versus gymnosperm) and leaf habit (deciduous versus evergreen), affected senesced-leaf N, P, N : P, C : N and C : P with a ranking of senesced-leaf N from high to low: forbs  shrubs trees > grasses, while the ranking of P was forbs ~ shrubs  trees < grasses. The climatic trends of senesced-leaf N and P and their stoichiometric ratios were similar between PFTs. Main conclusions: Globally, senesced-leaf N and P concentrations differed among ecosystem types, from tropical forest to tundra. Differences were significantly related to global climate variables such as MAT and MAP and also related to plant functional types. These results at the global scale suggest that nutrient feedback to soil through leaf senescence depends on both the climatic conditions and the plant composition of an ecosystem.
2665324|Consilience means that all fields of human knowledge should be internally consistent. Within the broad span of the ecological and evolutionary sciences, there are many fields that seem only remotely related conceptually. Macroecology has emerged as a research programme that focuses on statistical patterns of ecological and biogeographically relevant traits among different species within a taxon. The concepts needed to understand these patterns require the interface of disciplines as different as systematics, ecosystem ecology, palaeontology and community ecology. By building conceptual links among a wide range of disciplines, macroecology is contributing, and will continue to contribute, to the growing realization that all of biology is indeed consilient.
3697602|Aim: There is substantial residual scatter about the positive range size-body size relationship in Australian frogs. We test whether species' life history and abundance can account for this residual scatter. Location: Australia. Methods: Multiple regressions were performed using both cross-species and independent contrasts analyses to determine whether clutch size, egg size and species abundance account for variation in range size over and above the effects of body size. Results: In both cross-species and independents contrasts models with body size, clutch size and egg size as predictors, partial r
40405763|Aim: To determine whether the effect of habitat fragmentation and habitat heterogeneity on species richness at different spatial scales depends on the dispersal ability of the species assemblages and if this results in nested species assemblages. Location: Agricultural landscapes distributed over seven temperate Europe countries covering a range from France to Estonia. Methods: We sampled 16 local communities in each of 24 agricultural landscapes (16 km 2 ) that differ in the amount and heterogeneity of semi-natural habitat patches. Carabid beetles were used as model organisms as dispersal ability can easily be assessed on morphological traits. The proximity and heterogeneity of semi-natural patches within the landscape were related to average local (alpha), between local (beta) and landscape (gamma) species richness and compared among four guilds that differ in dispersal ability. Results: For species assemblages with low dispersal ability, local diversity increased as the proximity of semi-natural habitat increased, while mobile species showed an opposite trend. Beta diversity decreased equally for all dispersal classes in relation to proximity, suggesting a homogenizing effect of increased patch isolation. In contrast, habitat diversity of the semi-natural patches affected beta diversity positively only for less mobile species, probably due to the low dispersal ability of specialist species. Species with low mobility that persisted in highly fragmented landscapes were consistently present in less fragmented ones, resulting in nested assemblages for this mobility class only. Main conclusions: The incorporation of dispersal ability reveals that only local species assemblages with low dispersal ability show a decrease of richness as a result of fragmentation. This local species loss is compensated at least in part by an increase in species with high dispersal ability, which obscures the effect of fragmentation when investigated across dispersal groups. Conversely, fragmentation homogenizes the landscape fauna for all dispersal groups, which indicates the invasion of non-crop habitats by similar good dispersers across the whole landscape. Given that recolonization of low dispersers is unlikely, depletion of these species in modern agricultural landscapes appears temporally pervasive.
3697493|Aim: To explore the environmental correlates of tree species distributions in Catalonia according to the chorological status of the species. Location: The study area is the region of Catalonia, in northeastern Spain. Methods: We used presence-absence data for 24 species, sampled in random plots distributed throughout forests of Catalonia. A climate model for the Catalonia region provided environmental variables. We used classification tree analysis to explore the environmental correlates of the realized niches of tree species. The predictive accuracy of the models was assessed using the ROC curve approach. Potential distribution maps of tree species were generated for the whole Catalonia region. Results: Models were ranked from low to high accuracy for the 24 species. Differences in accuracy among species were related to the chorological status of species. Zonal species, or species at the core of their range (Mediterranean and Sub-Mediterranean species), were generally well predicted, while extrazonal species, or species at the edge of their range, were predicted only moderately well. Mediterranean species distributions showed good correlations with extreme temperatures and annual precipitation. Main conclusions: The above trends confirmed the difficulty of identifying the realized niche of species at the edges of their ranges. In contrast, Mediterranean and Sub-Mediterranean species, which were at the core of their range, were well-predicted, confirming the importance of extremes of temperature and annual precipitation as effective surrogates for variables having more direct physiological roles in limiting the ability of plants to survive and grow. Maps of potential tree distributions allowed us to define suitable habitats and to highlight areas where species have been planted outside their natural distribution.
3697404|Aim: Extrapolation of tower CO
40801860|Aim: A regional analysis was used to explore the influence of river regulation on the dominance of non-native, invasive shrubs and trees. We addressed the following questions: (1) How do large dams affect hydrological parameters that influence riparian vegetation? (2) How do flow regimes affect the dominance of non-native woody species? (3) How do changes in flow regimes affect the dominance of non-native woody species?
40405790|Aim Montane tropics are areas of high endemism, and mechanisms driving this endemism have been receiving increasing attention at a global scale. A general trend is that climatic factors do not explain the species richness of species with small to medium-sized geographic ranges, suggesting that geological and evolutionary processes must be considered. On the African continent, several hypotheses including both rfugiai and geographic uplift models have been advanced to explain avian speciation and diversity in the lowland forest and montane regions of central and eastern Africa; montane regions in particular are recognized as hotspots of vertebrate endemism. Here, we examine the possible role of these models in driving speciation in a clade of African forest robins. Location Africa. Methods We constructed the first robustly supported molecular phylogenetic hypothesis of forest robins. On this phylogeny, we reconstructed habitat-based distributions and geographic distributions relative to the Albertine Rift. We also estimated the timing of lineage divergences via a molecular clock. Results Robust estimates of phylogenetic relationships and clock-based divergences reject Miocene tectonic uplift and Pleistocene forest rfugia as primary drivers of speciation in forest robins. Instead, our data suggest that most forest robin speciation took place in the Late Pliocene, from 3.2 to 2.2 Ma. Distributional patterns are complex, with the Albertine Rift region serving as a general east-west break across the group. Montane distributions are inferred to have evolved four times. Main conclusions Phylogenetic divergence dates coincide with a single period of lowland forest retraction in the late Pliocene, suggesting that most montane speciation resulted from the rapid isolation of populations in montane areas, rather than montane areas themselves being drivers of speciation. This conclusion provides additional evidence that Pliocene climate change was a major driver of speciation in broadly distributed African animal lineages. We further show that lowland forest robins are no older than their montane relatives, suggesting that lowland areas are not museums which house 'ancient' taxa; rather, for forest robins, montane areas should be viewed as living museums of a late Pliocene diversification event. A forest rfugiai pattern is operating in Africa, but it is not constrained to the Pleistocene.
3697543| Aim: Climate variability may be an important mediating agent of ecosystem dynamics in cold, arid regions such as the central Tianshan Mountains, north-western China. Tree-ring chronologies and the age structure of a Schrenk spruce (Picea schrenkiana) forest were developed to examine treeline dynamics in recent decades in relation to climatic variability. Of particular interest was whether tree-ring growth and population recruitment patterns responded similarly to climate warming. Location: The study was conducted in eight stands that ranged from 2500 m to 2750 m a.s.l. near the treeline in the Tianchi Nature Reserve (4345'-4359' N, 8800'-8820' E) in the central Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, northwestern China. Methods: Tree-ring cores were collected and used to develop tree-ring chronologies. The age of sampled trees was determined from basal cores sampled as close as possible to the ground. Population age structure and recruitment information were obtained using an age-d.b.h. (diameter at breast height) regression from the sampled cores and the d.b.h. measured on all trees in the plots. Ring-width chronologies and tree age structure were both used to investigate the relationship between treeline dynamics and climate change. Results: Comparisons with the climatic records showed that both the radial growth of trees and tree recruitment were influenced positively by temperature and precipitation in the cold high treeline zone, but the patterns of their responses differed. The annual variation in tree rings could be explained largely by the average monthly minimum temperatures during February and August of the current year and by the monthly precipitation of the previous August and January, which had a significant and positive effect on tree radial growth. P. schrenkiana recruitment was influenced mainly by consecutive years of high minimum summer temperatures and high precipitation during spring. Over the last several decades, the treeline did not show an obvious upward shift and new recruitment was rare. Some trees had established at the treeline at least 200 years ago. Recruitment increased until the early 20th century (1910s) but then decreased with poor recruitment over the past several decades (1950-2000). Main conclusions: There were strong associations between climatic change and ring-width patterns, and with recruitments in Schrenk spruce. Average minimum temperatures in February and August, and total precipitation in the previous August and January, had a positive effect on tree-ring width, and several consecutive years of high minimum summer temperature and spring precipitation was a main factor favouring the establishment of P. schrenkiana following germination within the treeline ecotone. Both dendroclimatology and recruitment analysis were useful and compatible to understand and reconstruct treeline dynamics in the central Tianshan Mountains. 
40801847|In the conservation literature on land-use change, it is often assumed that land-use intensification drives species loss, driving a loss of functional trait diversity and ecosystem function. Modern research, however, does not support this cascade of loss for all natural systems. In this paper we explore the errors in this assumption and present a conceptual model taking a more mechanistic approach to the speciesfunctional trait association in a context of land-use change. We provide empirical support for our model's predictions demonstrating that the association of species and functional trait diversity follows various trajectories in response to land-use change. The central premise of our model is that land-use change impacts upon processes of community assembly, not species per se. From the model, it is clear that community context (i.e. type of disturbance, species pool size) will affect the response trajectory of the relationship between species and functional trait diversity in communities undergoing land-use change. The maintenance of ecosystem function and of species diversity in the face of increasing land-use change are complementary goals. The use of a more ecologically realistic model of responses of species and functional traits will improve our ability to make wise management decisions to achieve both aims in specific at-risk systems.
3697479| Aim: To document the occurrence of vertical displacements of vegetation in the high plateaus of the Venezuelan Guayana (tepuis) over the last c. 6000 years, and to discuss their significance for the origin of their flora, especially the endemism patterns observed in their flat summits. Two hypotheses have been proposed for the origin of the summit flora. One (the Lost World hypothesis) proposes a long history of evolution in isolation from the surrounding plains, while the other (the Vertical Displacement hypothesis) suggests that vertical movements of vegetation during the Pleistocene glacial-interglacial cycles would have resulted in floristic mixing within the lowlands, and genetic interchange among plateau summits. Location: This work has been conducted on the flat summit of the Chur-tepui, in the Chimant massif, at 515' Lat. N and 6201' Long. W, around 2250 m altitude. Methods: Pollen analysis and radiocarbon dating of two peat outcrops, using modern analogue technique and numerical methods for palaeoecological interpretation were used. Results: The replacement of a high-altitude plant community (a paramoid Chimantaea shrubland) by a lower elevation (< 2300 m) Stegolepis meadow, occurred about 2500 years before present (yr BP). This vegetation change is inferred to have resulted from a regional climatic shift to higher temperature and moisture. A subsequent decrease in temperature and moisture led to the establishment of present conditions after about 1450 yr BP. Main conclusions: The highland vegetation of the tepuis responded to climate shifts with vertical displacements, supporting the hypothesis of vertical mixing. However, a physiographical analysis shows that around half of the tepuis would never have been connected by lowlands. Therefore, both hypotheses are needed to explain the origins of the summit flora in the tepuis. 
2997886|The production of plant biomass on small farms and in woodland in densely populated locations in the Nigerian Sahelo-Sudan is estimated in order to test the hypothesis that conversion of land from natural vegetation to cultivation entails a loss in plant productivity. Estimates are given for reserved forest, woodland, shrubland and farmland at two sites varying in mean annual rainfall and population density. The results fail to support the hypothesis. The role of farmers in causing degradation through loss of plant productivity, and appropriate conservation strategies, may require re-evaluation.
3697438|Aim: We analysed the interdependence of avian frugivore- and fruited plant-species richness at the scale of major river basins across Europe, taking into account several environmental factors along different spatial gradients. Location: Continental Europe and the British Isles. Methods: We focused on wintering birds and autumn/winter fruiting plants, and used major river basins as geographical units and Structural Equation Modelling as the principal analytical tool. Results: The statistical influence of disperser species richness on fleshy-fruited plant species richness is roughly double that of the reverse. Broad-scale variation in frugivore richness is more dependent on environmental factors than on fruited plant richness. However, the influence of disperser richness on plant richness is four times higher than the influence of environmental factors. Environmental influences on both birds and plants are greater than purely spatial influences. Main conclusions: Our results are interpreted as indicating that biotic dispersal of fruits strongly affects broad-scale geographical trends of fleshy-fruited plant species richness, whereas richness of fruited plants moderately affects frugivore richness.
3182648|Estimation of the amount of carbon stored in forests is a key challenge for understanding the global carbon cycle, one which remote sensing is expected to help address. However, estimation of carbon storage in moderate to high biomass forests is difficult for conventional optical and radar sensors. Lidar (light detection and ranging) instruments measure the vertical structure of forests and thus hold great promise for remotely sensing the quantity and spatial organization of forest biomass. In this study, we compare the relationships between lidar-measured canopy structure and coincident field measurements of above-ground biomass at sites in the temperate deciduous, temperate coniferous, and boreal coniferous biomes. A single regression for all three sites is compared with equations derived for each site individually. The single equation explains 84% of variance in above-ground biomass (P < 0.0001) and shows no statistically significant bias in its predictions for any individual site.
41239412|Aim: The drivers of species assembly, by limiting the possible range of functional trait values, can lead to either convergent or divergent distributions of traits in realized assemblages. Here, to evaluate the strengths of these species assembly drivers, we partition trait variance across global, regional and community scales. We then test the hypothesis that, from global to community scales, the outcome of co-occurring trait convergence and divergence is highly variable across biomes and communities. Location: Global: nine biomes ranging from subarctic highland to tropical rain forest. Methods: We analysed functional trait diversity at progressively finer spatial scales using a global, balanced, hierarchically structured dataset from 9 biomes, 58 communities and 652 species. Analyses were based on two key leaf traits (foliar nitrogen content and specific leaf area) that are known to drive biogeochemical cycling. Results: While 35% of the global variance in these traits was between biomes, only 15% was between communities within biomes and as much as 50% occurred within communities. Despite this relatively high within-community variance in trait values, we found that trait convergence dominated over divergence at both global and regional scales through comparisons of functional trait diversity in regional and community assemblages against random (null) models of species assembly. Main conclusions: We demonstrate that the convergence of traits occurring from global to regional assemblages can be twice as strong as that from regional to community assemblages, and argue that large differences in the nature and strength of abiotic and biotic drivers of dominant species assembly can, at least partly, explain the variable outcome of simultaneous trait convergence and divergence across sites. Ultimately, these findings stress the urgent need to extend species assembly research to address those scales where trait variance is the highest, i.e. between biomes and within communities.
40801925|Aim: The evolutionary speed hypothesis (ESH) attempts to explain global patterns of species richness on the basis that rates of molecular evolution and speciation in warmer climates have led to a greater accumulation of taxa at lower latitudes. A substantial alternative hypothesis to the ESH is the tropical conservatism hypothesis (TCH). However, recent tests of the TCH, using amphibians as the model taxon, have relied on the assumption that rates of molecular evolution are stable across latitudes and elevations. Here, we test for the first time for systematic variation in rates of molecular evolution across latitude and elevation among amphibians.
41058241|Aim: We assessed how avian biodiversity and above-ground carbon storage were related in different forest age-classes, including mature stands (> 100 years), in a managed, mixed-species eucalypt forest. Location: Gippsland, south-eastern Australia. Methods: In 50 2-ha stands ranging in age from  5 years to mature stands > 100 years, we undertook repeated avian surveys, performed detailed habitat measurements and estimated amounts of above-ground carbon. Extensive wildfire reduced the number of sites to 28 (seven in each of four age classes) upon which analyses and inferences were made. We also analysed data on carbon storage and some bird responses from previously published studies. Results: Mature vegetation (> 100 years) had the greatest richness, abundance and biomass of birds. Key ecological resources, such as tree-hollows for nesting, generally occurred mostly in stands > 60 years. Avian richness per unit of above-ground carbon storage was relatively low for stands of 20-60 years. While above-ground carbon storage appeared to increase in a monotonic fashion as stands age and mature, there were quantum increases in all measures of avian biodiversity in mature stands (> 100 years). Main conclusions: Our results suggest that carbon is organized in a different way, with substantially greater biodiversity benefits, in very old stands. Mature vegetation simultaneously maximizes both avian biodiversity and above-ground carbon storage. These results bolster arguments for allocating highest priorities to the preservation of old-growth forest stands rather than alternative investments (e. g. reafforestation for carbon sequestration).
4139404|Aim The magnitude of predicted range shifts during climate change is likely to be different for species living in mountainous environments compared with those living in flatland environments. The southern edges of ranges in mountain species may not shift northwards during warming as populations instead migrate up available elevational gradients; overall latitudinal range appears therefore to expand. In contrast, flatland species should shift range centroids northwards but not expand or contract their latitudinal range extent. These hypotheses were tested utilizing Late Pleistocene and modern occurrence data. Location North America. Methods The location and elevation of modern and Late Pleistocene species occurrences were collected from data bases for 26 species living in mountain or flatland environments. Regressions of elevation change over latitude, and southern and northern range edges were calculated for each species for modern and fossil data sets. A combination of regressions and ANOVAS were used to test whether flatland species shift range edges and latitudinal extents more than mountain species do. Results Flatland species had significantly larger northward shifts at southern range edges than did mountain-dwelling species from the Late Pleistocene to the present. There was also a significant negative correlation between the amount of change in the latitude of the southern edge of the range and the amount of elevational shifting from the Late Pleistocene to the present. Although significant, only c. 25% of the variance could be explained by this relationship. In addition, there was a weak indication that overall range expansion was less in flatland-dwelling than in mountain-dwelling species. Main conclusions The approach used here was to examine past species' range responses to warming that occurred after the last ice ages as a means to better predict potential future responses to continued warming. The results confirm predictions of differential southern edge and overall range shifts for species occupying mountain and flatland regions in North America. The findings may be broadly applicable in other regions, thus allowing better modelling of future range and distribution related responses.
40801856|Aim: We determined whether dissimilarity in species composition between parasite communities depends on geographic distance, environmental dissimilarity or host faunal dissimilarity, for different subsets of parasite species with different levels of host specificity.
41058239|Aim: Wood properties are related to tree physiology and mechanical stability and are influenced by both phylogeny and the environment. However, it remains unclear to what extent geographical gradients in wood traits are shaped by either phylogeny or the environment. Here we aimed to disentangle the influences of phylogeny and the environment on spatial trends in wood traits. Location: China. Methods: We compiled a data set of 11 wood properties for 618 tree species from 98 sampling sites in China to assess their phylogenetic and spatial patterns, and to determine how many of the spatial patterns in wood properties are attributable to the environment after correction for phylogenetic influences. Result: All wood traits examined exhibited significant phylogenetic signal. The widest divergence in wood traits was observed between gymnosperms and angiosperms, Rosids and Asterids, Magnoiliids and Eudicots, and in Lamiales. For most wood traits, the majority of trait variation was observed at genus and species levels. The mechanical properties of wood showed correlated evolution with wood density. Most of the mechanical properties of wood exhibited significant latitudinal variation but limited or no altitudinal variation, and were positively correlated with mean annual precipitation based on both Pearson's correlation analysis and the phylogenetic comparative method. Correlations at family level between mean annual temperature and wood density, compression strength, cross-section hardness, modulus of elasticity and volumetric shrinkage coefficient became significant after correction for phylogenetic influences. Main conclusions: Phylogeny interacted with the environment in shaping the spatial patterns of wood traits of trees across China because most wood properties showed strong phylogenetic conservatism and thus affected environmental tolerances and distributions of tree species. Mean annual precipitation was a key environmental factor explaining the spatial patterns of wood traits. Our study provides valuable insights into the geographical patterns in productivity, distribution and ecological strategy of trees linking to wood traits.
3697538|Aim: Ecological factors that vary along spatial scales can greatly influence the outcome of evolution. However, often it is difficult for researchers to identify significant ecological variables that might be associated with the geographical distribution of phenotypes and genotypes in nature. In this paper, we use remote sensing image texture analyses to investigate breeding territories of the white-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis), a polymorphic passerine species that has been shown to segregate spatially according to morph. Our aim was to examine how an integrative measure of landscape feature, such as image texture, could be used to distinguish subtle differences in habitat use and, presumably, habitat selection. Location: A population of white-throated sparrows located 1.5 miles east of the Cranberry Lake Biological Station in the Adirondack Mountains of St Lawrence County, New York, was used in this study; the study site itself was approximately 1 km
40602942|Aim: We developed predictive models of coral reef fish species richness and abundance that account for both broad-scale environmental gradients and fine-scale biotic processes, such as dispersal, and we compared the importance of absolute geographical location (i.e. geographical coordinates) versus relative geographical location (i.e. distance to domain boundaries). Location: Great Barrier Reef, Australia. Methods: Four annual surveys of coral reef fishes were combined with a 0.01- resolution grid of environmental variables including depth, sea surface temperature, salinity and nutrient concentrations. A principal component-based method was developed to select candidate predictors from a large number of correlated variables. Generalized linear mixed-effects models (GLMMs) were used to gauge the respective importance of the different spatial and environmental predictors.An error covariance matrix was included in the models to account for spatial autocorrelation. Results: (1) Relative geographical descriptors, represented by distances to the coast and to the barrier reef, provided the highest-ranked single model of species richness and explained up to 36.8% of its deviance. (2) Accounting for spatial autocorrelation doubled the deviance in abundance explained to 71.9%. Sea surface temperature, salinity and nitrate concentrations were also important predictors of abundance. Spatially explicit predictions of species richness and abundance were robust to variation in the spatial scale considered during model calibration. Main conclusions: This study demonstrates that distance-to-domain boundaries (i.e. relative geographical location) can offer an ecologically relevant alternative to geographical coordinates (i.e. absolute geographical location) when predicting biodiversity patterns, providing a proxy for multivariate and complex environmental processes that are often difficult or expensive to estimate.
41239265|Aim: To analyse how important body size is for geographic variation in microscopic organisms in the marine environment and thereby determine the validity of the 'everything is everywhere' hypothesis. Location: Marine environments, globally. Methods: Studies on geographic variation in all marine eukaryotes smaller than 1 mm and all marine copepods were compiled from the literature and incorporated in multiple binomial regressions to analyse the effect of body size, lifestyle, environmental isolation and taxonomic affinity on the probability of different regions being reciprocally monophyletic. Sample size was also analysed, because a negative relationship between sample size and probability of being reciprocally monophyletic would indicate biases due to undersampling in the original studies. Separate analyses were performed for three potential types of barriers to gene flow for marine organisms (the water barrier of the middle of the oceans, the temperature barrier of the equator, and the land barrier of the continents). Results: Environmental isolation was the only variable in the best-fitting model for the probability of populations from each side of an ocean being reciprocally monophyletic. The estimated importance of body size was quite large and the lack of this variable in the best-fitting model may be a power issue due to the small sample size (n = 40). Both environmental isolation and body size were important for the probability of monophyletic populations in different hemispheres. The analysis of isolation between different oceans did not produce clear results. The relationship between sample intensity and probability of being reciprocally monophyletic was positive for the isolation between different oceans and non-existent for the two other analyses. Main conclusions: The results showed that body size was an important factor governing the potential for geographic variation but not the only important factor by far. These results clearly weaken the 'everything is everywhere' hypothesis as they showed that microscopic organisms may have geographic variation, albeit to a lesser degree than larger organisms.
41239410|Aim: To quantify general differences in reef community structure between wellenforced and poorly enforced marine protected areas (MPAs) and fished sites across the Eastern Tropical Pacific (ETP) regional seascape Location: The Pacific continental margin and oceanic islands of Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia and Ecuador, including World Heritage sites at Galapagos, Coiba, Cocos and Malpelo Methods: Densities of reef fishes, mobile and sessile invertebrates, and macroalgae were quantified using underwater visual surveys at 136 'no-take' and 54 openly fished sites associated with seven large MPAs that encompassed a range of management strategies. Spatial variation in multivariate and univariate community metrics was related to three levels of fishing pressure (high-protection MPAs, limited-protection MPAs, fishing zones) for both continental and oceanic reefs. Results: High-protection MPAs possessed a much greater biomass of higher carnivorous fishes, lower densities of asteroids and Eucidaris spp. urchins, and higher coral cover than limited-protection MPAs and fished zones. These results were generally consistent with the hypothesis that overfishing of predatory fishes within the ETP has led to increased densities of habitat-modifying macroinvertebrates, which has contributed to regional declines in coral cover. Major differences in ecological patterns were also evident between continental and oceanic biogeographic provinces. Main conclusions: Fishing down the food web, with associated trophic cascades, has occurred to a greater extent along the continental coast than off oceanic islands. Poorly enforced MPAs generate food webs more similar to those present in fished areas than in well-protected MPAs.
40205650|Aim: To present a new metric, the 'opposite and identity' (OI) index, for evaluating the correspondence between two sets of simulated time-series dynamics of an ecological variable. Innovation: The OI index is introduced and its mathematical expression is defined using vectors to denote simulated variations of an ecological variable on the basis of the vector addition rule. The value of the OI index varies from 0 to 1 with a value 0 (or 1) indicating that compared simulations are opposite (or identical). An OI index with a value near 0.5 suggests that the difference in the amplitudes of variations between compared simulations is large. The OI index can be calculated in a grid cell, for a given biome and for time-series simulations. The OI indices calculated in each grid cell can be used to map the spatial agreement between compared simulations, allowing researchers to pinpoint the extent of agreement or disagreement between two simulations. The OI indices calculated for time-series simulations allow researchers to identify the time at which one simulation differs from another. A case study demonstrates the application and reliability of the OI index for comparing two simulated time-series dynamics of terrestrial net primary productivity in Asia from 1982 to 2000. In the case study, the OI index performs better than the correlation coefficient at accurately quantifying the agreement between two simulated timeseries dynamics of terrestrial net primary productivity in Asia. Main conclusions: The OI index provides researchers with a useful tool and multiple flexible ways to compare two simulation results or to evaluate simulation results against observed spatiotemporal data. The OI index can, in some cases, quantify the agreement between compared spatiotemporal data more accurately than the correlation coefficient because of its insensitivity to influential data and outliers and the autocorrelation of simulated spatiotemporal data.
4139408|Aim Global climate change is increasingly influencing ecosystems. Long-term Effects on the species richness and composition of ecological communities have been predicted using modelling approaches but, so far, hardly demonstrated in the field. Here, we test whether changes in the composition of bird communities have been influenced by recent climate change. Location Europe. Methods We focus on the proportion of migratory and resident bird species because these groups are expected to respond differently to climatic change. We used the spatial relationship between climatic factors and bird communities in Europe to predict changes in 21 European bird communities under recent climate change. Results Observed changes corresponded significantly to predicted changes and could not be explained by the effects of spatial autocorrelation. Alternative factors such as changes in land use were tested in a first approximation as well but no effects were found. Main conclusions This study demonstrates that global climate change has already influenced the species richness and composition of European bird communities.
4139403| Aim A global meta-analysis was used to elucidate a mechanistic understanding of elevational species richness patterns of bats by examining both regional and local climatic factors, spatial constraints, sampling and interpolation. Based on these results, I propose the first climatic model for elevational gradients in species richness, and test it using preliminary bat data for two previously unexamined mountains. Location Global data set of bat species richness along elevational gradients from Old and New World mountains spanning 12.5 S to 38 N latitude. Methods Bat elevational studies were found through an extensive literature search. Use was made only of studies sampling  70% of the elevational gradient without significant sampling biases or strong anthropogenic disturbance. Undersampling and interpolation were explicitly examined with three levels of error analyses. The influence of spatial constraints was tested with a Monte Carlo simulation program, Mid-Domain Null. Preliminary bat species richness data sets for two test mountains were compiled from specimen records from 12 US museum collections. Results Equal support was found for decreasing species richness with elevation and mid-elevation peaks. Patterns were robust to substantial amounts of error, and did not appear to be a consequence of spatial constraints. Bat elevational richness patterns were related to local climatic gradients. Species richness was highest where both temperature and water availability were high, and declined as temperature and water availability decreased. Mid-elevational peaks occurred on mountains with dry, arid bases, and decreasing species richness occurred on mountains with wet, warm bases. A preliminary analysis of bat richness patterns on elevational gradients in western Peru (dry base) and the Olympic Mountains, WA (wet base), supported the predictions of the climate model. Main conclusions The relationship between species richness and combined temperature and water availability may be due to both direct (thermoregulatory constraints) and indirect (food resources) factors. Abundance was positively correlated with species richness, suggesting that bat species richness may also be related to productivity. The climatic model may be applicable to other taxonomic groups with similar ecological constraints, for instance certain bird, insect and amphibian clades. 
3697627|Aims: Extensive dieback of salt marsh dominated by the perennial grass Spartina alterniflora occurred throughout the Mississippi River deltaic plain during 2000. More than 100,000 ha were affected, with 43,000 ha severely damaged. The aim of this work was to determine if sudden dieback could have been caused by a coincident drought and to assess the significance of this event with respect to long-term changes in coastal vegetation. Location: Multiple dieback sites and reference sites were established along 150 km of shoreline in coastal Louisiana, USA. Methods: Aerial and ground surveys were conducted from June 2000 to September 2001 to assess soil conditions and plant mortality and recovery. Results: Dieback areas ranged in size from
3182693|1 Disturbances from fire, wind-throw, insects and other herbivores are, besides climate, CO
30137829|Aim: Increasing aridity over geological time-scales has driven a high degree of speciation within the Eucalyptus group in Australia. Isolation of gene pools by climatic and edaphic conditions and high rates of out-crossing have given rise to a large diversity of adaptive traits. Among these traits, adaptations of cellular biochemistry are likely to be significant in preserving cellular function during arid conditions. The aim of this study was to determine the quantitative and qualitative distribution of soluble carbohydrates and polyols in Eucalyptus. Location: Australia. Methods: We sampled 279 of the 700+ documented eucalypts (in the three genera comprising the eucalypts: Angophora Cav., Corymbia Hill & Johnson and Eucalyptus L'Hr.) and analysed leaf tissues for the occurrence of low-molecular-weight carbohydrates and polyols. Results: We have uncovered a discrete pattern in concentration of quercitol (a cyclitol) that correlates strongly with the current taxonomic classification based on both morphology and DNA sequencing. We also uncovered a further and stronger correlation between the presence of quercitol in leaf tissues and a reduced growth (mallee) form. Main conclusions: These findings, together with the chemical properties of quercitol, suggest that we have uncovered a chemical marker of structural adaptations to arid conditions, thus providing a putative, broad-scale functional link to adaptation to aridity.
40205697|Aim: To test whether the onset of spring growth in European shrublands is advanced in response to the warmer conditions projected for the next two decades by climate models, and, if there is a change, whether it differs across Europe. Location: The studied sites spanned a broad north-south European gradient with average annual temperatures (8.2-15.6 C) and precipitation (511-1427 mm). Methods: 'Bud break' was monitored in eight shrub and grass species in six European sites under control and experimentally warmer conditions generated by automatic roofs covering vegetation during the night. Results: Species responsive to increased temperatures were Vaccinium myrtillus and Empetrum nigrum in Wales, Deschampsia flexuosa in Denmark, Calluna vulgaris in Netherlands, Populus alba in Hungary and Erica multiflora in Spain. Although the acceleration of spring growth was the commonest response to warming treatments, the responses at each site were species specific and year dependent. Under experimental warming 25% of cases exhibited a significantly earlier onset of the growing season and 10% had a significantly delayed onset of vegetative growth. No geographical gradient was detected in the experimental warming effects. However, there was a trend towards a greater dominance of phenological advances with more intense the warming treatments. Above 0.8 C warming, only advancements were recorded. Main conclusions: Our results show that warmer temperatures projected for the next decades have substantial potential effects on the phenology of the spring growth of dominant species in different European shrublands, with a dominant trend towards advancements the more intense the warming is. However, our study also demonstrates the overall difficulties of applying simple predictive relationships to extrapolate the effects of global change on phenology. Various combinations of environmental factors occur concurrently at different European sites and the interactions between different drivers (e.g. water and chilling) can alter phenology significantly.
41239475|Aim: Elevated inputs of biologically reactive nitrogen (N) are considered to be one of the most substantial threats to biodiversity in terrestrial ecosystems. Several attempts have been made to scrutinize the factors driving species loss following excess N input, but generalizations across sites or vegetation types cannot yet be made. Here we focus on the relative importance of the vegetation type, the local environment (climate, soil pH, wet deposition load) and the experimentally applied (cumulative) N dose on the response of the vegetation to N addition. Location: Mainly North America and Europe. Methods: We conducted a large-scale meta-analysis of in situ N addition experiments in different vegetation types, focusing on the response of biomass and species richness. Results: Whereas the biomass of grasslands and salt marshes significantly increased with N fertilization, forest understorey vegetation, heathlands, freshwater wetlands and bogs did not show any significant response. Graminoids significantly increased in biomass following N addition, whereas bryophytes significantly lost biomass; shrubs, forbs and lichens did not significantly respond. The yearly N fertilization dose significantly influenced the biomass response of grassland and salt marshes, while for the other vegetation types none of the collected predictor variables were of significant influence. Species richness significantly decreased with N addition in grasslands and heathlands [Correction added on 23 March 2011, after first online publication: 'across all vegetation types' changed to 'in grasslands and heathlands']. The relative change in species richness following N addition was significantly driven by the cumulative N dose. Main conclusions: The decline in species richness with cumulative N input follows a negative exponential pathway. Species loss occurs faster at low levels of cumulative N input or at the beginning of the addition, followed by an increasingly slower species loss at higher cumulative N inputs. These findings lead us to stress the importance of including the cumulative effect of N additions in calculations of critical load values.
3697598| Aim: To examine the species richness of breeding birds along a local elevational gradient and to test the following assumptions of the energy limitation hypothesis: (1) the energy flux through birds is positively correlated with above-ground net primary productivity, (2) bird density is positively correlated with total energy flux, and (3) bird species richness is positively correlated with bird density. Location: An elevational gradient from 1400 to 3700 m on Mt. Yushan, the highest mountain in Taiwan (2328'30" N, 12054'00" E), with a peak of 3952 m a.s.l. Methods: We established 50 sampling stations along the elevational gradient. From March to July 1992, we estimated the density of each bird species using the variable circular-plot method. Above-ground net primary productivity was modelled using monthly averages from weather data for the years 1961-90. Results: Bird species richness had a hump-shaped relationship with elevation and with net primary productivity. Bird energy flux was positively correlated with net primary productivity and bird species richness was positively correlated with bird density. The relationship between bird density and energy flux was hump-shaped, which does not support one assumption of the energy limitation hypothesis. Main conclusions: The results supported two essential assumptions of the energy limitation hypothesis. However, when energy availability exceeded a certain level, it could decrease species richness by increasing individual energy consumption, which reduced bird density. Thus, energy availability is a primary factor influencing bird species richness at this scale, but other factors, such as body size, could also play important roles. 
3182716| Kelp rafts were surveyed during three summer traverses between Hobart and Macquarie Island (subAntarctic) to determine the potential for dispersal of kelp-associated macroinvertebrates across the latitudes of 46-53S. Rafts of Durvillaea antarctica dominated the sightings (94% of rafts) and extrapolations to the full Southern Ocean between these latitudes indicate a figure of over 70 million rafts afloat at any one time, 20 million of which support a holdfast, the habitat supporting the highest faunal diversity in attached kelp plants. In contrast, few, small rafts of Macrocystis pyrifera were observed. The potential for dispersal of fauna is presumed to be related to the species of kelp with which they are associated. Empirical studies of survival of animals while drifting at sea, and also on making land-fall, are required to allow fuller interpretation of the significance of these findings. 
40205707|Aim: Our objective was to evaluate the influence of distinct macroecological factors (space, floristics and environment) on the variation in seed dispersal strategies of shrubs and trees in the Araucaria forest biome in the southern and south-eastern Brazilian highlands. We hypothesize that history-related factors (space, floristics) are major determinants of the proportion of endo- and syn-zoochorous species in Araucaria forests, despite the current gradients in environmental conditions. Location: Araucaria forest is the main forest biome in southern Brazil, at altitudes above 500 m a.s.l. (latitude  30 S). Their northern limit in Brazil is at latitude 20 S, where forests occur at elevations above 1000 m a.s.l. Methods: We compiled information from 27 floristic checklists comprising shrub and tree species distributed along the geographical range of the Brazilian Araucaria forest biome. We classified species as zoochorous and non-zoochorous, based on morphological attributes of their diaspores. Sites were described by geographical coordinates (latitude, longitude) and five environmental variables. We evaluated separately the influence of floristic, spatial and environmental variables on zoochory using correspondence analysis and linear regressions. Further, we evaluated causal connections between these variable groups using Mantel tests and path analysis. Results: Zoochory increased with both latitude and longitude. Regression analysis showed that rainfall seasonality was the only environmental variable explaining the variation in the proportion of zoochorous species. All pairwise Mantel correlations between space, rainfall seasonality, floristics and zoochory were significant. Path analysis showed that rainfall seasonality was strongly determined by spatial distances between sites, and floristics was directly determined by rainfall seasonality. Further zoochory was mostly determined by floristics. Main conclusions: Taking into account historical factors in the interpretation of macroecological patterns improves our understanding of biodiversity gradients. Hypotheses based on long-term dynamics of distinct floristic groups provide some useful insights into patterns shown by studies elsewhere. Here we offer an analytical solution to incorporate history- related factors into macroecological analyses. While history-based hypotheses do not replace any other ideas concerning macroecological patterns, they are likely to improve our understanding on factors determining present-day ecological patterns.
3697652|The pervasive influence of island biogeography theory on forest fragmentation research has often led to a misleading conceptualization of landscapes as areas of forest/habitat and 'non-forest/non-habitat' and an overriding focus on processes within forest remnants at the expense of research in the human-modified matrix. The matrix, however, may be neither uniformly unsuitable as habitat nor serve as a fully-absorbing barrier to the dispersal of forest taxa. In this paper, we present a conceptual model that addresses how forest habitat loss and fragmentation affect biodiversity through reduction of the resource base, subdivision of populations, alterations of species interactions and disturbance regimes, modifications of microclimate and increases in the presence of invasive species and human pressures on remnants. While we acknowledge the importance of changes associated with the forest remnants themselves (e.g. decreased forest area and increased isolation of forest patches), we stress that the extent, intensity and permanence of alterations to the matrix will have an overriding influence on area and isolation effects and emphasize the potential roles of the matrix as not only a barrier but also as habitat, source and conduit. Our intention is to argue for shifting the examination of forest fragmentation effects away from a patch-based perspective focused on factors such as patch area and distance metrics to a landscape mosaic perspective that recognizes the importance of gradients in habitat conditions.
3697417|Aim: At macroecological scales, exotic species richness is frequently positively correlated with human population density. Such patterns are typically thought to arise because high human densities are associated with increased introduction effort and/or habitat modification and disturbance. Exotic and native species richness are also frequently positively correlated, although the causal mechanisms remain unclear. Energy availability frequently explains much of the variation in species richness and we test whether such species-energy relationships may influence the relationships of exotic species richness with human population density and native species richness. Location: Great Britain. Methods: We first investigate how spatial variation in the distributions of the 10 exotic bird species is related to energy availability. We then model exotic species richness using native avian species richness, human population density and energy availability as predictors. Species richness is modelled using two sets of models: one assumes independent errors and the other takes spatial correlation into account. Results: The probability of each exotic species occurring, in a 10-km quadrat, increases with energy availability. Exotic species richness is positively correlated with energy availability, human population density and native species richness in univariate tests. When taking energy availability into account, exotic species richness is negligibly influenced by human population density, but remains positively associated with native species richness. Main conclusions: We provide one of the few demonstrations that energy availability exerts a strong positive influence on exotic species richness. Within our data, the positive relationship between exotic species richness and human population density probably arises because both variables increase with energy availability, and may be independent of the influence of human density on the probability of establishment. Positive correlations between exotic and native species richness remain when controlling for the influence of energy on species richness. The relevance of such a finding to the debate on the relationship between diversity and invasibility is discussed.
3697670|Aim: Concern over the implications of climate change for biodiversity has led to the use of species-climate 'envelope' models to forecast risks of species extinctions under climate change scenarios. Recent studies have demonstrated significant variability in model projections and there remains a need to test the accuracy of models and to reduce uncertainties. Testing of models has been limited by a lack of data against which projections of future ranges can be tested. Here we provide a first test of the predictive accuracy of such models using observed species' range shifts and climate change in two periods of the recent past. Location: Britain. Methods: Observed range shifts for 116 breeding bird species in Britain between 1967 and 1972 (t
4139419| Aim We investigated geographical variation in the density of the red fox in relation to climatic variables, habitat productivity and seasonality to identify those factors that were the best predictors of fox density. Location Published data on red fox abundance were collated from 69 locations over Europe and Asia. Methods Using generalized linear models and the information-theoretic approach, we analysed the contribution of climatic measures (winter and summer temperature, mean snow depth and duration), primary productivity and seasonality indices [based on the fraction of photosynthetically active radiation (FPAR) index] to account for variation in red fox density. Results Red fox density in winter ranged from 0.001-2.8 individuals km; the average density was 0.21 individuals km. Variation in red fox density was best explained by the winter temperature and seasonality. Density decreased with declining winter and summer temperatures, increasing degree of seasonality and increasing duration of snow cover. There was no relationship with habitat productivity. Main conclusions Our results indicate that winter climatic conditions and seasonality, but not habitat productivity, may limit red fox density in Eurasia. One explanation for the limitation of the red fox population may be the fox's physiological capability to cope with abiotic conditions. Concurrently, the severity of winter may lead to reduced availability of the fox's prey. That, together with a shorter reproductive period may result in lower reproduc output as well as lower survival of adults and cubs. 
40205720|Aim: Turdus thrushes are one of the most speciose and widespread songbird genera, comprising nearly 70 species that combined have a near-global distribution. Herein, we use molecular phylogenetic, molecular clock and behavioural evidence to examine the historical biogeography of the genus. Ancestral area reconstructions in conjunction with divergence estimates and palaeoclimatogical data are used to test whether the long-standing paradigm of Beringian colonization or trans-Atlantic dispersal best explains modern distributions in the New and Old Worlds. Location: Worldwide, with emphasis on New World-Old World biotic interchange. Methods: Using a molecular phylogenetic hypothesis of Turdus thrushes, we reconstructed ancestral area relationships utilizing the five major continental or regional areas occupied by species in the genus. We also examined the evolution of behaviours on the phylogeny, and estimated the timing of major lineage divergences via a molecular clock. Results: Turdus originated in Eurasia, and following the colonization of Africa underwent a series of five trans-Atlantic sweepstake dispersals. The data reject the alternative hypothesis that connections between Old and New World Turdus species can be attributed to movement through Beringia with subsequent extinction. Divergence estimates indicate that these dispersals all occurred near the Miocene-Pliocene boundary, 5 Ma. A significant phylogenetic correlation between migratory and flocking behaviour is evident in the genus. Main conclusions: The initial divergence of Turdus in the Old World was followed by a series of trans-Atlantic sweepstake dispersal events. These dispersals are temporally correlated with a specific palaeoclimatic system, which would have facilitated transport of Turdus from the Caribbean to the Old World across the Atlantic. Uplift of the Central American Seaway 4.7 Ma effectively shut down the palaeoclimatic system, and no additional trans-Atlantic dispersals are evident in Turdus after this time. Migratory movements by ancestral lineages in flocks, rather than as single individuals, suggest an increased likelihood of successfully colonizing new areas, post-dispersal.
3697617|Aim: To examine the geographical patterns of the interception of photosynthetically active radiation by vegetation and to describe its spatial heterogeneity through the definition of ecosystem functional types (EFTs) based on the annual dynamics of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), a spectral index related to carbon gains. Location: The Iberian Peninsula. Methods: EFTs were derived from three attributes of the NDVI obtained from NOAA/AVHRR sensors: the annual integral (NDVI-I), as a surrogate of primary production, an integrative indicator of ecosystem functioning; and the intra-annual relative range (RREL) and month of maximum NDVI (MMAX), which represent key features of seasonality. Results: NDVI-I decreased south-eastwards. The highest values were observed in the Eurosiberian Region and in the highest Mediterranean ranges. Low values occurred in inner plains, river basins and in the southeast. The Eurosiberian Region and Mediterranean mountains presented the lowest RREL, while Eurosiberian peaks, river basins, inner-agricultural plains, wetlands and the southeastern part of Iberia presented the highest. Eurosiberian ecosystems showed a summer maximum of NDVI, as did high mountains, wetlands and irrigated areas in the Mediterranean Region. Mediterranean mountains had autumn-early-winter maxima, while semi-arid zones, river basins and continental plains had spring maxima. Based on the behaviour in the functional traits, 49 EFTs were defined. Main conclusions: The classification, based on only the NDVI dynamics, represents the spatial heterogeneity in ecosystem functioning by means of the interception of radiation by vegetation in the Iberian Peninsula. The patterns of the NDVI attributes may be used as a reference in evaluating the impacts of environmental changes. Iberia had a high spatial variability: except for biophysically impossible combinations (high NDVI-I and high seasonality), almost any pattern of seasonal dynamics of radiation interception was represented in the Peninsula. The approach used to define EFTs opens the possibility of monitoring and comparing ecosystem functioning through time.
2997902|1. We present a simple algorithm for reconstructing spatially explicit historical changes in croplands. We initialize our simulation with a satellite-derived characterization of present-day croplands c. 1992. This data set of croplands is then used within a simple model, along with historical cropland inventory data at the national and subnational level, to reconstruct historical crop cover. We present an annual data set of cropland areas in North America between 1850 and 1992, at a spatial resolution of 5 min ( 10 km). 2. The reconstructed changes in North American crop cover are generally consistent with qualitative descriptions of change. Crop cover is initially concentrated in the eastern portions of the continent, and subsequently migrates westward into the Midwestern United States and the Prairie Provinces of Canada. We also see cropland abandonment in the eastern portions of the continent during the 20th century. The simulation, however, fails to characterize adequately the changes in crop cover in Mexico. 3. We also estimate the extent to which the different vegetation types of North America have been cleared for cultivation We find that savannas/grasslands/steppes and forests/woodlands have undergone the most extensive conversion (1 68 and 1 40 million km
40602956|Aim: Extinction risk is non-randomly distributed across phylogeny and space and is influenced by environmental conditions. We quantified the relative contribution of these factors to extinction risk to unveil the underlying macroecological processes and derive predictive models. Location: Global. Methods: Based on the IUCN global assessments, we divided 192 carnivore species into two dichotomous classes representing different levels of extinction risk. We used spatial proximity, phylogenetic relationship and environmental variables together with phylogenetic eigenvector regression and spatial eigenvector filters to model and predict threat status. Results: Our full models explained between 57% and 96% of the variance in extinction risk. Phylogeny and spatial proximity roughly explained between 21% and 70% of the total variation in all analyses, while the explanatory power of environmental conditions was relatively weaker (up to 15%). Phylogeny and spatial proximity contributed equally to the explained variance in the lower threat level, while spatial proximity was the most important factor in the models of the higher threat level. Prediction of threat status achieved 97% correct assignments. Main conclusions: Our approach differs fundamentally from current studies of extinction risk because it does not necessarily rely on life-history information. We clearly show that instead of treating phylogenetic inertia and spatial signal as statistical nuisances, space and phylogeny should be viewed as very useful in explaining a wide range of phenomena in comparative studies.
41239348|Aim: Species specialization is often considered as a stable species characteristic over the short term. However, this assumption has hardly been tested, even though it may impair our ability to track the impoverishment of biodiversity induced by the rapid replacement of specialists by generalists. We tested whether species specialization in birds varied over a short period of time, and assessed whether variations in species specialization influence community-level metrics of biotic homogenization. Location: France. Methods: We studied the variations in specialization to habitat closure of 94 bird species over the period 2002-08, accounting for species variations in mean density, habitat preference and migratory status. We then quantified the temporal changes in a community specialization index, which measures functional homogenization. Results: Specialization decreased over time for 35 species (37%), while 46 (49%) showed non-significant negative trends and 13 (14%) had null or non-significant positive trends. The more a species was specialized at the beginning of the study, the more it generalized. We additionally found that changes in the specialization level were density dependent: 34 species (36%) became more generalist in years of higher densities while only one became more specialized. At the community level, accounting for this inter-annual variability in species specialization accentuated the trend in the functional homogenization of bird communities. Main conclusions: Habitat specialization is a labile ecological trait, which may change in the short term following habitat degradation, density dependence and source-sink dynamics. Accounting for short-term temporal variations in observed habitat specialization of species can increase our understanding of the effects of global changes on species strategies and community dynamics.
3697638|Aim: To test the prediction that deviations of species from the positive interspecific relationship between abundance and occupancy (a measure of geographical range size) are related to differences in dispersal. Location: Great Britain. Methods: Quantitative data on the abundances, occupancy and dispersal distances of British birds are compared using phylogenetic comparative methods. Results: Measures of natal and adult dispersal distance, and the intraspecific variance in these parameters, explain little variation in occupancy in addition to that accounted for by population size. Individual dispersal variables failed to explain significant variance when added individually to a model with population size as a predictor. Migrants and species using wet habitats tend to disperse further than residents and dry habitat species. Analysing these four groups separately revealed effects of dispersal only on the occupancy attained by dry habitat species. Conclusions: The only consistent predictor of occupancy in these analyses was population size.
40801923|Aim: We investigated patterns of species richness and composition of the aquatic food web found in the liquid-filled leaves of the North American purple pitcher plant, Sarracenia purpurea (Sarraceniaceae), from local to continental scales.
30137907|Aim: To analyse the fossil species assemblages of rodents and lagomorphs from the European Neogene in order to assess what factors control small mammal biogeography at a deep-time evolutionary time-scale. Location: Western Europe: 626 fossil-bearing localities located within 31 regions and distributed among 18 successive biochronological units ranging from c. 27 Ma (million years ago; Late Oligocene) to c. 3 Ma (mid Pliocene). Methods: Taxonomically homogenized pooled regional assemblages are compared using the Raup and Crick index of faunal similarity; then, the inferred similarity matrices are visualized as neighbour-joining trees and by projecting the statistically significant interregional similarities and dissimilarities onto palaeogeographical maps. The inferred biogeographical patterns are analysed and discussed in the light of known palaeogeographical and palaeoclimatic events. Results: Successive time intervals with distinct biogeographical contexts are identified. Prior to c. 18 Ma (Late Oligocene and Early Miocene), a relative faunal homogeneity (high interregional connectivity) is observed all over Europe, a time when major geographical barriers and a weak climatic gradient are known. Then, from the beginning of the Middle Miocene onwards, the biogeography is marked by a significant decrease in interregional faunal affinities which matches a drastic global climatic degradation and leads, in the Late Miocene (c. 11 Ma), to a marked latitudinal pattern of small mammal distribution. In spite of a short rehomogenization around the Miocene/Pliocene boundary (6-4 Ma), the biogeography of small mammals in the mid Pliocene (c. 3 Ma) finally closely reflects the extant situation. Main conclusions: The resulting biogeographical evolutionary scheme indicates that the extant endemic situation has deep historical roots corresponding to global tectonic and climatic events acting as primary drivers of long-term changes. The correlation of biogeographical events with climatic changes emphasizes the prevalent role of the climate over geography in generating heterogeneous biogeographical patterns at the continental scale.
3697441| Aim: Geographic variation in the species richness of birds has been shown to be strongly associated with annual water and energy levels (actual evapotranspiration, AET) at the global scale. However, the gradient in eastern North America appears to be anomalous, because richness is greatest around the Great Lakes, whereas AET is highest in the south-eastern US. Here I examine if birds may be responding to vegetation produced during the breeding season rather than to annual production. Location: North America east of longitude 98 W. Methods: The bird richness pattern was examined using climatic variables, remotely sensed estimates of annual and seasonal plant biomass, and time since areas were exposed by the retreating Laurentide ice sheet from 20,000 to 6000 yr BP. Results: Average summer GVI (Global Vegetation Index, derived from NDVI) was found to be positively linearly associated with richness, explaining 82% of the variance, whereas the relationships between richness and annual measures of both AET and GVI were curvilinear. The pattern of retreat of the Laurentide ice sheet explained an additional 6% of the variance in richness, consistent with a previous analysis of Canadian birds. Main conclusions: In eastern North America, a seasonal variable associated with plant production explains the diversity gradient rather than the annual measures, but it does not undermine a general conclusion that bird diversity is closely linked with plant biomass. Further, both contemporary and historical factors appear to influence the gradient, and an association between bird richness and the geographic pattern of glacial retreat is detectable in both climatic and plant-biomass models of bird diversity. 
3182646|Aim: To determine the empirical relationships between species richness and spatial turnover in species composition across spatial scales. These have remained little explored despite the fact that such relationships are fundamental to understanding spatial diversity patterns. Location: South-east Scotland. Methods: Defining local species richness simply as the total number of species at a finer resolution than regional species richness and spatial turnover as turnover in species identity between any two or more areas, we determined the empirical relationships between all three, and the influence of spatial scale upon them, using data on breeding bird distributions. We estimated spatial turnover using a measure independent of species richness gradients, a fundamental feature which has been neglected in theoretical studies. Results: Local species richness and spatial turnover exhibited a negative relationship, which became stronger as larger neighbourhood sizes were considered in estimating the latter. Spatial turnover and regional species richness did not show any significant relationship, suggesting that spatial species replacement occurs independently of the size of the regional species pool. Local and regional species richness only showed the expected positive relationship when the size of the local scale was relatively large in relation to the regional scale. Conclusions: Explanations for the relationships between spatial turnover and local and regional species richness can be found in the spatial patterns of species commonality, gain and loss between areas.
3697439|Aim: Theoretical work suggests that species' ecological niches should remain relatively constant over long-term ecological time periods, but empirical tests are few. We present longitudinal studies of 23 extant mammal species, modelling ecological niches and predicting geographical distributions reciprocally between the Last Glacial Maximum and present to test this evolutionary conservatism. Location: This study covered distributional shifts in mammal species across the lower 48 states of the United States. Methods: We used a machine-learning tool for modelling species' ecological niches, based on known occurrences and electronic maps summarizing ecological dimensions, to assess the ability of ecological niches as modelled in one time period to predict the geographical distribution of the species in another period, and vice versa. Results: High intertemporal predictivity between niche models and species' occurrences indicate that niche conservatism is widespread among the taxa studied, particularly when statistical power is considered as a reason for failure of reciprocal predictions. Niche projections to the present for 8 mammal taxa that became extinct at the end of the Pleistocene generally increased in area, and thus do not support the hypothesis of niche collapse as a major driving force in their extinction. Main conclusions: Ecological niches represent long-term stable constraints on the distributional potential of species; indeed, this study suggests that mammal species have tracked consistent climate profiles throughout the drastic climate change events that marked the end of the Pleistocene glaciations. Many current modelling efforts focusing on anticipating climate change effects on species' potential geographical distributions will be bolstered by this result - in essence, the first longitudinal demonstration of niche conservatism.
2665432|1 Spatial patterns of burns are described using Landsat TM images from the sub-tropical mountains of north-west Argentina, over a span of 6 degrees of latitude, and a precipitation range from 250 to 1300 mm/yr. Burns were discriminated easily from unburnt vegetation, mainly by using infrared spectral bands from images taken at the end of the fire season of 1986. 2 Nineteen sampling units were defined on the basis of geographical proximity and relatively homogeneous rainfall as inferred from topography, and they were characterized in terms of percentage of burnt area and burn size distribution during one fire season. Regression and Correspondence Analysis were used to assess the relationship between rainfall and spatial descriptors of fire regime. 3 Burnt size area was log-normally distributed with most fires in the small-size classes. Of a total of 643 burns, the five largest (more than 2000 hectares each) represented about 30% of the total burnt area. 4 Percentage of burnt area, density of burns per unit area, and skewness of the burn-size frequency distribution showed a unimodal pattern along the rainfall gradient, peaking between 700 and 900 mm/yr. Mean and maximum burn size showed a negative but weak correlation with rainfall. The first axis of a Correspondence Analysis ordination of sampling units, on the basis of different descriptors of spatial patterns of fire, was significantly correlated with the rainfall of the sampling unit. 5 The results suggest that climate is an important factor controlling fuel conditions and therefore fire regime at the spatial scale of this study, which includes different mountain ranges spanning  700 km.
40801855|Aim: Ixodes scapularis is the most important vector of human tick-borne pathogens in the United States, which include the agents of Lyme disease, human babesiosis and human anaplasmosis, among others. The density of host-seeking I. scapularis nymphs is an important component of human risk for acquiring Borrelia burgdorferiy the aetiological agent of Lyme disease. In this study we used climate and field sampling data to generate a predictive map of the density of host-seeking I. scapularis nymphs that can be used by the public, physicians and public health agencies to assist with the diagnosis and reporting of disease, and to better target disease prevention and control efforts.
40205705|Aim: We investigate the timing and factors responsible for the transformation of dosed-crown forests into lichen-spruce woodlands. Location: The study area extends between 70 and 72 W in the closed-crown forest zone from its southern limit near 47 30 N to its northern limit at the contact with the lichen-spruce woodland zone around 52 10 N.A total of 24 lichen-spruce woodlands were selected. Methods: Radiocarbon dating of charcoals at mineral soil contact and within the organic horizons allowed the principal factors causing the degradation of the closedcrown forest to be identified, i. e. light fires, successive fires and the occurrence of a spruce budworm epidemic followed by a fire. Results: Charcoals dated in the organic horizon were less than 200 years old, suggesting a recent transformation of the closed-crown forest following surface fires. Before their transformation into lichen-spruce woodlands, stands were occupied by old, dense forests that originated from fires dating back to 1000 yr BP. The radiocarbon dating of charcoals in the organic horizon indicated that several stands burned twice in less than 50 years, while others burned shortly after a spruce budworm epidemic. Light fires are frequent within the lichen-spruce woodlands according to multiple charcoal layers found within the organic matter horizon. Main conclusions: While closed-crown forests are predicted to expand under climate warming, compound disturbances diminish the natural regeneration of the closed-crown forests in the south and favour the expansion of lichen-spruce woodlands. As black spruce germinates on mineral soils, surface fires accentuate the expansion of the lichen-spruce woodlands southward. Under global warming, warmer springs will lead to earlier low-intensity fires that do not remove as much organic matter, and hence prevent conditions suitable for black spruce regeneration. Also, spruce budworm reduces seed production for a certain time. The occurrence of fire during this period is critical for regeneration of black spruce.
2665409|1 The vegetational and environmental history of the Korean Peninsula has been reconstructed by the use of both macrofossils and pollen data. These data were analysed within the time-frame between the Permian and the present day. 2 The continuous appearances of presently occurring conifers and dicotyledons since the Cretaceous indicate both the absence of catastrophic environmental changes in the past, and a degree of long-term climatic continuity. There were, however, climatic fluctuations occurring within the full time-frame considered. 3 The presence of a relatively rich flora in both the Oligocene and Miocene suggests the existence of a warm climate. The removal of the Tertiary and Quaternary conifers from the Holocene deposits and the continued survival of cryophilous conifers since the later Pleistocene may be due to climatic deterioration. 4 Overall, an analysis on the vegetational history seems to provide information for the better understanding of the present vegetation as well as providing data on environmental change in the region.
40405773|Aim: To examine the impacts of climate change on endemic birds, which are of global significance for conservation, on a continent with few such assessments. We specifically assess projected range changes in relation to the Important Bird Areas (IBAs) network and assess the possible consequences for conservation. Location: South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland. Methods: The newly emerging ensemble modelling approach is used with 50 species, four climate change models for the period 2070-2100 and eight bioclimatic niche models in the statistical package BIOMOD. Model evaluation is done using the receiver operating characteristic and the recently introduced true skill statistic. Future projections are made considering two extreme assumptions: species have full dispersal ability and species have no dispersal ability. A consensus forecast is identified using principal components analysis. This forecast is interpreted in terms of the IBA network. An irreplaceability analysis is used to highlight priority IBAs for conservation attention in terms of climate change. Results: The majority of species (62%) are predicted to lose climatically suitable space. Five species lose at least 85% of their climatically suitable space. Many IBAs lose species (41%; 47 IBAs) and show high rates of species turnover of more than 50% (77%; 95 IBAs). Highly irreplaceable regions for endemic species become highly localized under climate change, meaning that the endemic species analysed here experience similar range contractions to maintain climate niches. Main conclusions: The South African IBAs network is likely to become less effective for conserving endemic birds under climate change. The irreplaceability analysis identified key refugia for endemic species under climate change, but many of these areas are not currently IBAs. In addition, many of these high-priority areas that are IBAs fall outside the current formal protected areas network.
3697467| Aim: To describe the composition, diversity and biogeographical affinities of the foliicolous lichen mycobiota in Valdivian temperate rain forest in southern South America. Location: Seven localities in Chile (IX to XI region) and Argentina (Neuqun province). Methods: Opportunistic sampling of leaf substrates, identification of taxa, and assignment to distribution types. Results: Thirty-seven species, including three lichenicolous fungi, were found in the studied collections, increasing the number of foliicolous taxa known from Valdivian temperate rain forest to 55. New records for the area include Arthonia cyanea, Byssoloma marginatum, B. subdiscordans, Fellhanera bouteillei, F. dispersa, F. subfuscatula, Gyalectidium caucasicum, G. ciliatum, Logilvia gilva, Porina thaxteri, Strigula nitidula and the lichenicolous A. microsticta, Helicobolomyces lichenicola and Opegrapha sipmanii. Seven taxa are described as new: Enterographa falcata, Gyalectidium chilense, G. plicatum, Gyalideopsis choshuencensis, Porina fulvelloides, Strigula wandae and Trichothelium meridionale ssp. austroamericanum. Conclusions: There are unexpected floristic affinities in the foliicolous lichen mycobiota of Valdivian temperate rain forest with those of New Zealand and Tasmania. Three typically foliicolous species clearly belong to an austral element: Caprettia setifera and Badimiella pteridophila, both known previously from New Zealand and Tasmania; and Kantvilasia hians, known already from Tasmania and Valdivian temperate rain forest. Other Southern Hemisphere lichens, such as Parmeliella nigrocincta, P. thysanota and Psoroma caliginosum, are also found commonly on leaves. On the other hand, specific affinities of the foliicolous lichen mycobiota of Valdivian temperate rain forest with the Neotropics are absent: most of the species shared between the two regions belong to a cosmopolitan-tropical or a circum-pacific element. Thus far, nine taxa are endemic to Valdivia. The Valdivian temperate rain forest foliicolous lichen mycobiota is therefore regarded as one of six distinctive regions in the world. 
41058224|Aim: Geographic distributions of species are constrained by several factors acting at different scales, with climate assumed to be a major determinant at broad extents. Recent studies, however, have challenged this statement and indicated that climate may not dominate among the factors governing geographic distributions of species. Here, we argue that these results are misleading due to the lack of consideration of the geographic area that has been accessible to the species. Location: North America. Methods: We generated null distributions for 75 North American endemic and 19 non-endemic bird species. For each species, climatic envelopes of observed and null distributions were modelled using neural networks and generalized linear models, and seven climatic predictors. Values of the area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) based on models of observed distributions were compared with corresponding AUC values for the null distributions. Results: More than 82% of the endemic species showed AUC higher for the observed than for the null distributions, while 63% of the non-endemic species showed such a pattern. Main conclusions: We demonstrate a dominant climatic signal in shaping North American bird distributions. Our results attest to the importance of climate in determining species distributions and support the use of climate-envelope models for estimating potential distributional areas at the appropriate spatial scales.
2997884|In the Kalahari of Botswana, as in many other open savannas, the main ecological change following cattle-based agricultural intensification is one of grass removal and bush encroachment. Changes to vegetation communities in Kalahari rangelands have been expressed in terms of a state-and-transition model. However, there remain uncertainties as to the mechanisms and conditions for ecological change. In part, this is due to previous (inadequate) spatial and temporal scales of data collection. This paper describes the results of ongoing ecological studies in the Makoba ranches and analyses the contribution that fine-scale ground-based surveys and interpretation of Earth observation data can make to reducing uncertainties in state-and-transition models. This detailed case study provides a mechanism for evaluating the role of multi-source information for monitoring and modelling open savannas.
3182661|1 A set of 316 modern surface pollen samples, sampling all the alpine vegetation types that occur on the Tibetan Plateau, has been compiled and analysed. Between 82 and 92% of the pollen present in these samples is derived from only 28 major taxa. These 28 taxa include examples of both tree (AP) and herb (NAP) pollen types. 2 Most of the modern surface pollen samples accurately reflect the composition of the modern vegetation in the sampling region. However, airborne dust-trap pollen samples do not provide a reliable assessment of the modern vegetation. Dust-trap samples contain much higher percentages of tree pollen than non-dust-trap samples, and many of the taxa present are exotic. In the extremely windy environments of the Tibetan Plateau, contamination of dust-trap samples by long-distance transport of exotic pollen is a serious problem. 3 The most characteristic vegetation types present on the Tibetan Plateau are alpine meadows, steppe and desert. Non-arboreal pollen (NAP) therefore dominates the pollen samples in most regions. Percentages of arboreal pollen (AP) are high in samples from the southern and eastern Tibetan Plateau, where alpine forests are an important component of the vegetation. The relative importance of forest and non-forest vegetation across the Plateau clearly follows climatic gradients: forests occur on the southern and eastern margins of the Plateau, supported by the penetration of moisture-bearing airmasses associated with the Indian and Pacific summer monsoons; open, treeless vegetation is dominant in the interior and northern margins of the Plateau, far from these moisture sources. 4 The different types of non-forest vegetation are characterized by different modern pollen assemblages. Thus, alpine deserts are characterized by high percentages of Chenopodiaceae and Artemisia, with Ephedra and Nitraria. Alpine meadows are characterized by high percentages of Cyperaceae and Artemisia, with Ranunculaceae and Polygonaceae. Alpine steppe is characterized by high abundances of Artemisia, with Compositae, Cruciferae and Chenopodiaceae. Although Artemisia is a common component of all non-forest vegetation types on the Tibetan Plateau, the presence of other taxa makes it possible to discriminate between the different vegetation types. 5 The good agreement between modern vegetation and modern surface pollen samples across the Tibetan Plateau provides a measure of the reliability of using pollen data to reconstruct past vegetation patterns in non-forested areas.
40205729|Aim: To analyse the global patterns in species richness of Viperidae snakes through the deconstruction of richness into sets of species according to their distribution models, range size, body size and phylogenetic structure, and to test if environmental drivers explaining the geographical ranges of species are similar to those explaining richness patterns, something we called the extreme deconstruction principle. Location: Global. Methods: We generated a global dataset of 228 terrestrial viperid snakes, which included geographical ranges (mapped at 1 resolution, for a grid with 7331 cells world-wide), body sizes and phylogenetic relationships among species. We used logistic regression (generalized linear model; GLM) to model species geographical ranges with five environmental predictors. Sets of species richness were also generated for large and small-bodied species, for basal and derived species and for four classes of geographical range sizes. Richness patterns were also modelled against the five environmental variables through standard ordinary least squares (OLS) multiple regressions. These subsets are replications to test if environmental factors driving species geographical ranges can be directly associated with those explaining richness patterns. Results: Around 48% of the total variance in viperid richness was explained by the environmental model, but richness sets revealed different patterns across the world. The similarity between OLS coefficients and the primacy of variables across species geographical range GLMs was equal to 0.645 when analysing all viperid snakes. Thus, in general, when an environmental predictor it is important to model species geographical ranges, this predictor is also important when modelling richness, so that the extreme deconstruction principle holds. However, replicating this correlation using subsets of species within different categories in body size, range size and phylogenetic structure gave more variable results, with correlations between GLM and OLS coefficients varying from -0.46 up to 0.83. Despite this, there is a relatively high correspondence (r=0.73) between the similarity of GLM-OLS coefficients and R values of richness models, indicating that when richness is well explained by the environment, the relative importance of environmental drivers is similar in the richness OLS and its corresponding set of GLMs. Main conclusions: The deconstruction of species richness based on macroecological traits revealed that, at least for range size and phylogenetic level, the causes underlying patterns in viperid richness differ for the various sets of species. On the other hand, our analyses of extreme deconstruction using GLM for species geographical range support the idea that, if environmental drivers determine the geographical distribution of species by establishing niche boundaries, it is expected, at least in theory, that the overlap among ranges (i.e. richness) will reveal similar effects of these environmental drivers. Richness patterns may be indeed viewed as macroecological consequences of population-level processes acting on species geographical ranges.
30134097|Aim: This research aims to understand the factors that shape elevational diversity gradients and how those factors vary with spatial grain. Specifically, we test the predictions of the species-productivity hypothesis, species-temperature hypothesis, the metabolic theory of ecology and the mid-domain effects null model. We also examine how the effects of productivity and temperature on richness depend on spatial grain. Location: Deciduous forests along an elevational gradient in Great Smoky Mountains National Park, USA. Methods: We sampled 22 leaf litter ant assemblages at three spatial grains, from 1-m2 quadrats to 50 x 50 m plots using Winkler samplers. Results: Across spatial grains, warmer sites had more species than did cooler sites, and primary productivity did not predict ant species richness. We found some support for the predictions of the metabolic theory of ecology, but no support for the mid-domain effects null model. Thus, our data are best explained by some version of a species-temperature hypothesis. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that temperature indirectly affects ant species diversity across spatial grains, perhaps by limiting access to resources. Warmer sites support more species because they support more individuals, thereby reducing the probability of local extinction. Many of our results from this elevational gradient agree with studies at more global scales, suggesting that some mechanisms shaping ant diversity gradients are common across scales.
3697555|Aim: To investigate the inter-relationships between energy availability, species richness and human population density, particularly whether human population density influences the manner in which species richness responds to energy availability. Location: British 10-km grid cells. Methods: Using regressions, we investigate how human population density varies with energy availability and the nature of relationships between the numbers of species, classified by abundance and threat categories, and human population density. We then assess whether the relationships between these species richness measures and energy availability are altered when accounting for human population density. We conduct analyses using both independent error models and ones that control for spatial autocorrelation. Results: Human population density was strongly and positively correlated with energy availability. Total species richness, and that of unthreatened, threatened, common and moderately common species, increases in a positive decelerating manner with human density. When human population density was taken into account, these species groups exhibited similar species-energy relationships, but the slopes of these relationships were significantly reduced in independent error models and, in the case of total richness, in spatial models. Main conclusions: Positive correlations between human density and species richness probably arise as both increase with energy availability. Our data are compatible with the suggestion that high human population densities reduce the rate at which species richness increases with energy availability, but additional research is required before causality can be confirmed.
3697674|Aim: We explored the effects of prevalence, latitudinal range and spatial autocorrelation of species distribution patterns on the accuracy of bioclimate envelope models of butterflies. Location: Finland, northern Europe. Methods: The data of a national butterfly atlas survey (NAFI) carried out in 1991-2003 with a resolution of 10 x 10 km were used in the analyses. Generalized additive models (GAM) were constructed, for each of 98 species, to estimate the probability of occurrence as a function of climate variables. Model performance was measured using the area under the curve (AUC) of a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) plot. Observed differences in modelling accuracy among species were related to the species' geographical attributes using multivariate GAM. Results: Accuracies of the climate-butterfly models varied from low to very high (AUC values 0.59-0.99), with a mean of 0.79. The modelling performance was related negatively to the latitudinal range and prevalence, and positively to the spatial autocorrelation of the species distribution. These three factors accounted for 75.2% of the variation in the modelling accuracy. Species at the margin of their range or with low prevalence were better predicted than widespread species, and species with clumped distributions better than scattered dispersed species. Main conclusions: The results from this study indicate that species' geographical attributes highly influence the behaviour and uncertainty of species-climate models, which should be taken into account in biogeographical modelling studies and assessments of climate change impacts.
30137867|Aim We examine how two categories of non-native species (archaeophyte and neophyte, introduced before and after AD 1500, respectively) have had different impacts on  diversity across European urban floras. Our goal is to use the unique biological perspective provided by urban areas, and the contrasting historical and geographical perspectives provided by archaeophytes and neophytes, to infer how non-native species will impact upon  diversity in the future. Location Twenty-two urban areas located in seven European countries. Methods We used the -sim dissimilarity index to estimate the level of  diversity for 231 unique pair-wise combinations of 22 urban floras. We examined bivariate plots of dissimilarity by geographical separation of city centres to evaluate distance decay of similarity for native species, archaeophytes and neophytes. Results Based on average percentages, 52.8% (SD = 8.2%) of species in the urban floras were identified as non-native with 28.3% (SD = 6.9%) classified as neophytes and 24.5% (SD = 4.9%) as archaeophytes. Relative to native species, across urban floras, archaeophytes were associated with higher compositional similarity and weaker distance decay patterns, whereas neophytes were associated with lower compositional similarity and stronger distance decay patterns. Main conclusions Across European urban floras, archaeophytes and neophytes occurred in similar numbers but archaeophytes were consistently associated with lower  diversity and neophytes with higher  diversity. Thus, the impact of non-native species on  diversity can be determined, at least in part, through their historical and geographical associations with anthropogenic activities. If archaeophytes represent the long-term biogeographical outcome for human commensal species, neophytes could develop similar patterns. The consequences, however, are likely to be more substantial ecologically and geographically due to the increasing numbers of neophytes and their global anthropogenic associations. Nevertheless, at present, our findings suggest that, based on occurrence information, neophytes have not achieved this state with European urban floras retaining regionally distinct assemblages of neophytes.
40602940|Aim: We evaluate characteristics of species ranges (i.e. coherence, species turnover and range boundary clumping) to determine the structure of bat metacommunities and metaensembles from Caribbean islands. We evaluate the effects of endemic species on that structure, and quantify associations between island characteristics and latent environmental gradients that structure these metacommunities and metaensembles. Location: Sixty-five Caribbean islands throughout the Bahamas, Greater Antilles and Lesser Antilles. Methods: Metacommunity structure is an emergent property of a set of ecological communities at different sites defined by species distributions across geographic or environmental gradients. We analysed elements of metacommunity structure (coherence, range turnover and range boundary clumping) to determine the bestfit pattern for metacommunities from all Caribbean islands, as well as from the Bahamas, the Greater Antilles and the Lesser Antilles separately. For each island group, analyses were conducted for all bats and for each of two broadly defined guilds (i.e. carnivores and herbivores). In addition, analyses were conducted for all species and for a subset in which endemic species were removed from the fauna.Spearman rank correlations identified island characteristics (area, elevation, latitude, longitude) that were associated significantly with island scores for ordination axes based on reciprocal averaging. Results: Metacommunity structure for all bats and for carnivores was similar for each island group, with Clementsian distributions (i.e. discrete communities with groups of species replacing other groups of species along the gradient) for all islands, the Bahamas and the Lesser Antilles, but with nested distributions for the Greater Antilles. Herbivore distributions were random for the Bahamas, but were Clementsian for all other island groups. Removal of endemic species affected the best-fit model of metacommunity structure in only 3 of 12 cases. In general, ordination scores for islands were correlated with longitude or latitude, but not with island area or elevation. Main conclusions: Characteristics of bat species ranges and associated metacommunity structure were primarily dependent on the number and geographic arrangement of primary sources of colonization, and not on interspecific interactions, species-specific levels of environmental tolerance, or the physical characteristics of islands. Endemic species did not greatly affect metacommunity structure in Caribbean bats.
3697481|Aim: We investigated the patterns of body-size changes of the north-western Mediterranean Plio-Pleistocene large mammal faunas (excluding rodents, bats, lagomorphs and insectivores) in order to identify the tempo and mode of the major shifts in body size distribution, and to put them in the context of Plio-Pleistocene environmental changes and the development of the Mediterranean climate. Location: We analysed fossil faunas of Spain, France and Italy. A set of recent regional faunas from several macroclimatic regions was selected to serve as elements for comparison of the size distribution of past faunas, consisting of: Spain, France and Italy together, Florida, California, Central Chile, Indochina, India, Korea-Manchuria, Malawi, The Cape, North Africa, Turkey and Australia. Methods: Mammal species were grouped into five body size categories for carnivores and four categories for noncarnivore species. The number of species in each size category was computed and the resulting matrix of body weight classes x regions and time intervals was used as an input matrix in a Correspondence Analysis. Results: Recent and fossil faunas strongly differ in body size structure. The distribution of recent faunas within the CA seems to reflect both ecological and historic factors, intertwined in a complex fashion. No clear relationship has been observed between body size structure and environmental factors. During the late Pliocene to early Pleistocene there were only minor changes in the pattern of size distribution, although plant communities were in a transition process from subtropical forests to Mediterranean woodlands and steppes. The major change in body size structure of the north-western Mediterranean fauna occurred at the Galerian, around 1 Ma ago. This marked the beginning of the modern fauna, and a general trend towards a larger body size, reduction in the number of medium sized herbivores, and an increase of large herbivores and megaherbivores. Main conclusions: The Plio-Pleistocene faunas lack modern analogues. The body size structure of mammalian regional faunas appears to be strongly dependent on historical factors. The only major shift in body size distribution occurred during the Plio-Pleistocene, in the late Villafranchian-Galerian transition, coincident with the onset of the Pleistocene high intensity glacial cycles.
40405782|Aim We wanted to test whether urbanization has similar effects on biodiversity in different locations, comparing the responses of ground beetle (Coleoptera, Carabidae) assemblages with an urbanization gradient. We also wanted to see if urbanization had a homogenizing effect on ground beetle assemblages. Locations Nine forested temperate locations in Europe, Canada and Japan. Methods Published results of the Globenet Project were used. At all locations, three stages were identified: (1) a forested (rural) area, (2) a suburban area where the original forest was fragmented and isolated, and (3) remnants of the original forest in urban parks. These habitats formed an urbanization series. Study arrangements (number and operation of traps) and methods (pitfall trapping) were identical, conforming to the Globenet protocol. Assemblage composition and diversity patterns were evaluated. Diversity relationships were analysed by the Rnyi diversity ordering method considering all ground beetles and - separately - the forest specialist species. Taxonomic homogenization was examined by multivariate methods using assemblage similarities.Results Overall biodiversity (compared by species richness and diversity ordering)showed nconsistent trends by either urbanization intensity or by geographic position. However, when only forest species were compared, diversity was higher in the original rural (forested) areas than in urban forest fragments. Within-country similarities of carabid assemblages were always higher than within-urbanization stage similarities. Main conclusions Urbanization does not appear to cause a decrease in ground beetle diversity per se. Forest species decline as urbanization intensifies but this trend is masked by an influx of non-forest species. The rural faunas were more similar to the urban ones within the same location than similar urbanization stages were to each other, indicating that urbanization did not homogenize the taxonomic composition of ground beetle faunas across the studied locations.
41239481|Aim: The causes of geographical variation in species richness in clades that do not follow the latitudinal diversity gradient have rarely been investigated. Here, we examine spatial asymmetries of diversity in Gladiolus (Iridaceae), a large genus (> 260 species) that is present in two mediterranean climate biomes: the Cape of southern Africa (106 species) and the Mediterranean Basin (7 species). Despite convergence of climatic conditions between the two regions, the species density of Gladiolus is over one order of magnitude higher in the Cape than in the Mediterranean Basin. We investigate whether the diversity disparities observed in the genus are better explained by recent colonization of species-poor areas (temporal hypothesis) or by differential rates of diversification (evolutionary hypothesis). Location: Africa, Madagascar and Eurasia Methods: We employ a recently developed Bayesian method for the estimation of diversification rates and a biogeographical optimization approach within a phylogenetic framework. Results: In Gladiolus, the ' diversity anomaly' between the two Mediterranean climate regions cannot be explained solely by the time available for speciation in the Cape, but is also due to locally reduced rates of diversification in the Mediterranean Basin. Furthermore, high overall diversity in southern Africa stems from an ancient origin in the Cape allied with high rates of diversification in the summer-rainfall region of the subcontinent. Main conclusions: Both evolutionary and temporal hypotheses must be taken into account in order to explain the diversity anomaly between the Mediterranean Basin and the Cape. Our results suggest that regions at comparable latitudes and/or with similar climate may not converge in diversity levels due to heterogeneity of diversification rates and contrasting biogeographical histories.
3697527|Aims: For the crustacean class Branchiopoda, we estimated global species richness, assessed the reliability of relative diversity estimates among higher taxa and made predictions about the kinds of species remaining to be described. Location: Global. Methods: We calculated correction factors to account for three different sources of diversity underestimation, analysed taxonomic patterns of species descriptions over time and tested possible correlates of description date. Results: Our work suggests that there are c. 2.1 times more branchiopod species in nature than the c. 1180 currently described. The largest correction factor was at the scale of single biogeographical regions, mainly attributed to poor knowledge of species diversity within described morphospecies. Relative diversity estimates among major taxonomic groups are apparently quite reliable, with diversity differences greater than 1.5-fold robust to the heterogeneity of the taxonomic process. Current knowledge of branchiopod diversity is biased towards species with large geographical ranges, whereas body size and higher taxonomic group were only weak predictors of description date. Main conclusions: A proper understanding of species boundaries in nature, which is greatly aided by molecular studies, is key in accurately estimating species richness for invertebrate groups. However, we suggest that while many species remain to be described, numbers of presently described species are still useful for macroevolutionary studies of diversification when interpreted with caution.
30137891|Aim: Spatial floristic and faunistic data bases promote the investigation of biogeographical gradients in relation to environmental determinants on regional to continental scales. Our aim was to extract major gradients in the distribution of vascular plant species from a grid-based inventory (the German FLORKART data base) and relate them to long-term precipitation and temperature records as well as soil conditions. We present an ordination technique capable of coping with this complex data array. The goal was also to sort out the influence of spatial autocorrelation, assuming floristic autocorrelation is anisotropic. Location: Germany, at a spatial resolution of 6' x 10'. Methods: Isometric feature mapping (Isomap) was applied as a nonlinear ordination method. Isomap was coupled to 'eigenvector-based filters' for generating spatial reference models representing spatial autocorrelation. What is novel here is that the derived filters are not based on the assumption of equidirectional autocorrelation. Instead, the so-called 'principal coordinates of anisotropic neighbour matrices' build filters to test the influence of geographical vicinity in directions of high similarity among observations. Results: The Isomap ordination of floristic data explained more than 95% of the data variance in six dimensions. The leading two dimensions (representing about 80% of the FLORKART data variance) revealed clear spatial gradients that could be related to independent effects of temperature, precipitation and soil observations. By contrast, the third and higher FLORKART dimensions were dominated by an antagonism of anisotropic spatial autocorrelation and soil conditions. A subsequent cluster analysis of the floristic Isomap coordinates educed the spatial organization of the floristic survey, indicating a considerable sampling bias. Conclusions: We showed that Isomap provides a consistent methodical framework for both ordination and derived spatial filters. The technique is useful for tracing the often nonlinear features of species occurrence data to environmental drivers, taking into account anisotropic spatial autocorrelation. We also showed that sampling biases are a conspicuous source of variance in a frequently used floristic data base.
3697672|Aim: To produce a statistical stratification of the European environment, suitable for stratified random sampling of ecological resources, the selection of sites for representative studies across the continent, and to provide strata for modelling exercises and reporting. Location: A 'Greater European Window' with the following boundaries:
4139424|Aim To examine how parameters of the species-area curve and factors determining bird species richness are affected by seasonality. Location One hundred and thirty urban parks of the city of Valencia (Spain) ranging between 0.03 and 18.6 ha. Methods Bird censuses were conducted monthly during 1998 and 2004. For each park, 27 variables were recorded as measures of size, structure and isolation. Linear regression was used to test for patterns in species richness relative to independent variables. The results of each season were compared. Results Curves corresponding to the breeding period (spring-summer) had significantly higher intercepts, but slopes did not change across seasons. Turnover rates of resident species were dependent on patch size and isolation considering spring, but not autumn, from different years. Additionally, turnover rates in spring were lower in parks in close proximity to others than in isolated ones. In all seasons, the number of bird species showed a strong relationship with park area, which explained c. 60% of the variation in species numbers. Habitat variables and park isolation explained a small amount of the variation in species numbers. The data did not give support to the random placement hypothesis. Main conclusions The overall conclusions of this study give little support to the possible influence of seasonality on species-area relationship or on the three main hypotheses explaining it. This lack of influence of seasonality could be explained by the seasonal stability of the bird populations of the parks within the study area as a consequence of different factors, mainly the characteristics of the species pool, similarity in the features of the parks irrespective of their size, and stability of resources and conditions across seasons. The question of whether this lack of influence of seasonality on the species-area relationship occurs in those ecological systems that have a larger seasonal variation than the urban parks of the study area remains unresolved. Closer examination of the seasonal patterns reported in this study is likely to be useful in increasing our understanding of the species-area relationship.
3697494|Aim: To explore the variation in species richness along a subtropical elevation gradient, and evaluate how climatic variables explain the richness of the different life forms such as trees, shrubs, climbers, herbs and ferns. Location: The study was made in a subtropical to warm temperate region in the south-eastern part of Nepal, between 100 and 1500 m above sea level (a.s.l.). Methods: The number of species was counted in six plots (50 x 20 m) in each of the 15 100 m elevation bands covering the main physiognomic structures along an imaginary transect. Each species recorded was assigned to a life form. Potential evapotranspiration (PET, i.e. energy), mean annual rainfall (MAR), and their ratio (MI = moisture index) were evaluated as explanatory variables by means of generalized linear models (GLM). Each variable was tested individually, and in addition MAR and PET were used to test the water-energy dynamics model for each life form. Results: The richness of herbaceous species, including herbaceous climbers, was unrelated to any of the climate variables. PET was strongly negatively correlated with elevation, and the following relationships were found between increasing PET and richness: (i) shrubs, trees and total species (sum of all life forms) showed unimodal responses (ii) ferns decreased monotonically, and (iii) woody climbers increased monotonically. Richness of all woody groups increased monotonically with MAR and MI. The water-energy dynamics model explained 63% of the variation in shrubs, 67% for trees and 70% for woody species combined. Main conclusions: For the various herbaceous life forms (forbs, grasses, and herbaceous climbers) we found no significant statistical trends, whereas for woody life forms (trees, shrubs, and woody climbers) significant relationships were found with climate. E.M. O'Brien's macro-scale model based on water-energy dynamics was found to explain woody species richness at a finer scale along this elevational-climatic gradient.
40405789|Aims Tests of the energy hypothesis for the large-scale distribution of species richness have largely been concerned with the influence of two alternative forms of environmental energy, temperature and energy from primary productivity, both of which (at least in terrestrial systems) peak within the tropics. Taxa showing extratropical diversity peaks present a potential challenge to the generality of speciesenergy theory. One such group are pelagic seabirds of the order Procellariiformes that show not only an extra-tropical diversity peak but one confined to the Southern Ocean, hence a highly asymmetric one. They are distinct in being exceptionally adapted to take advantage of wind energy, which they may rely on for long-distance ocean foraging for the patchy resources needed to meet their energetic needs. Wind represents a readily available source of kinetic energy, shows a strong latitudinal gradient, and has been largely omitted from species-energy theory. Moreover, maximal benefits of wind are likely to be afforded in areas of greatest available contiguous ocean extent. We compare the relative importance of wind speed, ocean productivity (chlorophyll concentration), air temperature and available ocean extent (distance) in explaining large-scale global distribution of procellariiform species richness across the world's oceans. Location Global, oceanic. Methods Hierarchical partitioning, model selection, ordinary least squares (OLS) and spatial generalized least squares (GLS) regression. Results Hierarchical partitioning of non-spatial regression models indicates that ocean distance is the most important predictor of procellariiform species richness followed by wind speed and then temperature. In contrast, that of spatial regression models indicates the roughly equal importance of ocean distance and temperature, followed by wind speed. Although contributing additional model fit, ocean productivity is consistently the weakest predictor. Best-fit models include all four predictors and explain 67% of observed variation. The species-productivity relationship is negative overall, while the species-temperature relationship is humpshaped. In contrast, ocean distance and wind speed are positively associated with species richness. Conclusions Large-scale procellariiform species richness distribution may represent a trade-off in the use of different energy forms, being highest in Southern Ocean areas where productive energy and temperature are relatively low, but where available ocean foraging extent and wind energy required to utilize it are near-maximal.
41239407|Aim: To identify connectivity patterns among coral reefs of the Indo-West Pacific. Projecting connectivity forward in time provides a framework for studying longterm source-sink dynamics in the region, and makes it possible to evaluate the manner in which migration shapes population genetic structure at regional scales. This information is essential for addressing critical gaps in knowledge for conservation planning efforts in one of the most biologically diverse regions on earth. Location: Coral reefs of the Indo-West Pacific, ranging from 15 S to 30 N and 95 E to 140 E. Methods: Individual-based biophysical dispersal models were used in conjunction with matrix projection to identify the expected patterns of exchange between coral reefs over time. Results: Present-day oceanographie conditions lead to the transport of larvae from the South China Sea into the Coral Triangle region via the Sulu Sea, and from northern Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands via Halmahera. The directionality of the system leads to the expected accumulation of organisms from outlying areas into the Coral Triangle region over time, particularly in the vicinity of the Maluku Islands and eastern Sulawesi. Coral reefs in Papua New Guinea, the Sulu Archipelago and areas within the Philippines are expected to be areas of high diversity as well. Main conclusions: Biophysical dispersal models, used in conjunction with matrix projection, provide an effective means of simulating connectivity structure across the Indo-West Pacific and thereby evaluating the directionality of genetic diversity. Migration appears to have a significant influence on population genetic structure in the region. Based on present-day ocean currents, coral reefs in the South China Sea, northern Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands are contributing to high levels of diversity in the Coral Triangle.
3697654|Aim: Predictive models of species occurrence have potential for prioritizing areas for competing land uses. Before widespread application, however, it is necessary to evaluate performance using independent data and effective accuracy measures. The objectives of this study were to (1) compare the effects of species occurrence rate on model accuracy, (2) assess the effects of spatial and temporal variation in occurrence rate on model accuracy, and (3) determine if the number of predictor variables affected model accuracy. Location: We predicted the distributions of breeding birds in three adjacent mountain ranges in the Great Basin (Nevada, USA). Methods: For each of 18 species, we developed separate models using five different data sets - one set for each of 2 years (to address the effects of temporal variation), and one set for each of three possible pairs of mountain ranges (to address the effects of spatial variation). We evaluated each model with an independent data set using four accuracy measures: discrimination ability [area under a receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC)], correct classification rate (CCR), proportion of presences correctly classified (sensitivity), and proportion of absences correctly classified (specificity). Results: Discrimination ability was not affected by occurrence rate, whereas the other three accuracy measures were significantly affected. CCR, sensitivity and specificity were affected by species occurrence rate in the evaluation data sets to a greater extent than in the model-building data sets. Discrimination ability was the only accuracy measure affected by the number of variables in a model. Main conclusions: Temporal variation in species occurrence appeared to have a greater impact than did spatial variation. When temporal variation in species distributions is great, the relative costs of omission and commission errors should be assessed and long-term census data should be examined before using predictive models of occurrence in a management setting.
4139441| Aim The biodiversity of geometrid moths (Lepidoptera) along a complete tropical elevational gradient was studied for the first time. The patterns are described, and the role of geometric constraints and environmental factors is explored. Location The study was carried out along the Barva Transect (10 N, 84 W), a complete elevational gradient ranging from 40 to 2730 m a.s.l. in Braulio Carrillo National Park, Costa Rica, and adjacent areas. Methods Moths were sampled manually in 2003 and 2004 at 12 rain forest sites using light 'towers', each with two 15 W ultraviolet fluorescent tubes. We used abundance-based rarefaction, statistical estimation of true richness (Chao 1), geographically interpolated observed richness and Fisher's alpha as measures of local diversity. Results A total of 13,765 specimens representing 739 species were analysed. All four measures showed a hump-shaped pattern with maxima between 500 and 2100 m elevation. The two subfamilies showed richness and diversity maxima at either lower (Ennominae) or higher (Larentiinae) elevation than Geometridae as a whole. Among the four environmental factors tested, relative humidity yielded the highest correlation over the transect with the rarefaction-based richness estimates as well as with estimated true species richness of Geometridae as a whole and of Larentiinae, while rainfall explained the greatest variation of Ennominae richness. The elevational pattern of moth richness was discordant with both temperature and with tree species richness. A combination of all environmental factors in a stepwise multiple regression produced high values of r in Geometridae. The potential effects of geometric constraints (mid-domain effect, MDE) were investigated by comparing them with observed, interpolated richness. Overall, models fitted very well for Geometridae as a whole and for Ennominae, but less well for Larentiinae. Small-ranged species showed stronger deviations from model predictions than large-ranged species, and differed strikingly between the two subfamilies, suggesting that environmental factors play a more pronounced role for small-ranged species. We hypothesize that small-ranged species (at least of the Ennominae) may tend to be host specialists, whereas large-ranged species tend to be polyphagous. Based on interpolated ranges, mean elevational range for these moths was larger with increasing elevation, in accordance with Rapoport's elevational rule, although sampling effects may have exaggerated this pattern. The underlying mechanism remains unknown because Rapoport's 'rescue' hypothesis could not explain the observed pattern. Conclusions The results clearly show that moth diversity shows a hump-shaped pattern. However, remarkable variation exists with regard to taxon and range size. Both environmental and geometric factors are likely to contribute to the observed patterns. 
3697645| Aim: Waterbirds may play an important role in the maintenance of aquatic ecosystem biodiversity by transporting plants and invertebrate propagules between different wetlands. The aim of this study is to provide the first quantitative analysis of the transport of plant and animal propagules by a community of waterbirds. Location: Doana marshes in south-west Spain. Methods: We quantified the number of intact seeds and invertebrate eggs in 386 faecal samples from 11 migratory waterfowl species (10 ducks and coot), collected from 3 November to 3 December 1998 (when birds were arriving from further north), and 22-25 February 1999 (when birds were leaving Doana). Results: Intact seeds of at least 7 plant genera, and invertebrate eggs (ephippia of at least 2 Crustacea, statoblasts of at least 2 bryozoans and eggs of Corixidae) occurred in 65.6% of the faecal samples in early winter and 67.8% in late winter. Main conclusions: The abundance of different propagule types varied between waterfowl species in a seasonal and species specific manner, probably owing to differences in foraging strategies, bill and gut morphology, and seasonal shifts in propagule availability or distribution. Lamellar density was positively correlated with the abundance of intact propagules. Our results confirm that waterfowl play an important role in the dispersal of organisms in aquatic environments by internal transport. Wherever there is a propagule bank accessible to waterbirds, transport can occur even when propagule production and waterfowl movements do not overlap in time. 
40205737|Aim: Climate change may cause loss of genetic diversity. Here we explore how a multidisciplinary approach can be used to infer effects of past climate change on species distribution and genetic diversity and also to predict loss of diversity due to future climate change. We use the arctic-alpine plant Salix herbacea L. as a model. Location: Europe, Greenland and eastern North America. Methods: We analysed 399 samples from 41 populations for amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) to identify current patterns of genetic structure and diversity and likely historical dispersal routes. Macrofossil records were compiled to infer past distribution, and species distribution models were used to predict the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) and future distribution of climatically suitable areas. Results: We found strong genetic differentiation between the populations from Europe/East Greenland and those from Canada/West Greenland, indicating a split probably predating the LGM. Much less differentiation was observed among the four genetic groups identified in Europe, and diversity was high in the Scandinavian as well as in southern alpine populations. Continuous distribution in Central Europe during the last glaciation was inferred based on the fossil records and distribution modelling. A46-57% reduction in suitable areas was predicted in 2080 compared to present. However, mainly southern alpine populations may go extinct, causing a loss of about 5% of the genetic diversity in the species. Main conclusions: From a continuous range in Central Europe during the last glaciation, northward colonization probably occurred as a broad front maintaining diversity as the climate warmed. This explains why potential extinction of southern populations by 2080 will cause a comparatively low loss of the genetic diversity in S. herbacea. For other species with different glacial histories, however, the expected climate-change induced regional extinction may cause a more severe loss of genetic diversity. We conclude that our multidisciplinary approach may be a useful tool for assessing impact of climate change on loss of genetic diversity.
3697561| Aim: To locate glacial refugia of thermophilous plant species in Spain. Location: Two south-eastern Spanish Neanderthal man sites in Murcia; namely, the inland Cueva Negra del Estrecho del Ro Qupar and the coastal Sima de las Palomas del Cabezo Gordo. Methods: We use pollen found in cave sediments as a source of palaeobotanical and palaeoecological information. The findings are discussed with regard both to animal remains from both sites, and also to other refugia in south-eastern Spain and elsewhere in the Iberian Peninsula. Results: Both sequences show persistence of abundant mesothermophilous trees during the last glacial stage, suggesting both localities were reservoirs of phytodiversity and woodland species. At both sites, deciduous and evergreen oaks are the most abundant components, followed by a wide variety of deciduous trees and sclerophyllous shrubs, including Ibero-North African xerothermic scrub near the coast. Conclusions: Incomplete information underlies a common misapprehension that Iberian glacial refugia were confined to southernmost parts of the peninsula. A rather different picture of Quaternary refugia emerges from consideration of pollen sequences from caves (and other inputs such as macroscopic charcoal, spatial genetic structure of present-day populations, faunal remains, and present-day distribution of thermophilous species). This picture offers a view of numerous viable areas for woodland species in southern Spain, in addition to others in the mountain ranges, both in continental central Spain and those of northern Spain: these stretch from the Mediterranean coast of Catalonia to the westernmost extent of the Bay of Biscay. 
3697586|Aim: For a large set of forest herbs we tested: (1) whether there is a positive relationship between local abundance and geographical range size; (2) whether abundance or range size are affected by the niche breadths of species or niche availability; and (3) whether these are affected by the species life-history traits. Location: Northwestern Germany. Methods: We measured abundance as mean density in 22 base-rich deciduous forests and recorded range size as area of occupancy on four different spatial scales (local to national). Niche breadth was expressed in terms of habitat specificity (specialists, generalists) and of the ability to grow across a broad range of soil pH. The species' pH niche position was used as a measure of the importance of habitat availability. As life-history traits we used diaspore mass and number, plant height, seed longevity, lifespan/clonality, pollination mode, dispersal capability and flowering time. Results: There were mainly no positive relationships between the abundance of species and their range size, as tested across species and across phylogenetically independent contrasts. Forest specialists were generally distributed less widely than generalists, but habitat specificity was not related to local abundance. Species with a broader pH niche breadth were more common, but the positive relationships between niche breadth and abundance or range size disappeared when accounting for sample size effects. Clonal species with few and heavy diaspores were most abundant, as well as early-flowering species and those lacking dispersal structures. Local and regional range size were determined largely by habitat availability, while national range was positively affected by plant height and diaspore mass. Main conclusions: Different processes determine the local density of species and their range size. Abundance within habitat patches appears to be related mainly to the species life histories, especially to their capacity for extensive clonal reproduction, whereas range size appears to be determined strongly by the availability of suitable habitat.
3697587|Aim: Most deciduous species of dry monsoon forests in Thailand and India form new leaves 1-2 months before the first monsoon rains, during the hottest and driest part of the year around the spring equinox. Here we identify the proximate causes of this characteristic and counterintuitive 'spring-flushing' of monsoon forest trees. Location: Trees of 20 species were observed in semi-deciduous dry monsoon forests of northern Thailand with a 5-6-month-long severe dry season and annual rainfall of 800-1500 mm. They were growing on dry ridges (dipterocarp-oak forest) or in moist gullies (mixed deciduous-evergreen forest) at 680-750 m altitude near Chiang Mai and in a dry lowland stand of Shorea siamensis in Uthai Thani province. Methods: Two novel methods were developed to analyse temporal and spatial variation in vegetative dry-season phenology indicative of differences in root access to subsoil water reserves. Results: Evergreen and leaf exchanging species at cool, moist sites leafed soon after partial leaf shedding in January-February. Drought-resistant dipterocarp species were evergreen at moist sites, deciduous at dry sites, and trees leafed soon after leaf shedding whenever subsoil water was available. Synchronous spring flushing of deciduous species around the spring equinox, as induced by increasing daylength, was common in Thailand's dipterocarp-oak forest and appears to be prevalent in Indian dry monsoon forests of the Deccan peninsula with its deep, water-storing soils. Main conclusions: In all observed species leafing during the dry season relied on subsoil water reserves, which buffer trees against prolonged climatic drought. Implicitly, rainfall periodicity, i.e. climate, is not the principal determinant of vegetative tree phenology. The establishment of new foliage before the summer rains is likely to optimize photosynthetic gain in dry monsoon forests with a relatively short, wet growing season.
3182647|Aim: This study makes quantitative global estimates of land suitability for cultivation based on climate and soil constraints. It evaluates further the sensitivity of croplands to any possible changes in climate and atmospheric CO
3877782|Aim: Elevation and climate ranges across latitude experienced by 21 wide-ranging mammal species in western North America were summarized to examine two questions: (1) do populations in the northern and southern portions of a species' range experience different climates or are environments selected to remain similar to climates at the core of ranges; and (2) how do species' elevational ranges, experienced temperature seasonality and temperature ranges change across latitude? Given the larger effects of climate oscillations in the north vs. the south, a predicted outcome is for species to conserve climate niches across latitude and to show reduced climate and elevation ranges in the north. An alternative outcome is latitudinal niche diversification and increased climate variation in the north. Location: Western North America. Methods: The questions above were examined using a combination of species occurrence data bases, climate data bases, simple summaries of means and standard deviations and by testing summaries against random distributions across latitude for 21 mammal species from a variety of orders. Results: The results showed that: (i) most species conserve their niche strongly or weakly given overall temperature gradients from north to south; (ii) seasonality experienced by species is relatively static until the highest latitudes despite directional trends across the region; and (iii) the elevation range and temperature variation that species experience decreases from south to north. Main conclusions: Populations at range edges appear to partition environments to remain closer to temperature values similar to those at the core of the range. In addition, seasonality is not a likely explanatory factor of genetic diversity in latitudinal gradients. The data are instead more consistent with predictions that a combination of higher gene-flow, increasing environmental instability and decreasing elevation gradients in the north compared to the south may lead to negative correlations between latitude and species' climate variation. The results corroborate risks faced by northern mammal populations to global climate changes.
41239480|Aim: Elevational gradients offer an outstanding opportunity to assess factors determining patterns of species richness, but along single transects potential explanatory factors often covary, making it difficult to distinguish between competing hypotheses. Many previous studies on plants have interpreted their results as supporting the mid-domain effect (MDE) as a major determinant of species richness, even when climatic factors showed similarly high explanatory power. We compared fern species richness along 20 elevational transects to quantify the relative contribution of climate and MDE as drivers of elevational richness patterns. Location: Twenty transects world-wide. Methods: Ferns were sampled in 1039 plots of 400-2500 m each. Mean annual precipitation and temperature, epiphytic bryophyte cover (as a proxy for air humidity) and MDE predictions were included as independent variables. For each transect, we calculated multiple linear models and partitioned the variance to assess the relative contribution of the independent variables, selecting the most parsimonious models based on Akaike weights and multi-model inference. Results: Along most individual gradients, nearly all variance of fern species richness that could be attributed to either space or MDEs was collinear with climatic factors. Yet, the comparison across transects showed that elevational richness patterns are most parsimoniously accounted for by climatic conditions, especially by low water availability at low elevations and in dry regions in general, and by low temperatures at high elevations and in extra-tropical regions. Main conclusions: Fern species richness is most closely related to climatic factors, and while MDE, surface area and metapopulation processes may somewhat modify the patterns, their importance has been overstated in the past. Future research challenges include determining whether the richness-climate relationship reflects: (1) a direct relationship through the physiological tolerance of the plants, (2) an indirect influence of climate on ecosystem productivity, or (3) an evolutionary legacy of longer or faster diversification processes under certain climatic conditions.
30137906|Aim: The latitudinal diversity gradient, in which taxonomic richness is greatest at low latitudes and declines towards the poles, is a pervasive feature of the biota through geological time. This study utilizes fossil data to examine how the latitudinal diversity gradient and associated spatial patterns covaried through the major climate shifts at the onset and end of the late Palaeozoic ice age. Location: Data were acquired from fossil localities from around the world. Methods: Latitudinal patterns of diversity, mean geographical range size and macroevolutionary rates were constructed from a literature-derived data base of occurrences of fossil brachiopod genera in space and time. The literature search resulted in a total of 18,596 occurrences for 991 genera from 2320 localities. Results: Climate changes associated with the onset of the late Palaeozoic ice age (c. 327 Ma) altered the biogeographical structure of the brachiopod fauna by the preferential elimination of narrowly distributed, largely tropical genera when glaciation began. Because the oceans were left populated primarily with widespread genera, the slope of the diversity gradient became gentle at this time, and the gradient of average latitudinal range size weakened. In addition, because narrowly distributed genera had intrinsically high rates of origination and extinction, the gradients of both of these macroevolutionary rates were also reduced. These patterns were reversed when the ice age climate abated in early Permian time (c. 290 Ma): narrowly distributed genera rediversified at low latitudes, restoring steep gradients of diversity, average latitudinal range size and macroevolutionary rates. Main conclusions: During late Palaeozoic time, these latitudinal gradients for brachiopods may have been linked by the increased magnitude of seasonality during the late Palaeozoic ice age. Pronounced seasonality would have prevented the existence of genera with narrow latitudinal ranges. These results for the late Palaeozoic ice age suggest a climatic basis for the present-day latitudinal diversity gradient.
40205654|Aim: To determine how well variation in median body size of avian assemblages is predicted by (1) the environmental models usually employed in analyses of Bergmann's rule and (2) random sampling from the regional body size frequency distribution. If body size frequency distributions of local assemblages represent a random sample of a regional frequency distribution, then geographical variation in body sizes of assemblages might be a consequence of the determinants of spatial variation in species richness rather than direct influences on body size per se. Location: Southern Africa. Methods: Median body masses (as a measure of body size) of avian assemblages were calculated for quarter-degree grid cells across South Africa and Lesotho. The relationship between median body mass and four environmental variables (minimum and maximum monthly temperatures, precipitation and seasonally in the normalized difference vegetation index, as a measure of seasonality in productivity) was examined using general linear models first without taking spatial autocorrelation into account, and then accounting for it by fitting an exponential spatial covariance structure. Model fit was assessed using the Akaike information criterion and Akaike weights. At each species richness value, random assemblages were sampled by either drawing species randomly from the regional body mass frequency distribution, or drawing species from the regional body mass frequency distribution with a probability proportional to their geographical distribution in the area. The ability of randomizations to predict actual body masses was examined using two-tailed Fisher exact tests. Results: Seasonality in productivity was the only environmental variable that remained a significant predictor of body mass variation in spatially explicit models, though the positive relationship was weak. When species richness was included in the models it remained the only significant predictor of size variation. Randomizations predicted median body mass poorly at low species richness, but well at high richness. Main conclusions: Environmental models that have previously been proposed explain little of the variation in body mass across avian assemblages in South Africa. However, much of the variation in the median mass of assemblages could be predicted by randomly drawing species from the regional body mass frequency distribution, particularly using randomizations in which all species were drawn from the regional body mass frequency distribution with equal probability and at high species richness values. This outcome emphasizes the need to consider null expectations in investigations of the geographical variation in body size together with the probable environmental mechanisms underlying spatial variation in average size. Moreover, it suggests that in the South African avifauna, spatial variation in the body sizes of assemblages may be determined indirectly by the factors that influence geographical variation in species richness.
41239257|Aim: The relationship between the proportion of species with an entire leaf margin (pE) and mean annual temperature (MAT) is one of the most powerful tools for estimating palaeotemperatures. However, phylogenetic and phytogeographic constraints on this relationship have remained unexplored. Here we investigate the pE-MAT relationship for modern floristic assemblages from southern South American forests, assess its conformity to other models and test for the existence of historical constraints on pE-MAT models. Location: South America. Methods: We used samples from 30 sites located in Chile between 32 and 44 S to test for a pE-MAT relationship and compared it with four regional models. We assessed the reliability of these models for predicting MAT from instrumental records in eight modern temperate-forest localities in Chile. Additionally, palaeotemperatures for Cenozoic fossil floras were estimated. To assess historical constraints in pE, we measured the phylogenetic signal in leaf margin type and the association between leaf margin and phytogeographic affiliation, defined by the distribution of genera. Results: We found a significant pE-MAT relationship for Chilean forest species that differed from Australia and Northern Hemisphere models, but not from tropical South America (TSA). Temperatures for southern South American localities predicted from the new regional model - combining Chilean and TSA datasets - were more accurate than those from previous models. We also showed that leaf margin type has a strong phylogenetic signal, which was further confirmed by the highly significant effect of phytogeographic element on leaf margin type. Main conclusions: Differences between the Chilean and other regional models are explained by historical legacy, as Chilean leaf margin types are strongly affected by phylogenetic closeness and phytogeographic elements. We highlight that leaf margin analyses should be conducted within the context of a flora with a shared history. Thus, we propose a new model for South America to estimate palaeotemperatures for regional fossil floras.
3697673| Aim: Climate change has the potential to have an impact on the distribution of ticks and tick-borne diseases. This paper identifies the changes in climate suitability for the tick Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus in the Americas by analysing climate data for the period 1950-99. Location: The model was applied to the American continent. Methods: A model based on Environmental Niche Modelling was used on a gridded (0.5) long-term (1950-99) climate data set. A map of the core range of the species was constructed, and areas where habitat suitability (HS) changes suddenly over short time periods were identified as regions of high sensitivity. Tendency of climate in the continent was evaluated and scenarios constructed for 2025 and 2050. Results: Regions of high sensitivity included the southern USA, Mexico and western and central Argentina. Analysis of climate variables in these regions identified water vapour pressure deficit and evaporation as underlying the high sensitivity of habitat suitability in the USA and Mexico, and showed that episodes of high variability are linked to the El Nio Southern Oscillation. Projections of the tendency of HS as observed for the 1950-99 period point to an increase in this value in parts of the southern USA and in central Argentina, a finding that can be attributed to the progressive increase in minimum and yearly averaged temperatures. Conclusions: Short-term changes in climate may drive the system into unstable situations with sudden changes in habitat suitability for the target tick in specific zones of the Americas. Results suggest an increased abiotic (climate) suitability for R. microplus in areas whose habitat is currently unsuitable for this species. 
30137881|Aim: To evaluate geostatistical approaches, namely kriging, co-kriging and geostatistical simulation, and to develop an optimal sampling design for mapping the spatial patterns of bird diversity, estimating their spatial autocorrelations and selecting additional samples of bird diversity in a 2450 km basin. Location: Taiwan. Methods: Kriging, co-kriging and simulated annealing are applied to estimate and simulate the spatial patterns of bird diversity. In addition, kriging and co-kriging with a genetic algorithm are used to optimally select further samples to improve the kriging and co-kriging estimations. The association between bird diversity and elevation, and bird diversity and land cover, is analysed with estimated and simulated maps. Results: The Simpson index correlates spatially with the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) within the micro-scale and the macro-scale in the study basin, but the Shannon diversity index only correlates spatially with NDVI within the micro-scale. Co-kriging and simulated annealing simulation accurately simulate the statistical and spatial patterns of bird diversity. The mean estimated diversity and the simulated diversity increase with elevation and decrease with increasing urbanization. The proposed optimal sampling approach selects 43 additional sampling sites with a high spatial estimation variance in bird diversity. Main conclusions: Small-scale variations dominate the total spatial variation of the observed diversity due to a lack of spatial information and insufficient sampling. However, simulations of bird diversity consistently capture the sampling statistics and spatial patterns of the observed bird diversity. The data thus accumulated can be used to understand the spatial patterns of bird diversity associated with different types of land cover and elevation, and to optimize sample selection. Co-kriging combined with a genetic algorithm yields additional optimal sampling sites, which can be used to augment existing sampling points in future studies of bird diversity.
3697515|Aim: Applying water-energy dynamics and heterogeneity theory to explain species richness via remote sensing could allow for the regional characterization and monitoring of vegetation community assemblages and their environment. We assess the relationship of multi-temporal normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) to plant species richness in vegetation communities. Location: California, USA. Methods: Sub-regions containing species inventories for chaparral, coastal sage scrub, foothill woodland, and yellow pine forest communities were intersected with a vegetation community map and an AVHRR NDVI time series for 1990,1991,1992, 1995 and 1996. Principal components analysis reduced the AVHRR data to three variables representing the sum and temporal trajectories of NDVI within each community. A fourth variable representing heterogeneity was tested using the standard deviation of the first component. Quadratic forms of these variables were also tested. Species richness was analysed by stepwise regression. Results: Chaparral, coastal sage scrub, and yellow pine forest had the best relationships between species richness and NDVI. Richness of chaparral was related to NDVI heterogeneity and spring greenness (r
2665384|Aside from deforestation and selective logging, mature tropical rain forests appear to be in a state of near-term flux. At plot scales over a 20-year period, forest inventory data (representing areas < 750 ha) have shown stands to be accumulating above-ground biomass pantropically while displaying signs of increasing turnover. To assess whether or not such disequilibrium is manifest at broader spatial scales (i.e. coarser grain sizes and larger extents), we performed a change detection analysis of landscape texture (i.e. the organization of reflective properties), in satellite images of closed-canopy tropical rain forests considered to be anthropically undisturbed. Here we show that fractal properties of pixel spectral values depicting low and high levels of photosynthetic activity underwent significant shifts from the 1970s to the 1980s. Following expectations for aggrading forests, canopy texture became more random throughout the tropics. Although subject to periodic disturbance events such as natural exogenic perturbations and/or synchronous die-off, which should produce no consistent trend, these forested landscapes across the globe exhibited similar dynamics at fine temporal (decadal) intervals. Such biophysical changes (representing areas > 1000 000 ha) directly affect atmospheric boundary layer conditions and could have implications with respect to biodiversity and carbon cycling in these systems.
3697529| Aim: Recent work indicates that desert assemblages have elevated beta () diversity (between-locality turnover of species composition). This study compares  diversities between the Great Basin and the Great Plains of the western USA over the last 17 Myr. Today, the Great Basin is a topographically diverse desert scrubland to woodland and the Great Plains are low-relief temperate grassland, but 17 Ma they were more similar in topography, climate and land cover. A georeferenced database of mammal occurrences, complied from several sources, is used to test two hypotheses for the elevation of Great Basin  diversity: (1) that tectonic change of the topography has driven increased habitat packing in high- and low-elevation habitats, and (2) that climatic cycling in the Pleistocene has driven faunas from neighbouring provinces to overlap in the region. Location: The Great Basin of the USA, centred on Nevada, and the central Great Plains of the USA, centred on Nebraska. Methods: Mammalian faunal lists compiled from published records and the records of many museums, available online, were partitioned into time-slices ranging from the recent to 17 Myr old. Beta diversity was calculated for each time-slice in two ways: multiplicative  diversity using first-order jackknife richness, and additive beta diversity using Simpson's evenness. Results: Beta diversity is elevated in Nevada relative to Nebraska today. Beta diversity has been higher in the Great Basin since the Pleistocene and possibly since the late Early Hemphillian (c. 7 Ma). Beta diversity in the Late Barstovian (c. 13.5 Ma) of the Great Plains was higher even than  diversity in the Great Basin of today. Main conclusions: The elevated  diversity in the Hemphillian supports the tectonic change hypothesis. The patterns of  diversity in the Recent, Pleistocene and Hemphillian all suggest that local-scale processes are important. The  diversity of the Late Barstovian Great Plains supports other studies indicating increased primary productivity or species packing. 
41058244|Aim: An emerging consensus in invasion ecology is that faster-growing alien plant species tend to be more invasive than slower-growing species. However, phylogenetic non-independence and the precision of growth-rate measures often remain unaccounted for in comparative studies. We tested whether global invasiveness was related to mean and maximum relative growth rate of 105 plant species (101 native and 4 introduced) commonly occurring in the UK. Location: Global. Methods: We combined a unique experimental dataset of relative growth rates (RGR) measured under standardized experimental conditions for plant species that occur widely in the UK with our global measures of invasiveness, which were the number of references in the Global Compendium of Weeds (GCW) and the number of world regions invaded. We weighted mean RGR measures per species by including variances of RGR in our analyses, and we also conducted analyses with and without phylogenetic structure, to account for potential phylogenetic nonindependence in RGR. Results: We found a positive association between global invasiveness and maximum RGR. In addition, this association was not confounded by phylogenetic correlation, or by species seed mass. Main conclusions: The results from this study suggest that faster-growing species are more widespread at a global scale, adding support to other studies that suggest faster-growing alien plant species tend to be more invasive in the introduced range.
40801850|Aim: Most predictions of species ranges are based on correlating current species localities to environmental conditions. These correlative models do not explicitly include a species' biology. In contrast, some mechanistic models link traits to energetics and population dynamics to predict species distributions. These models enable one to ask whether considering a species' biology is important for predicting its range. I implement mechanistic models to investigate how a species' morphology, physiology and life history influence its range.
3697480| Aim: To assess the correspondence between current avian distributions in the lowlands of northern South America with respect to the hypothesized importance of sea level rise and other events over the past 15 million years on speciation. Location: Tropical lowlands of north-western South America. Methods: To establish which bird taxa may have originated in each area of endemism, I examined the ranges of all bird species occurring in the Pacific and the Caribbean lowlands. To determine land and sea distribution during a sea level rise of 100 m in north-western South America and eastern Central America, I traced the 100 m contour line from the Geoatlas of Georama and the Global 30-Arc-Second Elevation Data (GTOPO30) produced by the US Geological Survey. Results: During a sea level rise of-100 m, marine incursions would have occurred from the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. Several areas of tropical forest and dry/arid vegetation would have been isolated, currently known as the Darin, Choc, Nech, Catatumbo, Tumbesian and Guajiran areas of animal and plant endemism. Main conclusions: A large part of the high diversity of forest and nonforest birds and other animals and plants in the Pacific rain forest and the Caribbean woodland likely arose as the result of sea level rises, dispersal and other geological and climatic events. 
41239479|Aim: The species-area relationship has been applied in the conservation context to predict monotonic species richness declines as natural area is converted to humandominated land covers. However, some conversion of natural cover could introduce new habitat types and allow new open habitat species to occur. Moreover, decelerating richness-area relationships suggest that, as natural area is converted to human-dominated covers, more species will be added to the rare habitat than are lost from the common one. Area effects and increased habitat diversity could each lead to a peaked relationship between species richness and the relative amount of natural area. The purpose of this study is to quantify the effect on avian species richness of conversion of natural area to human-dominated land cover. Location: Ontario, Canada. Methods: We evaluated the responses of total avian richness, forest bird richness and open habitat bird richness to remaining natural area within 993 quadrats, each of 100 km . We quantified the amount of natural land cover and land-cover heterogeneity using remote sensing data. We used structural equation modelling (SEM) to disentangle the relationships among avian richness, natural area and land-cover heterogeneity. Results: Spatial variation in avian richness was a peaked function of remaining natural area, such that losses of up to 44% of the natural area increased avian richness. This partly reflects increased variety of land cover; however, SEM suggests that much of the increase in richness is due to pure area effects. Richness of forest species declined by two species over this range of natural cover loss while open habitat bird richness increased by approximately 20 species. The effect of natural area on species richness is consistent with the sum of species-area curves for natural habitat species and human-dominated habitat species. Main conclusions: At least in northern temperate forests, almost half of the natural land cover can be converted to human-dominated forms before avian richness declines. Conversion of < 50% of regional natural area to humandominated land cover can benefit open-area species richness with relatively few losses of forest obligate species. However, with > 50% natural area conversion, species begin to drop out of regional assemblages.
40405792|Aim Beta diversity (variation of the species composition of assemblages) may reflect two different phenomena, spatial species turnover and nestedness of assemblages, which result from two antithetic processes, namely species replacement and species loss, respectively. The aim of this paper is to provide a unified framework for the assessment of beta diversity, disentangling the contribution of spatial turnover and nestedness to beta-diversity patterns. Innovation I derive an additive partitioning of beta diversity that provides the two separate components of spatial turnover and nestedness underlying the total amount of beta diversity. I propose two families of measures of beta diversity for pairwise and multiple-site situations. Each family comprises one measure accounting for all aspects of beta diversity, which is additively decomposed into two measures accounting for the pure spatial turnover and nestedness components, respectively. Finally, I provide a case study using European longhorn beetles to exemplify the relevance of disentangling spatial turnover and nestedness patterns. Main conclusion Assigning the different beta-diversity patterns to their respective biological phenomena is essential for analysing the causality of the processes underlying biodiversity. Thus, the differentiation of the spatial turnover and nestedness components of beta diversity is crucial for our understanding of central biogeographic, ecological and conservation issues.
40405765|Aim: Substantial overlap in the climate characteristics of the United States and China results in similar land-cover types and weather conditions, especially in the eastern half of the two countries. These parallels suggest similarities in fire regimes as well, yet relatively little is known about the historical role of fire in Chinese ecosystems. Consequently, we aimed to infer fire regime characteristics for China based on our understanding of climate-fire relationships in the United States. Location: The conterminous United States and the People's Republic of China. Methods: We used generalized additive models to quantify the relationship between reference fire regime classes adopted by the LANDFIRE initiative in the United States, and a global climate data set. With the models, we determined which climate variables best described the distribution of fire regimes in the United States then used these models to predict the spatial distribution of fire regimes in China. The fitted models were validated quantitatively using receiver operating characteristic area under the curve (AUC). We validated the predicted fire regimes in China by comparison with palaeoecological fire data and satellite-derived estimates of current fire activity. Results: Quantitative validation using the AUC indicated good discrimination of the distribution of fire regimes by models for the United States. Overall, fire regimes with more frequent return intervals were more likely in the east than in the west. The resolution of available historical and prehistorical fire data for China, including sediment cores, allowed only coarse, qualitative validation, but provided supporting evidence that fire has long been a part of ecosystem function in eastern China. MODIS satellite data illustrated that fire frequency within the last decade supported the classification of much of western China as relatively fire-free; however, much of south-eastern China experiences more fire activity than predicted with our models, probably as a function of the extensive use of fire by people. Conclusions: While acknowledging there are many cultural, environmental and historical differences between the United States and China, our fire regime models based on climate data demonstrate potential historical fire regimes for China, and propose that large areas of China share historical fire-vegetation-climate complexes with the United States.
30137871|Aim We evaluated the bathymetric gradient of benthic polychaete species richness from the Chilean coast, as well as its possible underlying causes. We tested three possible hypotheses to explain the richness gradient: (1) Rapoport's effect; (2) the mid-domain effect (MDE); and (c) the source-sink hypothesis. Location South-eastern Pacific coast of Chile. Methods The bathymetric gradient in richness was evaluated using the reported ranges of bathymetric distribution of 498 polychaete species, from the intertidal to abyssal zone (c. 4700 m). Rapoport's effect was evaluated by examining the relationship between bathymetric mid-point and bathymetric range extent, and species richness and depth. The MDE was tested using the Monte Carlo simulation program. The source-sink hypothesis was tested through nestedness analysis. Results Species richness shows significant exponential decay across the bathymetric gradient. The pattern is characterized by a high presence of short-ranged species on the continental shelf area; while only a few species reach abyssal depths, and they tend to show extremely wide bathymetric ranges. Our simulation analyses showed that, in general, the pattern is robust to sampling artefacts. This pattern cannot be reproduced by the MDE, which predicts a parabolic richness gradient. Rather, results agree with the predictions of Rapoport's effect. Additionally, the data set is significantly nested at species, genus and family levels, supporting the source-sink hypothesis. Main conclusions The sharp exponential decay in benthic polychaete richness across the bathymetric gradient supports the general idea that abyssal environments should harbour fewer species than shallower zones. This pattern may be the result of colonization-extinction dynamics, characterized by abyssal assemblages acting as 'sinks' maintained mainly by shallower 'sources'. The source-sink hypothesis provides a conceptual and methodological framework that may shed light on the search for general patterns of diversity across large spatial scales.
2665350|1 We propose a quantitative zonation of Switzerland based on the distribution of breeding birds. We use a combined dataset from two nationwide bird censuses 20 years apart to account for distribution changes between the censuses. This approach approximates the `potential' distribution of species more closely than a dataset from one period only. 2 A numerical approach with correspondence analysis and non-hierarchical clustering resulted in five avifaunal regions, consisting of two lowland regions north of the alpine arch, two alpine regions and one region of southern alpine valleys. 3 We identified characteristic species for each region using the indicator value analysis of Dufrene & Legendre (1997) and determined environmental conditions separating the regions with discriminant analysis. 4 Our zonation partly corresponds with previous subdivisions of Switzerland, but has the advantage of being based on a numerical approach instead of expert knowledge. 5 We discuss avifaunal and ecological differences between the regions and relate our zonation to the classical biogeographic regions of Europe. Finally, we evaluate the importance of the zonation for bird conservation.
2665438|This study focuses on the relationships between plant dispersal syndromes and plant distributions at the community scale. Species composition and cover are reported from 29 10 x 20-m vegetation plots along five topographic cross-sections in the riparian zone of the Hassayampa River Preserve, Arizona. We find that spatial patterns of dispersal guilds vary within the flood plain of this semiarid region river. Our main results are: (1) wind-dispersed species are fairly evenly distributed at all elevations and distances from the river, whereas cover of animal-dispersed species increases with elevation above, and at greater distances from, the river; (2) wind-dispersed species are proportionally more abundant in the pioneer Populus-Salix community, whereas plants in the late-seral Prosopis community are predominantly animal-dispersed: (3) most of the species classified as obligate-wetland and facultative-wetland are wind-dispersed, whereas facultative-upland and obligate-upland species are mostly animal-dispersed; and (4) there are significantly fewer wind-dispersed species in areas of high total vegetation cover. These results may reflect successional patterns resulting from periodic flooding. Low areas close to the river flood more frequently and with greater intensity than areas farther from the river. Many pioneer species that establish in disturbed areas are wind-dispersed. Over successional time, pioneer species cede to more drought tolerant species that are predominantly animal-dispersed.
3697544|Aim: To test whether satellite-derived NDVI values obtained during the growing season as delimited by the onset of phenological phases can be used to map bioclimatically a large region such as Fennoscandia. Location: Fennoscandia north of about
3697535|Because most macroecological and biodiversity data are spatially autocorrelated, special tools for describing spatial structures and dealing with hypothesis testing are usually required. Unfortunately, most of these methods have not been available in a single statistical package. Consequently, using these tools is still a challenge for most ecologists and biogeographers. In this paper, we present SAM (Spatial Analysis in Macroecology), a new, easy-to-use, freeware package for spatial analysis in macroecology and biogeography. Through an intuitive, fully graphical interface, this package allows the user to describe spatial patterns in variables and provides an explicit spatial framework for standard techniques of regression and correlation. Moran's I autocorrelation coefficient can be calculated based on a range of matrices describing spatial relationships, for original variables as well as for residuals of regression models, which can also include filtering components (obtained by standard trend surface analysis or by principal coordinates of neighbour matrices). SAM also offers tools for correcting the number of degrees of freedom when calculating the significance of correlation coefficients. Explicit spatial modelling using several forms of autoregression and generalized least-squares models are also available. We believe this new tool will provide researchers with the basic statistical tools to resolve autocorrelation problems and, simultaneously, to explore spatial components in macroecological and biogeographical data. Although the program was designed primarily for the applications in macroecology and biogeography, most of SAM's statistical tools will be useful for all kinds of surface pattern spatial analysis. The program is freely available at www.ecoevol.ufg.br/sam (permanent URL at http://purl.oclc.org/sam/).
3877796|Aim: To investigate how the magnitude of conservation conflicts arising from positive relationships between human population size and species richness is altered during a period of marked human population growth
40602943|Aim: Ecosystem engineering polychaetes in the genus Diopatra are undergoing range shifts in western Europe. Here we: (1 ) assess the species diversity underlying these shifts; (2) link biogeographic patterns to sea surface temperature patterns; and (3) predict possible ecosystem-level outcomes of Diopatra's northward expansion. Location: Western Europe. Methods: We use molecular phylogenetic and morphological evidence to assess species diversity and biogeographic ranges. Using regression tree analyses, we assess thermal limits for two Diopatra species. We compare biogeographic patterns with historical sea surface temperature patterns to draw links between range shifts and climate change. Finally, we review published data to predict potential ecological changes as Diopatra invades new habitats. Results: The native Diopatra neapolitana range has contracted 130 km to the south. A cryptogenic species, Diopatra sp. A, has extended the northern limit of the genus 350 km to the southern Brittany Peninsula. Both shifts can be explained by historical sea surface temperature anomalies. The Diopatra sp. A expansion is predicted to continue into the English Channel and the North Sea, introducing large tube structures to sheltered sedimentary habitats that currently lack such structures. Main conclusions: As climate change intensifies, the sediment-stabilizing Diopatra sp. A will invade habitats dominated by the bioturbating lugworm Arenicola marina. The resulting interaction between functionally different ecosystem engineers will probably cause ecological changes in northern European coastal waters.Existing data for Diopatra species and arenicolids suggest that the diversity and biomass of macroalgae, vascular plants, infauna and epibenthic fauna may increase, while microbial activity may decrease. Net changes in productivity will depend on the relative rates of these changes.
41058233|Despite the great interest it generates, the definition of Bergmann's Rule is vague and often contested. Debate focuses on whether the rule should be described in terms of pattern or process, what taxa it should apply to and what taxonomic level it should be associated with. Here I review the historical development of studies of Bergmann's Rule. I suggest that Bergmann thought that his rule should be strongest at the intra-specific level, rather than between closely related species as is usually thought. I argue that the rule is a pattern that can be studied regardless of mechanism in any taxon and at any taxonomic level.
2997889|Urban demand for woodfuels in Sudanian and Sahelian West Africa has long been assumed to contribute to permanent deforestation in dryland forests and wooded savannas. Deforestation has also long been assumed to be progressing such that these woodlands will no longer be able to provide the region's cities with fuel. Available studies of regeneration do not support the first assumption. Further, woodfuel shortages projected in the 1980s to arrive in the 1990s or early 2000s are nowhere near, while more recent projections predict supply shortages another 25 years hence. While there is deforestation from many causes, the data do not support crisis scenarios concerning woodfuels. Nonetheless, crisis scenarios and policies persist. While there may yet be deforestation due to urban woodfuel extraction, and shortages may be lurking on the horizon, the article explores some possible alternative origins of these woodfuel related deforestation and shortage fears.
3697468|Aim: The majority of studies concerning positive interspecific abundance-occupancy relationships have used broad-scale and microcosm data to test the occurrence and correlates of the relationship to determine which of the proposed mechanisms give rise to it. It has been argued recently that studying the residual variation about abundance-occupancy relationships is a more logical analysis and may yield faster progress in identifying the relative roles of the mechanisms. However, to date this approach has been largely unsuccessful. Here we test if fundamental species traits such as the status (native and introduced), habitat and trophic group of mammal and bird species may explain any of the residual variation about their respective abundance-occupancy relationships. Location: The study used British mammal and bird species. Methods: We tested if species traits explained any of the variation about abundance-occupancy relationships using linear regression techniques both treating species as independent data points for analysis and controlling for phylogenetic association. Results: None of the species traits could explain any residual variation about the positive interspecific abundance-occupancy relationships of British mammals and birds. This applied both when treating species as independent data points and after controlling for phylogenetic association. Conclusions: Given the lack of explanatory power of the species traits here and in other studies using this approach it seems that the variation about positive interspecific abundance-occupancy relationships is not explicable in a simple fashion. Predicting the likely influence of traits that are independent of phylogeny is also problematic. Therefore, the general utility of this approach and its future role in understanding the mechanisms causing positive interspecific abundance-occupancy relationships is doubtful.
40405764|Aim: It is increasingly accepted that the mean wood density of trees within a forest is tightly coupled to above-ground forest biomass. It is unknown, however, if a positive relationship between forest biomass and mean community wood density is a general phenomenon across forests. Understanding spatial variation in biomass as a function of wood density both within and among forests is important for predicting changes in stored carbon in response to global change, and here we evaluated the generality of a positive biomass-wood density relationship within and among six tropical forests. Location: Costa Rica, Panama, Puerto Rico and Ecuador. Methods: Individual stem data, including diameter at breast height and spatial position, for six forest dynamics plots were merged with an extensive wood density database. Individual stem biomass values were calculated from these data using published statistical models. Total above ground biomass, total basal area and mean community wood density were also quantified across a range of subcommunity plot sizes within each forest. Results: Among forests, biomass did not vary with mean community wood density. The relationship between subcommunity biomass and mean wood density within a forest varied from negative to null to positive depending on the size of subcommunities and forest identity. The direction of correlation was determined by the associated total basal area-mean wood density correlation, the slope of which increased strongly with whole forest mean wood density. Main conclusions: There is no general relationship between forest biomass and wood density, and in some forests, stored carbon is highest where wood density is lowest. Our results suggest that declining wood density, due to global change, will result in decreased or increased stored carbon in forests with high or low mean wood density, respectively.
3697501|Aim: To describe patterns of hydrothermal vent community diversity and dispersion at the intersegment scale (> 100 km). Location: The area discussed is an approximately 170 km portion of the Juan de Fuca Ridge, a mid-ocean ridge in the north-east Pacific Ocean. Methods: Samples of benthic invertebrates from hydrothermal vents on three segments of the Juan de Fuca are examined for community characteristics such as diversity, abundance and distribution. Results: Species richness (55 species) and evenness are low. If the macrofauna only are considered, species richness is about 30% lower than when meiofauna are also considered. The geometric series describes the species-abundance distribution. The relationship between vent species' distribution and abundance is significantly positive (
2665367|1 For over three decades the equilibrium theory of island biogeography has galvanized studies in ecological biogeography. Studies of oceanic islands and of natural habitat islands share some similarities to continental studies, particularly in developed regions where habitat fragmentation results from many land uses. Increasingly, remnant habitat is in the form of isolates created by the clearing and destruction of natural areas. Future evolution of a theory to predict patterns of species abundance may well come from the application of island biogeography to habitat fragments or isolates. 2 In this paper we consider four factors other than area and isolation that influence the number and type of mammal species coexisting in one place: habitat diversity, habitat disturbance, species interactions and guild assembly rules. In all examples our data derive from mainland habitat, fragmented to differing degrees, with different levels of isolation. 3 Habitat diversity is seen to be a good predictor of species richness. Increased levels of disturbance produce a relatively greater decrease in species richness on smaller than on larger isolates. Species interactions in the recolonization of highly disturbed sites, such as regenerating mined sites, is analogous to island colonization. Species replacement sequences in secondary successions indicate not just how many, but which species are included. Lastly, the complement of species established on islands, or in insular habitats, may be governed by guild assembly rules. These contributions may assist in taking a renewed theory into the new millennium.
40928133|Aim: Despite the importance of the niche concept in ecological and evolutionary theory, there are still many discussions about its definition and operational evaluation, especially when dealing with niche divergence and conservatism in an explicit phylogenetic context. Here we evaluate patterns of niche evolution in 67 New World Carnivora species, measured using Hellinger distances based on MAXENT models of species distribution. We show how inferences on niche conservatism or divergence depend on the way phylogenetic patterns are analysed using matrix comparison techniques. Innovation: Initially we used the simplest approach of Mantel tests to compare Hellinger distances (N) derived from MAXENT and phylogenetic distances (P) among species. Then we extended the Mantel test to generate a multivariate correlogram, in which phylogenetic patterns are analysed at multiple levels in the phylogeny and can reveal nonlinearity in the relationship between divergence and time. Finally, we proposed a new approach to generate c locaP (or 'specific') leverages of components for Mantel correlation, evaluating the non-stationarity in the relationship between N and P for each species. This new approach was used to show if some lineages are more prone to niche shift or conservatism than others. Main conclusions: Standard Mantel tests indicated a poor correspondence between N and P matrices, discarding the idea of niche conservatism for Carnivora, but the correlogram supports that closely related species tend to be more similar than expected by chance. Moreover, the variance among Hellinger distances between pairs of closely phylogenetically related species is much larger than for the entire clade. Phylogenetic non-stationarity analysis shows that in some Carnivora families the niche tends to divergence (Mustelidae and Canidae), whereas in others it tends to conservatism (Procyonidae and Mustelidae) at short phylogenetic distances. Our analyses clearly show that misleading results may appear if niche divergence is analysed only by simple matrix correlations not taking into account complex patterns of phylogenetic nonlinearity and non-stationarity.
3697459|Aim: To document patterns in diversity, altitudinal range and body size of freshwater fishes along an elevational gradient in the Yangtze River basin. Location: The Yangtze River basin, China. Methods: We used published data to compile the distribution, altitudinal range and body size of freshwater fishes. Correlation, regression, clustering and graphical analyses were used to explore patterns in diversity, altitudinal range and body size of freshwater fishes in 100-m elevation zones from 0 to 5200 m. Results: Species richness patterns across the elevational gradient for total, nonendemic and endemic fishes were different. The ratio of endemics to total richness peaked at mid elevation. Land area on a 500-m interval scale explained a significant amount of the variation in species richness. Species density displayed two peaks at mid-elevation zones. The cluster analysis revealed five distinct assemblages across the elevation gradient. The relationship between elevational range size and the midpoint of the elevational range revealed a triangular distribution. The frequency distribution of log maximum standard length data displayed an atypical right-skewed pattern. Intermediate body sizes occurred across the greatest range of elevation while small and large body sizes possessed only small elevational amplitudes. The size-elevation relationship between the two major families revealed a very strong pattern of body size constraint among the Cobitidae with no corresponding elevational constraint and a lot of body size and elevational diversification among the Cyprinidae. Main conclusion: The data failed to support either Rapoport's rule or Bergmann's rule.
30137818|Aim: The island rule, small animal gigantism and large animal dwarfism on islands, is a topic of much recent debate. While size evolution of insular lizards has been widely studied, whether or not they follow the island rule has never been investigated. I examined whether lizards show patterns consistent with the island rule. Location: Islands worldwide. Methods: I used literature data on the sizes of island-mainland population pairs in 59 species of lizards, spanning the entire size range of the group, and tested whether small insular lizards are larger than their mainland conspecifics and large insular lizards are smaller. I examined the influence of island area, island isolation, and dietary preferences on lizard size evolution. Results: Using mean snout-vent length as an index of body size, I found that small lizards on islands become smaller than their mainland conspecifics, while large ones become larger still, opposite to predictions of the island rule. This was especially strong in carnivorous lizards; omnivorous and herbivorous species showed a pattern consistent with the island rule but this result was not statistically significant. No trends consistent with the island rule were found when maximum snout-vent length was used. Island area had, at best, a weak effect on body size. Using maximum snoutvent length as an index of body size resulted in most lizard populations appearing to be dwarfed on islands, but no such pattern was revealed when mean snout-vent length was used as a size index. Main conclusions: I suggest that lizard body size is mostly influenced by resource availability, with large size allowing some lizard populations to exploit resources that are unavailable on the mainland. Lizards do not follow the island rule. Maximum snout-vent length may be biased by sampling effort, which should be taken into account when one uses this size index.
40205669|Aim: Propagule size and output are critical for the ability of a plant species to colonize new environments. If invasive species have a greater reproductive output than native species (via more and/or larger seeds), then they will have a greater dispersal and establishment ability. Previous comparisons within plant genera, families or environments have conflicted over the differences in reproductive traits between native and invasive species. We went beyond a genus-, family- or habitat-specific approach and analysed data for plant reproductive traits from the global literature, to investigate whether: (1) seed mass and production differ between the original and introduced ranges of invasive species; (2) seed mass and production differ between invasives and natives; and (3) invasives produce more seeds per unit seed mass than natives. Location: Global. Methods: We combined an existing data set of native plant reproductive data with a new data compilation for invasive species. We used t-tests to compare original and introduced range populations, two-way ANOVAs to compare natives and invasives, and an ANCOVA to examine the relationship between seed mass and production for natives and invasives. The ANCOVA was performed again incorporating phylogenetically independent contrasts to overcome any phylogenetic bias in the data sets. Results: Neither seed mass nor seed production of invasive species differed between their introduced and original ranges. We found no significant difference in seed mass between invasives and natives after growth form had been accounted for. Seed production was greater for invasive species overall and within herb and woody growth forms. For a given seed mass, invasive species produced 6.7-fold (all species), 6.9-fold (herbs only) and 26.1-fold (woody species only) more seeds per individual per year than native species. The phylogenetic ANCOVA verified that this trend did not appear to be influenced by phylogenetic bias within either data set. Main conclusions: This study provides the first global examination of both seed mass and production traits in native and invasive species. Invasive species express a strategy of greater seed production both overall and per unit seed mass compared with natives. The consequent increased likelihood of establishment from longdistance seed dispersal may significantly contribute to the invasiveness of many exotic species.
3697612|Aim: General patterns of biodiversity, such as latitudinal gradients and species-area relationships, are found consistently in a wide range of organisms, but recent results for protist diversity suggest that organisms shorter than 2 mm do not display such patterns. We tested this prediction in bdelloid rotifers, pluricellular metazoans smaller than 2 mm, but with size and ecology comparable to protists. Location: A single valley in northern Italy was surveyed in detail and compared to all available faunistic data on bdelloids worldwide. Methods: We analysed 171 local assemblages of bdelloid rotifers living in 5 systems of dry mosses and submerged mosses in running water and in lakes. We compared patterns of alpha, beta, and gamma diversity, and nestedness of metacommunities, with those known from protists and larger organisms. Results: Bdelloid rotifers showed low local species richness (alpha diversity), with strong habitat selection, as observed in larger organisms. The number of species differed among systems, with a higher number of species in dry than in aquatic mosses. There was no hierarchical structure or exclusion of species in the metacommunity pattern within each system. Local diversity for the entire valley was surprisingly high compared with worldwide bdelloid diversity, similar to observed patterns in protists. Main Conclusions: Bdelloid rotifers have some of the peculiarities of protist biodiversity, although at slightly different spatial scales, thus confirming the idea of a major change in biodiversity patterns among organisms shorter than 2 mm. However, bdelloids show stronger habitat selection than protists. We suggest two possible explanations for the observed patterns: (1) dispersal is very rare, and not all bdelloid clones are arriving everywhere; and (2) dispersal is effective in displacing propagules, but environmental heterogeneity is very high and prevents many species from colonizing a given patch of moss.
3877781|Aim: In response to recent climate warming, numerous studies have reported an earlier onset of spring and, to a lesser degree, a later onset of autumn, both determined from phenological observations. Here, we examine whether these reported changes have affected the synchronization of events on a regional level by examining temporal and spatial variability in phenology. In particular, we study whether years with earlier springs are associated with an altered spatial variability in phenology. Location: Germany and the United Kingdom. Methods: Plant phenological observations of 35 different phases (events such as flowering and leafing) collected by the German Weather Service (1951-2002) and butterfly phenological records of 29 species collected by the UK Butterfly Monitoring Scheme (1976-2003) are used. In these long-term records, we examine the temporal (year-to-year) variability and the spatial (geographic or between site) variability with particular emphasis on how they vary with time of the year and with earliness or lateness of the phase. Results: Early phenological events (i.e. spring) are more variable than later events, both in time and in space, although the pattern is clearer for plants than for butterflies. Confirming previous results, we find a clear relationship between the mean date of spring and summer phases and the degree to which they have become earlier. The spatial variability of spring events is greater in warmer years that have faster plant development. However, late spring and summer events do not show a consistent relationship. Autumn events are somewhat more spatially variable in years characterized by later seasons. Main conclusions: This is the first examination of spatial variability of plant and animal phenological events at a multinational scale. Earlier spring events are likely to be associated with increased spatial variability in plants, although this is unlikely to also be true for summer events. If species experience differential changes in geographic variation this may disrupt interactions among them, e.g. in food webs. On the other hand, these may offer advantages for mobile species. Further research on linked species is recommended.
41239343|Aim: Two of the oldest observations in plant geography are the increase in plant diversity from the poles towards the tropics and the global geographic distribution of vegetation physiognomy (biomes). The objective of this paper is to use a process-based vegetation model to evaluate the relationship between modelled and observed global patterns of plant diversity and the geographic distribution of biomes. Location: The global terrestrial biosphere. Methods: We implemented and tested a novel vegetation model aimed at identifying strategies that enable plants to grow and reproduce within particular climatic conditions across the globe. Our model simulates plant survival according to the fundamental ecophysiological processes of water uptake, photosynthesis, reproduction and phenology. We evaluated the survival of an ensemble of 10,000 plant growth strategies across the range of global climatic conditions. For the simulated regional plant assemblages we quantified functional richness, functional diversity and functional identity. Results: A strong relationship was found (correlation coefficient of 0.75) between the modelled and the observed plant diversity. Our approach demonstrates that plant functional dissimilarity increases and then saturates with increasing plant diversity. Six of the major Earth biomes were reproduced by clustering grid cells according to their functional identity (mean functional traits of a regional plant assemblage). These biome clusters were in fair agreement with two other global vegetation schemes: a satellite image classification and a biogeography model (kappa statistics around 0.4). Main conclusions: Our model reproduces the observed global patterns of plant diversity and vegetation physiognomy from the number and identity of simulated plant growth strategies. These plant growth strategies emerge from the first principles of climatic constraints and plant functional trade-offs. Our study makes important contributions to furthering the understanding of how climate affects patterns of plant diversity and vegetation physiognomy from a process-based rather than a phenomenological perspective.
3697401|Aim: To assess the hypothesis that free-living prokaryotes show a pattern of 'no biogeography' by examining the scaling of soil prokaryotic diversity and by comparing it with other groups' biogeographical patterns. Location: Two sites in the tropical deciduous forest of Chamela, Jalisco, on the western coast of Mexico. Methods: We examined the diversity and distribution of soil prokaryotes in two 8 x 8 m quadrats divided in such manner that we could sample at four spatial scales. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms of 16S rRNA genes were used to define operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that we used in lieu of species to assess diversity. Results: We found highly structured species assemblages that allowed us to reject multiple predictions of the hypothesis that soil bacteria show 'no biogeography'. The frequency distribution of range size (measured as the occupancy of quadrats) of OTUs followed a hollow curve similar to that of vertebrates on continents. Assemblages showed high levels of beta diversity and a non-random nested pattern of diversity. OTU diversity scaled with area followed a power function with slopes z = 0.42 and 0.47. Main conclusions: We demonstrate a non-ubiquitous dispersal for soil prokaryotes, which suggests a complex biogeography similar to that found for terrestrial vertebrates.
3182698|Aim: Species richness and endemic richness vary along elevation gradients, but not necessarily in the same way. This study tests if the maxima in gamma diversity for flowering plants and the endemic subset of these plants are coherent or not. Location: The study was conducted in Nepal, between 1000 and 5000 m a.s.l. Methods: We used published data on distribution and elevational ranges of the Nepalese flora to interpolate presence between maximum and minimum elevations. Correlation, regression and graphical analyses were used to evaluate the diversity pattern between 1000 and 5000 m a.s.l. Results: The interval of maximum species endemic to Nepal or the Himalayas (3800-4200 m) is above the interval of maximum richness (1500-2500 m). The exact location of maximum species density is uncertain and its accuracy depends on ecologically sound estimates of area in the elevation zones. There is no positive statistically significant correlation between log-area and richness (total or endemic). Total richness is positively correlated with log-area-adjusted, i.e. estimated area adjusted for the degree of topographic heterogeneity. The proportion of endemic species increases steadily from low to high elevations. The peak in endemism (c. 4000 m) corresponds to the start of a rapid decrease in species richness above 4000 m. This may relate to the last glacial maximum (equilibrium line at c. 4000 m) that penetrated down to 2500-3000 m. This dynamic hard boundary may have caused an increase in the extinction rate above 4000 m, and enhanced the probability of isolation and facilitated speciation of neoendemics, especially among genera with a high proportion of polyploids. Main conclusions: The results reject the idea of corresponding maxima in endemic species and species richness in the lowlands tentatively deduced from Stevens' elevational Rapoport effect. They confirm predictions based on hard boundary theory, but hard-boundaries should be viewed as dynamic rather than static when broad-scale biogeographical patterns with a historical component are being interpreted.
3697639|Aim: This paper tests firstly for the existence of a general relationship between body size of terrestrial animals and their incidence across habitat patches of increasing size, and secondly for differences in this relationship between insects and vertebrates. Location: The analysis was based on the occupancy pattern of 50 species from 15 different landscapes in a variety of ecosystems ranging from Central European grassland to Asian tropical forest. Methods: The area-occupancy relationship was described by incidence functions that were calculated using logistic regression. A correlation analysis between body size of the species and the patch area referring to the two given points of the incidence function was performed. In order to test for an effect of taxon (insects vs. vertebrates), an analysis of covariance was conducted. Results: In all species, the incidence was found to increase with increasing patch area. The macroecological analysis showed a significant relationship between the incidence in habitat patches and the body size of terrestrial animals. The area requirement was found to increase linearly with increasing body size on a log-log scale. This relationship did not differ significantly between insects and vertebrates. Conclusions: The approach highlighted in this paper is to associate incidence functions with body size. The results suggest that body size is a general but rather rough predictor for the area requirements of animals. The relationship seems valid for a wide range of body sizes of terrestrial animals. However, further studies including isolation of habitats as well as additional species traits into the macroecological analysis of incidence functions are needed.
40205735|Aim: To examine how the employment of both community- and population-level approaches can provide a wider view of the importance of contemporary and historical factors on current species distribution. We posit that community ecology should provide more information about contemporary factors, whereas population genetics should provide better information about historical factors. Location: Rivers of the western Mediterranean Basin, including four subregions differing in geological history: the Iberian Plate, Transitional, Betic and Rif. Methods: For a community-level approach, Trichoptera richness and community composition were compared between subregions using species accumulation curves and a correspondence analysis. For a population-level approach, the mtDNA cytochrome C oxidase subunit I (COI) gene of specimens of the Trichoptera midstream-lowland species Chimarra marginata (L.) was sequenced and analysed using phylogeographical methods. Results: The community approach revealed that historical events had more influence on headwater communities than contemporary ecological factors, whereas historical events had negligible influence on midstream-lowland communities. In midstream-lowland sites, however, the population approach showed that the genetic structure of C. marginata differed significantly between subregions and revealed patterns of historical gene migration. In terms of species richness, the Rif subregion had the lowest value per basin due to local climatic features and isolation. Main conclusions: Both community- and population-level approaches yielded information about the effects of historical factors on species distribution. However, the importance of historical events on current Trichoptera communities depends on the river zonation. Unlike headwater sites, midstream-lowland sites showed signs of historical events at the population level but not at the community level at the scale used, indicating that both approaches should be employed together in biogeographical studies. Lack of detection of historical events at the community level does not necessarily mean that they are negligible. Most likely, the organizational level used is not appropriate. We also stress the importance of implementing conservation measures for rivers in the western Mediterranean, especially under future scenarios of climate change and human disturbances in the Mediterranean Basin.
4139438|Aim We searched for signs of the 'bottom-up' diversity effect in the association between fleas (Siphonaptera) and their small mammalian hosts (Rodentia, Insectivora and Lagomorpha). We asked (1) whether a strong dependence of flea species richness on host species richness is characteristic for both Palaeoarctic and Nearctic realms; (2) if yes, whether the ratio of host species per flea species along the host diversity gradient is similar between the Palaeoarctic and Nearctic; and (3) whether factors other than host species richness (i.e. geographical position, climate and landscape) might better explain variation in flea species richness than host species richness. Location The study used previously published data on species richness of fleas and their small mammalian hosts from 26 Palaeoarctic and 19 Nearctic regions. Methods We regressed the number of flea species on the number of small mammal species across regions, separately for Palaeoarctic and Nearctic realms, using both non-transformed data as well as data corrected for the confounding effects of host sampling effort and sampling area. To test whether flea species richness is determined by external factors unrelated to the host, we used stepwise multiple regressions of flea species richness against host species richness and parameters describing the geographical position, climate and relief of a region. Results When non-transformed data were analysed, flea species richness was positively correlated with host species richness in both the Palaeoarctic and Nearctic, although the slopes of the two regressions differed significantly. After removal of the confounding effects of host sampling effort and sampling area, Palaeoarctic flea species richness remained strongly positively correlated with host species richness, whereas in the Nearctic, flea species richness appeared to be completely independent of host species richness. Results of the multiple regressions using corrected data demonstrated that in the Palaeoarctic, flea species richness was correlated with both the number of host species and the mean altitude of the region, whereas in the Nearctic, flea species richness only tended to be weakly correlated with latitude (however, this correlation turned out to be non-significant after Bonferroni correction). Main conclusions We found evidence of bottom-up control of flea diversity in the Palaeoarctic regions only, and not in the Nearctic. We explore several potential explanations for the different patterns observed in the two biogeographical realms, including differences in (1) levels of host specialization, (2) history of host-parasite associations and (3) landscape effects on flea diversification. We conclude that these factors combine to create different macroecological patterns in different biogeographical realms, and that diversity is not governed by the same forces everywhere.
41239256|Aim: We tested whether the distribution and cover of alien plant species in Europe was related to human disturbance and microclimate. Location: Surveys were conducted at 13 sites across Europe, each containing a pair of landscapes with different land-use intensities. Methods: Sampling locations were chosen based on land use and microclimate at two scales: land use was characterized at the patch and landscape scale; climate was expressed as regional and local temperature. The slope of each sample location was derived from a digital elevation model. Cover of plant species was measured using point counts and analysed using mixed effect models. Species were classified as native, archaeophytes and neophytes (pre-versus post-AD 1500 immigrants). Due to the zero inflation observed in the alien groups, their cover was analysed conditional on their presence. Results: Anthropogenic disturbance was a significant explanatory variable, increasing the presence and cover of alien species and decreasing the cover of native species. Alien presence was increased in sites under agricultural management, while their cover responded to land use at both local and landscape scales (and to their interaction), such that only natural habitats in semi-natural landscapes had low alien cover. Microclimate was important for neophytes, with presence concentrated around mesic conditions. Slope was relevant for archaeophytes and native species, suppressing the former group and promoting the latter one. Main conclusions: We found that, at the European scale, the distribution of alien plants is related to anthropogenic disturbance more than to microclimatic differences. The presence of neophytes, however, was influenced by climate at local and regional scales, with the highest incidence under mesic conditions. The different patterns observed for the presence and cover of alien species suggest different mechanisms acting during their establishment and spread. They also suggest that to counteract the expansion of alien species natural habitats may need to be maintained at landscape scales.
3182650|This paper assesses the latitudinal extent of terrestrial breeding birds in Nicaragua. In particular, associations among latitudinal midpoint, body mass, and latitudinal extent are examined; significant differences between natural history characteristics (trophic guild, forest dependence, number of forest types) and latitudinal extent are identified; and a test is undertaken of Rapoport's rule for birds at the edge of their northern or southern range in Nicaragua. Birds in Nicaragua were classified into four categories based on latitudinal extent: birds generally restricted to Central America (20%); birds near the edge of their range within Nicaragua (34%); Neotropical birds (42%); and Pan-American birds (4%). Latitudinal midpoint had a significant negative correlation with latitudinal extent over different taxonomic scales. Natural history characteristics of trophic guild, forest dependence and number of forest types can account for significant differences in species latitudinal extent. Carnivores had greater latitudinal extents than most other trophic guilds, non-forest birds had greater latitudinal extents than birds that require patchy forest, and birds that occur in four or more forest types had greater latitudinal extents than birds restricted to one or two forest types. Contrary to Rapoport's rule, birds with a northern affinity or latitudinal midpoint north of Nicaragua had significantly smaller latitudinal extents than birds with a southern affinity or latitudinal midpoint south of Nicaragua. A comparison of natural history characteristics of birds with northern and southern affinities found no difference between trophic guild or forest dependence but a significant difference among the number of forest types used by forest birds. Birds with a southern affinity were restricted to fewer forest types than birds with a northern affinity.
3697399|Aim: A better understanding of the processes driving local species richness and of the scales at which they operate is crucial for conserving biodiversity in cultivated landscapes. Local species richness may be controlled by ecological processes acting at larger spatial scales. Very little is known about the effect of landscape variables on soil biota. The aim of our study was to partly fill this gap by relating the local variation of surface-dwelling macroarthropod species richness to factors operating at the habitat scale (i.e. land use and habitat characteristics) and the landscape scale (i.e. composition of the surrounding matrix). Location: An agricultural landscape with a low-input farming system in Central Hesse, Germany. Methods: We focused on five taxa significantly differing in mobility and ecological requirements: ants, ground beetles, rove beetles, woodlice, and millipedes. Animals were caught with pitfall traps in fields of different land use (arable land, grassland, fallow land) and different habitat conditions (insolation, soil humidity). Composition of the surrounding landscape was analysed within a radius of 250 m around the fields. Results: Factors from both scales together explained a large amount of the local variation in species richness, but the explanatory strength of the factors differed significantly among taxa. Land use particularly affected ground beetles and woodlice, whereas ants and rove beetles were more strongly affected by habitat characteristics, namely by insolation and soil characteristics. Local species richness of diplopods depended almost entirely on the surrounding landscape. In general, the composition of the neighbouring landscape had a lower impact on the species richness of most soil macroarthropod taxa than did land use and habitat characteristics. Main conclusions: We conclude that agri-environment schemes for the conservation of biodiversity in cultivated landscapes have to secure management for both habitat quality and heterogeneous landscape mosaics.
41058229|Aim: The biogeography of microbes is poorly understood and there is an open debate regarding if and how microbial biodiversity is structured. At the beginning of the 20th century, Baas Becking laid the foundations for the biogeography of microbes by stating that Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects (the EisE hypothesis). This hypothesis remained dogma for almost a century. However, the recognition that microbial species are often assemblages of reproductively isolated lineages challenged the EisE hypothesis, leading to the now common assumption that microbial communities possess cryptic biogeographic structures. We tested the presence of a cryptic biogeographical structure for a well-characterized fungal species complex (the Phialocephala fortinii s.l-Acephala applanata species complex, PAC) using precise molecular species resolution. In addition, we analysed factors that could govern PAC community assembling. Locations: Forty-four study sites in temperate and boreal forests across the Northern Hemisphere were included. Methods: (1) The distance-decay relationship among PAC communities was calculated and a resampling procedure was applied to analyse the effect of sampling intensity and geographic distances among PAC communities. (2) Factors shaping PAC communities (e.g. climatic factors and tree species composition) were studied. (3) We tested PAC communities for random composition. Results: We found that the similarity of species assemblages did not decrease with increasing geographical distance. Moreover, species diversity did not increase by expanding the area sampled. Instead, species diversity increased by increasing the sampling effort. Community composition correlated neither with tree species composition nor climate, and no association among species was observed. Main conclusions: We could not discover any cryptic biogeographic structure even after applying refined species assignment but we demonstrate the importance of sampling effort for understanding the biogeography of microorganisms. Moreover, we show that primarily stochastic effects are responsible for the species composition of PAC communities.
41239409|Aim: To quantify how mammal community structure relates to heterogeneity of vegetation for palaeoecological reconstructions, and to test whether historical or environmental factors are more important in structuring communities. Location: Sixty-three natural protected areas in Asia, Africa and South and Central America. Methods: We defined faunal communities by allocating species to ecological guilds and calculating proportional representation within each guild. Vegetation heterogeneity for each natural protected area was calculated from satellite images. The relationship between these ecospaces was calculated using canonical correlations analysis, redundancy analysis and principal components analysis. We expected that large, herbivorous mammals would be most strongly correlated with open areas. Convergence was tested by independently eliminating the effects of geography and vegetation heterogeneity on the structure of the mammal communities. We expected that vegetation would more strongly structure communities than geographical position. Results: We show that the guild structure of communities across habitats is significantly correlated with vegetation heterogeneity. The highest correlation was between small, scansorial-arboreal secondary consumers and heavy tree cover. The first convergence analysis shows American communities distinguished from Asian and African communities; these latter communities show a remarkable convergence in structure. Historical factors only affected the continent whose mammals had experienced a long period of isolation. The second convergence analysis shows that almost all biomes have the same or very similar community structure regardless of continent. Main conclusions: Communities from the same environments in different continents showed remarkable convergence. Communities from the same continents only converged when those continents shared a recent geological and biological history. These results suggest that historical and environmental factors are operating over different timescales. This study confirms that environmental reconstructions made on the basis of whole communities will accurately reflect the environment that the community lived in. However, reconstructions made for fossil sites in deep time need to take historical factors into consideration. Small, arboreal and scansorial secondary consumers show the strongest correlation with vegetation, correlating with continuous tree canopy cover. This relationship allows simple reconstructions of the amount of tree cover occurring in a landscape from the proportion of species from the community falling in this ecological guild.
40205712|Aim: To assess how habitat affinities in the native distribution range influence the invasion success of 282 central European neophytes (alien plants introduced after AD 1500). Location: Czech Republic. Methods: Classification trees were used to determine which native habitats donate the most alien species, the correspondence between habitats occupied by species in their native and invaded distribution ranges, and invasion success of species originating from different habitats. Results: The species most likely to naturalize in Central Europe are those associated with thermophile woodland fringes in their native range (81%), cultivated areas of gardens and parks (75%) and broad-leaved deciduous woodlands (72%). The largest proportions of invasive species recruit from those that occur on riverine terraces and eroded slopes, or grow in both deciduous woodland and riverine scrub. When the relative role of habitats in the native range is assessed as a determinant of the probability that a species will become invasive in concert with other factors (the species' residence time, life history, region of origin), the direct effect of habitat is negligible. However, the effect of native habitats on patterns of invasions observed in central Europe is manifested by large differences in the numbers of species they supply to the invaded region. More than 50 neophytes were recruited from each of the following habitats: dry grasslands, ruderal habitats, deciduous woodland, inland cliffs, rock pavements and outcrops, and tall-herb fringes and meadows. Main conclusions: Casual species recruit from a wider range of habitats in their native range than they occupy in the invaded range; naturalized but not invasive species inhabit a comparable spectrum of habitats in both ranges, and successful invaders occupy a wider range of habitats in the invaded than in the native range. This supports the idea that the invasive phase of the process is associated with changes in biological features that allow for extension of the spectrum of habitats invaded.
40801913|Aim: To map and characterize anthropogenic transformation of the terrestrial biosphere before and during the Industrial Revolution, from 1700 to 2000.
40205738|Aim: Global warming and other anthropogenic changes to the environment affect many aspects of biology and have often been invoked as causing body size changes in vertebrates. Here we examine a diverse set of carnivore populations in search of patterns in body size change that could reflect global warming (in accord with Bergmanris rule). Location: Global. Methods: We used > 4400 specimens representing 22 carnivore species in 52 populations collected over the last few decades to examine whether size changed with collection date when geography and sex are accounted for. We then examined several factors related to global warming, body mass, diet, and the attributes of the different datasets, to see whether they affect the standardized slope () of the size versus time regression. Results: Six of 52 populations we examined show a significant effect of year of collection on body size at the 0.05 probability level. The response of size to global warming does not reflect spatial patterns of size variation, nor do diet or body mass affect tendency of populations to change in body size. Size changes are no more pronounced in populations that have been sampled more recently. However, change, where it occurs, is rapid. Main conclusions: There may be a tendency in the literature to report only cases where recent changes are prevalent. Although in our data only a minority of populations show body size changes, we may see changes accelerating in the future in response to more drastic climatic changes and other anthropogenic changes.
4139406|Aim We explored the importance of climate and land cover in bird species distribution models on multiple spatial scales. In particular, we tested whether the integration of land cover data improves the performance of pure bioclimatic models. Location Finland, northern Europe. Methods The data of the bird atlas survey carried out in 1986-89 using a 10 x 10 km uniform grid system in Finland were employed in the analyses. Land cover and climatic variables were compiled using the same grid system. The dependent and explanatory variables were resampled to 20-km, 40-km and 80-km resolutions. Generalized additive models (GAM) were constructed for each of the 88 land bird species studied in order to estimate the probability of occurrence as a function of (1) climate and (2) climate and land cover variables. Model accuracy was measured by a cross-validation approach using the area under the curve (AUC) of a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) plot. Results In general, the accuracies of the 88 bird-climate models were good at all studied resolutions. However, the inclusion of land cover increased the performance of 79 and 78 of the 88 bioclimatic models at 10-km and 20-km resolutions, respectively. There was no significant improvement at the 40-km resolution. In contrast to the finer resolutions, the inclusion of land cover variables decreased the modelling accuracy at 80km resolution. Main conclusions Our results suggest that the determinants of bird species distributions are hierarchically structured: climatic variables are large-scale determinants, followed by land cover at finer resolutions. The majority of the land bird species in Finland are rather clearly correlated with climate, and bioclimate envelope models can provide useful tools for identifying the relationships between these species and the environment at resolutions ranging from 10 km to 80 km. However, the notable contribution of land cover to the accuracy of bioclimatic models at 10-20-km resolutions indicates that the integration of climate and land cover information can improve our understanding and model predictions of biogeographical patterns under global change.
40205657|Aim: We analysed the variation of species richness in the European freshwater fauna across latitude. In particular, we compared latitudinal patterns in species richness and -diversity among species adapted to different habitat types. Location: Europe. Methods: We compiled data on occurrence for 14,020 animal species across 25 pre-defined biogeographical regions of European freshwaters from the Limnofauna Europaea. Furthermore, we extracted information on the habitat preferences of species. We assigned species to three habitat types: species adapted to groundwater, lotic (running water) and lentic (standing water) habitats. We analysed latitudinal patterns of species richness, the proportion of lentic species and -diversity. Results: Only lentic species showed a significant species-area relationship. We found a monotonic decline of species richness with latitude for groundwater and lotic habitats, but a hump-shaped relationship for lentic habitats. The proportion of lentic species increased from southern to northern latitudes. -Diversity declined from groundwater to lentic habitats and from southern to northern latitudes. Main conclusions: The differences in the latitudinal variation of species richness among species adapted to different habitat types are in part due to differences in the propensity for dispersal. Since lentic habitats are less persistent than lotic or groundwater habitats, lentic species evolved more efficient strategies for dispersal. The dispersal propensity of lentic species facilitated the recolonization of central Europe after the last glaciation. Overall, we stress the importance of considering the history of regions and lineages as well as the ecological traits of species for understanding patterns of biodiversity.
40205677|The relationship between biodiversity and habitat productivity has been a fundamental topic in ecology. Although the relationship between these parameters may exhibit different shapes, the unimodal shape has been frequently encountered. The decrease in diversity at high productivity has usually been attributed to competitive exclusion. We suggest that evolutionary history and dispersal limitation may be even more important in shaping the diversity-productivity relationship. On a global scale, unimodal diversity-productivity relationships dominate in temperate regions, whereas positive relationships are more common in the tropics. This difference can be accounted for by contrasting evolutionary history. Temperate regions have smaller species pools for productive habitats since these habitats have been scarce historically for speciation, while the opposite is true for the tropics. In addition, dispersal within a region may limit diversity either due to the lack of dispersal syndromes at low productivity or the low number of diaspores at high productivity. Thereafter, biotic interactions (competition and facilitation) can shape the relationship. All these processes can act independently or concurrently. We recommend that the common approach to examining empirical diversity-environmental relationships should start with the role of large-scale processes such as evolutionary history and dispersal limitation, followed by influences associated with ecological interactions.
40205670|Aim: The proportion of alien plant species in floras is increasingly being used to indicate the threat of invasions to native species and/or the homogenization of biodiversity. However, this indicator is only valuable if it is independent of the spatial extent and grain of observation. This study tested the equivalence of native and alien species-area relationships (SARs) in order to assess the support for scale invariance in the proportion of alien species in floras. Location: England, UK. Methods: Nested SARs were generated by assessing the richness of native and alien plant species drawn from the New atlas of the British and Irish flora for six areas comprising 100, 400, 900, 1600, 2500 and 3600 km with each larger area containing all smaller areas. Five replicate sets of nested areas encompassing northern, southern, eastern, western and central regions were chosen. For each set of nested areas, the log-transformed species richness was regressed on log-transformed area to fit a power function to the SAR. Results: Native and alien plant SARs reveal consistent differences in slope, highlighting that the proportion of alien species is a function of spatial grain. Aliens are more rare than natives and have higher spatial turnover leading to faster accumulation of species as area increases. However, equivalent samples drawn from a larger spatial extent reveal similar alien and native SARs. Main conclusions: The significant differential scale dependence in native and alien species richness observed in this study reflects dissimilar influences of regional drivers such as habitat, but potentially also propagule pressure and introduction history, that leads to the relative rarity and high spatial turnover of alien species. Maps of invasion hotspots that identify areas where the proportion of the alien flora is particularly high should therefore be treated with considerable caution since patterns across most grains used for species monitoring will be scale dependent.
3697500|In the literature, the terms species richness and species diversity are sometimes used interchangeably. We suggest that at the very least, authors should define what they mean by either term. Of the many species diversity indices used in the literature, the Shannon Index is perhaps most commonly used. On some occasions it is called the Shannon-Wiener Index and on other occasions it is called the Shannon-Weaver Index. We suggest an explanation for this dual use of terms and in so doing we offer a tribute to the late Claude Shannon (who passed away on 24 February 2001).
2997903|The depth of the root system controls the maximum amount of soil water that can be transpired by the vegetation into the atmosphere during dry periods. Water uptake from deep soil layers has been found to contribute significantly to the dry season transpiration at some sites in Amazonia and it has been estimated that large parts of the evergreen forests in Amazonia depend on deep roots to survive the dry season. Thus, the presence of deep roots might provide a significant source of atmospheric moisture during the dry season, and one which would be affected by deforestation. We investigate the role of deep-rooted vegetation and its removal in the context of Amazonian deforestation using an atmospheric General Circulation Model (GCM). A distribution of deep roots is obtained by a numerical optimization approach. The simulated climate with the use of the calculated deep roots substantially improves the seasonal characteristics of the GCM. Three additional simulations are then conducted in order to isolate the effect of rooting depth reduction from other parameter changes associated with large-scale deforestation. Most of the climatic effects occur during the dry season and are attributed to the reduction of rooting depth. Dry periods are found to last longer, being more intense with drier and warmer air, while the wet season remains fairly unchanged. The implications of these climatic effects for the re-establishment of the natural evergreen forest are discussed.
3697606|Aim: The objective of this paper is to obtain a net primary production (NPP) regression model based on the geographically weighted regression (GWR) method, which includes spatial non-stationarity in the parameters estimated for forest ecosystems in China. Location: We used data across China. Methods: We examine the relationships between NPP of Chinese forest ecosystems and environmental variables, specifically altitude, temperature, precipitation and time-integrated normalized difference vegetation index (TINDVI) based on the ordinary least squares (OLS) regression, the spatial lag model and GWR methods. Results: The GWR method made significantly better predictions of NPP in simulations than did OLS, as indicated both by corrected Akaike Information Criterion (AIC
30137989|Aim: Species can respond to global climate change by range shifts or by phenotypic adaptation. At the community level, range shifts lead to a turnover of species, i.e. community reassembly. In contrast, phenotypic adaptation allows species to persist in situ, conserving community composition. So far, community reassembly and adaptation have mostly been studied separately. In nature, however, both processes take place simultaneously. In migratory birds, climate change has been shown to result in both exchange of species and adaptation of migratory behaviour. The aim of our study is to predict the impact of global climate change on migratory bird communities and to assess the extent to which reassembly and adaptation may contribute to alterations. Location: Europe. Methods: We analysed the relationship between current climate and the proportion of migratory species across bird assemblages in Europe. The magnitude of community reassembly was measured using spatial variation in the proportion of potentially migratory species. Adaptation was inferred from spatial variation in the proportion of potentially migratory species that actually migrate at a specific site. These spatial relationships were used to make temporal predictions of changes in migratory species under global climate change. Results: According to our models, increasing winter temperature is expected to lead to declines in the proportion of migratory species, whereas increasing spring temperature and decreasing spring precipitation may lead to increases. Changes in winter and spring temperature are expected to cause mainly adaptation in migratory activity, while changes in spring precipitation may result in both changes in the proportion of potentially migratory species and adaptation of migratory activity. Main conclusions: Under current climate change forecasts, changes in the proportion of migratory species will be modest and the communities of migratory birds in Europe are projected to be altered through adaptation of migratory activity rather than through exchange of species.
3697398|Aim: Stratification of major differences in the biophysical features of landscapes at the continental scale is necessary to collectively assess local observations of landscape response to management actions for consistency and difference. Such a stratification is an important step in the development of generalizations concerning how landscapes respond to different management regimes. As part of the development of a comparative framework for this purpose, we propose a climate classification adapted from an existing broad scale global agro-climatic classification, which is closely aligned with natural vegetation formations and common land uses across Australia. Location: The project considered landscapes across the continent of Australia. Methods: The global agro-climatic classification was adapted by using elevation-dependent thin plate smoothing splines to clarify the spatial extents of the 18 global classes found in Australia. The clarified class boundaries were interpolated from known classes at 822 points across Australia. These classes were then aligned with the existing bioregional classification, Interim Biogeographic Regionalization for Australia IBRA 5.1. Results: The aligned climate classes reflect major patterns in plant growth temperature and moisture indices and seasonality. These in turn reflect broad differences in cropping and other land use characteristics. Fifty-two of the 85 bioregions were classified entirely into one of the 18 agro-climatic classes. The remaining bioregions were classified according to sub-bioregional boundaries. A small number of these sub-bioregions were split to better reflect agro-climatic boundaries. Main conclusions: The agro-climatic classification provided an explicit global context for the analysis. The topographic dependence of the revised climate class boundaries clarified the spatial extents of poorly sampled highland classes and facilitated the alignment of these classes with the bioregional classification. This also made the classification amenable to explicit application. The bioregional and subregional boundaries reflect discontinuities in biophysical features. These permit the integrated classification to reflect major potential differences in landscape function and response to management. The refined agro-climatic classification and its integration with the IBRA bioregions are both available for general use and assessment.
2665315|1 Areas burned annually in the United States between 1700 and 1990 were derived from published estimates of pre-European burning rates and from wildfire statistics of the US Forest Service. Changes in live and dead vegetation following fire and fire exclusion were determined for 18 types of biomes and added to a book-keeping model to calculate the long-term effect of fire and fire management on carbon storage. 2 Over the 290-year period, burning declined by an estimated 98%, first, because wildlands were converted to agricultural lands, essentially eliminating fire from 236 x 10<sup>6</sup> ha and, secondly, because wildfires were excluded and suppressed in the remaining forests and non-forests. 3 Adding fire and fire management to an analysis of land-use change (companion paper) reduced the emissions of carbon over the period 1700-1990 by 25% (8 PgC). Less carbon was released because fire reduced the average biomass of forests cleared and burned, and because fire exclusion led to an increase in carbon storage in forests. 4 The wildfire statistics of the USDA were insufficient for addressing two kinds of change: fire exclusion before 1926 and changes in the burning of non-forest ecosystems. We estimate here that as much as 4 and 12 PgC, respectively, may have accumulated in vegetation as a result of these changes, but the estimates are uncertain and likely to be upper limits. 5 The maximum rate of carbon accumulation attributable to all changes in land use, including fire management, was 300-400 TgC/year and occurred around 1980. Less than half of this uptake was in forests. Uptake by forests was constrained by the fact that most forests were already accumulating carbon in response to earlier harvests. Fire exclusion added little to this uptake.
30137864|Aim To understand cross-taxon spatial congruence patterns of bird and woody plant species richness. In particular, to test the relative roles of functional relationships between birds and woody plants, and the direct and indirect environmental effects on broad-scale species richness of both groups. Location Kenya. Methods Based on comprehensive range maps of all birds and woody plants (native species > 2.5 m in height) in Kenya, we mapped species richness of both groups. We distinguished species richness of four different avian frugivore guilds (obligate, partial, opportunistic and non-frugivores) and fleshy-fruited and nonfleshy-fruited woody plants. We used structural equation modelling and spatial regressions to test for effects of functional relationships (resource-consumer interactions and vegetation structural complexity) and environment (climate and habitat heterogeneity) on the richness patterns. Results Path analyses suggested that bird and woody plant species richness are linked via functional relationships, probably driven by vegetation structural complexity rather than trophic interactions. Bird species richness was determined in our models by both environmental variables and the functional relationships with woody plants. Direct environmental effects on woody plant richness differed from those on bird richness, and different avian consumer guilds showed distinct responses to climatic factors when woody plant species richness was included in path models. Main conclusions Our results imply that bird and woody plant diversity are linked at this scale via vegetation structural complexity, and that environmental factors differ in their direct effects on plants and avian trophic guilds. We conclude that climatic factors influence broad-scale tropical bird species richness in large part indirectly, via effects on plants, rather than only directly as often assumed. This could have important implications for future predictions of animal species richness in response to climate change.
40928126|Aims: Clarifying the spatiotemporal variations in precipitation-use efficiency (PUE), the ratio of vegetation above-ground productivity to annual precipitation, will advance our understanding of how ecosystems' carbon and water cycles respond to climate change. Our goal is to investigate the variations in PUE at both regional and site scales along a 4500-km climate-related grassland transect. Location: The Inner Mongolian Plateau in northern China and the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Methods: We collected data on 580 sites from four data sources. The data were acquired through field surveys and long-term in situ observations. We investigated the relationships between precipitation and PUE at both regional and site scales, and we evaluated the effects of the main biotic and climatic factors on PUE at both spatial scales. Results: PUE decreased with decreasing mean annual precipitation (MAP), except for a slight rise toward the dry end of the gradient. The maximum PUE showed large site-to-site variation along the transect. Vegetation cover significantly affected the spatial variations in PUE, and this probably accounts for the positive relationship between PUE and MAP. However, there was no significant relationship between inter-annual variations in precipitation or vegetation cover and PUE within given ecosystems along the transect. Conclusions: The findings of this research contradict the prevailing view that a convergent maximum PUE exists among diverse ecosystems, as presented in previous reports. Our findings also suggest the action of distinct mechanisms in controlling PUE at different spatial scales. We propose the use of a conceptual model for predicting vegetation productivity at continental and global scales with a sigmoid function, which illustrates an increasing PUE with MAP in arid regions. Our approach may represent an improvement over use of the popular Miami model.
3697512|A criticism of macroecological studies has been their extensive use of secondary data sources. In this note we evaluate how different data sources affect macroecological patterns for the parrots of South America. We mapped extents of parrot occurrence based on four sources of range maps. We compared basic statistics for geographical range size distribution (mean, variance and skew) and calculated correlations between geographical range size estimates and grid cell species richness estimates. Finally, results from multiple regression analyses of species richness against six environmental variables were also compared. We found that patterns were very robust to the data source, with only relatively slight quantitative differences. Our results reinforce the notion that patterns emerging from macroecological analyses are robust to variations in data sources and cannot be merely artefacts resulting from low data quality, notably poorly defined mapping and conflicting taxonomy.
30137874|Aim Distribution maps of species based on a grid are useful for investigating relationships between scale and the number or area of occupied grid cells. A species is scaled up simply by merging occupied grid cells on the observation grid to successively coarser cells. Scale-occupancy relationships (SORs) obtained in this way can be used to extrapolate species down, in other words to compute occupancies at finer scales than the observation scale. In this paper we demonstrate that the SOR is not unique but depends on where one positions the origin of the grid map. Innovation The effect of grid origin on SORs was explored with the aid of the Dutch national data base FLORBASE, which contains the observation records of all 1410 wild vascular plants in the Netherlands on a 1-km square basis. For each species, we generated 2500 unique SORs by scaling up from 1 km, in steps of 1 km, to squares of 50 km. We computed the sensitivity of the SOR to the grid origin for each species, and subsequently analysed the factors that determined this sensitivity. The effect of grid origin on downscaling was demonstrated by means of a simple power function that we used to extrapolate down from both a 2-km and a 5-km grid, to the original 1-km grid. It appeared that the position of grid origin could have a substantial effect on SORs. The sensitivity of SORs to the position of the grid origin depended on three characteristics of a species' spatial distribution: rarity, degree of spatial clustering and the position of the distribution relative to the border of the investigated area. Rare species with a clustered distribution near the border were particularly highly sensitive. The dependence of SOR on grid origin caused unpredictable and non-random errors in downscaled occupancies. Main conclusions In future, the whole bandwidth of scaled occupancies should be considered when testing and interpreting mathematical relationships between scale and occupancy. Moreover, downscaled occupancies should be interpreted cautiously.
3697656|Aim: To address the relative role of adjacent land use, distance to forest edge, forest size and their interactions on understorey plant species richness and composition in perimetropolitan forests. Location: The metropolitan area of Barcelona, north-eastern Spain. Methods: Twenty sampling sites were distributed in two forest size-categories: small forest patches (8-90 ha) and large forest areas (> 18,000 ha). For each forest-size category, five sites were placed adjacent to crops and five sites adjacent to urban areas. Vascular plant species were recorded and human frequentation was scored visually in 210 10 x 10 m plots placed at 10, 50 and 100 m from the forest edge, and additionally at 500 m in large forest areas. Plant species were grouped according to their ecology and rarity categories. A nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS) ordination was carried out to detect patterns of variation in species assemblage, and to explore the relationships between these patterns and the richness of the species groups and the studied factors. Factorial ANOVAs were used to test the significance of the studied factors on the richness of species groups. Relationships between human frequentation and the studied variables were assessed through contingency tables. Results: Forest-size category was the main factor affecting synanthropic species (i.e. those thriving in man-made or man-disturbed habitats). Synanthropic species richness decreased with increasing distance from the forest edge and, when forests were adjacent to crops, it was higher in small forest patches than in large forest areas. Richness of rare forest species was lower in small forest patches than in large forest areas when forests were adjacent to urban areas. Richness of common forest species and of all forest species together were higher close to the forest edge than far from it when forests were adjacent to urban areas. Forests adjacent to urban areas were more likely to experience high human frequentation, particularly in those plots nearest to the forest edge. Main conclusions: Forest-size category and adjacent land use were the most important factors determining species richness and composition. The preservation of large forests adjacent to crops in peri-urban areas is recommended, because they are less frequented by humans, are better buffered against the percolation of nonforest species and could favour the persistence of rare forest species.
30137995|Aim: Animal monitoring programmes have allowed analyses of population trends, most of which now comment on the possible effect of global climate change. However, the relationship between the interspecific variation in population trends and species traits, such as habitat preferences, niche breadth or distribution patterns, has received little attention, in spite of its usefulness in the construction of ecological generalizations. The objectives of this study were: (1) to determine whether there are characteristics shared among species with upwards or downwards trends, and (2) to assess whether population changes agree with what could be expected under global warming (a decrease in species typical of cooler environments). Location: The Spanish part of the Iberian Peninsula (c. 500,000 km) in the southwestern part of the Mediterranean Basin. Methods: We modelled recent breeding population changes (1996-2004), in areas without apparent land use changes, for 57 common passerine birds with speciesspecific ecological and distributional patterns as explanatory variables. Results: One-half of these species have shown a generalized pattern towards the increase of their populations, while only one-tenth showed a significant decrease. One half (54%) of the interspecific variability in yearly population trends is explained considering species-specific traits. Species showing more marked increases preferred wooded habitats, were habitat generalists and occupied warmer and wetter areas, while moderate decreases were found for open country habitats in drier areas. Main conclusions: The coherent pattern in population trends we found disagrees with the proposed detrimental effect of global warming on bird populations of western Europe, which is expected to be more intense in bird species inhabiting cooler areas and habitats. Such a pattern suggests that factors other than the increase in temperature may be brought to discussions on global change as relevant components to explain recent changes in biodiversity.
30137819|Aim: To consider the role of local colonization and extinction rates in explaining the generation and maintenance of species richness gradients at the regional scale. Location: A Mediterranean biome (oak forests, deciduous forests, shrublands, pinewoods, firwoods, alpine heathlands, crops) in Catalonia, Spain. Methods: We analysed the relative importance of direct and indirect effects of community size in explaining species richness gradients. Direct sampling effects of community size on species richness are predicted by Hubbell's neutral theory of biodiversity and biogeography. The greater the number of individuals in a locality, the greater the number of species expected by random direct sampling effects. Indirect effects are predicted by the abundance-extinction hypothesis, which states that in more productive sites increased population densities and reduced extinction rates may lead to high species richness. The study system was an altitudinal gradient of forest bird species richness. Results: We found significant support for the existence of both direct and indirect effects of community size in species richness. Thus, both the neutral and the abundance-extinction hypotheses were supported for the altitudinal species richness gradient of forest birds in Catalonia. However, these mechanisms seem to drive variation in species richness only in low-productivity areas; in high-productivity areas, species richness was uncorrelated with community size and productivity measures. Main conclusions: Our results support the existence of a geographical mosaic of community-based processes behind species richness gradients, with contrasting abundance-extinction dynamics and sampling effects in areas of low and high productivity.
3697428|Aim: Broad-scale spatial patterns of species richness are very strongly correlated with climatic variables. If there is a causal link, i.e. if climate directly or indirectly determines patterns of richness, then when the climatic variables change, richness should change in the manner that spatial correlations between richness and climate would predict. The present study tests this prediction using seasonal changes in climatic variables and bird richness. Location: We used a grid of equal area quadrats (
3697489|In international nature conservation policy, value-arguments based on science and economic rationalism increasingly overshadow the aesthetic and ethical arguments that originally inspired the conservation movement. We argue that this trend risks removing conservation from the public realm, in part because it facilitates the adoption by nongovernment conservation bodies of corporate values and/or their integration with government bureaucracies. By contrast, the explicit recognition of aesthetic and ethical values would complement arguments based on science and economic utility. We subscribe to a reformist view of globalization that accepts the inevitability of a globalizing world but argues that the process needs humanizing by incorporating quality of life values in the policy process. We argue that re-emphasis of aesthetic and ethical arguments in international conservation policy would contribute to this goal by reasserting links between conservation bodies and the public, thereby leading to more effective action on the ground.
40205687|Aim: Anthropogenic fires are a major component of the ecology of rangelands throughout the world. To assess the effects of these fires on the diversity patterns of herbivores, we related gradients in fire occurrence, climate and soil fertility to patterns in alpha and beta diversity of African ungulates. Location: West Africa. Methods: We used a survey-based approach for ungulates in 37 protected areas in desert, savanna and rain forest habitats throughout West Africa, combined with satellite images of fire occurrence and digital maps of actual evapotranspiration and soil fertility. Alpha diversity was related to the environmental variables using conventional and spatial regression models. We investigated beta diversity using partial Mantel tests and ordination techniques, and by partitioning the variance in assemblage composition into environmental and spatial components. Results: The species richness of grazers showed a quadratic relationship with actual evapotranspiration, whereas that of browsers and frugivores showed a linear relationship. However, in the multiple regression models fire occurrence was the only variable that significantly correlated with the species richness of grazers. Soil fertility was weakly related to overall beta diversity and the species richness of browsers, but was non-significant in the multiple regression models. Fire occurrence was the most important variable explaining species composition of the overall species set and of grazers, whereas the assemblage composition of browsers and frugivores was explained mostly by actual evapotranspiration. Main conclusions: In contrast to previous studies, our analyses show that moisture and nutrients alone fail to adequately predict the diversity patterns of grazing ungulates. Rather, the species richness and assemblage composition of grazers are largely governed by anthropogenic fires that modify the quality and structure of the grass sward. Diversity patterns of browsers and frugivores are markedly different from grazers and depend mainly on the availability of moisture, which is positively correlated with the availability of foliage and fruits. Our study highlights the importance of incorporating major human-induced disturbances or habitat alterations into analyses of diversity patterns.
4139405|Aim The use of species distribution models (SDMs) to predict biological invasions is a rapidly developing area of ecology. However, most studies investigating SDMs typically ignore prediction errors and instead focus on regions where native distributions correctly predict invaded ranges. We investigated the ecological significance of prediction errors using reciprocal comparisons between the predicted invaded and native range of the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta) (hereafter called the fire ant). We questioned whether fire ants occupy similar environments in their native and introduced range, how the environments that fire ants occupy in their introduced range changed through time relative to their native range, and where fire ant propagules are likely to have originated. Location We developed models for South America and the conterminous United States (US) of America. Methods We developed models using the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction (GARP) and 12 environmental layers. Occurrence data from the native range in South America were used to predict the introduced range in the US and vice versa. Further, time-series data recording the invasion of fire ants in the US were used to predict the native range. Results Native range occurrences under-predicted the invasive potential of fire ants, whereas occurrence data from the US over-predicted the southern boundary of the native range. Secondly, introduced fire ants initially established in environments similar to those in their native range, but subsequently invaded harsher environments. Time-series data suggest that fire ant propagules originated near the southern limit of their native range. Conclusions Our findings suggest that fire ants from a peripheral native population established in an environment similar to their native environment, and then ultimately expanded into environments in which they are not found in their native range. We argue that reciprocal comparisons between predicted native and invaded ranges will facilitate a better understanding of the biogeography of invasive and native species and of the role of SDMs in predicting future distributions.
2665423|1 The El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is an important driver of inter-annual variations in climate and ecosystem productivity in tropical regions. Most previous studies have analysed ENSO-induced changes in climate based on a single variable, such as rainfall. Also, it is generally assumed that the ENSO impact in East Africa is geographically uniform. 2 The objective of this study is to improve understanding of the impact of ENSO on East African ecosystems, by measuring teleconnections between an ENSO index and a number of ecosystem variables in a spatially explicit way and for different time lags. We analysed the spatial patterns of teleconnections in the region by combining time series of climate variables measured for meteorological stations with time series of a vegetation index and surface temperature data measured by remote sensing. 3 Our results confirm the ENSO impact on the climatic and ecological variability in East Africa. However, the pattern of teleconnections is much more complex than generally assumed, both in terms of spatial distribution and impact on different ecosystem variables. Not all climate and land surface variables are teleconnected to ENSO in the same way, which leads to a complex impact of ENSO on the ecosystem. Moreover, the ENSO impact is highly differentiated in space, as the direction, magnitude and timing of this impact are controlled by the local climate system, the presence of large lakes, proximity to the coast and, possibly, local topography and land cover.
30137825|Aim: Species richness in itself is not always sufficient to evaluate land management strategies for nature conservation. The exchange of species between local communities may be affected by landscape structure and land-use intensity. Thus, species turnover, and its inverse, community similarity, may be useful measures of landscape integrity from a diversity perspective. Location: A European transect from France to Estonia. Methods: We measured the similarity of plant, bird, wild bee, true bug, carabid beetle, hoverfly and spider communities sampled along gradients in landscape composition (e.g. total availability of semi-natural habitat), landscape configuration (e.g. fragmentation) and land-use intensity (e.g. pesticide loads). Results: Total availability of semi-natural habitats had little effect on community similarity, except for bird communities, which were more homogeneous in more natural landscapes. Bee communities, in contrast, were less similar in landscapes with higher percentages of semi-natural habitats. Increased landscape fragmentation decreased similarity of true bug communities, while plant communities showed a nonlinear, U-shaped response. More intense land use, specifically increased pesticide burden, led to a homogenization of bee, bug and spider communities within sites. In these cases, habitat fragmentation interacted with pesticide load. Hoverfly and carabid beetle community similarity was differentially affected by higher pesticide levels: for carabid beetles similarity decreased, while for hoverflies we observed a U-shaped relationship. Main conclusions: Our study demonstrates the effects of landscape composition, configuration and land-use intensity on the similarity of communities. It indicates reduced exchange of species between communities in landscapes dominated by agricultural activities. Taxonomic groups differed in their responses to environmental drivers and using but one group as an indicator for 'biodiversity' as such would thus not be advisable.
41239344|Aim: Treelines occur globally within a narrow range of mean growing season temperatures, suggesting that low-temperature growth limitation determines the position of the treeline. However, treelines also exhibit features that indicate that other mechanisms, such as biomass loss not resulting in mortality (dieback) and mortality, determine treeline position and dynamics. Debate regarding the mechanisms controlling treeline position and dynamics may be resolved by identifying the mechanisms controlling prominent treeline spatial patterns (or 'form') such as the spatial structure of the transition from closed forest to the tree limit. Recent treeline studies world-wide have confirmed a close link between form and dynamics. Location: The concepts presented refer to alpine treelines globally. Methods: In this review, we describe how varying dominance of three general ' first-level' mechanisms (tree performance: growth limitation, seedling mortality and dieback) result in different treeline forms, what 'second-level' mechanisms (stresses, e. g. freezing damage, photoinhibition) may underlie these general mechanisms, and how they are modulated by interactions with neighbours ('third-level' mechanisms). This hierarchy of mechanisms should facilitate discussions about treeline formation and dynamics. Results: We distinguish four primary treeline forms: diffuse, abrupt, island and krummholz. Growth limitation is dominant only at the diffuse treeline, which is the form that has most frequently responded as expected to growing-season warming, whereas the other forms are controlled by dieback and seedling mortality and are relatively unresponsive. Main conclusions: Treeline form provides a means for explaining the current variability in treeline position and dynamics and for exploring the general mechanisms controlling the responses of treelines to climatic change. Form indicates the relative dependence of tree performance on various aspects of the external climate (especially summer warmth versus winter Stressors) and on internal feedbacks, thus allowing inferences on the type as well as strength of climate-change responses.
30137826|Aim: Bergmann's rule, the tendency of body size within species in bird and mammal populations to be positively correlated with latitude, is among the best known biogeographical generalizations. The factors behind such clines, however, are not well understood. Here we use a large data base of 79 mammalian carnivore species to examine the factors affecting latitudinal size clines. Location: Worldwide. Methods: We measured the skulls and teeth of carnivores in natural history museums, and calculated the amount of variation in size explained by latitude, supplementing our measurements with published data. We examined the effects of a number of variables on the tendency to show latitudinal dines. Results: We found that geographical range and latitudinal extent are strongly related to size clines. Minimum temperatures across the range, net primary productivity and habitat diversity also have some, albeit much less, influence. Main conclusions: We suggest that species with large geographical ranges are likely to encounter significant heterogeneity in those factors that influence body size, and are thus likely to exhibit size clines. However, the key factors that determine body size may not always operate along a latitudinal (or other geographical) dine, but be spatially linked to patches in the species range. One such important factor is likely to be food availability, which we show is a strong predictor of size in the brown bear (Ursus arctos) but is not associated with a latitudinal dcline. We argue that the spatial distribution of key resources within the species range constitutes a significant predictor of carnivore body size.
30134096|Aim: We addressed the following questions: (1) Does tephritid body size tend to increase in species found at higher elevations, as predicted by Bergmann's rule? (2) Do tephritids conform to Rapoport's rule, so that species found at higher elevations tend to have broader altitudinal ranges? (3) More generally, how do body size and host range jointly affect the patterns of altitudinal distribution among Neotropical tephritid flies? Location: The Mantiqueira mountain range, south-eastern Brazil, at sites ranging from c. 700 to 2500 m a.s.l. Methods: At each site we collected flower heads of all Asteraceae species to rear out endophagous immatures (from January to June in 1998 and 1999). We used structural equation models (SEM) to evaluate jointly the relationships between body size, host range and altitudinal distribution (range and mid-point). Results: Neotropical tephritid body size showed a negative relationship with altitudinal distribution. SE modelling showed no significant direct effect of body size on altitudinal range; however, it had significant indirect negative effects through host range and altitudinal mid-point. The SE model was a good predictor of observed correlations and accounted for 84% of the variation in tephritid altitudinal range. Main conclusions: The altitudinal range of flower-head-feeding tephritids is related to host range and is indirectly affected by body size via host range and altitudinal mid-point. As predicted by Rapoport's rule, tephritids that occur at higher elevations also present wider altitudinal ranges. Bergmann's rule does not apply to Neotropical tephritids along a tropical elevational gradient, but rather its converse was found. Body size may determine host range by imposing a restriction upon large individuals using small flower heads. Host species turnover along the altitudinal gradient may be the main factor explaining the strong relationship between host range and insect elevational distribution.
3697419|Aim: The aim of this work was to estimate C sequestration rates in the organic matter layer in Swedish forests. Location: The region encompassed the forested area (
3182725| Aim: Predictive models of species' distributions use occurrence records and environmental data to produce a model of the species' requirements and a map of its potential distribution. To determine regions of suitable environmental conditions and assess biogeographical questions regarding their ranges, we modelled the potential geographical distributions of two spiny pocket mice (Rodentia: Heteromyidae) in north-western South America. Location: North-western South America. Methods: We used the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-Set Prediction (GARP), environmental data from GIS maps and georeferenced collection localities from a recent systematic review of Heteromys australis and H. anomalus to produce the models. Results: GARP models indicate the potential presence of H. australis throughout mesic montane regions of north-western South America, as well as in some lowland regions of moderately high precipitation. In contrast, H. anomalus is predicted to occur primarily in drier areas of the Caribbean coast and rain-shadowed valleys of the Andes. Conclusions: The models support the disjunct status of the population of H. australis in the Cordillera de Mrida, but predict a continuous distribution between known populations of H. anomalus in the upper Magdalena Valley and the Caribbean coast. Regions of suitable environmental conditions exist disjunct from known distributional areas for both species, suggesting possible historical restrictions to their ranges. This technique holds wide application to other study systems. 
41239408|Aim: To measure and quantify community phylogenetic structure to evaluate how evolutionary, ecological and biogeographic processes have shaped the distributions and assemblage of tropical and subtropical rain forest tree species across local, regional and continental scales. Location: Australia. Methods: We used 596 assemblage-level samples and 1137 woody species in rain forest vegetation sampled across two latitude regions (tropics and sub-tropics) and five distinct areas. Based on this dataset, we obtained and analysed species-level trait values (for leaf size, seed size, wood density and maximum height at maturity), measures of community phylogenetic structure and species turnover across space (beta) and evolutionary time (phylobeta). Results: Phylobeta values showed that at continental scales (i.e. across the latitude regions combined) species replacement, as turnover in assemblages through time, was by more phylogenetically distant (i.e. less closely related) taxa. Within latitude regions replacement was by more closely related taxa. Assemblages of species were more phylogenetically clustered across the whole phylogeny (net relatedness index) and with respect to more recent divergences (nearest related taxon index) where the effects of historic disturbance (climatic oscillations) had been greater, and less clustered in long-term stable (refugiai) locations. Local species composition in the stable wet tropics showed significant phylogenetic evenness, but there was no corresponding evenness in distributions of the ecological traits measured. Main conclusions: Despite a shared evolutionary and biogeographic history, the two regions diverged from each other before the development of internal divergences. Phylogenetic evenness is more evident in long-term stable habitats (refugia) where species interact in conserved niches. Phylogenetic clustering is more evident where recolonization of more highly disturbed areas from historically reduced species pools reflects filtering of species into phylogenetically preferred habitats.
4139442|Aim Spatial patterns of phylogenetic diversity (PD) aid our ability to discern diversification rate mechanisms underlying hypotheses for the large-scale distribution of biodiversity. We develop a predictive framework for the way in which spatial patterns of PD vary with those of species richness, depending on the balance between speciation and extinction rates. Within this framework, diversification processes thought to underlie the productive energy, ambient energy, topographic variability and habitat variety hypotheses predict that gradients of increase in species richness will be associated with: (1) decreasing extinction rates where driven by productive energy, hence increasing relative PD (i.e. PD controlling for species richness, or
3697613|Aim: The degree to which ecosystem properties (niche availability) and interspecific competition limit local species richness continues to be debated. We present a new method that takes advantage of special biogeographical conditions where habitat islands are embedded in a moderately dissimilar matrix. Small, isolated islands lack habitat specialists to varying degrees, allowing matrix species to occupy island habitat. We examined the relative influence of local vs. biogeographical factors on bird richness of habitat islands by evaluating three predictions each for three hypotheses (competitive exclusion, mass effect, species-area effects). Location: Five naturally isolated dry forest islands and eight extensive dry forest sites in Bolivia. Methods: Linear and multiple regressions were calculated between standardized species richness, the number of typical dry forest, humid forest and habitat generalist species vs. canopy height, elevation, precipitation, habitat area and distance from evergreen forest. The same analyses were performed at the guild level. Results: Our data are consistent with one prediction under each hypothesis, thus partly supporting and partly rejecting all three hypotheses. Bird richness of dry forest islands was primarily determined by local ecosystem properties (vegetation complexity, productivity), with a minor effect of habitat area (inverse) and distance to evergreen forest. The number of dry forest specialists was influenced by habitat area and isolation from source habitats, with elevation and precipitation adding moderate explanatory power. The number of humid forest specialists was determined by precipitation, habitat area (inversely) and canopy height. These patterns were also evident at the guild level, demonstrating that the loss of dry forest species in a given guild was correlated with a gain of humid forest species in the same guild, rather than random species turnover. Main conclusions: Total local species richness of semi-isolated habitat islands is determined primarily by local (niche availability) but also by regional (biogeographical) factors, exemplifying MacArthur's paradox. Small dry forest islands historically lost part of their habitat specialists. Vacant niches were filled by species from adjacent humid forest that are competitively excluded by habitat specialists from large dry forest areas, ideally until the community is saturated, although this pattern is to some degree modified by biogeographical factors. This 'semipermeable island' approach can be applied to other taxa and regions and is a promising, widely applicable tool for gaining new insights into the regulation of diversity.
40928129|Aim: We investigate the relationship between local and regional richness in marine fouling assemblages using an expanded and globally replicated approach by incorporating two dimensions of diversity (taxonomic and functional) and different successional stages. Location: Global. Methods: In eight different biogeographic regions (Australia, Brazil, Chile, England, Italy, Japan, Portugal and Sweden) 68 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) panels (15150.3 cm) were deployed for colonization. Communities colonizing panels were analysed by measuring percentage cover at each of four different successional ages: 2, 4, 6 and 8 months. Local richness was assessed as the average number of species and functional groups (FGs) per panel and regional richness was evaluated as the estimated (Jack2) asymptote of the sample-accumulation curves for species and FG on experimental panels. Results: We found that the shape of the relationship between local and regional richness depended on successional stage and the type of richness considered, i.e. taxonomic or functional richness. Hardly any relationship was detectable between local taxonomic richness and regional taxonomic richness at any successional stage. In contrast, the relation between local functional and regional functional richness shows a unimodal pattern of change during succession, passing through the stages 'independent', 'unsaturated rising', 'saturated rising' and once again 'independent'. Main conclusions: The relationship between local and regional richness, whether taxonomic or functional, frequently displays independence of the two scales, particularly in early and late phases of the successional process.
40602954|Aim: Human activities have led to the spread and establishment of increasing numbers of non-native species. Here we assess whether non-native plant and vertebrate species have affected species compositions within and across Europe and North America. We also assess the effects of intra-continental species exchange using the example of vertebrates. Location: European countries and North America (states in the contiguous United States and provinces of Canada). Methods: We measured compositional dissimilarity of native and non-native assemblages of vascular plants and vertebrates and related these patterns to climatic dissimilarity and geographical distance. We considered three categories of nonnative species (introduced after AD 1500), namely: those (1) originating outside of both continents, (2) native to one continent and non-native to the other, and (3) native in a particular region of a continent but non-native in another region. Results: The presence of non-native plants and vertebrates led to more homogeneous species compositions between continents and to less homogeneous species composition within Europe compared with the native assemblages. In North America, the presence of non-native plants led to more homogeneous species compositions and the presence of non-native vertebrates had no effect. Species compositions being more homogeneous than the native composition were found for the three categories of non-native vertebrate species for both continents. Between continents, climate was a better predictor of compositional dissimilarity for non-native plants, whereas for vertebrates the explanatory power of climate and geographical distance were comparable. By contrast, within continents, climate was a better predictor of compositional dissimilarity of both plants and vertebrates. Conclusions: We found clear evidence for biotic homogenization as a consequence of species displacement. However, in relation to overall species richness this effect was rather small, indicating that floras and faunas are still quite distinct. Therefore, claiming that we already face homogeneous biotas might be premature, although clear indications are visible which should raise a note of caution, especially in the light of increasing globalization.
3877775|Aim: The aim of this study is to determine the patterns of nitrogen (N) concentrations in leaf litter of forest trees as functions of climatic factors, annual average temperature (Temp,  C) and annual precipitation (Precip, dm) and of forest type (coniferous vs. broadleaf, deciduous vs. evergreen, Pinus, etc.). Location: The review was conducted using data from studies across the Eurasian continent. Methods: Leaf litter N concentration was compiled from 204 sets of published data (81 sets from coniferous and 123 from broadleaf forests in Eurasia). We explored the relationships between leaf litter N concentration and Temp and Precip by means of regression analysis. Leaf litter data from N
40602946|Aim: The controls of gross radiation use efficiency (RUE), the ratio between gross primary productivity (GPP) and the radiation intercepted by terrestrial vegetation, and its spatial and temporal variation are not yet fully understood. Our objectives were to analyse and synthesize the spatial variability of GPP and the spatial and temporal variability of RUE and its climatic controls for a wide range of vegetation types. Location: A global range of sites from tundra to rain forest. Methods: We analysed a global dataset on photosynthetic uptake and climatic variables from 35 eddy covariance (EC) flux sites spanning between 100 and 2200 mm mean annual rainfall and between -13 and 26C mean annual temperature.RUE was calculated from the data provided by EC flux sites and remote sensing (MODIS). Results: Rainfall and actual evapotranspiration (AET) positively influenced the spatial variation of annual GPP, whereas temperature only influenced the GPP of forests. Annual and maximum RUE were also positively controlled primarily by annual rainfall. The main control parameters of the growth season variation of gross RUE varied for each ecosystem type. Overall, the ratio between actual and potential evapotranspiration and a surrogate for the energy balance explained a greater proportion of the seasonal variation of RUE than the vapour pressure deficit (VPD), AET and precipitation. Temperature was important for determining the intra-annual variability of the RUE at the coldest energy-limited sites. Main conclusions: Our analysis supports the idea that the annual functioning of vegetation that is adapted to its local environment is more constrained by water availability than by temperature. The spatial variability of annual and maximum RUE can be largely explained by annual precipitation, more than by vegetation type. The intra-annual variation of RUE was mainly linked to the energy balance and water availability along the climatic gradient. Furthermore, we showed that intra-annual variation of gross RUE is only weakly influenced by VPD and temperature, contrary to what is frequently assumed. Our results provide a better understanding of the spatial and temporal controls of the RUE and thus could lead to a better estimation of ecosystem carbon fixation and better modelling.
41239482|Aim: To test how far can macroecological hypotheses relating diversity to environmental factors be extrapolated to functional and phylogenetic diversities, i. e. to the extent to which functional traits and evolutionary backgrounds vary among species in a community or region. We use a spatial partitioning of diversity where regional or -diversity is calculated by aggregating information on local communities, local or -diversity corresponds to diversity in one locality, and turnover or -diversity corresponds to the average turnover between localities and the region. Location: France. Methods: We used the Rao quadratic entropy decomposition of diversity to calculate local, regional and turnover diversity for each of three diversity facets (taxonomic, phylogenetic and functional) in breeding bird communities of France.Spatial autoregressive models and partial regression analyses were used to analyse the relationships between each diversity facet and environmental gradients (climate and land use). Results: Changes in -diversity are driven by changes in both -and -diversity. Low levels of human impact generally favour all three facets of regional diversity and heterogeneous landscapes usually harbour higher -diversity in the three facets of diversity, although functional and phylogenetic turnover show some relationships in the opposite direction. Spatial and environmental factors explain a large percentage of the variation in the three diversity facets (> 60%), and this is especially true for phylogenetic diversity. In all cases, spatial structure plays a preponderant role in explaining diversity gradients, suggesting an important role for dispersal limitations in structuring diversity at different spatial scales. Main conclusions: Our results generally support the idea that hypotheses that have previously been applied to taxonomic diversity, both at local and regional scales, can be extended to phylogenetic and functional diversity. Specifically, changes in regional diversity are the result of changes in both local and turnover diversity, some environmental conditions such as human development have a great impact on diversity levels, and heterogeneous landscapes tend to have higher diversity levels. Interestingly, differences between diversity facets could potentially provide further insights into how large-and small-scale ecological processes interact at the onset of macroecological patterns.
30137882|Aim: To compare the geographical distributions of two tick-borne pathogens vectored by different tick species, to examine the relative importance of climate, land cover and host density in structuring these distributions, and to assess the spatial variability of these environmental constraints across the species ranges. Location: South-central and south-eastern North America. Methods: Presence/absence data for two tick-borne pathogens, Ehrlichia chaffeensis and Anaplasma phagocytophilum, were obtained for 567 counties from a regional data base based on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) serology. Environmental variables describing climate, land cover and deer density were calculated for these counties. Global logistic regression analysis was used to screen the environmental variables and select a parsimonious subset of predictors. Local analysis was carried out using geographically weighted regression (GWR) to explore spatial variability in the parameters of the regression models. Cluster analysis was applied to the GWR output to identify zones with distinctive species-habitat relationships. Results: Global habitat models for E. chaffeensis and A. phagocytophilum included temperature, humidity, precipitation and forest cover as explanatory variables. The E. chaffeensis model also included forest fragmentation, whereas the A. phagocytophilum model included deer density. Local analyses revealed that climate was the primary correlate of pathogen presence in the eastern portion of the study area, whereas forest cover and fragmentation constrained the western range boundaries. Habitat relationships for all variables were weak in and around the Mississippi Delta. Main conclusions: Efforts to model pathogen and disease ranges, and to predict shifts in response to global change should consider future scenarios of land-cover change as well as climate change, and should address the possibility of spatial heterogeneity in species-habitat relationships. The methods presented here outline an approach for objectively delineating geographical zones with similar species-environment relationships, which can then be used to stratify landscapes for the purposes of further explanatory and predictive modelling.
40405768|Aim: To investigate the effect of temperature, latitude and local environment on the reproductive traits of widespread perennial focest herbs to better understand the potential impacts of rising temperatures on their population dynamics and colonization capacities. Location: Six regions along a latitudinal gradient from France to Sweden. Methods: Within each region, we collected data from three to five populations of up to six species. For each species, several variables were recorded in each region (temperature, latitude) and population (local abiotic and biotic environmental variables), and seed production and germination were estimated. Resource investment in reproduction (RIR) was quantified as seed number x seed mass, while germinable seed output (GSO) was expressed as seed number x germination percentage. We performed linear regression and mixed effect models to investigate the effects of temperature (growing degree hours), latitude and local abiotic and biotic environment on RIR and GSO. Results: Temperature and latitude explained most of the variation in RIR and GSO for early flowering species with a northerly distribution range edge (Anemone nemorosa, Paris quadrifolia and Oxalis acetosella). Reproduction of the more southerly distributed species (Brachypodium sylvaticum, Circaea lutetiana and Primula elatior), in contrast, was independent of temperature/latitude. In the late summer species, B. sylvaticum and C. lutetiana, variation in RIR and GSO was best explained by local environmental variables, while none of the investigated variables appeared to be related to reproduction in P. elatior. Main conclusions: We showed that reproduction of only two early flowering, northerly distributed species was related to temperature. This suggests that the potential reproductive response of forest herbs to climate warming partly depends on their phenology and distribution, but also that the response is to some extent species dependent. These findings should be taken into account when predictions about future shifts in distribution range are made.
3182682|Aim: The aim of this study is to test whether Bergmann's rule, a general intraspecific tendency towards larger body size in cooler areas and at higher latitudes, holds for birds throughout the world. Location: This study includes information on species of birds from throughout the world. Methods: I gathered data on body size variation from the literature and used two general meta-analytical procedures to test the validity of Bergmann's rule in birds: a modified vote-counting approach and calculation of overall effect sizes. Related species may show similar body size trends, thus I performed all analyses using nonphylogenetic and phylogenetic methods. I used tests of phylogenetic signal for each data set to decide which type of statistical analysis (nonphylogenetic or phylogenetic) was more appropriate. Results: The majority of species of birds (76 of 100 species) are larger at higher latitudes, and in cooler areas (20 of 22 species). Birds show a grand mean correlation coefficient of +0.32 for body size and latitude, and -0.81 for body size and temperature, both significant trends. Sedentary species show stronger body size trends in some, but not all, analyses. Neither males nor females consistently have stronger body size trends. Additionally, the strength of body size trends does not vary with latitude or body mass. Conclusions: Bergmann's rule holds for birds throughout the world, regardless of whether temperature or latitude (as a proxy) is used. Previous studies have suggested that Bergmann's rule is stronger for sedentary than migratory species, males than females and temperate than tropical taxa. I did not find strong support for any of these as general themes for birds, although few studies of tropical taxa have been conducted. The processes responsible for Bergmann's rule remain somewhat of a black box; however, fasting endurance is probably a more important factor than the traditional hypothesis of heat conservation.
3697675|Aim: While physical constraints influence terrestrial primary productivity, the extent to which geographical variation in productivity is influenced by physiological adaptations and changes in vegetation structure is unclear. Further, quantifying the effect of variability in species traits on ecosystems remains a critical research challenge. Here, we take a macroecological approach and ask if variation in the stoichiometric traits (C: N: P ratios) of plants and primary productivity across global-scale temperature gradients is consistent with a scaling model that integrates recent insights from the theories of metabolic scaling and ecological stoichiometry. Location: This study is global in scope, encompassing a wide variety of terrestrial plant communities. Methods: We first develop a scaling model that incorporates potentially adaptive variation in leaf and whole-plant nutrient content, kinetic aspects of photosynthesis and plant respiration, and the allometry of biomass partitioning and allocation. We then examine extensive data sets concerning the stoichiometry and productivity of diverse plant communities in light of the model. Results: Across diverse ecosystems, both foliar stoichiometry (N : P) and 'nitrogen productivity' (which depends on both community size structure and plant nutrient content) vary systematically across global scale temperature gradients. Primary productivity shows no relationship to temperature. Main conclusions: The model predicts that the observed patterns of variation in plant stoichiometry and nutrient productivity may offset the temperature dependence of primary production expected from the kinetics of photosynthesis alone. Our approach provides a quantitative framework for treating potentially adaptive functional variation across communities as a continuum and may thus inform studies of global change. More generally, our approach represents one of the first explicit combinations of ecological stoichiometry and metabolic scaling theories in the analysis of macroecological patterns.
40405787|Aim The size structure of a forest canopy is an important descriptor of the forest environment that may yield information on forest biomass and ecology. However, its variability at regional scales is poorly described or understood because of the still prohibitive cost of very high-resolution imagery as well as the lack of an appropriate methodology. We here employ a novel approach to describe and map the canopy structure of tropical forests. Location Amazonia. Methods We apply Fourier transform textural ordination (FOTO) techniques to subsamples of very high-resolution satellite imagery freely available through virtual globe software (e.g. Google Earth  ) to determine two key structural variables: apparent mean crown size and heterogeneity in crown size. A similar approach is used with artificial forest canopy images generated by the light interaction model (discrete anisotropic radiative transfer, DART) using three-dimensional stand models. The effects of sun and viewing angles are explored on both model and real data. Results It is shown that in the case of canopies dominated by a modal size class our approach can predict mean canopy size to an accuracy of 5%. In Amazonia, we could evidence a clear macrostructure, despite considerable local variability. Apparent crown size indeed consistently increases from about 14 m in wet north-west Amazonia to more than 17 m for areas of intermediate dry season length (1-3 months) in south and east Amazonia, before decreasing again towards the ecotone with the Cerrado savanna biome. This general trend reflects the known variation of other forest physiognomic properties (height) reported for South America and Africa. Some regions show significantly greater canopy heterogeneity, a feature that may be related to substratum, perturbation rate and/or forest turnover rate. Main conclusions Our results demonstrate the feasibility and interest of largescale assessment of rain forest canopy structure.
4139436|Aim Numerous studies have examined the climatic factors that influence the abundance of C
40205721|Aim: Species distribution models (SDMs) or, more specifically, ecological niche models (ENMs) are a useful and rapidly proliferating tool in ecology and global change biology. ENMs attempt to capture associations between a species and its environment and are often used to draw biological inferences, to predict potential occurrences in unoccupied regions and to forecast future distributions under environmental change. The accuracy of ENMs, however, hinges critically on the quality of occurrence data. ENMs often use haphazardly collected data rather than data collected across the full spectrum of existing environmental conditions. Moreover, it remains unclear how processes affecting ENM predictions operate at different spatial scales. The scale (i.e. grain size) of analysis may be dictated more by the sampling regime than by biologically meaningful processes. The aim of our study is to jointly quantify how issues relating to region and scale affect ENM predictions using an economically important and ecologically damaging invasive species, the Argentine ant (Linepithema humile). Location: California, USA. Methods: We analysed the relationship between sampling sufficiency, regional differences in environmental parameter space and cell size of analysis and resampling environmental layers using two independently collected sets of presence/absence data. Differences in variable importance were determined using model averaging and logistic regression. Model accuracy was measured with area under the curve (AUC) and Cohen's kappa. Results: We first demonstrate that insufficient sampling of environmental parameter space can cause large errors in predicted distributions and biological interpretation. Models performed best when they were parametrized with data that sufficiently sampled environmental parameter space. Second, we show that altering the spatial grain of analysis changes the relative importance of different environmental variables. These changes apparently result from how environmental constraints and the sampling distributions of environmental variables change with spatial grain. Conclusions These findings have clear relevance for biological inference. Taken together, our results illustrate potentially general limitations for ENMs, especially when such models are used to predict species occurrences in novel environments. We offer basic methodological and conceptual guidelines for appropriate sampling and scale matching.
2997870|In order to estimate the effect of historical land cover change (deforestation) on climate, we perform a set of experiments with a climate system model of intermediate complexity-CLIMBER-2. We focus on the biophysical effect of the land cover change on climate and do not explicitly account for the biogeochemical effect. A dynamic scenario of deforestation during the last millennium is formulated based on the rates of land conversion to agriculture. The deforestation scenario causes a global cooling of 0.35
3697573|Aim: To identify the effect of climate change on selected plant species representative of the main vegetation types in the Faroe Islands. Due to a possible weakening of the North Atlantic Current, it is difficult to predict whether the climate in the Faroe Islands will be warmer or colder as a result of global warming. Therefore, two scenarios are proposed. The first scenario assumes an increase in summer and winter temperature of 2  C and the second a decrease in summer and winter temperature of 2  C. Location: Temperate, low alpine and alpine areas in the northern and central part of the Faroe Islands. Methods: The responses of 12 different plant species in the Faroe Islands were tested against measured soil temperature, expressed as T
30134090|Aim: Temporal variability of annual area burned in Canada (AAB-Can) from AD 1781 to 1982 is inferred from tree-ring width data. Next, correlation analysis is applied between the AAB-Can estimates and Northern Hemisphere (NH) warm season land temperatures to link recent interannual to decadal changes in area burned with large-scale climate variations. The rationale in this use of tree rings is that annual radial increments produced by trees can approximate area burned through sensing climate variations that promote fire activity. Location: The statistical reconstruction of area burned is at the scale of Canada. Methods: The data base of total area burned per year in Canada is used as the predictand. A set of 53 multicentury tree-ring width chronologies distributed across Canada is used as predictors. A linear model relating the predictand to the tree-ring predictors is fitted over the period 1920-82. The regression coefficients estimated for the calibration period are applied to the tree-ring predictors for as far back as 1781 to produce a series of AAB-Can estimates. Results: The AAB-Can estimates account for 44.1% of the variance in the observed data recorded from 1920 to 1982 (92.2% after decadal smoothing) and were verified using a split sample calibration-verification scheme. The statistical reconstruction indicates that the positive trend in AAB-Can from c. 1970-82 was preceded by three decades during which area burned was at its lowest during the past 180 years. Correlation analysis with NH warm season land temperatures from the late 18th century to the present revealed a positive statistical association with these estimates. Main conclusions: As with previous studies, it is demonstrated that the upward trend in AAB-Can is unlikely to be an artefact from changing fire reporting practices and may have been driven by large-scale climate variations.
41239406|Aim: To demonstrate how the interrelations of individual movements form largescale population-level movement patterns and how these patterns are associated with the underlying landscape dynamics by comparing ungulate movements across species. Locations: Arctic tundra in Alaska and Canada, temperate forests in Massachusetts, Patagonian Steppes in Argentina, Eastern Steppes in Mongolia. Methods: We used relocation data from four ungulate species (barren-ground caribou, Mongolian gazelle, guanaco and moose) to examine individual movements and the interrelation of movements among individuals. We applied and developed a suite of spatial metrics that measure variation in movement among individuals as population dispersion, movement coordination and realized mobility. Taken together, these metrics allowed us to quantify and distinguish among different large-scale population-level movement patterns such as migration, range residency and nomadism. We then related the population-level movement patterns to the underlying landscape vegetation dynamics via long-term remote sensing measurements of the temporal variability, spatial variability and unpredictability of vegetation productivity. Results: Moose, which remained in sedentary home ranges, and guanacos, which were partially migratory, exhibited relatively short annual movements associated with landscapes having very little broad-scale variability in vegetation. Caribou and gazelle performed extreme long-distance movements that were associated with broad-scale variability in vegetation productivity during the peak of the growing season. Caribou exhibited regular seasonal migration in which individuals were clustered for most of the year and exhibited coordinated movements. In contrast, gazelle were nomadic, as individuals were independently distributed and moved in an uncoordinated manner that relates to the comparatively unpredictable (yet broad-scale) vegetation dynamics of their landscape. Main conclusions: We show how broad-scale landscape unpredictability may lead to nomadism, an understudied type of long-distance movement. In contrast to classical migration where landscapes may vary at broad scales but in a predictable manner, long-distance movements of nomadic individuals are uncoordinated and independent from other such individuals. Landscapes with little broad-scale variability in vegetation productivity feature smaller-scale movements and allow for range residency. Nomadism requires distinct integrative conservation strategies that facilitate long-distance movements across the entire landscape and are not limited to certain migration corridors.
40205713|Aim: In this continental study, species richness at local (LSR) and regional (RSR) scales was correlated and examined as a function of stream (local) and watershed (regional) environment in an effort to elucidate what factors control diatom biodiversity across scales. Location: Conterminous United States. Methods: Data on diatom richness, stream conditions and watershed properties were generated by the US Geological Survey. In the present investigation, RSR was estimated as the total diatom richness in a hydrologic study unit and, together with stream and watershed characteristics, was included in stepwise multiple regressions of LSR. The unique and shared contributions of RSR, stream and watershed environment to the explained variance in LSR were determined by variance partitioning. RSR was regressed against stream and basin features averaged per study unit. Results: LSR responded most strongly to variability in stream manganese concentration and RSR. Other predictors included stream discharge and iron concentration, soil organic matter content and fertilization, and proportions of open water, barren land and forest in the watershed. Variance partitioning revealed that RSR had the lowest independent contribution to explained variance in LSR. Multiple regressions identified average stream iron concentration as the most important predictor of RSR. Main conclusions: Local micronutrient concentration was the major predictor of LSR, followed by RSR. Since average micronutrient supply in the region was the chief determinant of RSR, it is proposed that micronutrients had both a direct effect on LSR and an indirect effect through RSR. The same argument is extended to watershed features with an impact on stream trophic status, because of their substantial contributions to the explained variance in both LSR and RSR. Considering that the major proportion of LSR variance explained by RSR originated from the covariance of RSR with stream and watershed properties, it is concluded that the LSR-RSR relationship was mediated by the local and regional environment.
30134093|Aim: We present a continental-scale analysis that explores the processes controlling woody community structure in tropical savannas. We analyse how biotic and abiotic factors interact to promote and modify tree cover, examine alternative ecological hypotheses and quantify disturbance effects using satellite estimates of tree cover. Location: African savannas. Methods: Tree cover is represented as a resource-driven potential cover related to rainfall and soil characteristics perturbed by natural and human factors such as fire, cattle grazing, human population and cultivation. Within this framework our approach combines semi-empirical modelling and information theory to identify the best models. Results: Woody community structure across African savannas is best represented by a sigmoidal response of tree cover to mean annual precipitation (MAP), with a dependency on soil texture, which is modified by the separate effects of fire, domestic livestock, human population density and cultivation intensity. This model explains c. 66% of the variance in tree cover and appears consistent across the savanna regions of Africa. Main conclusions: The analysis provides a new understanding of the importance and interaction of environmental and disturbance factors that create the broad spatial patterns of tree cover observed in African savannas. Woody cover increases with rainfall, but is modified by disturbances. These 'perturbation' effects depend on MAP regimes: in arid savannas (MAP &lt; 400 mm) they are generally small (&lt; 1% decrease in cover), while in semi-arid and mesic savannas (400-1600 mm), perturbations result in an average 2% (400 mm) to 23% (1600 mm) decrease in cover; fire frequency and human population have more influence than cattle, and cultivation appears, on average, to lead to small increases in woody cover. Wet savannas (1600-2200 mm) are controlled by perturbations that inhibit canopy closure and reduce tree cover by, on average, 24-34%. Full understanding of the processes determining savanna structure requires consideration of resource limitation and disturbance dynamics.
3697591|Aim: To test the 'more individuals hypothesis' as a mechanism for the positive association between energy availability and species richness. This hypothesis predicts that total density and energy use in communities is linearly related to energy availability, and that species richness is a positive function of increased density. We also evaluate whether similar energy-density patterns apply to different migratory groups (residents, short-distance migrants and tropical migrants) separately. Location: European and North American forest bird communities. Methods: We collected published breeding bird census data from Europe and North America (n = 187). From each census data we calculated bird density (pairs
40205732|Aim: Species richness patterns along elevational gradients have been documented extensively. Yet, the implications of differences in how the data are compiled are seldom explored. We investigate the effect of grain size on the richness-elevation relationship. Grain size varies among the principal methods used to collect or aggregate species occurrences: localized sites, elevational 'bins' and interpolation of species ranges. Assumptions of sampling and species distributions also vary among these methods. Methodology can influence the pattern that is perceived and comparability of results. We compare patterns from all three methods explicitly using the same suite of observations, based on museum records and field surveys of non-flying small mammals. Our assessment is enhanced by comparing patterns resulting from each method for each of six adjacent mountain ranges. Location: Utah, North America. Methods: We document elevational species richness patterns using generalized linear models (GLMs), comparing the general shape of the trend as well as curvature, location and magnitude of peak richness across methods, both within and among gradients. We also introduce a new procedure to test for richness peaks using site-based occurrences. Results: We find a general congruence of the richness-elevation relationship, depicting a hump-shaped pattern with a second-order polynomial GLM showing a significant fit to nearly all gradient-methodology combinations. However, underlying characteristics of the trend may vary with grain size. As grain size coarsens, maximum species richness increases and elevation of the mode slightly decreases. Results: for curvature vary, but degree of curvature tends to increase as grain size coarsens. The richness-elevation patterns are independent of sampling effects. Main conclusions: The perceived elevational diversity pattern for small mammals along these mountain ranges is not scale-dependent. Differences in how the data are compiled are not reflected in major differences in patterns, even when local samples are neither uniformly spaced nor sampled with the same intensity. This result lends confidence to the assertion that patterns documented in similar studies with different methodologies and for which sampling is sufficiently comprehensive are good indicators of diversity. However, consistency of results from more than one compilation method may help to address issues of scale-dependence, more so when these comparisons are made explicit.
3697626|Aim: We studied the temporal and spatial patterns in deforestation and community structure of mammals in a fragmented old-growth, temperate rain forest to test the hypothesis that anthropogenic habitat conversion advances in a nonrandom manner across native landscapes, and that its effects on ecological communities are both persistent and predictable. Location: The location is the Hood Canal district of Olympic National Forest, Washington, USA. Results: Deforestation followed the apparently general pattern observed for deforestation of tropical rain forests and other native landscapes, advancing first along low and relatively level valleys, then to areas at higher elevations and along steeper slopes, and eventually to sites more distant from those of initial land conversion and transportation centres. Mammal surveys within this area indicated that this nonrandom advance of deforestation has created relatively steep geographical and topographic gradients in both local and landscape-level factors and, ultimately, in the structure of mammalian communities. Conclusion: The close and likely causal relationship between anthropogenic habitat loss and the ecological dynamics of mammalian communities and dependent species (e.g. spotted owls) indicates that our abilities to understand and eventually reduce the current extinction crisis may rely heavily on our understanding of, and abilities to modify, the manner in which we expand across and transform native landscapes.
2665337|Riddle & Hafner (1999) suggest that genetically differentiated lineages should be formally recognized as evolutionary significant units (ESUs) and that ESUs should replace currently recognized species as units in quantitative ecological and biogeographic analyses. Riddle & Hafner imply that if comparisons of desert rodent communities across many localities in south-western North America by Brown & Kurzius (1987) and Kelt et al. (1996) had used ESUs rather than species, substantially different results and conclusions would have been obtained. Here we defend our use of species in these studies, and question the wisdom of formalizing the concept of ESU and applying it in most biogeographic, ecological and behavioural studies. Studies of genetic variation and description of ESUs are uneven across taxa of mammals and geographical regions, and those ESUs that have been described are often difficult or impossible to identify on the basis of the morphological traits used to distinguish currently recognized species. Consequently, most of the specimens in museum drawers, nearly all of the fossil remains, and most of the animals studied in the field or laboratory by ecologists, behaviourists and other biologists cannot be assigned to ESUs. The currently recognized species, usually described originally on the basis of morphological and biological species concepts, provide the only relatively consistent, operational taxonomic units. Results of our studies on the biogeography of desert small mammals are not seriously altered by recent subdivisions of some species into multiple ESUs.
2665436|Data for five closely related species of gammarid crustaceans are used to examine interspecific relationships between the breadth of fundamental tolerance or capacity and geographical range size Gammarus duebeni is, almost without exception, the most tolerant species and that with the best physiological performance. Although there is some limited variation, the remaining species can be ranked broadly in the sequence G. zaddachi > G. salinus > G. oceanicus > G. locusta. The wide tolerance and high performance of G. duebeni is associated with the occupation of a wider range of environmental `types' than any other of the species. In terms of geographical range size, the species can be ranked from most to least widespread in the sequence G. oceanicus > G. duebeni > G. zaddachi > G. salinus > G. locusta. This provides little support for Brown's hypothesis, or the argument that the more widely distributed species within a taxonomic assemblage also tend to have the widest fundamental niches. However, if marine (G. oceanicus and G. locusta) and estuarine (G. duebeni, G. zaddachi, G. salinus) species are considered separately, then in each case the species with the largest geographical range is also the most tolerant/best performer. In this sense, the jack-of-alltrades is the master-of-all, rather than the master-of-none.
3182738|The aim of the study was to assess the impact of a pastoral management chosen to limit the recent expansion of woodland on a Mediterranean mountain on land snail diversity. An additional aim was to acquire quantitative data that could be used to identify pasture environments from Holocene molluscan assemblages. The work was undertaken at the Luberon mountain, Provence, south of France. We used a stratified quantitative sampling scheme according to altitude and vegetation structure. A total of 80 sites were studied. Large species were collected within a 5 x 5-m plot. Small species were extracted from litter and surface soil. A standard procedure for site description was used based on 35 environmental variables. Grazing pressure was estimated according to the impact of grazing on the herb layer. Correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis were performed using CANOCO 4.0 software. The distribution of land snails is related to altitude and grazing intensity. Large patches of grazed grassland harbour open country and mountain snail species. Thermophilic open ground species are located in grazed grasslands at lower altitude. Shade-loving species are present in ungrazed scrublands or in small clearings on the upper slopes. The lowest species richness, diversity and equitability are associated with large patches of grazed grassland, the presence of a continuous cover of short grass reinforcing this negative impact on snail diversity. Our study is consistent with similar works on land snails or other invertebrates but discordant with vegetation studies. A homogeneous grazed herb layer significantly reduces snail diversity and abundance. Heterogeneity seems to favour snail diversity both at the local and landscape scales. However, sheep grazing contributes to the expansion of suitable habitats for rare snail species.
40205699|Aim: To test two hypotheses: (i) the Rapoport effect is valid for a river continuum, particularly regarding the altitudinal distribution of mayflies over the large-scale continuum from alpine stream to medium-sized lowland river, and (ii) the observed Rapoport effect is based on high nestedness of the meta-assemblage, implying the presence of a common species pool and species-thinned nested subsets. Location: Geometric centre of Eurasia, south-western Siberia, Russia. Methods: Regression analysis of breadth and midpoints of species altitudinal ranges, species richness and altitude. Comparison of the observed patterns with the null model predicted by the mid-domain effect and conventional null hypothesis. Nestedness analysis. Results: The Rapoport effect was explicitly demonstrated: species altitudinal ranges expanded with increase in the ranges' midpoints and average per-altitude ranges increased with increase in altitude and concurrent decrease in species richness. The significance of each trend was confirmed with respect to both the null models applied. Nestedness analysis has revealed that the observed Rapoport effect is based on nested organization of the meta-assemblage over the river altitudinal/longitudinal gradient: a common species pool at low (but not the lowest) altitudes and nested subsets of this pool at higher altitudes. Main conclusions: This study for the first time credibly shows the altitudinal Rapoport effect in freshwaters. This finding demonstrates cross-habitat-type consistency of the Rapoport effect, but does not suggest that the Rapoport effect is an obligatory attribute of river systems or lotic organisms. High nestedness underlying the observed Rapoport effect together with some previous studies indicate that the Rapoport effect in altitudinal and bathymetric gradients in general may be based on nested organization. The study highlights a deficiency of cross-habitat-type analyses of macroecological patterns (i.e. over terrestrial, freshwater and marine habitats).
40205708|Aim: To test the hypothesis that plant species with a higher dispersal ability have a lower beta diversity. Location: North America north of Mexico. Method Propagules of pteridophytes (ferns and their allies) are more vagile than propagules of spermatophytes (gymnosperms and angiosperms), and thus pteridophytes have a higher dispersal ability than do spermatophytes. The study area was divided into 71 geographical units distributed in five latitudinal zones. Species lists of pteridophytes and spermatophytes were compiled for each geographical unit. Three measures of beta diversity were used:
40602939|Aim: Variation partitioning based on canonical analysis is the most commonly used analysis to investigate community patterns according to environmental and spatial predictors. Ecologists use this method in order to understand the pure contribution of the environment independent of space, and vice versa, as well as to control for inflated type I error in assessing the environmental component under spatial autocorrelation. Our goal is to use numerical simulations to compare how different spatial predictors and model selection procedures perform in assessing the importance of the spatial component and in controlling for type I error while testing environmental predictors. Innovation: We determine for the first time how the ability of commonly used (polynomial regressors) and novel methods based on eigenvector maps compare in the realm of spatial variation partitioning. We introduce a novel forward selection procedure to select spatial regressors for community analysis. Finally, we point out a number of issues that have not been previously considered about the joint explained variation between environment and space, which should be taken into account when reporting and testing the unique contributions of environment and space in patterning ecological communities. Main conclusions: In tests of species-environment relationships, spatial autocorrelation is known to inflate the level of type I error and make the tests of significance invalid. First, one must determine if the spatial component is significant using all spatial predictors (Moran's eigenvector maps). If it is, consider a model selection for the set of spatial predictors (an individual-species forward selection procedure is to be preferred) and use the environmental and selected spatial predictors in a partial regression or partial canonical analysis scheme. This is an effective way of controlling for type I error in such tests. Polynomial regressors do not provide tests with a correct level of type I error.
40205695|Aim: To test whether the distribution of alien bird impacts varies across bird families and regions of origin, and to investigate whether species traits associated with successful introductions can predict which species will have negative impacts in the new area of introduction. Location: Europe and the Mediterranean Basin. Methods: Combining historical information and published literature about negative economic, biological and human health impacts, we compared the distribution of impacts among bird families and native origins of bird species for three major types of impact (economic, biodiversity and human health). We examined the relationships between ecological, biological and reproductive characteristics of species and the severity of the impacts. Results: The majority of alien species with reported impacts originated from the Afrotropical, Indo-Malayan and Palaearctic biogeographical regions. The distribution of alien bird species in Europe with reported impacts shows a taxonomic bias and largely mirrors patterns of establishment. While most species had primarily either economic or biodiversity impacts, several species in the Anatidae, Corvidae, Passeridae, Phasianidae and Sturnidae families were associated with moderate to serious negative impacts on both economic resources and native biodiversity. After controlling for taxonomic effects, species with the greatest overall impacts were habitat generalists and multi-brooded, while species with smaller bodies and the tendency to form large feeding or roosting flocks were linked with greater impacts on native biodiversity. Main conclusions: This study presents the first synthesis of published impact data for alien birds and provides a broad-scale perspective on factors that contribute to their impacts. The results show that accounting for both species traits and taxonomy improves our ability to predict the impacts of alien bird species. Because several species are currently in the early stages of establishment in Europe, there may be an opportunity to limit negative impacts with efforts that promote proactive strategies against species and families possessing the above characteristics.
2665412|Measurements of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration, and its stable carbon isotope composition, from gas samples trapped in ice at Taylor Dome, Antarctica, indicate that the global carbon cycle has not been in steady state during the Holocene epoch. Inverse carbon cycle modelling has led to the hypothesized cumulative release from the terrestrial biosphere of 195 Gt C between 7 and 1 kyr before present (BP). Here, three independent lines of evidence testing this hypothesis are critically examined: global reconstructions of terrestrial carbon reservoirs, vegetation-climate modelling, and high latitude subfossil plant stable carbon isotope records. Despite inherent uncertainties associated with each approach, it emerges that none strongly upholds the suggestion that terrestrial ecosystems released large amounts of carbon between 7 and 1 kyr BP. Consequently, our understanding of the processes involved in the exchange of CO<sub>2</sub> between the atmosphere, oceans and land biota continues to remain incomplete and to require further investigation.
3182722|Aim: To identify the factors determining the range size of pteridophytes (ferns and allied plants) in an Andean region. Location: Humid eastern Andean slope in Carrasco National Park, Bolivia. Methods: I used a macroecological approach to search for correlations of range size to elevation, habitat type, life form, reproductive strategy, the species' elevational range, and its frequency, among the 473 pteridophyte species recorded in the park. Results: Range sizes were smallest at 1800-3500 m elevation and in localized habitats with little disturbance (ravines, ridges), while regularly disturbed habitats (pastures, roadsides) supported widespread species. Families and genera differed with respect to the range sizes of their species, but this pattern was not correlated to any other studied factor and could not be explained. Species with restricted ranges tended to be more frequent in the study area than widespread species. Widespread species tended to have large elevational ranges, implying that they are ecologically more adaptable than localized species. There was no relationship of range size to life form or to the studied reproductive aspects (sexual vs. asexual reproduction, chlorophyllous vs. achlorophyllous spores). Conclusions: The above trends were mostly uncorrelated and explained a rather small portion of the observed range size variance. Thus, it is not yet possible to draw a cohesive picture of the factors determining pteridophyte range size. Intriguing questions for future research include the relationship of range size to dispersal, competitive ability, and taxonomic affinity.
3697552|Aim: To describe the spatial variation in pteridophyte species richness; evaluate the importance of macroclimate, topography and within-grid cell range variables; assess the influence of spatial autocorrelation on the significance of the variables; and to test the prediction of the mid-domain effect. Location: The Iberian Peninsula. Methods: We estimated pteridophyte richness on a grid map with c. 2500 km
40205679|Aim: To identify temperatures at which cell division and differentiation are active in order to verify the existence of a common critical temperature determining growth in conifers of cold climates. Location: Ten European and Canadian sites at different latitudes and altitudes. Methods: The periods of cambial activity and cell differentiation were assessed on a weekly time-scale on histological sections of cambium and wood tissue collected over 2 to 5 years per site from 1998 to 2005 from the stems of seven conifer species. All data were compared with daily air temperatures recorded from weather stations located close to the sites. Logistic regressions were used to calculate the probability of xylogenesis and of cambium being active at a given temperature. Results: Xylogenesis lasted from May to October, with a growing period varying from 3 to 5 months depending on location and elevation. Despite the wide geographical range of the monitored sites, temperatures for onset and ending of xylogenesis converged towards narrow ranges with average values around 4-5, 8-9 and 13-14 C for daily minimum, mean and maximum temperature, respectively. On the contrary, cell division in the cambium stopped in July-August, when temperatures were still high. Main conclusions: Wood formation in conifers occurred when specific critical temperatures were reached. Although the timing and duration of xylogenesis varied among species, sites and years, the estimated temperatures were stable for all trees studied. These results provide biologically based evidence that temperature is a critical factor limiting production and differentiation of xylem cells in cold climates. Although daily temperatures below 4-5 C are still favourable for photosynthesis, thermal conditions below these values could inhibit the allocation of assimilated carbon to structural investment, i.e. xylem growth.
3697541|Aim: To document the patterns of fish species richness and their possible causes in China's lakes at regional and national scales. Location: Lakes across China. Methods: We compiled data of fish species richness, limnological characteristics and climatic variables for 109 lakes across five regions of China: East region, Northeast region, Southwest region, North-Northwest region, and the Tibetan Plateau. Correlation analyses, regression models and a general linear model were used to explore the patterns of fish species richness. Results: At the national scale, lake altitude, energy availability (potential evapotranspiration, PET) and lake area explained 79.6% of the total variation of the lake fish species richness. The determinants of the fish richness pattern varied among physiographic regions. Lake area was the strongest predictor of fish species richness in the East and Southwest lakes, accounting for 22.2% and 82.9% of the variation, respectively. Annual PET explained 68.7% of the variation of fish richness in the Northeast lakes. Maximum depth, mineralization degree, and lake area explained 45.5% of the fish variation in the lakes of the North-Northwest region. On the Tibetan Plateau, lake altitude was the first predictor variable, interpreting 32.2% of the variation. Main conclusions: Lake altitude was the most important factor explaining the variation of fish species richness across China's lakes, and accounted for 74.5% of the variation. This may stem in part from the fact that the lakes investigated in our study span the largest altitudinal range anywhere in the world. The effects of the lake altitude on fish species richness can be separated into direct and indirect aspects due to its collinearity with PET. We also found that the fish diversity and its determinants were scale-dependent. Fish species richness was probably energy-determined in the cold region, while it was best predicted by the lake area in the relatively geologically old region. The independent variables we used only explained a small fraction of the variations in the lake fish species richness in East China and the Tibetan Plateau, which may be due to the effects of human activity and historical events, respectively.
40801852|Aim: Optimal body size theories predict that large clades have a single, optimal, body size that serves as an evolutionary attractor, with the full body size spectrum of a clade resulting from interspecific competition. Because interspecific competition is believed to be reduced on islands, such theories predict that insular animals should be closer to the optimal size than mainland animals. We test the resulting prediction that insular clade members should therefore have narrower body size ranges than their mainland relatives.
40602959|Aims: (1) To map the species richness of Australian lizards and describe patterns of range size and species turnover that underlie them. (2) To assess the congruence in the species richness of lizards and other vertebrate groups. (3) To search for commonalities in the drivers of species richness in Australian vertebrates. Location: Australia. Methods: We digitized lizard distribution data to generate gridded maps of species richness and -diversity. Using similar maps for amphibians, mammals and birds, we explored the relationship between species richness and temperature, actual evapotranspiration, elevation and local elevation range. We used spatial eigenvector filtering and geographically weighted regression to explore geographical patterns and take spatial autocorrelation into account. We explored congruence between the species richness of vertebrate groups whilst controlling for environmental effects. Results: Lizard richness peaks in the central deserts (where -diversity is low) and tropical north-east (where -diversity is high). The intervening lowlands have low species richness and -diversity. Generally, lizard richness is uncorrelated with that of other vertebrates but this low congruence is strongly spatially structured. Environmental models for all groups also show strong spatial heterogeneity. Lizard richness is predicted by different environmental factors from other vertebrates, being highest in dry and hot regions. Accounting for environmental drivers, lizard richness is weakly positively related to richness of other vertebrates, both at global and local scales. Main conclusions: Lizard species richness differs from that of other vertebrates. This difference is probably caused by differential responses to environmental gradients and different centres of diversification; there is little evidence for inter-taxon competition limiting lizard richness. Local variation in habitat diversity or evolutionary radiations may explain weak associations between taxa, after controlling for environmental variables. We strongly recommend that studies of variation in species richness examine and account for non-stationarity.
3697477|Aim: To determine the geographical variation in serotiny in a common New Zealand shrub as a contemporary indicator of past fire regimes. The distribution of serotiny could then be used to explore factors limiting the spread of fire-dependent vegetation. Location: South Island, New Zealand. Methods: Serotiny was assessed as the proportion of closed capsules on a shoot of standard stem diameter for 5-35 plants in 45 widely scattered populations of Leptospermum scoparium. Site characteristics, including locality, altitude, rainfall, habitat type and minimum burnable area were recorded at sampling sites. Results: Serotiny was distributed bimodally within and among populations with capsules either mostly closed or mostly open. There was considerable geographical variation in capsule behaviour, most of which we attribute to variation in fire history. In wetlands and other sites unsuitable for forest growth, populations were all serotinous above a minimum area of
3697482|Aim: This study aims to explain the patterns of species richness and nestedness of a terrestrial bird community in a poorly studied region. Location: Twenty-six islands in the Dahlak Archipelago, Southern Red Sea, Eritrea. Methods: The islands and five mainland areas were censused in summer 1999 and winter 2001. To study the importance of island size, isolation from the mainland and inter-island distance, I used constrained null models for the nestedness temperature calculator and a cluster analysis. Results: Species richness depended on island area and isolation from the mainland. Nestedness was detected, even when passive sampling was accounted for. The nested rank of islands was correlated with area and species richness, but not with isolation. Idiosyncrasies appeared among species-poor and species-rich islands, and among common and rare species. Cluster analysis showed differences among species-rich islands, close similarity among species-poor and idiosyncratic islands, and that the compositional similarity among islands decreased with increasing inter-island distance. Thus, faunas of species-poor, smaller islands were more likely to be subsets of faunas of species-rich, larger islands if the distance between the islands was short. Main conclusions: Species richness and nestedness were related to island area, and nestedness also to inter-island distances but not to isolation from the mainland. Thus, nestedness and species richness are not affected in the same way by area and distance. Moreover, idiosyncrasies may have been the outcome of species distributions among islands being influenced also by non-nested distributions of habitats, inter-specific interactions, and differences in species distributions across the mainland. Idiosyncrasies in nested patterns may be as important as the nested pattern itself for conservation - and conservation strategies based on nestedness and strong area effects (e.g. protection of only larger islands) may fail to preserve idiosyncratic species/habitats.
2665354|Fire histories were compared between the south-western United States and northern Patagonia, Argentina using both documentary records (1914-87 and 1938-96, respectively) and tree-ring reconstructions over the past several centuries. The two regions share similar fire-climate relation-ships and similar relationships of climatic anomalies to the El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO). In both regions, El Nino events coincide with above-average cool season precipitation and increased moisture availability to plants during the growing season. Conversely, La Nina events correspond with drought conditions. Monthly patterns of ENSO indicators (southern oscillation indices and tropical Pacific sea surface temperatures) preceding years of exceptionally widespread fires are highly similar in both regions during the 20th century. Major fire years tend to follow the switching from El Nino to La Nina conditions. El Nino conditions enhance the production of fine fuels, which when desiccated by La Nina conditions create conditions for widespread wildfires. Decadal-scale patterns of fire occurrence since the mid-17th century are highly similar in both regions. A period of decreased fire occurrence in both regions from c. 1780-1830 coincides with decreased amplitude and/or frequency of ENSO events. The interhemispheric synchrony of fire regimes in these two distant regions is tentatively interpreted to be a response to decadal-scale changes in ENSO activity. The ENSO-fire relationships of the south-western USA and northern Patagonia document the importance of high-frequency climatic variation to fire hazard. Thus, in addition to long-term trends in mean climatic conditions, multi-decadal scale changes in year-to-year variability need to be considered in assessments of the potential influence of climatic change on fire regimes.
3697506|Aim: Climate-driven changes affecting ecosystem primary production have been well documented for many vegetation types, while the effects of climate on plant populations remains unclear. Herein, we address the relationships between climatic variables and shoot density, reproductive allocation and shoot biomass in Leymus chinensis on a large-scale climatic gradient in 2000. Location: Nine sites experiencing similar light regimes, but differing in longitude, precipitation and altitude were selected on the North-east China Transect (NECT) from
41239484|Aim: Studies of environmental niche shift/niche conservatism that are based on species distribution modelling require a quantification of niche purity and potential overlap. Although various metrics have been proposed for this task, no comparisons of their performance are available yet that express the linearity of range shifts and error-proneness. Herein, we assess the performance of six niche overlap metrics using three sister pairs of plethodontid salamanders as well as artificial species to test for linearity of overlap curves, impacts of varying potential distribution sizes and study area sizes. Location: North America, artificial environments. Methods: Species distribution models for the salamanders were performed with Maxent, and artificial species were created in the R environment. Potential distributions of species with varying range sizes and extents of the study area were compared using the Bray-Curtis distance BC, Schoener's D, two different modifications of the Hellinger distance I mod, I cor, Pianka's O and Horn's R. Niche overlaps in ecological space were compared using linear discriminant analyses based on principal components. Results: Simulations of niche overlaps revealed strong variations in the performance of the niche overlap metrics. In artificial species, BC and D performed best, followed by O, R and I cor , but the modified Hellinger distance I mod showed a nonlinear slope and a truncated range. Furthermore, the simulations suggest that, in proportionally small potential distributions on large grids, an inclusion of a high proportion of grid cells with low occurrence probabilities representing background noise may bias assessments of niche overlaps. Main conclusions: Both the salamander examples and simulations suggest that Schoener's D and the Bray-Curtis distance BC are best suited to compute niche overlaps from potential distributions derived from species distribution models. However, like all analysed metrics, both D and BC are seriously affected by the inclusion of high numbers of grid cells where the species are probably absent, i. e. with low occurrence probabilities. Therefore, pre-processing to eliminate background noise in the potential distribution grids is highly recommended.
3697518| Aim: The response of L. salicaria and P. australis plants originating from a broad latitudinal gradient to mineral nutrient and water supply was studied. We suggest implications for mechanisms possibly underlying the invasiveness of these two plant species. Location: A common garden tub experiment was carried out at Tebo, Czech Republic (49 N 1447' E, altitude 433 m). Methods: Plants of 30 L. salicaria and 6 P. australis populations originating from a wide geographical area in Europe and in Israel (60-32 N latitude, 6 W-20 E longitude) were cultivated for one growing season at two water levels and three (L. salicaria) or two (P. australis) nutrient doses, respectively. At the end of cultivation, basic morphological and growth characteristics were recorded. Results: The latitude of the original geographical location was the most significant factor, affecting both the phenology and most of the plant morphological and growth characteristics measured in both plant species, with the characteristics related to plant size being negatively correlated with latitude. The effect of nutrient dose was very strong in both species, while the effect of water level was more pronounced in P. australis than in L. salicaria. Main conclusions: The results confirmed the existence of a large phenotypic variability in both plant species within their native ranges of occurrence. In both plant species, the latitudinal variation in plant morphological and growth characteristics most probably indicates the differentiation of genotypes adapted to local geographical conditions. The plants of both species originating from all geographical locations tested responded to the respective nutrient treatments in a similar manner. Exceptions were found in growth characteristics related to reproduction in L. salicaria, indicating that better nutrient supply could enhance the reproductive ability of certain genotypes. Based on the results obtained, we suggest implications for mechanisms possibly underlying the invasiveness of the plant species studied. 
40405762|Aim: We examine the relative importance of seed dispersal mode in determining the range size and range placement in 524 species from six focal plant families (Agavaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Malvacaeae, Sapindaceae, Proteaceae and Fabaceae (Acacia)). Location: Western Australia. Methods: Taxa were categorized by dispersal mode and life-form and their distributions modelled using MAXENT. Geographical range size was compared amongst dispersal mode, life-form and biome using phylogenetically independent contrasts. Geographical range placement was considered in a similar manner. Results: Range size did not vary with dispersal mode (ant versus wind and vertebrate dispersal) or life-form, and instead varied primarily as a function of the biogeographical region in which a species was found. Range placement, however, did vary among dispersal modes, with the consequence that diversity of wind-and ant-dispersed plants increased with latitude while the diversity of vertebratedispersed plants was more evenly distributed. Main conclusions: For the taxa studied, range sizes were a function of the biogeographical region in which species were found. Although differences in range size may exist among species differing in dispersal modes, they are likely to be far smaller than differences among species from different biogeographical regions. The trait most likely to affect species geographical range size, and hence rarity and risks associated with other threats, may simply be the geographical region in which that species has evolved.
4139443|Aim This study uses a high-resolution simulation of the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) climate to assess: (1) whether LGM climate still affects the geographical species richness patterns in the European tree flora and (2) the relative importance of modern and LGM climate as controls of tree species richness in Europe. Location The parts of Europe that were unglaciated during the LGM. Methods Atlas data on the distributions of 55 tree species were linked with data on modern and LGM climate and climatic heterogeneity in a geographical information system with a 60-km grid. Four measures of species richness were computed: total richness, and richness of the 18 most restricted species, 19 species of medium incidence (intermediate species) and 18 most widespread species. We used ordinary least-squares regression and spatial autoregressive modelling to test and estimate the richness-climate relationships. Results LGM climate constituted the best single set of explanatory variables for richness of restricted species, while modern climate and climatic heterogeneity was best for total and widespread species richness and richness of intermediate species, respectively. The autoregressive model with all climatic predictors was supported for all richness measures using an information-theoretic approach, albeit only weakly so for total species richness. Among the strongest relationships were increases in total and intermediate richness with climatic heterogeneity and in restricted richness with LGM growing-degree-days. Partial regression showed that climatic heterogeneity accounted for the largest unique variation fraction for intermediate richness, while LGM climate was particularly important for restricted richness. Main conclusions LGM climate appears to still affect geographical patterns of tree species richness in Europe, albeit the relative importance of modern and LGM climate depends on range size. Notably, LGM climate is a strong richness control for species with a restricted range, which appear to still be associated with their glacial refugia.
3877789|Aims: Different aspects of soaring-bird migration are influenced by weather. However, the relationship between weather and the onset of soaring-bird migration, particularly in autumn, is not clear. Although long-term migration counts are often unavailable near the breeding areas of many soaring birds in the western Palaearctic, soaring-bird migration has been systematically monitored in Israel, a region where populations from large geographical areas converge. This study tests several fundamental hypotheses regarding the onset of migration and explores the connection between weather, migration onset and arrival at a distant site. Location: Globally gridded meteorological data from the breeding areas in north-eastern Europe were used as predictive variables in relation to the arrival of soaring migrants in Israel. Methods: Inverse modelling was used to study the temporal and spatial influence of weather on initiation of migration based on autumn soaring-bird migration counts in Israel. Numerous combinations of migration duration and temporal influence of meteorological variables (temperature, sea-level pressure and precipitable water) were tested with different models for meteorological sensitivity. Results: The day of arrival in Israel of white storks, honey buzzards, Levant sparrowhawks and lesser spotted eagles was significantly and strongly related to meteorological conditions in the breeding area days or even weeks before arrival in Israel. The cumulative number of days or cumulative value above or below a meteorological threshold performed significantly better than other models tested. Models provided reliable estimates of migration duration for each species. Main conclusions: The meteorological triggers of migration at the breeding grounds differed between species and were related to deteriorating living conditions and deteriorating migratory flight conditions. Soaring birds are sensitive to meteorological triggers at the same period every year and their temporal response to weather appears to be constrained by their annual routine.
41058222|Aim: To undertake a quantitative review of the Quaternary fossil record of European water beetles to evaluate their geographical and temporal coverage, and to characterize the extent and typology of the shifts in their geographical ranges. Location: Europe. Methods: We compiled Quaternary water beetle records from public databases and published references. We included in the analyses species of 10 families of aquatic Coleoptera, and recorded range shifts through the comparison of the location of fossil remains with the current distribution of the species. We explored the ecological representativeness of the fossil record, as well as the relationship between range shifts and the habitat type of the species. Results: Our final data set included over 9000 records for 259 water beetle species. Fossil remains of aquatic beetles have been documented exclusively north of 42  N, with most of the records from the British Isles and virtually none from southern Europe or the Mediterranean Basin. Over 80% of the records were from the Late Glacial and the Holocene periods (the last 15 kyr), and overall approximately 20% of the species have been recorded outside their present range (23% excluding Holocene records). Most range shifts were southern or western extensions of currently widespread, northern species, with 10 species displaying major range shifts through the Palaearctic. Lentic species were significantly more likely to have experienced major range shifts, even accounting for the general ecological bias of the fossil record towards lentic habitats. Main conclusions: Our results show that the Quaternary record of aquatic Coleoptera is geographically, temporally and ecologically skewed, necessitating caution when extrapolating general conclusions about range changes and ecological stability to other areas or periods on the basis of such scattered evidence. Most central and northern European species for which there are fossil records seem to have conserved their ranges through the Late Pleistocene, with geographical shifts mostly restricted to species with current widespread north Palaearctic or Holarctic distributions. Major range shifts through the Palaearctic are taxonomically uneven, suggesting either an idiosyncratic behaviour of taxa depending on ecological or phylogenetic factors, or a sampling artefact produced by the limited availability of taxonomic expertise.
3697589| Aim: To understand the impact of glacial refugia and migration pathways on the modern genetic diversity of Pinus sylvestris. Location: The study was carried out throughout Europe. Methods: An extended set of data of pollen and macrofossil remains was used to locate the glacial refugia and reconstruct the migrating routes of P. sylvestris throughout Europe. A vegetation model was used to simulate the extent of the potential refugia during the last glacial period. At the same time a genetic survey was carried out on this species. Results: The simulated distribution of P. sylvestris during the last glacial period is coherent with the observed fossil data, which showed a patchy distribution of the refugia between c. 40 N and 50 N. Several migrational fronts were detected within the Iberian and the Italian peninsulas, and outside the Hungarian plain and around the Alps. The modern mitochondrial DNA depicted three different haplotypes for P sylvestris. Two distinct haplotypes were restricted to northern Spain and Italy, and the third haplotype dominated most of the present-day remaining distribution range of P. sylvestris in Europe. Main conclusions: During the last glacial period P. sylvestris was constrained under severe climatic conditions to survive in scattered and restricted refugial areas. Combining palaeoenvironmental data, vegetation modelling and the genetic data, we have shown that the long-term isolation in the glacial refugia and the migrational process during the Holocene have played a major role in shaping the modern genetic diversity of P. sylvestris in Europe. 
3697427|Aim: Small mammal species richness and relative abundance vary along elevational gradients, but there are different patterns that exist. This study reports the patterns of distribution and abundance of small mammals along the broader elevational gradient of Mt. Qilian range. Location: The study was conducted in the Mt. Qilian range, north-western China, from June to August 2001. Methods: Removal trapping was conducted using a standardized technique at 7 sites ranging between 1600 and 3900 m elevation within three transects. Correlation, regression and graphical analyses were used to evaluate the diversity patterns along this elevational gradient. Results: In total, 586 individuals representing 18 nonvolant small mammal species were collected during 20 160 trap nights. Species composition was different among the three transects with 6 (33%) of the species found only within one transect. Elevational distribution and relative abundance of small rodents showed substantial spatial variation, with only 2 species showing nonsignificant capture frequencies across elevations. Despite these variations, some general patterns of elevational distribution emerged: humped-shape relationships between species diversity and elevation were noted in all three transects with diversity peaks at middle elevations. In addition, relative abundance was negatively correlated with elevation. Conclusions: Results indicate that maximum richness and diversity of nonvolant small mammals occurred at mid-elevations where several types of plants reached their maximum diversity and primary productivity, and where rainfall and humidity reached a maximum. It is demonstrated that the mid-elevation bulge is a general feature of at least a large portion of the biota on the Mt. Qilian range.
30134099|Aim: Studies exploring the determinants of geographical gradients in the occurrence of species or their traits obtain data by: (1) overlaying species range maps; (2) mapping survey-based species counts; or (3) superimposing models of individual species' distributions. These data types have different spatial characteristics. We investigated whether these differences influence conclusions regarding postulated determinants of species richness patterns. Location: Our study examined terrestrial bird diversity patterns in 13 nations of southern and eastern Africa, spanning temperate to tropical climates. Methods: Four species richness maps were compiled based on range maps, field-derived bird atlas data, logistic and autologistic distribution models. Ordinary and spatial regression models served to examine how well each of five hypotheses predicted patterns in each map. These hypotheses propose productivity, temperature, the heat-water balance, habitat heterogeneity and climatic stability as the predominant determinants of species richness. Results: The four richness maps portrayed broadly similar geographical patterns but, due to the nature of underlying data types, exhibited marked differences in spatial autocorrelation structure. These differences in spatial structure emerged as important in determining which hypothesis appeared most capable of explaining each map's patterns. This was true even when regressions accounted for spurious effects of spatial autocorrelation. Each richness map, therefore, identified a different hypothesis as the most likely cause of broad-scale gradients in species diversity. Main conclusions: Because the 'true' spatial structure of species richness patterns remains elusive, firm conclusions regarding their underlying environmental drivers remain difficult. More broadly, our findings suggest that care should be taken to interpret putative determinants of large-scale ecological gradients in light of the type and spatial characteristics of the underlying data. Indeed, closer scrutiny of these underlying data-here the distributions of individual species-and their environmental associations may offer important insights into the ultimate causes of observed broad-scale patterns.
40602958|Aim: Dry season deciduousness affects intra-and inter-annual patterns of carbon, water and energy balance in seasonal tropical forests. Because it is affected by rainfall, temperature and solar radiation, deciduousness may be an indicator of the response of vegetation to climate change. Better understanding of how spatial patterns of deciduousness are affected by climate and other environmental gradients will improve the ability to predict responses to climate change. This study develops remote sensing methods for quantifying tropical forest deciduousness and examines the relationship between deciduousness and environmental factors in semi-deciduous tropical forest. Location: Central Panama. Methods: I applied spectral mixture analysis (SMA) and the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) to Landsat images to predict deciduousness which was ground-truthed with field observations of the percentage of overstorey deciduous trees. Using predicted deciduousness from SMA, patterns of deciduousness at three spatial scales were analysed. I determined how deciduousness varied spatially with rainfall and geological substrate. Results: Both SMA and NDVI had strong correlations (r > 0.9) with field observations of deciduousness. On a landscape scale, deciduousness increased as rainfall decreased, but geological substrate altered this relationship. On some geological substrates, deciduousness was much greater than expected for a given rainfall total or showed a slight but significant increase with rainfall. At an intermediate spatial scale, there were highly deciduous patches from 3 to 250 ha in size embedded in non-deciduous forest, which may have resulted from topography, soil variation or past land use. Main conclusions: Dry season deciduousness can be accurately quantified using satellite images indicating that remote sensing can be a valuable tool for detecting change and understanding ecosystem processes in tropical forests from landscape to regional scales.
41239345|Aim: The goals of this study are: (1) to determine whether increasing atmospheric CO concentrations and changing climate increased intrinsic water use efficiency (iWUE, as detected by changes in C) over the last four decades; and if it did increase iWUE, whether it led to increased tree growth (as measured by tree-ring growth); (2) to assess whether CO responses are biome dependent due to different environmental conditions, including availability of nutrients and water; and (3) to discuss how the findings of this study can better inform assumptions of CO fertilization and climate change effects in biospheric and climate models. Location: A global range of sites covering all major forest biome types. Methods: The analysis encompassed 47 study sites including boreal, wet temperate, mediterranean, semi-arid and tropical biomes for which measurements of tree ring C and growth are available over multiple decades. Results: The iWUE inferred from the C analyses of comparable mature trees increased 20.5% over the last 40 years with no significant differences between biomes. This increase in iWUE did not translate into a significant overall increase in tree growth. Half of the sites showed a positive trend in growth while the other half had a negative or no trend. There were no significant trends within biomes or among biomes. Main conclusions: These results show that despite an increase in atmospheric CO concentrations of over 50 p.p.m. and a 20.5% increase in iWUE during the last 40 years, tree growth has not increased as expected, suggesting that other factors have overridden the potential growth benefits of a CO-rich world in many sites. Such factors could include climate change (particularly drought), nutrient limitation and/or physiological long-term acclimation to elevated CO. Hence, the rate of biomass carbon sequestration in tropical, arid, mediterranean, wet temperate and boreal ecosystems may not increase with increasing atmospheric CO concentrations as is often implied by biospheric models and short-term elevated CO experiments.
40205683|Aim: To deconstruct the biodiversity pattern of the 152 waterbird species breeding in Europe to better understand its multiple causal processes. Location: Continental Europe, Iceland and the British Isles. Methods: We considered the orders that are typically comprised by swimming, diving or wading birds, which inhabit marshes, fens, peatlands and fresh, brackish or salt waters, including coastal waters. We used the 55 main river basins of Europe as geographical units, and searched for either chorotypes (groups of similar species distributions) or gradual replacement of species throughout the river basins. Chorotypes were recognized by applying a probabilistic classification method to the distributions. Then we used GLM to characterize the extent and the species richness of each chorotype according to energy availability (higher levels of environmental energy favouring the presence of species), climatic stress due to an excess of energy, availability of water, productivity, seasonality and surface area. Results: One hundred and forty species significantly aggregate into nine chorotypes. The other 12 species, most of them marine, are centred on Great Britain, dropping away progressively on coasts further away from there. Differences in either the availability of energy or climatic stress significantly characterized the distribution of seven chorotypes comprising 90.8% of the species. Main conclusions: Chorotypes are meaningful and useful to deconstruct biodiversity patterns. Our results suggest that energy is the main factor related to the biogeographical patterns of breeding waterbirds in Europe, and provide an insight into regional trends of species richness previously analysed with a habitat-scale perspective.
30134098|Aim: Habitat and climate heterogeneity may affect patterns of species diversity from the relatively local scale of communities to the broad biogeographical scale of continents. However, the effects of heterogeneity on species diversity have not been studied as widely at intermediate scales although differences among landscapes in local climate and habitat should maintain beta-diversity. Location: Bailey ecoregions in the USA. Methods: Using a geographically extensive dataset on bird distribution and abundance in 35 ecoregions, we tested for the effects of habitat and climate heterogeneity on beta-diversity at two discrete spatial scales: among sample points within landscapes, and among landscapes within ecoregions. Results: Landscape-level beta-diversity typically accounted for 50% or more of gamma-diversity and was significantly and positively related to habitat heterogeneity (elevational range within an ecoregion) and climate heterogeneity (variation in potential evapotranspiration). Contrary to predictions, point-level beta-diversity was negatively related to habitat and climate heterogeneity, perhaps because heterogeneity constrains alpha-diversity at the landscape level. The geographical spatial separation of landscapes within an ecoregion did not significantly affect beta-diversity at either scale. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that habitat selection and adaptation to local climate may be the primary processes structuring bird diversity among landscapes within ecoregions, and that dispersal limitation has a lesser role in influencing beta-diversity among landscapes.
3182658|Aim and location: In Central European lowlands certain plant species grow mainly or exclusively in the corridors of large rivers. In German-speaking plant geography, they are known as 'Stromtalpflanzen'. The aim of this paper is to review the literature about definitions, explanations and species characteristics and to suggest future directions in research concerning this species group. Results: A preliminary list contains 129 ecologically heterogeneous plant species. The mechanisms generating the peculiar distribution pattern may include hydrochory along river corridors, high levels of disturbance by water, variable water availability including inundation and summer drought, warm summers and high nutrient supply on alluvial soils. There is evidence from observational studies for all above mechanisms. However, none of them has been tested experimentally. Demographic data of river corridor plants are limited to very few species, including mainly invasive annuals (Artemisia annua, Bidens frondosa, Cuscuta campestris, Xanthium albinum) and annual (hemi)parasites (Cuscuta campestris, Melampyrum cristatum). Meta-population studies do not exist to date for European species. Apart from their habitat requirements, river corridor plants were grouped according to their similarities in overall distribution pattern or their distribution within particular river corridors. Main conclusions: River corridor plants include a high proportion of threatened plant species. In order to preserve them, and in order to understand the mechanisms generating the peculiar distribution pattern, much more has to be known about their population biology and metapopulation dynamics.
3697570| Aims: 1. To characterize ecosystem functioning by focusing on above-ground net primary production (ANPP), and 2. to relate the spatial heterogeneity of both functional and structural attributes of vegetation to environmental factors and landscape structure. We discuss the relationship between vegetation structure and functioning found in Patagonia in terms of the capabilities of remote sensing techniques to monitor and assess desertification. Location: Western portion of the Patagonian steppes in Argentina (3930' S to 4527' S). Methods: We used remotely-sensed data from Landsat TM and AVHRR/NOAA sensors to characterize vegetation structure (physiognomic units) and ecosystem functioning (ANPP and its seasonal and interannual variation). We combined the satellite information with floristic relevs and field estimates of ANPP. We built an empirical relationship between the Landsat TM-derived normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and field ANPP. Using stepwise regressions we explored the relationship between ANPP and both environmental variables (precipitation and temperature surrogates) and structural attributes of the landscape (proportion and diversity of different physiognomic classes (PCs)). Results: PCs were quite heterogeneous in floristic terms, probably reflecting degradation processes. Regional estimates of ANPP showed differences of one order of magnitude among physiognomic classes. Fifty percent of the spatial variance in ANPP was accounted for by longitude, reflecting the dependency of ANPP on precipitation. The proportion of prairies and semideserts, latitude and, to a lesser extent, the number of PCs within an 8 x 8 km cell accounted for an additional 33% of the ANPP variability. ANPP spatial heterogeneity (calculated from Landsat TM data) within an 8x8 km cell was positively associated with the mean AVHRR/ NOAA NDVI and with the diversity of physiognomic classes. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that the spatial and temporal patterns of ecosystem functioning described from ANPP result not only from water availability and thermal conditions but also from landscape structure (proportion and diversity of different PCs). The structural classification performed using remotely-sensed data captured the spatial variability in physiognomy. Such capability will allow the use of spectral classifications to monitor desertification. 
30137880|Aim: Our aims were: (1) to characterize the linear relationship between the proportion of woody dicotyledonous species with entire-margined leaves (E) and mean annual temperature (MAT) from a southern temperate flora that still harbours many lineages that originated under warmer climates; (2) to compare this relationship with those developed from floras of different regions of the world; and (3) to contrast temperature predictions based on leaf margins of the native southern flora versus the naturalized alien flora, mostly of boreal origin. Location: The temperate forest of southern South America (TFSA). Methods: At each 1 latitudinal band, we estimated E based on species latitudinal ranges and MAT from both an isotherm map and a global temperature grid. We also calculated E from five local floras located between 40 and 43 S, and from the naturalized alien flora of Nahuel Huapi National Park in southern Argentina. Results: We found a close relationship between E and MAT for the TFSA. Equations developed from floras of the Northern Hemisphere overestimated extant temperatures of this biome by 6-10 C at both geographical and local spatial scales. On the other hand, MAT predictions from leaf margins of the alien flora were similar to the actual MAT. A published regression between E and MAT from tropical South America was remarkably similar to the one we estimated from the TFSA. This tropical equation predicted accurately the temperatures observed for this temperate biome based on leaf margins of the native flora. Main conclusions: Despite massive plant extinction due to environmental cooling and biogeographical isolation during the Tertiary, leaf-margin analysis reveals that the flora of the TFSA still reflects its original development under the warmer conditions of western Gondwana and its past connections with low-latitude forest floras of tropical South America.
3182689|The vegetated landscape of Europe has been strongly impacted by human management to produce a heterogeneous patchwork of semi-natural and agricultural vegetation varying over a wide range of spatial scales. A model is described for averaging vegetation fluxes from a landscape of forest and grassland into the planetary boundary layer (PBL). At a scale of 1 km, model simulations indicate that vegetation heterogeneity exerts little effect on the PBL and regional fluxes will be simple areal averages of the different vegetation types. Above 5 km the model simulates significant effects of different vegetation types on the whole PBL. Averaging fluxes to the regional scale will therefore need to consider explicitly the nature, extent and behaviour of different vegetation types.
40205692|Aim: Species richness has been observed to increase with productivity at large spatial scales, though the strength of this relationship varies among functional groups. In forests, canopy trees shade understorey plants, and for this reason we hypothesize that species richness of canopy trees will depend on macroclimate, while species richness of shorter growth forms will additionally be affected by shading from the canopy. In this study we test for differences in species richness-productivity relationships (SRPRs) among growth forms (canopy trees, shrubs, herbaceous species) in small forest plots. Location: We analysed 231 plots ranging from 34.0 to 48.3 N latitude and from 75.0 to 124.2 W longitude in the United States. Methods: We analysed data collected by the USDA Forest Inventory and Analysis program for plant species richness partitioned into different growth forms, in small plots. We used actual evapotranspiration as a macroclimatic estimate of regional productivity and calculated the area of light-blocking tissue in the immediate area surrounding plots for an estimate of the intensity of local shading. We estimated and compared SRPRs for different partitions of the species richness dataset using generalized linear models and we incorporated the possible indirect effects of shading using a structural equation model. Results: Canopy tree species richness increased strongly with regional productivity, while local shading primarily explained the variation in herbaceous plant richness. Shrub species richness was related to both regional productivity and local shading. Main conclusions: The relationship between total forest plant species richness and productivity at large scales belies strong effects of local interactions. Counter to the pattern for overall richness, we found that understorey herbaceous plant species richness does not respond to regional productivity gradients, and instead is strongly influenced by canopy density, while shrub species richness is under multivariate control.
40405786|Aim One of the few general laws in ecology is that species richness is a positive function of area. However, it has been proposed that area would merely be a proxy for energy. Additionally, habitat heterogeneity has been found to be an important factor determining species richness. Yet the relative importance of those relationships is little known, and it is still unclear how they are brought about. We aimed to dissect which factors drive the species richness of boreal forest birds, and to identify the most probable mechanisms. Location Forested protected areas in Finland. Methods Using bird line census data collected in 104 protected areas, we ran simultaneous autoregressive models to explain the species richness of forest birds. We explored the value of forest area, tree volume, tree growth, mean degree days and habitat heterogeneity as explanatory variables and used the species richness within different species groups, based on the predictions of hypothesized mechanisms, as a response variable. Results Energy, rather than area or habitat heterogeneity, seems to be the main driver of species richness in boreal forest birds. More specifically, productive energy was a better predictor of total species richness than solar energy. Among the tested hypothetical mechanisms, the sampling hypothesis received strong support. After accounting for sampling, solar energy had an effect on species richness. Main conclusions As productive energy, such as tree volume, is associated with species richness, high-energy areas should be prioritized in forest conservation planning. Reductions in productive energy may first lead to the disappearance of the rarest species due to the random sampling process. Climate change may result in increased species richness due to increasing amount of productive and solar energy in forests. However, the range shifts of bird species may not be fast enough to keep up with the temperature increases.
2665365|MacArthur and Wilson's equilibrium theory of island biogeography quickly became the paradigm of the field in the 1960s and has strongly influenced this and other disciplines of ecology and conservation biology for the past three decades. Recently, however, a growing number of ecologists have begun to question whether the theory remains a useful paradigm for modern ecology. We now have a much better appreciation for the complexity of nature and we study patterns that span a very broad range in spatial, temporal and ecological scales. At such scales, assumptions that communities are in equilibrium, that species, islands and intervening landscapes or seascapes are equivalent or homogeneous with respect to factors influencing immigration and extinction, and that in situ speciation can be overlooked become very tenuous. With this in mind, this and other papers of this special feature discuss the principal, conceptual shortcomings of the equilibrium theory and offer some modifications or alternatives to the theory that we hope will eventually lead to a more comprehensive understanding of the forces structuring insular communities.
3697539| Aim: We studied pteridophyte species richness between 100 m and 3400 m along a Neotropical elevational gradient and tested competing hypotheses for patterns of species richness. Location: Elevational transects were situated at Volcn Barva in the Braulio Carrillo National Park and La Selva Biological Station (100-2800 m) and Cerro de la Muerte (2700-3400 m), both on the Atlantic slope of Costa Rica, Central America. Method: We analysed species richness on 156 plots of 20 x 20 m and measured temperature and humidity at four elevations (40, 650, 1800 and 2800 m). Species richness patterns were regressed against climatic variables (temperature, humidity, precipitation and actual evapotranspiration), regional species pool, area and predicted species number of a geometric null model (the mid-domain effect, MDE). Results: The species richness of the 484 recorded species showed a hump-shaped pattern with elevation with a richness peak at mid-elevations (c. 1700 m). The MDE was the single most powerful explanatory variable in linear regression models, but species richness was also associated strongly with climatic variables, especially humidity and temperature. Area and species pool were associated less strongly with observed richness patterns. Main conclusions: Geometric models and climatic models exclusive of geometric constraints explained comparable amounts of the elevational variation in species richness. Discrimination between these two factor complexes is not possible based on model fits. While overall fits of geometric models were high, large- and small-ranged species were explained by geometric models to different extents. Species with narrow elevational ranges clustered at both ends of the gradient to a greater extent than predicted by the MDE null models used here. While geometric models explained much of the pattern in species richness, we cannot rule out the role of climatic factors (or vice versa) because the predicted peak in richness from geometric models, the empirical peak in richness and the overlap in favourable environmental conditions all coincide at middle elevations. Mid-elevations offer highest humidity and moderate temperatures, whereas at high elevations richness is reduced due to low temperatures, and at low elevations by reduced water availability due to high temperatures. 
2665398|1 Diversity patterns of small mammals were studied along an elevational transect on Mount Kinabalu, the highest mountain in South-east Asia, utilizing data from previously existing sources and a new field study. A mark-and-release study (conducted during wet and dry seasons between November 1994 and April 1995) resulted in captures of 12 small mammal species, including two species of squirrels, two tree shrews, seven murid rodents and one gymnure. 2 Based on data compiled from this survey, museum specimens, and published and unpublished literature (analysed by locally weighted sums of squares and quadratic polynomial regressions), species richness of small mammals formed a middle elevation bulge, highest at about 1200-1400 m and declining at lower and higher elevations. Trapping during two seasons did not change the assessment of the pattern. 3 A cluster analysis of these data indicated that there are two elevationally associated faunas, one in the highlands and another in the lowlands. The transition between these two assemblages is at 1700-1800 m elevation. The lowland faunal assemblage has the highest number of species, with maximum species richness at about 1300 m for total small mammal species, about 1200 m for arboreal species and about 1400 m for terrestrial species. 4 The areas where much overlapping of species occurs are the elevations where climate and vegetation change rapidly from lowland to montane types. Tree species, gymnosperms, orchids and ferns showed a similar curvilinear pattern along the same elevational gradient, with maximum species richness at about 1400-1500 m. Temperature declined progressively with increasing elevation, but rainfall and humidity reached their highest levels at about 1700 m. 5 Maximum diversity of small mammals thus occurred at the elevation where a highland and a lowland assemblage overlapped, where several types of plants reached their maximum diversity, and where rainfall and humidity reached their maxima. Similar patterns have been documented for small mammals, plants, and climate at sites scattered in Indo-Australia from Taiwan to New Guinea.
2665313|We compared the fauna of small mammals (less than 500 g body weight) among five major South American drylands (Atacama, Altiplano, Monte, Patagonia and Caatinga) and found considerable heterogeneity and distinctiveness in species richness and composition between these biomes. From a total of 89 recorded species, 76 of them are restricted to only one of these drylands. The highland desert, or Altiplano, is the biome with the highest number of species. Despite the marked differences in the composition of the mammalian fauna, the trophic structure shows a rather consistent pattern: herbivores are the most important trophic group in all drylands. This consistency seems to be more the result of phylogenetic inertia than of similar ecological processes. Our results are compared with recent studies on desert small mammals across continents.
4139414|Aim This paper aims to examine the relationship between versatility as measured by geographic range, bathymetric range and morphological variability (species and subspecies richness and the occurrence of morphologically highly variable populations), and the geologic longevities of trachyleberidid ostracode species and genera, while accounting for sampling biases and other confounding factors. Location Global. Methods A large database of occurrence records of species of the family Trachyleberididae s.l. was analysed. The relationships between genus and species longevity and the above mentioned variables were examined singly and in concert. Re-analyses of subsets of data and rarefaction techniques were employed-to account for sampling biases, while randomization was used to account for autocorrelation of variables. Results The mean number of occurrence records, and latitudinal and longitudinal ranges, were strongly and positively correlated with genus and species longevities. The number of bathymetric zones occupied by genera had no consistent bearing on their longevities, but species data subsets tended to indicate significant positive relationships between bathymetric range and longevities. Species richness was significantly and positively correlated with genus longevities. Species and genera with subspecies and species with high morphological variability all had significantly greater longevities. Genus-level characteristics can be explained largely by species-level characteristics, including longevity, latitudinal ranges and bathymetric ranges to a lesser degree. However, genus longevity was best explained by species richness and genus age, even for extinct genera, while species longevity was best explained by species latitudinal range. Main conclusions In spite of the incompleteness of the fossil record, we can control for biasing factors and still confidently draw the conclusion that both ecological and evolutionary versatility contribute to lineage longevity, beyond the shorter temporal observation windows available to most ecological studies.
3697517|Aim: Predictions of vegetation change with global warming require models that accurately reflect physiological processes underlying growth limitations and species distributions. However, information about environmental controls on physiology and consequent effects on species boundaries and ecosystem functions such as production is limited, especially for forested wetlands that are potentially important carbon sinks. Location: The bald cypress (Taxodium distichum) region of the south-eastern United States was studied to examine how production of an important forested wetland varies with latitude and temperature as well as local hydrology. Methods: We used published data to analyse litter production across a latitudinal gradient from
40205693|Aim: To determine whether the diversity of resident and transient coral-dwelling fish responds differentially to gradients in regional species richness. Location: Three regions in the Indo-Pacific (Red Sea, western Indian Ocean, Great Barrier Reef) which contain increasingly larger regional diversities of reef fish. Methods: I surveyed fish residing within branching coral species. Fish species were a priori categorized as resident or transient based on the degree of affiliation between the fish and live coral. To compare among regions that differ in coral diversity I used a modified species-volume relationship (SVR). Each point in the SVR represents the total number of fish species, resident or transient, found within the cumulative volume of a specific coral species. Empirical SVRs were further compared with random-placement null models. Results: For transient species, I found that the observed SVRs did not differ consistently from those expected from random samples drawn from the corresponding regional species pools. In addition, for a given volume of coral, more fish species were found in richer regions, indicating strong regional influences on local diversity. In contrast, resident richness was lower than that expected from random samples of the species pool, and richness in rich regions was reduced comparably more than in poor regions. The SVRs of resident species were similar among regions with different regional diversities. Main conclusion These results suggest that, within coral species, transient fish richness is mostly influenced by stochastic allocation of species from the regional pool. Conversely, richness of resident species within a coral species is limited, making it independent of regional diversity. Since higher regional diversity of resident fish was not accompanied by higher richness per coral species or by decreased niche breadth, higher regional diversity of resident fish species must be rooted in higher coral richness. Consequently, ecological interactions between functional groups (coral and fish) can be powerful drivers of regional biodiversity.
40801924|Aim: (1) To resolve theoretical debates regarding the role of environment versus dispersal limitation, the conservatism of niches across distances and the prevalence of environmental specialists in diatom communities. (2) To provide guidance on the use of diatom communities and other microbial analogues to analyse ecological response to environmental change.
3697491|Aim: To test whether, in an urban area, small forest fragments are more important than large ones, the present study aimed at firstly exploring the relationship between plant functional groups or individual species and urban woodlot characteristics such as patch area and isolation, and secondly investigating whether equal-sized combinations of islands tend to differ in species richness. Location: The city of Brussels. Methods: We considered the relationship between size, species richness and plant functional groups among one very large (1666 ha) and 11 rather small (2-123 ha) woodlots.: Results: The largest woodlot harboured species missing in the smaller ones. The species-area relationship plotted for these wooded patches fitted the semilog model very well. Twenty-three species had a significantly higher frequency in the main forest. Only six species had a significantly higher frequency in smaller woodlots. The occurrence of species groups with high conservation value (e.g. ancient forest species, rare species) was higher in large patches. However, a SLOSS analysis showed that habitat subdivision appeared to be associated with increased species counts. A marginally nonsignificant effect of distance to the main forest became significant when matrix species were removed from the patch samples. Conclusions: Although overall the data showed a higher conservation value for large woods, some plant functional groups (e.g. woodland species vs. ancient forest species) responded differently to fragmentation. This illustrates that, for conservation strategies, studies considering the biotic characteristics of remnants should focus on the species number of particular plant functional groups, especially those with high conservation value. Furthermore, matrix species should be removed from the analysis in order not to mask underlying patch size and distance effects.
3877788|Macroecology sits at the junction of, and can contribute to, the fields of ecology, biogeography, palaeontology and macroevolution, using a broad range of approaches to tackle a diverse set of questions. Here, we argue that there is more to macroecology than mapping, and that while they are potentially useful, maps are insufficient to assess macroecological pattern and process. The true nature of pattern can only be assessed, and competing hypotheses about process can only be disentangled, by adopting a statistical approach, and it is this that has been key to the development of macroecology as a respected and rigorous scientific discipline.
41058220|Aim: South-eastern Australia is a climate change hotspot with well-documented recent changes in its physical marine environment. The impact on and temporal responses of the biota to change are less well understood, but appear to be due to influences of climate, as well as the non-climate related past and continuing human impacts. We attempt to resolve the agents of change by examining major temporal and distributional shifts in the fish fauna and making a tentative attribution of causal factors. Location: Temperate seas of south-eastern Australia. Methods: Mixed data sources synthesized from published accounts, scientific surveys, spearfishing and angling competitions, commercial catches and underwater photographic records, from the 'late 1800s' to the ' present', were examined to determine shifts in coastal fish distributions. Results: Forty-five species, representing 27 families (about 30% of the inshore fish families occurring in the region), exhibited major distributional shifts thought to be climate related. These are distributed across the following categories: species previously rare or unlisted (12), with expanded ranges (23) and/or abundance increases (30), expanded populations in south-eastern Tasmania (16) and extralimital vagrants (4). Another 9 species, representing 7 families, experienced longerterm changes (since the 1800s) probably due to anthropogenic factors, such as habitat alteration and fishing pressure: species now extinct locally (3), recovering (3), threatened (2) or with remnant populations (1). One species is a temporary resident periodically recruited from New Zealand. Of fishes exhibiting an obvious poleward movement, most are reef dwellers from three Australian biogeographic categories: widespread southern, western warm temperate (Flindersian) or eastern warm temperate (Peronian) species. Main conclusions: Some of the region's largest predatory reef fishes have become extinct in Tasmanian seas since the ' late 1800s', most likely as a result of poor fishing practices. In more recent times, there have been major changes in the distribution patterns of Tasmanian fishes that correspond to dramatic warming observed in the local marine environment.
40405769|Aim: We tested whether the species-energy and species-human relationships vary between native and both naturalized and casual alien species richness when other environmental variables had been taken into account. Location: Trento Province, a region (c. 6200 km) on the southern border of the European Alps (Italy), subdivided into 156 contiguous (c. 37.5 km) cells and ranging in elevation from 66 to 3769 m. Methods: Data were separated into three subsets, representing richness of natives, naturalized aliens and casual aliens and separately related to temperature, human population and various environmental correlates of plant species diversity. We applied ordinary least squares and simultaneous autoregressive regressions to identify potential contrasting responses of the three plant status subsets and hierarchical partitioning to evaluate the relative importance of the predictor variables. Results: Variation in alien plant species richness along the region was almost entirely explained by temperature and human population density. The relationships were positive but strongly curvilinear. Native species richness was less strongly related to either factor but was positively related to the presence of calcareous bedrock. Native species richness had a decelerating positive relationship with temperature (R = 55%), whereas naturalized and casual aliens had a positive accelerating relationship explaining 86% and 62% of the variation in richness, respectively. Native species richness had a positive decelerating relationship with population density (R = 42%), whilst both alien subsets had a positive accelerating relationship. Main conclusions: Alien species richness was higher in areas with the most rich and diverse assemblages of native species. Areas at high altitudes are not especially prone to alien invasion due to energy constraints, low propagule pressure and disturbance, even considering a potential increased in temperature. Thus, if we consider future environmental change, we should expect a stronger response of aliens than natives in the currently warm, urbanized, low-altitude areas than in cold, high-altitude areas where human population density is low.
2665410|Using field data from previous studies we built matrix models for two populations of giant rosettes, Espeletia timotensis Cuatrec, and E. spicata Sch. Bip. Wedd., from the Andes Cordillera in Merida, Venezuela. We analysed the models and calculated population growth rate (), sensitivities, elasticities and the sensitivity of the elasticities to changes in the vital rates. The analysis showed that the two species behave alike in general demographic terms. In both models, population growth rate is positive and sensitivities of  to changes in vital rates decrease markedly in this order: plant establishment, progression of juvenile-adult, germination and survival. The relative contributions of vital rates to  (elasticities) are very similar to those of other woody plant species: a higher contribution of survival and a very low contribution of fecundity. Transition from seedling to juvenile is most important and the younger established stages (juveniles and young adults) play a predominant demographic role in both populations. Seed banks and older adults are playing a relatively minor role in the dynamics of both populations. However, they may be important in relation to unpredictable, favourable or detrimental events. Perturbation analysis of elasticities showed that increasing the rate of plant establishment will decrease the relative importance of stasis. We conclude that both species are demographically very close, and similar to other long-lived woody plant species. However, the two species differ in the role of the seed bank, which seems more important in the demography of E. spicata than in E. timotensis.
2997853|The landward transgression of mangroves into saltmarsh environments in the estuaries of south-east Australia over the last five decades is established as a widespread trend through a review of a number of independent studies. This process is occurring in a range of geomorphic settings, and in some cases reversing the direction of longer-term vegetation change Several hypotheses are advanced to explain this occurrence, including increases in rainfall, revegetation of areas cleared for agriculture, altered tidal regimes or estuary water levels, and increases in nutrient levels and sedimentation
3182736| Aim: The distribution of neotropical butterflies of the tribe Pronophilini (Lepidoptera, Satyridae) was analysed with the aim of determining (i) the elevational ranges of distribution of each species (ii) the elevational gradient in diversity, and (iii) the existence of parapatric distributions of some closely related species pairs. Location: The field study was carried out in the middle and upper section of the valley of the Ro Albarregas, a tributary of the Ro Chama on the southern slopes of the Serrana de la Culata, in the central part of the Cordillera de Mrida, Venezuela. Methods: The material was collected along an elevational transect set on a trail leading from Merida to the Pramo de Los Conejos in the area known as Monte Zerpa. It consisted of a series of 32 collection sites set at every 25 m of altitude and covered an elevation from 2250 m to 3025 m. Results: The ranges of Lymanopoda obsoleta, L. albocincta, L. zapatoza, Corades chelonis, C. pannonia, C. medeba, Mygona irmina, Pedaliodes epidipnis, P. japhleta, P. montagna and P. panyasis were all restricted to the lower half of the cloud forest zone and L. diezti, C. pax, P. polla, P. ornata and P. ferratilis were all restricted to the upper part. Two species, Erethris porphyria and Steroma bega, crossed the entire elevational range of the cloud forest zone. The biodiversity, as measured by Shannon's index, attained a maximum at 2700 m, beyond which it gradually decreased. A parapatric distribution was confirmed for three pairs of closely related species: L. obsoleta and L. diezti, C. chelonis and C. pax and P. montagna and P. ferratilis. Main conclusions: The peak in diversity at middle elevations seems to result from the overlapping ranges of species distributed over lower and upper parts of the cloud forest. Correlation of species composition at particular transect sites with elevation showed that increase in elevation was associated with an increase in species composition difference. Post-mating isolation was suggested as a primary factor responsible for maintaining the parapatric distributions of species occupying the upper and lower zones and preventing their respective distributions from expanding. 
40205690|Aim: Because of their broad distribution in geographical and ecological dimensions, seaweeds (marine macroalgae) offer great potential as models for marine biogeographical inquiry and exploration of the interface between macroecology and macroevolution. This study aims to characterize evolutionary niche dynamics in the common green seaweed genus Halimeda, use the observed insights to gain understanding of the biogeographical history of the genus and predict habitats that can be targeted for the discovery of species of special biogeographical interest. Location: Tropical and subtropical coastal waters. Methods: The evolutionary history of the genus is characterized using molecular phylogenetics and relaxed molecular clock analysis. Niche modelling is carried out with maximum entropy techniques and uses macroecological data derived from global satellite imagery. Evolutionary niche dynamics are inferred through application of ancestral character state estimation. Results: A nearly comprehensive molecular phylogeny of the genus was inferred from a six-locus dataset. Macroecological niche models showed that species distribution ranges are considerably smaller than their potential ranges. We show strong phylogenetic signal in various macroecological niche features. Main conclusions: The evolution of Halimeda is characterized by conservatism for tropical, nutrient-depleted habitats, yet one section of the genus managed to invade colder habitats multiple times independently. Niche models indicate that the restricted geographical ranges of Halimeda species are not due to habitat unsuitability, strengthening the case for dispersal limitation. Niche models identified hotspots of habitat suitability of Caribbean species in the eastern Pacific Ocean. We propose that these hotspots be targeted for discovery of new species separated from their Caribbean siblings since the Pliocene rise of the Central American Isthmus.
3697642|Aim: To assess whether altitude changes in the distribution of butterflies during the second half of the 20th century are consistent with climate warming scenarios. Location: The Czech Republic. Methods: Distributional data were taken from a recent butterfly distribution atlas, which maps all Czech butterflies using a grid of 10' longitude to 6' latitude, equivalent to about 11.1 x 12 km. Cell altitude was used as an independent variable, and altitudinal ranges of individual species (less migrants, extinct species, recent arrivals and extremely rare species) in 1950-80 vs. 1995-2001 and in 1950-80, 1981-94, 1995-2001 were compared using U-tests and linear regressions. Results: Of 117 (U-tests) and 119 (regressions) species, we found significant uphill increases in 15 and 12 species, respectively. The two groups were nested; none (U-test) and one (regression) species showed a significant altitudinal decrease. Binomial tests of frequencies of signs of the U-tests and regression coefficients, including nonsignificant ones, also showed that the increases prevailed. The mean and median of the significant shifts were 60 and 90 m, respectively, and the maximum shift per species was 148 m. The recording effort in individual time periods was not biased with respect to altitude. Main conclusion: Altitude shifts in the distribution of Czech butterflies are already detectable on the coarse scales of standard distribution maps. The increasing species do not show any consistent pattern in habitat affiliations, conservation status and mountain vs. nonmountain distribution, which renders climatic explanation as the most likely cause of the distributional shifts.
41058228|Aim: Our scientific understanding of the extent and distribution of mangrove forests of the world is inadequate. The available global mangrove databases, compiled using disparate geospatial data sources and national statistics, need to be improved. Here, we mapped the status and distributions of global mangroves using recently available Global Land Survey (GLS) data and the Landsat archive. Methods: We interpreted approximately 1000 Landsat scenes using hybrid supervised and unsupervised digital image classification techniques. Each image was normalized for variation in solar angle and earth-sun distance by converting the digital number values to the top-of-the-atmosphere reflectance. Ground truth data and existing maps and databases were used to select training samples and also for iterative labelling. Results were validated using existing GIS data and the published literature to map ' true mangroves'. Results: The total area of mangroves in the year 2000 was 137,760 km in 118 countries and territories in the tropical and subtropical regions of the world. Approximately 75% of world's mangroves are found in just 15 countries, and only 6.9% are protected under the existing protected areas network (IUCN I-IV). Our study confirms earlier findings that the biogeographic distribution of mangroves is generally confined to the tropical and subtropical regions and the largest percentage of mangroves is found between 5 N and 5 S latitude. Main conclusions: We report that the remaining area of mangrove forest in the world is less than previously thought. Our estimate is 12.3% smaller than the most recent estimate by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. We present the most comprehensive, globally consistent and highest resolution (30 m) global mangrove database ever created. We developed and used better mapping techniques and data sources and mapped mangroves with better spatial and thematic details than previous studies.
2665325|We examine whether rain forest dung beetle species found in plantations in Sabah, northern Borneo, tend to be endemic or geographically widespread. In addition, linear regressions of abundance vs. distance from a major river in primary rain forest are calculated to see if species found in plantation forest show affinity to one specific biotope (riverine vs. interior forest) in their natural habitat. Results show that 14 of the 40 species recorded from plantations are endemic to Borneo. Only edge-specialist endemic species are found in plantation forest, with no interior-forest specialists recorded. Data suggest that endemic species that are adapted to more exposed conditions in primary rain forest, such as riverine species, can in some instances tolerate man-made habitats. Twenty-nine species (SE 4.0) per transect are recorded from plantation transects, whereas 44.2 (1.7 SE) are recorded in primary rain forest. As species richness is much lower in plantations than natural forest, implying loss of biodiversity, we conclude that measures of biogeographic distinctiveness, whereby endemic species confer higher values, may be misleading unless they take into account edge-affinity. Local- as well as regional-distributional data may therefore be needed to interpret correctly patterns of species assemblages in derived forest ecosystems.
3182712|Aim: Recent research has shown that much of the variability in leaf gas exchange and leaf longevity can be related to variations in the surface : volume ratio of leaves. The aim of this paper was to develop a theoretical framework and a practical method to extend that result to the vegetation at the continental scale. Location: The study was conducted in Australia. Methods: We propose that vegetation is composed of a mixture of three basic leaf types, 'turgor' (T), 'mesic' (M) and 'sclerophyll' (S) leaves. Changes in the relative proportions of T, M and S leaves within a vegetation type are visualized using a ternary diagram and differences in vegetation structure are shown to be easily mapped onto the ternary diagram. We estimate the proportions of T, M and S leaves using readily available data. The total amount of PAR absorbed by the vegetation (fPAR) is estimated using continental-scale satellite observations. The total fPAR is then decomposed into that absorbed by T, M and S leaves. The relative absorption of PAR by T leaves is estimated from the temporal dynamics in the satellite signal, while the relative proportions of M and S leaves are estimated using climatic (solar radiation, rainfall) data. Results: When the availability of light, nutrients and water were near-optimal, the vegetation was composed of predominantly M leaves. In low nutrient environments S leaves predominated. T leaves were dominant in disturbed environments. Conclusions: The theoretical framework is used to predict that elevated atmospheric CO
41058232|Aim: To investigate the influence of choice of the measure of mean abundance on the abundance-occupancy relationship, and to examine the implications for identifying causal mechanisms. Innovation: Simulations were performed to generate stochastic abundanceoccupancy data sets covering a wide range of scenarios representative of empirical abundance-occupancy data. Two common measures of mean abundance were used: local mean abundance (mean abundance calculated using only data from occupied sites) and global mean abundance (mean abundance calculated using all sites or samples). I found that the choice of mean abundance measure had a strong effect on the correlation between abundance and occupancy. Local mean abundance was associated with a high proportion of negative correlations (mean percentage of negative correlations across 24 simulations = 44.39), while global mean abundance was strongly associated with positive correlations (mean percentage of negative correlations across 24 simulations = 0.02). Main conclusions: The choice of abundance measure influences the correlation between abundance and occupancy. Negative correlations between local mean abundance and occupancy are an inherent and unavoidable consequence of using this measure of abundance. Efforts to identify causal mechanisms that give rise to the abundance-occupancy relationship have attempted to explain occasional negative correlations when the expectation was for positive correlations. This study shows that negative correlations arise from the choice of mean abundance measure and that this artefact confounds efforts to identify ecological causal mechanisms.
4139426|Aim We tested various species-level traits for their potential to explain species' range sizes and dispersal abilities. Location Southeast Asia and Malay Archipelago. Methods We used published maps of geographical distribution estimates for sphingid moths to calculate range areas and classify species according to their dispersion across (present or historical) water straits in the Malay Archipelago. We tested forewing length (FWL), wing load (thorax width/FWL), presence or absence of a functional proboscis (i.e. adult feeding), larval diet breadth and larval diet composition for univariate correlations with range size and inter-island dispersion. We used multivariate, phylogenetically controlled models to test for independent effects of parameters. Results Range size correlated strongly with larval diet breadth, a result that was also confirmed in the multivariate model. Adult feeding had a significant impact on range sizes only within the multivariate model, but not in the univariate correlation. Dispersal class also correlated with larval diet breadth, but was additionally influenced by forewing length, wing load and larval diet composition. A univariate effect of adult feeding became non-significant in the multivariate, phylogenetically controlled model. Main conclusions Larval diet breadth is the best predictor of range size as well as inter-island dispersion, confirming the importance of niche breadth on the geographic ranges of species. A number of other factors are shown to have additional impact on predictions of range size or inter-island dispersal ability. Our analyses cannot determine the causal mechanisms of these correlations, but may stimulate further research on the adaptive significance of traits affecting range size and dispersal in this system.
40205696|Aims: Alpine tree line ecotones are harsh environments where low temperatures constrain tree regeneration and growth. However, the expected upward shift of tree line ecotones in response to climate warming has not been ubiquitous. The lack of coupling between tree line dynamics and climate warming might be explained by factors other than climate variation that determine seedling recruitment in these ecotones. We want to assess how the availability of suitable habitat for establishment and the effects of facilitation on seedling survival and growth affect tree recruitment within tree line ecotones and modulate their responses to climate. Location: We evaluate the relevance of these factors for Pinus uncinata tree line ecotones in the Catalan Pyrenees (north-east Spain) and Andorra. Methods: We analysed the microhabitat of naturally established seedlings in rectangular plots at the tree line ecotone, assessing the habitat type and the proximity to potentially protective elements that may improve microsite conditions. We tested whether krummholz individuals influence regeneration at the tree line by performing a transplantation field experiment to evaluate the extent of facilitation on seedling survival and growth in height. A total of 820 seedlings were transplanted at different distances and orientations (resulting in 12 positions) from krummholz mats and monitored over 2 years. Results: Safe sites for P. uncinata recruits consisted of sparse vegetation covering bare soil, gravel or litter, and close to protective elements that may ameliorate microsite conditions. The field experiment showed that directional positive interactions enhance seedling survival and growth, altering the spatial patterns of recruit survivorship, especially during harsh winter conditions (shallow and irregular snowpack). Main conclusions: Our results suggest that scarce availability of safe sites and uneven facilitation by krummholz control seedling recruitment patterns within alpine tree line ecotones. Such constraints may distort or counter the response of tree line ecotones to climate warming at local and regional scales.
3697475|Switzerland's governmental 'Biodiversity Monitoring' program is designed to produce factual information on the dynamics of biodiversity within the country for governmental agencies, politicians, and the general public. Monitoring a complex issue like biodiversity in order to give relevant and accurate messages to the general public and politicians within a politically relevant timescale and at moderate cost means focusing on few elements. Because relevant human impacts on biodiversity operate differently at different spatial scales, we need at least three different indicators to observe changes over time in local ('within-habitat'), landscape ('habitat-mosaic'), and macro-scale ('regional') diversity. To keep things as simple as possible, we use species richness as an indicator for all three levels of diversity, just defining three different spatial scales (10 m
2665340|1. We explored whether the independent evolutionary history of extratropical forests in the southern and northern hemispheres affects the temperature-elevation relationship of mountain forest lines. We compiled 115 forest line descriptions from the literature, covering the major extratropical mountain ranges of the world. We related forest line elevation to thermal regimes using mean annual temperature adjusted to sea level (MAT) and seasonal thermal amplitude (STA, mean of the warmest month minus the mean of the coldest) obtained from a global climate database. 2. Thermal variables explained 79% of the global variability of forest line elevation, which increased approximately 130 m for every 1 K of MAT and for every 2 K of STA. After considering STA, there was no significant effect of `hemisphere' on forest line elevation. MAT-elevation relationships for sites with STA < 15 K were the same between hemispheres. 3. Sites dominated by different tree life forms had similar mean temperatures for the warmest month (differences < 3 K), but contrasting mean temperatures for the coldest (differences > 30 K). Along a gradient of increasing STA and decreasing winter temperatures, forest lines were first dominated by evergreen broadleaf trees, followed by deciduous broadleaf species, evergreen conifers, and finally deciduous conifers. 4. Our results suggest that temperatures during the warm part of the year are the main control of forest line elevation in extratropical regions while temperatures during the cold part of the year affect the dominant life form of trees. There is a high degree of convergence in adaptation to mountain climates between trees species of both hemispheres. This convergence suggests that there is not a wide vacant altitudinal belt for introduced forest line species of the northern hemisphere into the southern hemisphere.
2665433|1 This paper evaluates the role of soil drainage in tree seedling performance at a site being restored from Calluna vulgaris moorland to Pinus sylvestris woodland, in Glen Affric, Scotland. The investigation focuses on the relationships between height of planted seedlings, type of ground vegetation and drainage conditions. 2 Slope, aspect, and soil depth were assessed as potential surrogates for direct measures of soil drainage, all of which were derived from digital terrain data. 3 Six variables related to drainage were recorded at 58 seedling locations and used in a factor analysis to understand links between soil moisture conditions, topographic variables and soil depth characteristics. 4 Factor analysis generated two factors that accounted for 70.5% of the variance in the correlation matrix of these variables: Factor 1 correlated strongly with variables that controlled peat accumulation and Factor 2 correlated strongly with topographic controls upon drainage patterns. 5 These two factors explained a significant amount of the variance in height of the Pinus seedlings planted at these locations. Significant differences were found between the factor scores associated with different types of ground vegetation, as well as between the seedling heights observed at locations with different vegetation types. 6 Multiple regressions were developed that indicated that slope, aspect, and soil depth were significant as independent variables in models where soil moisture content and aerobic soil depth were the dependent variables.
41239342|Aim: To assess the degree of fine-scale environmental determinism in fern community composition in a diverse, mid-montane tropical forest, and to test whether species local microhabitat distributions are linked to their elevational ranges regionally. Location: Tunquini biological station, eastern Bolivian Andes. Methods: We recorded fern species composition and environmental descriptors in two montane forest transects on opposite valley slopes at c. 1650 m elevation. Redundancy analysis and variation partitioning were run to examine how much floristic variation was explained by spatial and environmental (soil, forest structural, topoclimatic) variables. We then linked species local environmental distributions, as evidenced in these analyses, to their elevational ranges in Bolivia using herbarium data. Results: There was a striking floristic difference between the transects, attributable to differences in exposure, temperature and humidity. Environmental and floristic variation were also strongly linked within transects, with soil variation being most important. The overlap between spatially and environmentally explained variation was high, but there was congruence in the main environmental predictors selected in both transects, suggesting considerable spatial structure arose from species responses to a patchy environment. Species local microclimatic distributions were significantly linked to their regional elevational ranges. Species associated with the drier north-easterly transect had average range mid-points and maxima significantly higher (by 211 m and 402 m, respectively) than those associated with the more humid south-westerly transect. Within transects, species associated with more acidic soils and warmer microsites had higher average range minima, midpoints or maxima (by > 200 m in all cases) than those associated with less acidic and cooler microsites. Main conclusions: Strong environmental determinism of community composition was apparent in relation to both local topoclimatic and soil gradients. Moreover, our results suggest that fine-scale variation in environmental conditions enhances the mixing of lowland and highland floras in mid-montane forests, thereby contributing to mid-elevation diversity.
3697524|Aim: To determine the main factors that control the distribution of palm species richness across the Americas, to understand the relative importance of climatic and other environmental factors vs. spatial variables (as substitutes for nonenvironmental factors such as history), and to evaluate how robust the patterns found are to changes in spatial scale. Location: Tropical and subtropical America (
4139429|Aim To test the hypothesis that anthropogenic alteration of stream-flow regimes is a key driver of compositional shifts from native to introduced riparian plant species. Location The arid south-western United States; 24 river reaches in the Gila and Lower Colorado drainage basins of Arizona. Methods We compared the abundance of three dominant woody riparian taxa (native Populus fremontii and Salix gooddingii, and introduced Tamarix) between river reaches that varied in stream-flow permanence (perennial vs. intermittent), presence or absence of an upstream flow-regulating dam, and presence or absence of municipal effluent as a stream water source. Results Populus and Salix were the dominant pioneer trees along the reaches with perennial flow and a natural flood regime. In contrast, Tamarix had high abundance (patch area and basal area) along reaches with intermittent stream flows (caused by natural and cultural factors), as well as those with dam-regulated flows. Main conclusions Stream-flow regimes are strong determinants of riparian vegetation structure, and hydrological alterations can drive dominance shifts to introduced species that have an adaptive suite of traits. Deep alluvial groundwater on intermittent rivers favours the deep-rooted, stress-adapted Tamarix over the shallower-rooted and more competitive Populus and Salix. On flow-regulated rivers, shifts in flood timing favour the reproductively opportunistic Tamarix over Populus and Salix, both of which have narrow germination windows. The prevailing hydrological conditions thus favour a new dominant pioneer species in the riparian corridors of the American Southwest. These results reaffirm the importance of reinstating stream-flow regimes (inclusive of groundwater flows) for re-establishing the native pioneer trees as the dominant forest type.
40801861|Aim: In any region affected, fires exhibit a strong seasonal cycle driven by the dynamic of fuel moisture and ignition sources throughout the year. In this paper we investigate the global patterns of fire seasonality, which we relate to climatic, anthropogenic, land-cover and land-use variables.
40801919|Aim: To document long-term rates of immigration, extinction and turnover in insular floras and evaluate the relative impacts of recent hurricane activity and climate change.
30137896|Aim: To analyse quantitatively the extent to which several methodological, geographical and taxonomic variables affect the magnitude of the tendency for the latitudinal ranges of species to increase with latitude (the Rapoport effect). Location: Global. Methods: A meta-analysis of 49 published studies was used to evaluate the effect of several methodological and biological moderator variables on the magnitude of the pattern. Results: The method used to depict the latitudinal variation in range sizes is a strong moderator variable that accounts for differences in the magnitude of the pattern. In contrast, the extent of the study or the use of areal or linear estimations of range sizes does not affect the magnitude of the pattern. The effect of geography is more consistent than the effect of taxonomy in accounting for differences in the magnitude of the pattern. The Rapoport effect is indeed strong in Eurasia and North America. Weaker or non-significant latitudinal trends are found at the global scale, and in Australia, South America and the New World. There are no significant differences in the magnitude of the pattern between different habitats, however, the overall pattern is weaker in oceans than in terrestrial regions of the world. Main conclusions: The Rapoport effect is indeed strong in continental landmasses of the Northern Hemisphere. The magnitude of the effect is primarily affected by methodological and biogeographical factors. Ecological and spatial scale effects seem to be less important. We suggest that not all methodological approaches may be equally useful for analysing the pattern.
41058216|Aim: Many macroecological analyses are based on analyses of climatological data, within which evapotranspiration estimates are of central importance. In this paper we evaluate and review the use of evapotranspiration models and data in studies of geographical ecology to test the likely sensitivity of the analyses to variation in the performance of different metrics of potential evapotranspiration. Location: Analyses are based on: (1) a latitudinal transect of sites (FLUXNET) for 11 different land-cover types; and (2) globally gridded data. Methods: First, we review the fundamental concepts of evapotranspiration, outline basic evapotranspiration models and describe methods with which to measure evapotranspiration. Next, we compare three different types of potential evapotranspiration models - a temperature-based (Thornthwaite type), a radiation-based (Priestley-Taylor) and a combination (Penman-Monteith) model - for 11 different land-cover types. Finally, we compare these models at continental and global scales. Results: At some sites the models differ by less than 7%, but generally the difference was greater than 25% across most sites. The temperature-based model estimated 20-30% less than the radiation-based and combination models averaged across all sites. The combination model often gave the highest estimates (22% higher than the radiation-based model averaged across all sites). For continental and global averages, the potential evapotranspiration was very similar across all models. However, the difference in individual pixels was often larger than 150 mm year between models. Main conclusions: The choice of evapotranspiration model and input data is likely to have a bearing on model fits and predictions when used in analyses of species richness and related phenomena at geographical scales of analysis. To assist those undertaking such analyses, we provide a guide to selecting an appropriate evapotranspiration model.
3697562|Aim: The aim of this study was to explore the environmental factors that determine the spatial distribution of oro-mediterranean and alti-mediterranean plant communities in Crete. Location: The paper provides a quantitative analysis of vegetation-environment relationships for two study areas within the Lefka Ori massif Crete, a proposed Natura 2000 site. Methods: Eleven environmental variables were recorded: altitude, slope, aspect, percentage of bare rock, percentage of unvegetated ground, soil depth, pH, organic matter content and percentages of sand, silt and clay content. Classification of the vegetation was based on TWINSPAN, while detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were used to identify environmental gradients linked to community distribution. Results: One hundred and twenty-five species were recorded from 120 plots located within the two study areas. Forty-seven of the recorded species are endemic, belonging to 35 families. Hemicryptophytes and chamaephytes were the most frequent, suggesting a typical oro-mediterranean life form spectrum. The samples were classified into five main community types and one transitional. The main gradients, identified by CCA, were altitude and surface cover type in the North-west site, while in the Central site the gradients were soil formation-development and surface cover type. Main conclusions: The use of classification in combination with ordination techniques resulted in a good discrimination between plant communities and a greater understanding of controlling environmental factors. The methodology adopted can be employed for improving baseline information on plant community ecology and distribution in Mediterranean mountain zones.
3697584|Biogeographical studies frequently reveal positive correlations between species richness and estimates of environmental water and/or energy. A popular interpretation of this relationship relates the supply of water and energy to productivity, and then, in turn, to richness. Productivity-diversity theories are now legion, yet none has proved sufficiently intuitive to gain broad acceptance. Like productivity, heterogeneity is known to influence diversity at fine spatial scales, yet the possibility that richness might relate to water-energy dynamics at coarse spatial scales via a heterogeneity-generating mechanism has received little attention. In this paper we outline such a conceptual model for plants that is internally consistent and testable. We believe it may help to explain the capacity of environments receiving different inputs of water and energy to support variable numbers of species at a range of spatial scales, the pervasive correlation between productivity and richness, some exceptions to the productivity-diversity relationship, the form of productivity-diversity curves and the link between richness and environmental 'harshness'. The model may also provide an answer to one of the most venerable puzzles in the field of diversity studies: why high inputs of water and energy correspond to more species rather than simply more individuals.
2665314|1 Changes in the areas of croplands and pastures, and rates of wood harvest in seven regions of the United States, including Alaska, were derived from historical statistics for the period 1700-1990. These rates of land-use change were used in a cohort model, together with equations defining the changes in live vegetation, slash, wood products and soil that follow a change in land use, to calculate the annual flux of carbon to the atmosphere from changes in land use. 2 The calculated flux increased from less than 10 TgC/yr in 1700 to a maximum of about 400 TgC/yr around 1880 and then decreased to approximately zero by 1950. The total flux for the 290-year period was a release of 32.6 PgC. The area of forests and woodlands declined by 42% (160 x 10<sup>6</sup> ha), releasing 29 PgC, or 90% of the total flux. Cultivation of soils accounted for about 25% of the carbon loss. Between 1950 and 1990 the annual flux of carbon was approximately zero, although eastern forests were accumulating carbon. 3 When the effects of fire and fire exclusion (reported in a companion paper) were added to this analysis of land-use change, the uptake of carbon calculated for forests was similar in magnitude to the uptake measured in forest inventories, suggesting that past harvests account for a significant fraction of the observed carbon sink in forests. 4 Changes in the management of croplands between 1965 and 1990 may have led to an additional accumulation of carbon, not included in the 32.6 PgC release, but even with this additional non-forest sink, the calculated accumulation of carbon in the United States was an order of magnitude smaller than the North American carbon sink inferred recently from atmospheric data and models.
3697655|Aim: To test whether congeneric species are significantly associated with one another in space, either positively or negatively. Also, to provide a framework for a causal investigation of co-occurrence patterns by a parallel comparison of interactions in geographical and ecological data matrices. Location: For the analysis of congeneric species' co-occurrences we used 30 matrices covering a wide range of taxa and geographical areas, while for the causal investigation we used the distribution of 50 terrestrial isopod species on 20 islands and 264 sampling stations in the central Aegean archipelago, as well as a number of ecological variables for each sampling station. Methods: We developed a software program (cooc) that incorporates the species-by-species approach to co-occurrence analysis using EcoSim's output of prior null model analysis of co-occurrence. We describe this program in detail, and use it to investigate one of the most common assembly rules, namely, the decreased levels of co-occurrence among congeneric species pairs. For the causal analysis, we proceed likewise, cross-checking the results from the geographical and the ecological matrices. There is only one possible combination of results that can support claims for direct competition among species. Results: We do not get any strong evidence for widespread competition among congeneric species, while most communities investigated do not show significant patterns of species associations. The causal analysis suggests that the principal factors behind terrestrial isopod species associations are of historical nature. Some exceptional cases are also discussed. Main conclusions: Presence/absence data for a variety of taxa do not support the assembly rule that congeneric species are under more intense competition compared to less related species. Also, these same data do not suggest strong interactions among species pairs, regardless of taxonomic status. When significant species associations can be seen in such matrices, they mainly reflect the effects of history or of habitat requirements.
4139440| Aim Species richness depends on climate and land use. Maintaining locations with favourable climate and land-use patterns is critical for protecting biodiversity because the loss of either can reduce the species richness that an area supports. Currently, the Guiana Shield (GS) receives abundant precipitation and has relatively light land use. For species richness this constitutes a good-good combination of climate and land use, respectively. In contrast, much of eastern Brazil receives low levels of precipitation and has heavy land use, which is a bad-bad combination for species richness. Thus, the current distribution of precipitation and land use in northern South America is relatively favourable for biodiversity. Palaeoclimate and model studies suggest, however, that the precipitation patterns for the two regions have switched before and could switch in response to greenhouse gas emissions. This paper examines the potential consequences of reconfiguring climate with respect to existing land-use patterns using South America as an example. Location South America north of 20 S and east of the Andes. Methods Ecosystem structure and function are modelled under (1) historical climate and (2) altered precipitation following a shift in the location of the Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ). The distribution of precipitation, biomes, net primary productivity (NPP) and land use are then used to predict levels of species richness under the two climate scenarios. Results Climate changes could shift the distribution of vegetation and NPP such that conditions favourable for species richness in the GS region disappear. If land-use patterns were not prohibitive in eastern Brazil, the improved climate conditions there could compensate for the GS loss (assuming migratory barriers are overcome). Instead, existing land-use patterns cause the combined species richness projected for the two regions to plummet. Main conclusions Human activities will alter current configurations of land use and climate throughout the world. For species richness, new configurations are likely to include both positive and negative combinations of climate and land use. However, the irreversibility of past extinctions due to land-use patterns loads the dice against species richness. 
30137823|Aim: The role of biotic interactions in influencing species distributions at macroscales remains poorly understood. Here we test whether predictions of distributions for four boreal owl species at two macro-scales (10 x 10 km and 40 x 40 km grid resolutions) are improved by incorporating interactions with woodpeckers into climate envelope models. Location: Finland, northern Europe. Methods: Distribution data for four owl and six woodpecker species, along with data for six land cover and three climatic variables, were collated from 2861 10 x 10 km grid cells. Generalized additive models were calibrated using a 50% random sample of the species data from western Finland, and by repeating this procedure 20 times for each of the four owl species. Models were fitted using three sets of explanatory variables: (1) climate only; (2) climate and land cover; and (3) climate, land cover and two woodpecker interaction variables. Models were evaluated using three approaches: (1) examination of explained deviance; (2) four-fold cross-validation using the model calibration data; and (3) comparison of predicted and observed values for independent grid cells in eastern Finland. The model accuracy for approaches (2) and (3) was measured using the area under the curve of a receiver operating characteristic plot. Results: At 10-km resolution, inclusion of the distribution of woodpeckers as a predictor variable significantly improved the explanatory power, cross-validation statistics and the predictive accuracy of the models. Inclusion of land cover led to similar improvements at 10-km resolution, although these improvements were less apparent at 40-km resolution for both land cover and biotic interactions. Main conclusions: Predictions of species distributions at macro-scales may be significantly improved by incorporating biotic interactions and land cover variables into models. Our results are important for models used to predict the impacts of climate change, and emphasize the need for comprehensive evaluation of the reliability of species-climate impact models.
2997864|Species and their geographical distributions, tabulated either from regional faunal and floral monographs or directly from natural history collections, often are used as the basic units of analysis by ecologists and biogeographers. It has been argued that in order for species to be operationally useful units for evolutionary and ecological studies, they need to be recognizable and identifiable as distinct entities. A growing body of molecular phylogeographic studies demonstrates that currently recognized species often are unreliable in their approximation of fundamental evolutionary and geographical units, leading, for example, to proposed usage of molecular-based evolutionarily significant units in lieu of species in conservation biology. We argue that ecologists and biogeographers should likewise employ evolutionarily significant units as basic units of analysis when evidence clearly indicates that a formally recognized species either fails to convey important evolutionary and geographical information (i.e. includes multiple geographically distinct evolutionary lineages) or fails to delineate a natural entity (i.e. does not represent a monophyletic set of populations). We demonstrate the limitations of current species as evolutionary, geographical, and conservation units within the ecologically well-studied North American desert rodent assemblage. We suggest that biotic surveys should be designed to allow the efficient assembly and dissemination of molecular phylogeographic data from ecologically and biogeographically representative systems.
2997867|1. A Dynamic Global Vegetation Model (DGVM) has been developed as a new feature of the NASA-CASA (Carnegie Ames Stanford Approach) ecosystem production and trace gas model. This DGVM includes seasonal phenology algorithms calibrated using historical interannual data sets derived from the Advanced Very High Resolution (AVHRR) satellite 'greenness' index. 2. The coupled CASA-DGVM design is based conceptually on two main elements of Tilman's resource-ratio hypothesis of vegetation change, namely: 1) plant competition for resources (water and light) over relatively short time periods of months and seasons; and 2) the long-term pattern in the supply of growth-limiting resources such as water and nutrients, i.e. the resource-supply trajectory. This simulation model generates global gridded estimates of primary production, above and below ground biomass, leaf area index (LAI), and trace gas fluxes from soil.3. Eight distributed test locations for the DGVM were evaluated initially to represent a variety of climate conditions ranging from Arctic (64
40205711|Aims: We examine the role of species-area relationships (SARs), climatic parameters and phylogeny in shaping the altitudinal species richness patterns of moths. With respect to SARs, we investigate whether habitat heterogeneity is a probable mechanism for mediating area effects. We investigate the consistency of patterns by comparing several discrete regions. Location: Nine mountainous regions in tropical Asia and the Malay Archipelago. Methods: Presence-only records for 292 species of the Lepidopteran family Sphingidae were used to measure interpolated species richness in 200-m altitudinal bands. Species richness was correlated with area measures, which were calculated from both two-dimensional map projections and three-dimensional digital elevation models (DEMs). We used data simulations of homogeneous communities to test for effects of sample (i. e. habitat) heterogeneity as a mechanism causing SARs. Species richness patterns were compared among regions and between the two major sphingid clades, and were related to regional climatic characteristics. Results: The area of altitudinal bands was a strong (statistical) explanation of species richness, particularly if area was calculated from three-dimensional DEMs, but SARs often over-predict species richness in lowland areas. There was no evidence for habitat heterogeneity as a mechanism of altitudinal SARs (tested for Borneo only). Species richness patterns varied considerably between the nine regions, which may, as an alternative to SARs, be explained by climatic differences such as (temperature) seasonality. Phylogenetic clades differed in species richness patterns exhibited. Main conclusion SARs provide strong empirical explanations for (regional) altitudinal patterns of species richness, but lack of evidence for the most likely mechanism cautions against a priori 'corrections' of species richness data for area. Furthermore, SARs are often not a sufficient explanation for the drop in species richness towards lowlands. Climate, or other collinear variables, may offer alternative explanations for altitudinal SARs. More research is needed to understand the mechanisms for SARs in an altitudinal context in order to evaluate their importance in the face of parameter collinearity.
2665383|The biomass and biomass dynamics of forests are major uncertainties in our understanding of tropical environments. Remote sensing is often the only practical means of acquiring information on forest biomass but has not always been used successfully. Here the conventional approaches to the estimation of forest biomass from remotely sensed data were evaluated relative to techniques based on the application of artificial neural networks. Together these approaches were used to estimate and map the biomass of tropical forests in north-eastern Borneo from Landsat TM data. The neural networks were found to be particularly suited to the application. A basic multilayer perceptron network, for example, provided estimates of biomass that were strongly correlated with those measured in the field (r = 0.80). Moreover, these estimates were more strongly correlated with biomass than those derived from 230 conventional vegetation indices, including the widely used normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI).
30134101|Aim: Relationships between range size and species richness are contentious, yet they are key to testing the various hypotheses that attempt to explain latitudinal diversity gradients. Our goal is to utilize the largest data set yet compiled for New World woody plant biogeography to describe and assess these relationships between species richness and range size. Location: North and South America. Methods: We estimated the latitudinal extent of 12,980 species of woody plants (trees, shrubs, lianas). From these estimates we quantified latitudinal patterns of species richness and range size. We compared our observations with expectations derived from two null models. Results: Peak richness and the smallest-and largest-ranged species are generally found close to the equator. In contrast to prominent diversity hypotheses: (1) mean latitudinal extent of tropical species is greater than expected; (2) latitudinal extent appears to be decoupled from species richness across New World latitudes, with abrupt transitions across subtropical latitudes; and (3) mean latitudinal extents show equatorial and north temperate peaks and subtropical minima. Our results suggest that patterns of range size and richness appear to be influenced by three broadly overlapping biotic domains (biotic provinces) for New World woody plants. Main conclusions: Hypotheses that assume a direct relationship between range size and species richness may explain richness patterns within these domains, but cannot explain gradients in richness across the New World.
40602961|Aim: Quantifying and predicting change in large ecosystems is an important research objective for applied ecologists as human disturbance effects become increasingly evident at regional and global scales. However, studies used to make inferences about large-scale change are frequently of uneven quality and few in number, having been undertaken to study local, rather than global, change. Our aim is to improve the quality of inferences that can be made in meta-analyses of large-scale disturbance by integrating studies of varying quality in a unified modelling framework that is informative for both local and regional management. Innovation: Here we improve conventionally structured meta-analysis methods by including imputation of unknown study variances and the use of Bayesian factor potentials. The approach is a coherent framework for integrating data of varying quality across multiple studies while facilitating belief statements about the uncertainty in parameter estimates and the probable outcome of future events. The approach is applied to a regional meta-analysis of the effects of loss of coral cover on species richness and the abundance of coral-dependent fishes in the western Indian Ocean (WIO) before and after a mass bleaching event in 1998. Main conclusions: Our Bayesian approach to meta-analysis provided greater precision of parameter estimates than conventional weighted linear regression meta-analytical techniques, allowing us to integrate all available data from 66 available study locations in the WIO across multiple scales. The approach thereby: (1) estimated uncertainty in site-level estimates of change, (2) provided a regional estimate for future change at any given site in the WIO, and (3) provided a probabilistic belief framework for future management of reef resources at both local and regional scales.
2997869|In this paper we test a method to estimate the tree and grass vegetation cover over Australia from satellite-derived normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) time series (monthly 1981-91,  5 km pixels) observations. The evergreen cover is assumed to track along the base of the NDVI time series, which is assumed to be equivalent to the woody vegetation cover. The base of the NDVI time series is estimated using modifications to a classical econometric model (i.e. time series is the sum of trend, seasonal and random components). Estimates of the average evergreen component during 1982-85 and 1986-89 were generally consistent with known vegetation distributions. Changes in evergreen cover were largely restricted to the south-west and southeast of Australia. Those changes were largely the result of differences in rainfall between the two periods. The proposed method for estimating woody vegetation cover is found to be generally robust. However, there are some regions where the grass (or pasture) is mostly evergreen. Some possible refinements are proposed to handle such cases.
3697465|A positive correlation between human population density and species richness has been recorded across the tropics. Here I investigate whether this correlation holds true for Europe. Analyses reveal a positive correlation between human population density and plant (rho = 0.505), mammal (rho = 0.471) and reptile and amphibian (rho = 0.556) species richness. The results are largely concordant with those obtained in similar studies for Africa. However, contrary to previous analyses, the correlation found between people and breeding bird species richness (rho = 0.186) was weak. Of three measures of endemism used, only combined European endemic species richness correlated with human density (rho = 0.437). Richness among combined restricted-range European endemics was not correlated (rho = 0.095) with human density, while richness among all combined restricted-range species was only weakly correlated with human density (rho = 0.167). The results partially support the idea of a correlation between people and biodiversity, although there are some important exceptions. Discussion of possible mechanisms underling the observed patterns is undertaken.
2665406|Global vegetation changes at the time-scale of the Earth's orbital variations (10<sup>4</sup>-10<sup>5</sup> years) have been interpreted as a direct effect of consequential climatic changes, especially temperature. At mid- and high latitudes, the evidence from fossil data and general circulation models (GCMs) supporting this hypothesis is strong, but at low latitudes there is a major discrepancy. GCMs predict temperature changes that are less than those inferred from palaeoclimatic data, including the plant fossil record. However, changes in atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations can account for a high proportion of the low-latitude vegetation change hitherto attributed to temperature change, and may thus explain the discrepancy. The implications of this finding are considerable for understanding patterns of macroevolution and ecosystem development throughout the geological record.
41058243|Aim: An increase in multivoltinism in ectothermic animals has been proposed by several authors as a possible outcome of climate warming, especially in high latitudes. We tested this prediction with large-scale empirical monitoring data for boreal moth communities. Location: Finland, northern Europe. Methods: Our data set comprised observations of multivoltine species made in the Finnish moth monitoring scheme ' Nocturna' trap sites during the period 1993 2006 along an exceptionally long latitudinal gradient of 1000 km. To compare recent changes in moth multivoltinism with a longer time period, we gathered older time series of moth observations from five locations. We used generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs) to detect possible temporal and geographical trends in the annual occurrence of multivoltinism. We also identified areas where the recent changes in multivoltinism have been greatest. Monthly average temperatures of spring and summer periods and annual sum of growing degree days above 5 C (GDD5) were used as explanatory variables to distinguish the main climatic correlates of moth multivoltinism. Results: We observed a clear increase in the occurrence of moth multivoltinism during the period 1993-2006. The incidence as well as the recent increase in multivoltinism were highest in southernmost Finland and decreased towards the north. We also detected a weaker, although significantly positive, trend of moth multivoltinism in southern Finland during the period 1963-92, suggesting that this increasing trend might already have begun earlier. The most important climatic correlates for the annual occurrence of moth multivoltinism were the mean summer temperature (periods May-July and June-August) and GDD5, but all the tested climatic variables showed a significant univariate relationship with the occurrence of moth multivoltinism. All climatic variables showed an increasing trend during the period 1993-2006. Main conclusions: The occurrence of multivoltinism has increased in northern European moth communities during recent decades, apparently as a response to increasing temperatures during the spring and summer seasons. The increase in multivoltinism was greatest in the southernmost parts of Finland, whereas in the northern landscapes recent warming has triggered multivoltinism in only relatively few moth species.
3697553|Aim: We studied the relationships between the numbers of species and numbers of higher taxa (genera, tribes, subfamilies and families) in flea assemblages of small mammalian hosts with the aims of: (a) comparing these relationships across different regions, and (b) testing the hypothesis that flea assemblages in warmer regions diversify mainly via intrahost speciation, whereas those in colder regions diversify mainly via host switching. Location: The study used previously published data on flea assemblages on small mammalian hosts from 25 different regions of the Holarctic. Methods: The number of flea genera, tribes, subfamilies or families in an assemblage (host species) was plotted against the number of flea species in this assemblage for each region separately, and a power function was fitted to the resulting relationships. Then, the values of the exponent of the power function for a region were regressed against the mean annual temperature in this region, across all regions. Results: The relationships between the number of flea species and the numbers of flea genera, tribes, subfamilies or families on a host species in each region were found to be well described by simple power functions. The exponent of the power function of the relationship between the number of flea species and the number of flea genera per host tended to decrease with increasing local mean annual temperature. When two apparent outliers from the trend (corresponding to regions where sampling was not performed as in other regions) were omitted from the analysis, the negative relationship between temperature and the exponent of the power function between the number of flea species and number of flea genera per host became highly significant. No relationship was found between the values of the exponents of the power functions between the number of flea species and the number of flea tribes, subfamilies or families per host, and the mean local annual temperature. Main conclusions: The results suggest that the diversification of flea assemblages is associated with climatic variables. In warm regions, the greater number of congeneric species per flea assemblage, reflected by the lower exponent of the power function, may well be the outcome of intrahost speciation. This indicates that, as regional temperature increases, intrahost speciation becomes a relatively more important mode of diversification than acquisition of fleas via host switching.
30137816|Recent compilations of large-scale data bases on the geographical distributions and body sizes of animals, coupled with developments in spatial statistics, have led to renewed interest in the geographical distribution of animal body sizes and the interspecific version of Bergmann's rule. Standard practice seems to be an examination of mean body sizes within higher taxa on gridded maps, with little regard to species richness or phylogeny. However, because the frequency distribution of body sizes is typically highly skewed, average size within grid cells may differ significantly between species-rich and species-poor cells even when the median and modal sizes remain constant. Species richness influences body size patterns because species are not added to communities at random in relation to their size: areas of low diversity are characterized by a higher range of body sizes than is expected by chance. Finally, a consideration of phylogenetic structure within taxa is necessary to elucidate whether patterns in the geography of size result from turnover between or within intermediate taxonomic levels. We suggest that the highest and lowest quantiles of body size distribution be mapped in order to expose possible physiological or ecological limitations on body size.
40405760|Aim: We explored whether the anuran amphibian faunas differed among landscapes that are relatively intact (largely covered in forests and woodlands) and others that are completely converted to agriculture. We also used historical data sets to assess the current condition of the anuran fauna in a region predicted to experience, and experiencing, severe drying and warming. Location: Five pairs of landscapes (each of c. 20 km 2 ) -one in each pair being almost completely wooded and the other cleared for agriculture -across a 30,000 km 2 region of northern Victoria, Australia. Methods: Sites were repeatedly surveyed in the austral winter-spring breeding seasons of 2006 and 2007, with records collected of numbers of calling males and the presence of egg masses and tadpoles. We characterized the sites using static (e. g. dimensions, surrounding physiognomic characteristics such as tree cover) and labile (e. g. pH, dissolved oxygen) variables. Data were analysed using hierarchical Bayesian models. Results: For calling males, landscape type did not affect densities or species richness measures. The availability of a grassy verge around water bodies was an important predictor for most species, but other labile and static variables seemed not to be important. Fewer than half of the species historically known from the region were recorded. There were no important predictors of occurrence of egg masses or tadpoles. Reproduction effectively may have failed over the period, with fewer than one in four sites showing evidence of egg masses or tadpoles. Main conclusions: The proportion of sites at which some well-studied species (e. g. Crinia signifera y Litnnodynastes dumerilii) were recorded has dropped substantially since the 1970s, as have average densities of calling males of Crinia spp. The remnant anuran fauna appears to be dominated by resilient and hardy species with low current diversity. The on-going (12+ years) drought in these landscapes suggests a bleak long-term prognosis for the few remaining species of anuran amphibians.
30137992|Aim: The species-rich family of true toads (Anura: Bufonidae) has been the focus of several earlier studies investigating the biogeography of geographically widespread taxa. Herein, we employ newly developed Bayesian divergence estimate methods to investigate the biogeographical history of this group. Resulting age estimates are used to test several key temporal hypotheses including that the origin of the bufonid clade pre-dates Gondwanan vicariance (~105 million years ago, Ma). Area cladograms are also invoked to investigate the geographical origin of the family. Location: Worldwide, except the Australia-New Guinea plate, Madagascar and the Antarctic. Methods: A phylogenetic hypothesis of the relationships among true toads was derived from analysis of 2521 bp of DNA data including fragments from three mitochondrial (12S,
40205710|Aim: Elevational gradients distributed across the globe are a powerful test system for understanding biodiversity. Here I use a comprehensive set of bird elevational gradients to test the main drivers of diversity, including sampling, area, mid-domain effect, temperature, temperature and water availability, and hypotheses of evolutionary history. Location: Seventy-eight elevational gradients of bird diversity from mountains in both hemispheres spanning 24.5 S to 48.2 N, including gradients from various climates, biogeographical regions and habitat types. Methods: Data on bird elevational diversity were taken from the literature. Of the 150 datasets found or compiled, only those with a high, unbiased sampling effort were used in analyses. Datasets sampled all birds, all breeding birds or all forest birds; a few studies detailed seasonal, elevational shifts. Eighteen predictions of diversity theory were tested, including three sets of interactions. Results: Birds display four distinct diversity patterns in nearly equal frequency on mountains: decreasing diversity, low-elevation plateaus, low-elevation plateaus with mid-peaks, and unimodal mid-elevational peaks. Bird elevational diversity strongly supports current climate as the main driver of diversity, particularly combined trends in temperature and water availability. Bird diversity on humid mountains is either decreasing or shows a low-elevation plateau in diversity, while on dry mountains it is unimodal or a broad, low-elevation plateau usually with a mid-elevation maximum. The predictions of sampling, area and mid-domain effect were not consistently supported globally. The only evolutionary hypothesis with preliminary support was niche conservatism. Main conclusions: Both water and temperature variables are needed to comprehensively predict elevational diversity patterns for birds. This result is consistent for breeding and forest birds, for both hemispheres, and for local- or regional-scale montane gradients. More analyses are needed to discern whether the mechanism underlying these relationships is ecological, based on direct physiological limitations or indirect food resource limitations, or historical, based on phylogenetic niche conservation or other evolutionary trends related to climate. The species-area and mid-domain effects are not supported as primary drivers of elevational diversity in birds.
30137897|Aim: The aim of this study is to answer the questions: (1) do small organisms disperse farther than large, or vice versa; and (2) does the observed pattern differ for passive and active dispersers? These questions are central to several themes in biogeography (including microbial biogeography), macroecology, metacommunity ecology and conservation biology. Location: The meta-analysis was conducted using published data collected worldwide. Methods: We collected and analysed 795 data values in the peer-reviewed literature for direct observations of both maximal dispersal distance and mass of the dispersing organisms (e.g. seeds, not trees). Analysed taxa ranged in size from bacteria to whales. We applied macroecology analyses based on null models (using Monte Carlo randomizations) to test patterns relative to specific hypotheses. Results: Collected dispersal distance and mass data spanned 9 and 21 orders of magnitude, respectively. Active dispersers dispersed significantly farther (P < 0.001) and were significantly greater in mass (P < 0.001) than passive dispersers. Overall, size matters: larger active dispersers attained greater maximum observed dispersal distances than smaller active dispersers. In contrast, passive-disperser distances were random with respect to propagule mass, but not uniformly random, in part due to sparse data available for tiny propagules. Conclusions: Size is important to maximal dispersal distance for active dispersers, but not for passive dispersers. Claims that microbes disperse widely cannot be tested by current data based on direct observations of dispersal: indirect approaches will need to be applied. Distance-mass relationships should contribute to a resolution of neutral and niche-based metacommunity theories by helping scale expectations for dispersal limitation. Also, distance-mass relationships should inform analyses of latitudinal species richness and conservation biology topics such as fragmentation, umbrella species and taxonomic homogenization.
30137827|Aim: To examine, at a global scale, patterns in the direction in which climbing plants twine. We tested three hypotheses: (1) that twining direction is determined randomly; (2) that twining direction is determined by apices following the apparent movement of the sun across the sky; and (3) that twining direction is determined by the Coriolis effect. Location: Seventeen sites spanning nine countries, both hemispheres and 650 of latitude. Methods: Twining direction was recorded for the first c. 100 stems encountered along transects through natural vegetation at each site. Results: Ninety-two per cent of the 1485 twining stems we recorded grew in righthanded helices, i.e. they twined in an anticlockwise direction. This is significantly (P < 0.001) different from random. The proportion of stems twining right-handedly (anticlockwise) was independent of both latitude (P = 0.33) and hemisphere (P = 0.63). These data are inconsistent with the idea that twining direction is determined by either the relative passage of the sun through the celestial sphere or by the Coriolis effect. Thus, we reject all three of our hypotheses. Main conclusions: The predominance of right-handed helical growth in climbing plants cannot be explained by hypotheses attempting to link plant growth behaviour and global location. One alternative hypothesis for our findings is that the widespread phenomenon of anticlockwise twining arises as a function of microtubule orientation operating at a subcellular level.
3182737|Aim: A regional model of vegetation dynamics was enhanced to include biogeochemical cycling of nitrogen and was then applied to a forest transect in east China (FTEC) in order to investigate the responses of the transect to possible global change. Location: Eastern China. Methods: Biomass and nitrogen concentration of green and nongreen portions of vegetation, moisture contents of three soil layers, and total and available soil nitrogen are included as state variables in the enhanced model. The model was parameterized and validated against field observations of biomass, productivity, plant and soil nitrogen concentration, nitrogen uptake, a vegetation index derived from satellite remote sensing and digital maps of vegetation and soil distributions along a forest transect in eastern China (FTEC). The model was applied to FTEC in order to investigate the responsive characteristics of the ecosystems to global climatic change. Scenarios of climate change under doubled CO
40405776|Aim: To identify the reasons behind differing geographical species richness patterns of range-restricted and widespread species. Location: The Western Hemisphere. Methods: We used regression to determine the strongest environmental predictors of richness for widespread and range-restricted mammal species in 10,000 km quadrats in the continental Americas. We then used range-placement models to predict the expected correlation between range-restricted and widespread species richness were they to be determined by identical, random, or contrasting environmental factors. Finally, to determine the reasons underlying deviations from these predictions, we divided the Americas into 5% quantiles based on temperature and topographic heterogeneity and correlated richness of these two assemblages across quantiles-an approach that avoids constraints on statistical testing imposed by low potential for range overlap among range-restricted species. Results: Minimum annual temperature was the strongest predictor of widespread species richness while topographic heterogeneity was the best, although weak, predictor of range-restricted species richness in conventional regression analysis. Our models revealed that the observed correlation between range-restricted and widespread species richness was similar to what would be observed if both rangerestricted and widespread species richness were determined by temperature. Patterns of range-restricted and widespread species richness were highly correlated across temperature quantiles, but range-restricted species uniquely showed an increasing pattern across heterogeneity quantiles. Main conclusions: Species richness gradients among range-restricted species differ from those of widespread species, but not as extensively or for the reasons reported previously. Instead, these assemblages appear to share some but not all underlying environmental determinants of species richness. Our new approach to examining species richness patterns reveals that range-restricted and widespread species richnesses share a common response to temperature that conventional analyses have not previously revealed. However, topographic heterogeneity has assemblage-specific effects on range-restricted species.
4139425| Aim To understand changes in fire persistence traits of plants along a latitudinal gradient, considering the interactions between productivity, community (fuel) structure and fire regime. Location A gradient in the south of Australia (latitude 33-37S; longitude 140-143 E), including: Little Desert National Park (VIC), Big Desert Wilderness Park (VIC), Murray-Sunset National Park (VIC), Danggali Conservation Park (SA) and Tarawi Nature Reserve (NSW). Methods We selected four areas along a latitudinal gradient for which information on fire history and vegetation was available. Then, we tested to what extent the four selected areas have different climate and different fire regimes. Plant cover values of different life forms provided an indication of the plant community structure and flammability, and the proportion of species with different fire persistence traits (resprouting, seedbank persistence) informed us on the trait selection. Results Precipitation decreases and temperature increases from south to north. Thus the selected sites represent a gradient from high productivity (low aridity) in the south to low productivity (high aridity) in the north. Fire statistics suggest that fire frequency parallels productivity. There is a tendency for life form dominance and community structure to shift in such a way that fuel connectivity is reduced towards the north. Resprouting species increase and obligate seeders decrease along the fire-productivity gradient. Main conclusions Changes in plant traits are difficult to understand without simultaneous consideration of both the disturbance and the productivity gradients. In our study area, fire regime and productivity interact in such a way that decreases in productivity imply changes in fuel structure that produce a reduction in fire frequency. Resprouting species are better represented at the high fire-productivity part of the gradient, while obligate seeders are better represented at the opposite end of the gradient. The results also emphasize the importance of considering not only climate changes but also changes in fuel structure to predict future fire regimes. 
3697621|Aim: Bergmann's rule generally predicts larger animal body sizes with colder climates. We tested whether Bergmann's rule at the interspecific level applies to moths (Lepidoptera: Geometridae) along an extended elevational gradient in the Ecuadorian Andes. Location: Moths were sampled at 22 sites in the province Zamora-Chinchipe in southern Ecuador in forest habitats ranging from 1040 m to 2677 m above sea level. Methods: Wingspans of 2282 male geometrid moths representing 953 species were measured and analysed at the level of the family Geometridae, as well as for the subfamily Ennominae with the tribes Boarmiini and Ourapterygini, and the subfamily Larentiinae with the genera Eois, Eupithecia and Psaliodes. Results: Bergmann's rule was not supported since the average wingspan of geometrid moths was negatively correlated with altitude (r = -0.59, P < 0.005). The relationship between body size and altitude in Geometridae appears to be spurious because species of the subfamily Larentiinae are significantly smaller than species of the subfamily Ennominae and simultaneously increase in their proportion along the gradient. A significant decrease of wingspan was also found in the ennomine tribe Ourapterygini, but no consistent body size patterns were found in the other six taxa studied. In most taxa, body size variation increases with altitude, suggesting that factors acting to constrain body size might be weaker at high elevations. Main conclusions: The results are in accordance with previous studies that could not detect consistent body size patterns in insects at the interspecific level along climatic gradients.
3697548| Aim: Climate variability is an important mediating agent of ecosystem dynamics in cold, semi-arid regions such as the mountains of western North America. Climatically sensitive tree-ring chronologies offer a means of assessing the impact of climate variability on tree growth across temporal scales of years to centuries and spatial scales of metres to subcontinents. Our goal was to bring practices from landscape ecology that highlight the impact of landscape heterogeneity on ecological pattern and processes into a dendroclimatic study that shows that the biophysical setting of target trees affects ring-width patterns. Location: This study was conducted at two sites near alpine treeline in the Sequoia National Park, USA (3630' 00' N, 11830' 00' W). Methods: We collected stand information and increment cores from foxtail pines (Pinus balfouriana Grev. et Balf.) for eight tree-ring chronologies in four extreme biophysical settings at two sites using proxies for soil moisture and radiation derived from a digital elevation model. Results: Biophysical setting affected forest age-class structure, with wet and bright plots showing high recruitment after 1900 AD, but had no obvious effect on immature stem density (e.g. seedlings). Biophysical setting strongly affected ring-width patterns, with wet plots having higher correlation with instrumental temperature records while dry plots correlated better with instrumental precipitation records. Ring-width chronologies from the wet plots showed strong low-frequency variability (i.e. hundreds of years) while ring-width chronologies from the dry plots showed strong variability on multidecadal scales. Main conclusions: There was a strong association between biophysical setting and age-class structure, and with ring-width patterns in foxtail pine. The mediation of ring widths by biophysical setting has the potential to further the understanding of the expression of synoptic-scale climate across rugged terrain. When combined with remotely sensed imagery, a priori GIS modelling of tree growth offers a viable means to devise first-order predictions of climatic impacts in subalpine forest dynamics and to develop flexible and powerful monitoring schemes. 
3697403| Aim: On the basis of 2402 phytoecological relevs, with complete species lists, and real pH measurements resulting from chemical analyses of the top layer of forest soils, this paper compares quantitatively the ecological response of 46 herbaceous forest species along a pH gradient in two regions of northern France. Location: The two regions investigated are oceanic north-western France (NW) and semicontinental north-eastern France (NE). Methods: For each of the 46 species with more than 50 occurrences in both NW and NE regions, an ecological response curve was computed with simple logistic regression models, and two synthetic numerical values were derived: ecological optimum (OPT) and ecological amplitude (AMP). A comparison of the ecological behaviour of species present in both regions was performed in terms of shift in optimum and/or amplitude. Results: All 46 species did reveal a reaction to pH. Our main observation was the relative stability of the behaviour of most species with reference to pH conditions, which is consistent with results from some previous studies. Slight differences regarding the two synthetic parameters (OPT and AMP) were however observed between the NW and NE regions, probably due to a form of competitive release in neutral environments in the NW. Main conclusions: Among the main possibilities that could explain a geographical shift in the ecological behaviour of herbaceous species, competitive effects are, we suggest, the most plausible explanation. In the light of former studies, it seems that further analyses of geographical shifts in the ecological behaviour of forest plant species over large areas are needed, such as for example over the European continent. Nomenclature: Tutin et at. (2001). 
30137902|Aim: To analyse the radial growth of silver fir (Abies alba Mill.) in north-eastern France in relation to soil, climate and interspecific competition factors and to check the temporal stability of their effects during the 20th century. Location: The Vosges Mountains, located in north-eastern France. Methods: Data were collected from 143 plots regularly distributed over three altitude ranges (from 330 to 1100 m), three humus forms (moder to mull) and seven types of stands, including a pure stand of silver fir and six mixed stands containing this species. For each plot, an index of mean radial growth of silver fir was calculated, independent of tree age and calendar year of ring formation. Relationships between radial growth and ecological factors were analysed using linear mixed-effects models. Results: Radial growth of silver fir is low in the presence of Picea abies or of a high density of other dominant trees. Low aluminium concentration and good nitrogen supply, measured by the soil C:N ratio, are correlated with high radial growth. Water reserves, related to available water storage capacity and to lateral run-off, are also correlated with high radial growth. Analysis of environmental effects during the 20th century showed that growth was strongly correlated with nitrogen supply at the start of the century, and with aluminium toxicity and climate at the end of the century. The radial growth of trees located on sites with low nitrogen supply was lower before 1970 than that of trees located on nitrogen-rich soils. At the end of the century, radial growth of silver fir was the same for all levels of nitrogen nutrition. Main conclusions: Our results indicate that nitrogen supply was a limiting factor for the mean radial growth of silver fir before the 1970s. Eutrophication during the 20th century may then have eliminated limitation by nitrogen.
30134092|Aim: The hair of grazers provides an isotopic record of environmental and nutritional signals. Here, we assess the effect of altitude on the carbon and nitrogen isotope composition of the hair of ruminant grazers and its relation to grassland vegetation, to evaluate the use of hair isotope data for ecosystem reconstruction, animal nutritional ecology and biogeochemical studies in montane environments. Location: European Alps. Methods: We sampled grassland vegetation (pure C) and the hair of ruminants along an altitudinal gradient (400-2500 m), and analysed their isotope composition (
30137866|Aim The paradigm that species' patterns of distribution, abundance and coexistence are the result of adaptations of the species to their niches has recently been challenged by evidence that similar patterns may be generated by simple random processes. We argue here that a better understanding of macroecological patterns requires an integration of both ecological and neutral stochastic approaches. We demonstrate the utility of such an integrative approach by testing the sampling hypothesis in a species-energy relationship of forest bird species. Location A Mediterranean biome in Catalonia, Spain. Methods To test the sampling hypothesis we designed a metacommunity model that reproduces the stochastic sampling from a regional pool to predict local species richness variation. Four conceptually different sampling procedures were evaluated. Results We showed that stochastic sampling processes predicted a substantial part (over 40%) of the observed variation in species richness, but left considerable variation unexplained. This remaining variation in species richness may be better understood as the result of alternative ecological processes. First, the sampling model explained more variation in species richness when the probability that a species colonises a new locality was assumed to increase with its niche width, suggesting that ecological differences between species matter when it comes to explaining macroecological patterns. Second, extinction risk was significantly lower for species inhabiting high-energy regions, suggesting that abundance-extinction processes play a significant role in shaping species richness patterns. Main conclusions We conclude that species-energy relationships may not simply be understood as a result of either ecological or random sampling processes, but more likely as a combination of both.
4139437| Aim To test whether the temperature dependence of individuals' metabolic rates is the mechanism shaping broad-scale species-richness gradients as proposed in the Metabolic Theory of Ecology recently proposed by Allen, Gillooly and Brown. Location North America, north of Mexico. Methods Metabolic Theory predicts that the natural logarithm of species richness will be a linear function of environmental temperature ((kT), where k is Boltzmann's constant and T is temperature in K) with a slope of -0.78. We tested these predictions using the broad-scale variation in richness of amphibians, reptiles, trees, tiger beetles, butterflies and blister beetles. We tested whether the temperature-richness relation-ship was linear or curvilinear, and determined the range of temperature values (and geographical area) where the instantaneous slope of the curvilinear temperature-richness relationship was statistically indistinguishable from -0.78, after correcting for spatial autocorrelation. Results We found that for all taxa, temperature-richness relationships were curvi-linear. Moreover, for five of six taxa, the slope of this relationship was close to the predicted value for only a narrow range of temperatures. Blister beetles displayed the widest temperature range that is consistent with the Metabolic Theory, covering 45% of the study's geographical area. For the remaining taxa, the geographical range in which the slope is consistent with the predicted value amounts to only 10-20% of North America. Main conclusions For a wide array of taxa in North America, temperature-richness relationships deviate from the pattern predicted by Metabolic Theory. These results demonstrate that the temperature dependence of individuals' metabolic rates is not the sole cause of broad-scale diversity gradients. Even in areas where factors other than temperature do not influence productivity, the data do not suggest that richness patterns are determined by the temperature dependence of metabolic rate. 
41239258|Aim: We investigated how ozone pollution and climate change/variability have interactively affected net primary productivity (NPP) and net carbon exchange (NCE) across China's forest ecosystem in the past half century. Location: Continental China. Methods: Using the dynamic land ecosystem model (DLEM) in conjunction with 10-km-resolution gridded historical data sets (tropospheric O concentrations, climate variability/change, and other environmental factors such as land-cover/land-use change (LCLUC), increasing CO and nitrogen deposition), we conducted nine simulation experiments to: (1) investigate the temporo-spatial patterns of NPP and NCE in China's forest ecosystems from 1961-2005; and (2) quantify the effects of tropospheric O pollution alone or in combination with climate variability and other environmental stresses on forests' NPP and NCE. Results: China's forests acted as a carbon sink during 1961-2005 as a result of the combined effects of O, climate, CO, nitrogen deposition and LCLUC. However, simulated results indicated that elevated O caused a 7.7% decrease in national carbon storage, with O-induced reductions in NCE (Pg C year ) ranging from 0.4-43.1% among different forest types. Sensitivity experiments showed that climate change was the dominant factor in controlling changes in temporo-spatial patterns of annual NPP. The combined negative effects of O pollution and climate change on NPP and NCE could be largely offset by the positive fertilization effects of nitrogen deposition and CO. Main conclusions: In the future, tropospheric O should be taken into account in order to fully understand the variations of carbon sequestration capacity of forests and assess the vulnerability of forest ecosystems to climate change and air pollution. Reducing air pollution in China is likely to increase the resilience of forests to climate change. This paper offers the first estimate of how prevention of air pollution can help to increase forest productivity and carbon sequestration in China's forested ecosystems.
3182645|Taxon cycles are sequential phases of expansion and contraction of the ranges of species, associated generally with shifts in ecological distribution. The important contribution of the taxon cycle to biogeographical analysis is its emphasis on evolutionary and ecological interactions among colonizing and resident species, which influence their extinction dynamics and establish patterns of geographical distribution. Taxon cycles were inferred originally from the distribution of species across island archipelagos, where a correlation was noted between gaps in island occupancy and the degree of phenotypic differentiation. This pattern implied that phases of colonization were followed by range contraction, while endemic Antillean species that were undifferentiated between islands suggested secondary expansion and the beginning of a new cycle. This interpretation was met with scepticism, but reconstruction of phylogenetic relationships from gene sequences has now permitted us to characterize taxon cycles in Lesser Antillean birds. The relative timing of phases of the cycle can be deduced from genetic divergence between island populations. We have found that taxon cycles have periods in the order of 10
2997851|1. Physiological experiments have indicated that the lower CO
40205725|Aim: Coastal biodiversity hotspots are globally threatened by sea-level rise. As such it is important to understand how ecosystems resist, respond and adapt to sea-level rise. Using pollen, geochemistry, charcoal and diatom records in conjunction with previously published palaeoclimatic records, we investigated the mechanism, interactions and ecosystem response and resilience of Madagascar's littoral forest to late Holocene sea-level rise. Location: Sediment sequences were collected along the south-east coast of Madagascar in two adjacent habitats in Mandena; the highly diverse littoral forest fragment and species-poor Erica-matrix. Methods: We used a multi-proxy approach to investigate the relative influence of environmental changes on the littoral ecosystem. We reconstructed past vegetation and fire dynamics over the past 6500 years at two sites in the littoral forest using fossil pollen and macrofossil charcoal contained in sedimentary sequences. Alongside these records we reconstructed past marine transgressions from the same sedimentary sequences using geochemical analyses, and a salinity and drought index through the analysis of fossil diatoms. Results: Our findings indicated that it was the synergistic effect of sea-level rise coupled with rainfall deficits that triggered a threshold event with a switch from two types of littoral forest (an open Uapaca forest and a closed littoral forest fragment) to an Erica-Myrica heath/grassland occurring in approximately less than 100 years. Resilience to sea-level rise differed in the two adjacent habitats, suggesting that the littoral forest fragment was more resilient to the impacts of sea-level change and aridity than the open Uapaca woodland. Conclusions We demonstrated that the littoral ecosystem was influenced by late Holocene sea-level rise and climatic desiccation. While climate change-integrated conservation strategies address the effects of climate change on species distribution and dispersal, our work suggests that more attention should be paid to the impacts of interactive climatic variables that affect ecosystem thresholds.
3877791|Aim: To implement plant hydraulic architecture within the Lund-Potsdam-Jena Dynamic Global Vegetation Model (LPJ-DGVM), and to test the model against a set of observational data. If the model can reproduce major patterns in vegetation and ecosystem processes, we consider this to be an important linkage between plant physiology and larger-scale ecosystem dynamics. Location: The location is global, geographically distributed. Methods: A literature review was carried out to derive model formulations and parameter values for representing the hydraulic characteristics of major global plant functional types (PFTs) in a DGVM. After implementing the corresponding formulations within the LPJ-DGVM, present-day model output was compared to observational data. Results: The model reproduced observed broad-scale patterns in potential natural vegetation, but it failed to distinguish accurately between different types of grassland and savanna vegetation, possibly related to inadequate model representations of water fluxes in the soil and wildfire effects. Compared to a version of the model using an empirical formulation for calculating plant water supply without considering plant hydraulic architecture, the new formulation improved simulated patterns of vegetation in particular for dry shrublands. Global-scale simulation results for runoff and actual evapotranspiration (AET) corresponded well to available data. The model also successfully reproduced the magnitude and seasonal cycle of AET for most EUROFLUX forests, while modelled variation in NPP across a large number of sites spanning several biomes showed a strong correlation with estimates from field measurements. Main conclusions: The model was generally confirmed by comparison to observational data. The novel model representation of water flow within plants makes it possible to resolve mechanistically the effects of hydraulic differences between plant functional groups on vegetation structure, water cycling, and competition. This may be an advantage when predicting ecosystem responses to nonextant climates, in particular in areas dominated by dry shrubland vegetation.
4139418|Landscape modification and habitat fragmentation are key drivers of global species loss. Their effects may be understood by focusing on: (1) individual species and the processes threatening them, and (2) human-perceived landscape patterns and their correlation with species and assemblages. Individual species may decline as a result of interacting exogenous and endogenous threats, including habitat loss, habitat degradation, habitat isolation, changes in the biology, behaviour, and interactions of species, as well as additional, stochastic threats. Human-perceived landscape patterns that are frequently correlated with species assemblages include the amount and structure of native vegetation, the prevalence of anthropogenic edges, the degree of landscape connectivity, and the structure and heterogeneity of modified areas. Extinction cascades are particularly likely to occur in landscapes with low native vegetation cover, low landscape connectivity, degraded native vegetation and intensive land use in modified areas, especially if keystone species or entire functional groups of species are lost. This review (1) demonstrates that species-oriented and pattern-oriented approaches to understanding the ecology of modified landscapes are highly complementary, (2) clarifies the links between a wide range of interconnected themes, and (3) provides clear and consistent terminology. Tangible research and management priorities are outlined that are likely to benefit the conservation of native species in modified landscapes around the world.
41058217|Aim: Humid tropical alpine environments are crucial ecosystems that sustain biodiversity, biological processes, carbon storage and surface water provision. They are identified as one of the terrestrial ecosystems most vulnerable to global environmental change. Despite their vulnerability, and the importance for regional biodiversity conservation and socio-economic development, they are among the least studied and described ecosystems in the world. This paper reviews the state of knowledge about tropical alpine environments, and provides an integrated assessment of the potential threats of global climate change on the major ecosystem processes. Location: Humid tropical alpine regions occur between the upper forest line and the perennial snow border in the upper regions of the Andes, the Afroalpine belt and Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. Results and main conclusions: Climate change will displace ecosystem boundaries and strongly reduce the total area of tropical alpine regions. Displacement and increased isolation of the remaining patches will induce species extinction and biodiversity loss. Drier and warmer soil conditions will cause a faster organic carbon turnover, decreasing the below-ground organic carbon storage. Since most of the organic carbon is currently stored in the soils, it is unlikely that an increase in above-ground biomass will be able to offset soil carbon loss at an ecosystem level. Therefore a net release of carbon to the atmosphere is expected. Changes in precipitation patterns, increased evapotranspiration and alterations of the soil properties will have a major impact on water supply. Many regions are in danger of a significantly reduced or less reliable stream flow. The magnitude and even the trend of most of these effects depend strongly on local climatic, hydrological and ecological conditions. The extreme spatial gradients in these conditions put the sustainability of ecosystem management at risk.
41239474|Aim: Species distribution models (SDMs) have been used to address a wide range of theoretical and applied questions in the terrestrial realm, but marine-based applications remain relatively scarce. In this review, we consider how conceptual and practical issues associated with terrestrial SDMs apply to a range of marine organisms and highlight the challenges relevant to improving marine SDMs. Location: We include studies from both marine and terrestrial systems that encompass many geographic locations around the globe. Methods: We first performed a literature search and analysis of marine and terrestrial SDMs in ISI Web of Science to assess trends and applications. Using knowledge from terrestrial applications, we critically evaluate the application of SDMs in marine systems in the context of ecological factors (dispersal, species interactions, aggregation and ontogenetic shifts) and practical considerations (data quality, alternative modelling approaches and model validation) that facilitate or create difficulties for model application. Results: The relative importance of ecological factors to be considered when applying SDMs varies among terrestrial and marine organisms. Correctly incorporating dispersal is frequently considered an important issue for terrestrial models, but because there is greater potential for dispersal in the ocean, it is often less of a concern in marine SDMs. By contrast, ontogenetic shifts and feeding have received little attention in terrestrial SDM applications, but these factors are important to many marine SDMs. Opportunities also exist for applying more advanced SDM approaches in the marine realm, including mechanistic ecophysiological models, where water balance and heat transfer equations are simpler for some marine organisms relative to their terrestrial counterparts. Main conclusions: SDMs have generally been under-utilized in the marine realm relative to terrestrial applications. Correlative SDM methods should be tested on a range of marine organisms, and we suggest further development of methods that address ontogenetic shifts and feeding interactions. We anticipate developments in, and cross-fertilization between, coupled correlative and process-based SDMs, mechanistic eco-physiological SDMs, and spatial population dynamic models for climate change and species invasion applications in particular. Comparisons of the outputs of different model types will provide insight that is useful for improved spatial management of marine species.
3697469|Calcium is an essential requirement for the successful growth and development of gastropod molluscs. Data for British freshwater gastropods were used to examine the relationship between environmental calcium requirements and British and European range sizes. At both spatial scales calciphile species, which require a high level of environmental calcium, had significantly smaller range sizes than species able to exploit a wide range of environmental calcium levels. However, at least in Britain, range size may also be influenced by the availability of suitable habitat. British and European range sizes were significantly correlated. This study provides evidence for niche-based explanations of range size variation, and suggests that both niche breadth and niche availability are important in determining range size.
2665353|We analysed a 50-year dataset of avian species observations to determine how richness and community composition varied over a period of land-scape-scale environmental change. Our study area, northern lower Michigan, has experienced substantial land-use and land-cover change over time. Like much of the northern Midwest, it has shifted from a largely unpopulated, post-logging shrubland to a moderately populated closed-canopy forest. Such changes are generally expected to influence overall richness and community composition. We found that regional richness per year remained virtually unchanged over the study period. Year-to-year variation in species number was surprisingly low. Richness totals included vastly different species groups as the composition of the regional bird community changed substantially over time. Changes in the types of species present appear to reflect deterministic changes in habitat. The number of grassland and open-habitat species decreased, for example, while species associated with older forests and urban habitats increased. Our results suggest that habitat changes at the landscape scale do not necessarily lead to changes in the number of species a region can support. Such changes, however, do appear to influence the types of species that will occupy a region, and can lead to substantial changes in community composition.
40602952|Aim: Shifts in species ranges are a predicted and realized effect of global climate change; however, few studies have addressed the rates and consequence of such shifts, particularly in marine systems. Given ecological similarities between shifting and introduced species, we examined how our understanding of range shifts maybe informed by the more established study of non-native species introductions. Location: Marine systems world-wide. Methods: Database and citation searches were used to identify 129 marine species experiencing range shifts and to determine spread rates and impacts on recipient communities. Analyses of spread rates were based on studies for which postestablishment spread was reported in linear distance. The sizes of the effects of community impacts of shifting species were compared with those of functionally similar introduced species having ecologically similar impacts. Results: Our review and meta-analyses revealed that: (1) 75% of the range shifts found through the database search were in the poleward direction, consistent with climate change scenarios, (2) spread rates of range shifts were lower than those of introductions, (3) shifting species spread over an order of magnitude faster in marine than in terrestrial systems, and (4) directions of community effects were largely negative and magnitudes were often similar for shifters and introduced species; however, this comparison was limited by few data for range-shifting species. Main conclusions: Although marine range shifts are likely to proceed more slowly than marine introductions, the community-level effects could be as great, and in the same direction, as those of introduced species. Because it is wellestablished that introduced species are a primary threat to global biodiversity, it follows that, just like introductions, range shifts have the potential to seriously affect biological systems. In addition, given that ranges shift faster in marine than terrestrial environments, marine communities might be affected faster than terrestrial ones as species shift with climate change. Regardless of habitat, consideration of range shifts in the context of invasion biology can improve our understanding of what to expect from climate change-driven shifts as well as provide tools for formal assessment of risks to community structure and function.
40405774|Aim: This study investigated the use of stable  C and  isotopes in the sagittal otolith carbonate of narrow-barred Spanish mackerel, Scomberomorus commerson, as indicators of population structure across Australia. Location: Samples were collected from 25 locations extending from the lower west coast of Western Australia (30), across northern Australian waters, and to the east coast of Australia (18) covering a coastline length of approximately 9500 km, including samples from Indonesia. Methods: The stable C and O isotopes in the sagittal otolith carbonate of S. commerson were analysed using standard mass spectrometric techniques. The isotope ratios across northern Australian subregions were subjected to an agglomerative hierarchical cluster analysis to define subregions. Isotope ratios within each of the subregions were compared to assess population structure across Australia. Results: Cluster analysis separated samples into four subregions: central Western Australia, north Western Australia, northern Australia and the Gulf of Carpentaria and eastern Australia. Isotope signatures for fish from a number of sampling sites from across Australia and Indonesia were significantly different, indicating population separation. No significant differences were found in otolith isotope ratios between sampling times (no temporal variation). Main conclusions: Significant differences in the isotopic signatures of S. commerson demonstrate that there is unlikely to be any substantial movement of fish among these spatially discrete adult assemblages. The lack of temporal variation among otolith isotope ratios indicates that S. commerson populations do not undergo longshore spatial shifts in distribution during their life history. The temporal persistence of spatially explicit stable isotopic signatures indicates that, at these spatial scales, the population units sampled comprise functionally distinct management units or separate 'stocks' for many of the purposes of fisheries management. The spatial subdivision evident among populations of S. commerson across northern and western Australia indicates that it may be advantageous to consider S. commerson population dynamics and fisheries management from a metapopulation perspective (at least at the regional level).
30137985|It has been suggested that alien species with close indigenous relatives in the introduced range may have reduced chances of successful establishment and invasion (Darwin's naturalization hypothesis). Studies trying to test this have in fact been addressing four different hypotheses, and the same data can support some while rejecting others. In this paper, we argue that the phylogenetic pattern will change depending on the spatial and phylogenetic scales considered. Expectations and observations from invasion biology and the study of natural communities are that at the spatial scale relevant to competitive interactions, closely related species will be spatially separated, whereas at the regional scale, species in the same genera or families will tend to co-occur more often than by chance. We also argue that patterns in the relatedness of indigenous and naturalized plants are dependent on the continental/island setting, spatial occupancy levels, and on the group of organisms under scrutiny. Understanding how these factors create a phylogenetic pattern in invasions will help us predict which groups are more likely to invade where, and should contribute to general ecological theory.
3697637|Modelling strategies for predicting the potential impacts of climate change on the natural distribution of species have often focused on the characterization of a species' bioclimate envelope. A number of recent critiques have questioned the validity of this approach by pointing to the many factors other than climate that play an important part in determining species distributions and the dynamics of distribution changes. Such factors include biotic interactions, evolutionary change and dispersal ability. This paper reviews and evaluates criticisms of bioclimate envelope models and discusses the implications of these criticisms for the different modelling strategies employed. It is proposed that, although the complexity of the natural system presents fundamental limits to predictive modelling, the bioclimate envelope approach can provide a useful first approximation as to the potentially dramatic impact of climate change on biodiversity. However, it is stressed that the spatial scale at which these models are applied is of fundamental importance, and that model results should not be interpreted without due consideration of the limitations involved. A hierarchical modelling framework is proposed through which some of these limitations can be addressed within a broader, scale-dependent context.
3182734|The past 15 years have seen the development of macroecology as a respectable discipline within the biological sciences. Initial concerns about the utility of a large-scale approach to ecology have been quietened, if not eliminated, but other arguments about spatial scale in ecology have arisen to take their place. The situation has moved from the absolute advocacy of small-scale over large-scale studies to an advocacy of some large scales in preference to others. Here, we argue that there is no general sense in which one scale of study (either in terms of spatial extent or sampling resolution) is better than any other. As long as there are sensible reasons for using the scale chosen, studies at all scales have the potential to inform about the structure and function of the ecological systems that clothe this planet.
2997828|Recent, rapid and often underestimated landscape changes have occurred over large areas in Mediterranean Europe. They are the result of major rural depopulation. Old photographs of landscapes taken at the beginning of the twentieth century (i.e. old postcards) and present-day photographs taken at the same places were compared in a 2500-km
4139412|Aim To determine the relative influence of medicinal use, height and geographical range on the chronological sequence of the first verifiable printed records of 1239 native species of flowering plants in the UK. Location UK. Methods We used Cox proportional hazards models to provide a direct estimate of the influence through time of explanatory variables on the hazard function. Results In the period from 1538 to 1550, medicinal plants were 5-15 (95% confidence interval) times more likely to be discovered than non-medicinal plants. By 1600, 75% of medicinal plants had been discovered, and subsequently medicinal use had no significant influence on the probability of discovery. From 1538 to 1983, a 100-hectad increase in area resulted in a 4-6% increase in the probability of discovery. There was a small but significant decrease in the influence of area on the probability of discovery over the entire time period. In the same time period, a 10-fold increase in height resulted in a 3-35% increased probability of discovery. Main conclusions Our results demonstrate that the first written records (1538-1600) of UK flowering plants were very strongly influenced by the perceived medicinal properties of the plants.
3697550|Aim: Interannual land cover change plays a significant role in food security, ecosystem processes, and regional and global climate modelling. Measuring the magnitude and location and understanding the driving factors of interannual land cover change are therefore of utmost importance to improve our understanding and prediction of these impacts and to better differentiate between natural and human causes of land cover change. Despite advances in quantifying the magnitude of land cover change, the interpretation of the observed land cover change in terms of climatic, ecological and anthropogenic processes still remains a complex issue. In this paper, we map land cover change across sub-Saharan Africa and examine the influences of rainfall fluctuations on interannual change. Location: The analysis was applied to sub-Saharan Africa. Methods: Ten-day rainfall estimates (RFE) obtained from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Climate Prediction Center (CPC) were used to extract information on inter and intra-annual rainfall fluctuations. The magnitude of land cover change was quantified based on the multitemporal change vector method measuring year-to-year differences in bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) corrected 16-day enhanced vegetation index (EVI) data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectro-radiometer (MODIS). Statistical models were used to estimate the relationship between short-term rainfall variability and the magnitude of land cover change. The analysis was stratified first by physiognomic vegetation type and second by chorological data on species distribution to gain insights into spatial variations in response to short-term rainfall fluctuations. Results: The magnitude of land cover change was significantly related to rainfall variability at the 5% level. Stratification considerably strengthened the relationship between the magnitude of change and rainfall variability. Explanatory power of the models ranged from
3182710|Management of terrestrial carbon fluxes is being proposed as a means of increasing the amount of carbon sequestered in the terrestrial biosphere. This approach is generally viewed only as an interim strategy for the coming decades while other longer-term strategies are developed and implemented-the most important being the direct reduction of carbon emissions. We are concerned that the potential for rapid, disturbance-induced losses may be much greater than is currently appreciated, especially by the decision-making community. Here we wish to: (1) highlight the complex and threshold-like nature of disturbances - such as fire and drought, as well as the erosion associated with each - that could lead to carbon losses; (2) note the global extent of ecosystems that are at risk of such disturbance-induced carbon losses; and (3) call for increased consideration of and research on the mechanisms by which large, rapid disturbance-induced losses of terrestrial carbon could occur. Our lack of ability as a scientific community to predict such ecosystem dynamics is precluding the effective consideration of these processes into strategies and policies related to carbon management and sequestration. Consequently, scientists need to do more to improve quantification of these potential losses and to integrate them into sound, sustainable policy options.
40205686|Aim: The goal of our study was to test fundamental predictions of biogeographical theories in tropical reef fish assemblages, in particular relationships between fish species richness and island area, isolation and oceanographic variables (temperature and productivity) in the insular Caribbean. These analyses complement an analogous and more voluminous body of work from the tropical Indo-Pacific. The Caribbean is more limited in area with smaller inter-island distances than the Indo-Pacific, providing a unique context to consider fundamental processes likely to affect richness patterns of reef fish. Location: Caribbean Sea. Methods: We compiled a set of data describing reef-associated fish assemblages from 24 island nations across the Caribbean Sea, representing a wide range of isolation and varying in land area from 53 to 110,860 km. Regression-based analyses compared the univariate and combined effects of island-specific physical predictors on fish species richness. Results: We found that diversity of reef-associated fishes increases strongly with increasing island area and with decreasing isolation. Richness also increases with increasing nearshore productivity. Analyses of various subsets of the entire data set reveal the robustness of the richness data and biogeographical patterns. Main conclusions: Within the relatively small and densely packed Caribbean basin, fish species richness fits the classical species-area relationship. Richness also was related negatively to isolation, suggesting direct effects of dispersal limitation in community assembly. Because oceanic productivity was correlated with isolation, however, the related effects of system-wide productivity on richness cannot be disentangled. These results highlight fundamental mechanisms that underlie spatial patterns of biodiversity among Caribbean coral reefs, and which are probably also are functioning in the more widespread and heterogeneous reefs of the Indo-Pacific.
2997899| The classic 1955 and 1956 papers by Eustace Jones describe vegetation pattern, process and history in Okomu Forest, south-western Nigeria. Jones and colleagues were puzzled to find an extensive layer of charcoal and pottery below mature mahogany forests. Based on an extensive review of historical documents and the estimated ages of dying emergent tree species, Jones suggested that the forest in Okomu had regenerated after a human population decline 200--300 years previously. We made radiocarbon measurements on samples from the layer of charcoal and pottery described by Jones In addition, we obtained 
3182649| The aim of this study was to examine the effects of various biological factors such as body mass, trophic level, climate and geography on census area in terrestrial mammals. We also examine the effects of census area on the population density-body mass relationship. The geographic areas covered in this study include most major terrestrial biomes including taga, desert, savanna, grassland, tropical dry forest, temperate dry forest, tropical rain forest and temperate rain forest. An extensive literature search was conducted and we compiled data on census area and body mass from 377 mammalian populations and 59 communities. Statistical analyses include linear regression, Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance, LOWESS, and multiple regression. Overall, the regression between log census area (A) and log body mass (M) yielded a slope of 0.710, which did not differ significantly from 0.75, but it was significantly different from 1.0. The analyses also showed that the log A-log M relationship is constrained within a well-defined space in a similar fashion to the home range-body mass relationship. When mammals were separated into trophic groups, regression lines differed significantly in their intercepts, but not in slopes. At the community level, the census area was particularly affected by the population with the largest body mass within the community. Both the number of species and number of taxa encompassed by the community were found to be correlated positively with log A (r = 0.26, P = 0.0464 and r = 0.27, P = 0.0398, respectively). Sampling of mammalian species is not usually random. Not only is census area significantly associated with the technique used to sample a given species, but it is also influenced by biological factors that have been shown previously to influence population density. Striking similarities were found between the census area-body mass relationship and the home range-body mass relationship, suggesting that investigators may sample mammalian populations over areas that actually reflect the use of space of their focal species. 
40801848|Aim: To test historical and current influences on the distributions of sympatric colour morphotypes in the coral reef fish genus Hypoplectrus.
40928122|Aim: This study investigates inter-annual variability in burnt area in southern Africa and the extent to which climate is responsible for this variation. We compare data from long-term field sites across the region with remotely sensed burnt area data to test whether it is possible to develop a general model. Location: Africa south of the equator. Methods: Linear mixed effects models were used to determine the effect of rainfall, seasonality and fire weather in driving variation in fire extent between years, and to test whether the effect of these variables changes across the subcontinent and in areas more and less impacted by human activities. Results: A simple model including rainfall and seasonality explained 40% of the variance in burnt area between years across 10 different protected areas on the subcontinent, but this model, when applied regionally, indicated that climate had less impact on year-to-year variation in burnt area than would be expected. It was possible to demonstrate that the relative importance of rainfall and seasonality changed as one moved from dry to wetter systems, but most noticeable was the reduction in climatically driven variability of fire outside protected areas. Interannual variability is associated with the occurrence of large fires, and large fires are only found in areas with low human impact. Main conclusions: This research gives the first data-driven analysis of fire-climate interactions in southern Africa. The regional analysis shows that human impact on fire regimes is substantial and acts to limit the effect of climate in driving variation between years. This is in contrast to patterns in protected areas, where variation in accumulated rainfall and the length of the dry season influence the annual area burnt. Global models which assume strong links between fire and climate need to be re-assessed in systems with high human impact.
3697537|Aim: The effects of resolution and spatial extent on range measures were explored in estimates of the geographic distribution of tropical hawkmoths. Furthermore, data were tested for phylogenetic autocorrelation. Location: South-East Asia. Methods: Various range measures, such as geographic information system (GIS)-supported range estimates, minimum convex polygons, latitudinal and longitudinal extents, and their products, were derived from original distribution records and compared to each other. A taxonomic classification of the species was used to analyse phylogenetic effects on range sizes. Results: Range size measures exhibit a strongly right-skewed frequency distribution with many geographically restricted species and few widespread taxa. Rankings from GIS-supported, comprehensive range size estimates do not deviate greatly from more crude measurements of lower resolution. Comprehensive ranges and ranges within South-East Asia are correlated strongly, but already at this rather large scale the ranking of species changes considerably. Other measures of occupancy with an increasingly more localized consideration of 'range' show decreasing strengths of correlation. We found a weak, but significant, autocorrelation in range area data: related groups of species have ranges of similar size. Main conclusions: Spatial resolution did not affect range ranking greatly in our data. However, macroecological studies based only on parts of species' ranges must be viewed critically, particularly if their extent is small compared to comprehensive ranges. Phylogenetic non-independence of range size data must be considered in comparative analyses.
30137872|Aim To measure latitude-related body size variation in field-collected Paropsis atomaria Olivier (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) individuals and to conduct common-garden experiments to determine whether such variation is due to phenotypic plasticity or local adaptation. Location Four collection sites from the east coast of Australia were selected for our present field collections: Canberra (latitude 3519' S), Bangalow (latitude 2843' S), Beerburrum (latitude 2658' S) and Lowmead (latitude 2429' S). Museum specimens collected over the past 100 years and covering the same geographical area as the present field collections came from one state, one national and one private collection. Methods Body size (pronotum width) was measured for 118 field-collected beetles and 302 specimens from collections. We then reared larvae from the latitudinal extremes (Canberra and Lowmead) to determine whether the size cline was the result of phenotypic plasticity or evolved differences (= local adaptation) between sites. Results Beetles decreased in size with increasing latitude, representing a converse Bergmann cline. A decrease in developmental temperature produced larger adults for both Lowmead (low latitude) and Canberra (high latitude) individuals, and those from Lowmead were larger than those from Canberra when reared under identical conditions. Main conclusions The converse Bergmann cline in P. atomaria is likely to be the result of local adaptation to season length.
2997883|Measurements of tree canopy closure and field-layer reflectance were made in a series of plots in protected areas of eastern Zambia as part of a multiyear study of savanna woodlands. The plots were located in the Luangwa Valley and adjacent plateaux, which contained a range of vegetation types found in southern Africa. The vegetation consisted of four broad types 1. plateau miombo woodland, 2. valley miombo woodland; 3. scrub miombo woodland, and 4. scrub and woodland mopane. Hemispherical photographs of the tree layer provided measurements of tree canopy phenology in the different vegetation plots. The most seasonal woodland type was mopane, where tree canopy closure ranged from about 15% at the end of the dry season to just over 60% during the peak of the rains. Plateau miombo exhibited the lowest range of seasonality in the tree layer, ranging from about 40% to 60% closure over one complete seasonal cycle. Phenology of the field layer, expressed as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), closely followed that of the tree layer, although the field layer senesced earlier than trees, especially in plots with relatively low tree canopy closure. The relationship between tree-canopy closure and field-layer NDVI was positive and statistically significant for all sites of the study area, which suggests that woody biomass and herbaceous biomass are related positively in these savanna woodland ecosystems.
2997904| We compare estimates of total cropland area, paddy rice area, and irrigated cropland area in China from land cover maps derived from optical remote sensing in 1992--93 (1-km resolution NOAA AVHRR) and county-level agricultural census data for 1990. At national, regional, provincial, and county scales, the total cropland area estimated by remote sensing is 50--100% higher than reported in the agricultural census. For topographically flat North and Central China, there is a high correlation between county-level cropland area estimates by the two approaches. For other regions, the correlation between remote sensing and agricultural census cropland area is much weaker. Throughout China, there is only moderate to weak correlation between remote sensing-based and census-bases estimates of paddy rice area and total irrigated cropland area. It is likely that the census data underestimates and the remote sensing overestimates the actual cropland area. These uncertainties in agricultural land cover estimates will contribute to uncertainty in any large-scale biogeochemical analyses. 
30137900|Aim: How species traits and environmental conditions affect biogeographical dynamics is poorly understood. Here we test whether estimates of a species' evolutionary age, colonization and persistence ability can explain its current'range filling' (the ratio between realized and potential range size). Location: Fynbos biome (Cape Floristic Region, South Africa). Methods: For 37 species of woody plants (Proteaceae), we estimate range filling using atlas data and distribution models, evolutionary age using molecular phylogenies, and persistence ability using estimates of individual longevity (which determines the probability of extinction of local populations). Colonization ability is estimated from validated process-based seed dispersal models, the arrangement of potential habitat, and data on local abundance. To relate interspecific variation in range filling to evolutionary age, colonization and persistence ability, we use two complementary model types: phenomenological linear models and the process-based metapopulation model of Levins. Results: Linear model analyses show that range filling increases with a species' colonization and persistence ability but is not affected by species age. Moreover, colonization ability is a better predictor of range filling than its component variables (local abundance and dispersal ability). The phylogenetically independent interaction between colonization and persistence ability is significant (P < 0.05) for 97% of 180 alternative phylogenies. While the selected linear model explains 42% of the variance in arcsine transformed range filling, the Levins model performs more poorly. It overestimates range filling for realistic parameter values and produces unrealistic parameter estimates when fitted statistically. Main conclusions: Colonization and local extinction seem to shape Proteaceae range dynamics on ecological rather than macroevolutionary time-scales. Our results suggest that the positive abundance-range size relationship in this group is due primarily to the effect of abundance on colonization. In summary, this study contributes to a process-based understanding of range dynamics and highlights the importance of colonization for the future survival of Fynbos Proteaceae.
41058245|Aim: Two alternative hypotheses attempt to explain the upper elevation limit of tree lines world-wide, the carbon-limitation hypothesis (CLH) and the growthlimitation hypothesis (GLH); the altitudinal decrease of temperature is considered the driver constraining either carbon gain or growth. Using a widely distributed tree line species (Nothofagus pumilio) we tested whether tree line altitude is explained by the CLH or the GLH, distinguishing local from global effects. We elaborated expectations based on most probable trends of carbon charging with altitude according to both hypotheses, considering the alternative effects of drought. Location: Two climatically contrasting tree line ecotones in the southern Andes of Chile: Mediterranean (3654' S) and Patagonia (4604' S). Methods: At both locations, 35-50 trees of different ages were selected at each of four altitudes (including tree line), and stem and root sapwood tissues were collected to determine non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) concentrations. NSC accumulates whenever growth is more limited than photosynthesis. An altitudinal increase in NSCs means support for the GLH, while the opposite trend supports the CLH. We also determined stable carbon isotope ratios (C) to examine drought constraints on carbon gain. Results: NSC concentrations were positively correlated with altitude for stem tissue at the Mediterranean and root sapwood tissue at the Patagonia site. No depletion of NSC was found at either site in either tissue type. For both tissues, mean NSC concentrations were higher for the Patagonia site than for the Mediterranean site. Mean root sapwood NSC concentration values were five times higher than those of the corresponding stem sapwood at all altitudes. Values for C were positively correlated with altitude in the Mediterranean site only. Main conclusions: We found support for the GLH at the site without drought effects (Patagonia) and no support for the CLH at either site. It is suggested that drought moderated the effects of low temperature by masking the expected trend of the GLH at the Mediterranean site.
3697455| Aim: To establish the factors that correlate with the distribution of the four most commonly introduced rodent species on New Zealand offshore islands - ship rat (Rattus rattus), Norway rat (R. norvegicus), Pacific rat or kiore (R. exulans) and house mouse (Mus musculus) - and examine if these distributions are interactive at the archipelago scale. Location: The 297 offshore islands of the New Zealand archipelago (latitude: 34 S to 47 S; longitude: 166 E to 179 E). Methods: Data on the distribution of all four introduced rodent species and the characteristics of New Zealand offshore islands were collated from published surveys and maps. The distribution of individual rodent species was regressed on island characteristics using a logistic generalized linear model. Interactions were examined by including the distributions of other rodent species as predictors in models. Results: All four rodent species appear to be limited by a variety of factors, which differ between species in both number and type. The distribution of ship rats is limited by the most factors, reflecting the extent of its distribution across the archipelago. The distribution of mice is the least explicative. Only the three rat species interacted in their distribution. The distribution of kiore on offshore islands is significantly negatively related to that of ship rats and to a lesser extent Norway rats. The distribution of mice did not appear affected in any way by the number of other rodent species on an island. Main conclusions: Differences in competitive ability and dispersal allow all four species to inhabit the New Zealand archipelago. Kiore distribution appears to be most limited by ship rat (and to a lesser extent Norway rat) distribution. The distribution of kiore was not found to interact with the distribution of mice on offshore islands, as has been suggested by others. The distribution of mice on offshore islands was difficult to model, which highlights the difficulties in managing this species. Overall the results offer valuable insights for management methods to assist preventing the invasion of offshore islands. 
40602945|We outline the potentially important role of dispersal in linking diversity patterns at different spatial and temporal scales, and the resulting potential to link hypotheses explaining macroscale patterns of diversity. We do this by proposing a possible mechanism linking climate to diversity patterns: we argue that climate, via effects of continuity of habitat availability in space and time, mediates a dispersal-ecological specialization trade-off at the metacommunity level that leads to latitudinal trends in dispersal ability, ecological specialization, range sizes, speciation and species richness, ultimately driving the latitudinal diversity gradient. This trade-off constitutes a possible mechanism for the strong macroscale correlation between climate and species richness that is consistent with recent ideas about niche conservatism and gradient lengths, as well as other leading hypotheses. We present an overview of predictions derived from our ideas. Of these, some have already been tested and supported and others are still open to debate or need testing. Together they provide a unique set of predictions that allows falsification.
41239477|Aim: To test the hypothesis that communities with higher diversity have more predictable properties by examining patterns of community structure along a species richness gradient. Location: Trinidad and Tobago (1100 N, 6100 W), on the South American continental shelf, opposite the Orinoco River delta, north-east Venezuela. Methods: We used quantile regressions to investigate how three total abundance, absolute and relative dominance measures - numerical abundance, biomass and energy use, respectively - change across a species richness gradient. We investigated which allocation rule best mimics community assembly in this species richness gradient by examining the abundance of the dominant species and comparing it with predictions of niche apportionment models. Results: All measures of total abundance increase on average across the gradient, but the upper limit remains constant. On average, absolute dominance is constant, but the distance between the upper and lower limits decreases along the gradient. Relative dominance decreases with species richness. Observed dominance patterns are best described by Tokeshi's random fraction model. Main conclusions: Our results show that both total abundance and absolute dominance become increasingly variable as biodiversity decreases. Consequently, our study suggests that ecosystem properties are less predictable when biodiversity is lower.
40205731|Aim: To examine patterns of avian frugivory across dades, geography and environments. Location: Global, including all six major biogeographical realms (Afrotropics, Australasia, Indo-Malaya, Nearctic, Neotropics and Palaearctic). Methods: First, we examine the taxonomic distribution of avian frugivory within orders and families. Second we evaluate, with traditional and spatial regression approaches, the geographical patterns of frugivore species richness and proportion. Third, we test the potential of contemporary climate (water-energy, productivity, seasonality), habitat heterogeneity (topography, habitat diversity) and biogeographical history (captured by realm membership) to explain geographical patterns of avian frugivory. Results: Most frugivorous birds (50%) are found within the perching birds (Passeriformes), but the woodpeckers and allies (Piciformes), parrots (Psittaciformes) and pigeons (Columbiformes) also contain a significant number of frugivorous species (9-15%). Frugivore richness is highest in the Neotropics, but peaks in overall bird diversity in the Himalayan foothills, the East African mountains and in some areas of Brazil and Bolivia are not reflected by frugivores. Current climate explains more variance in species richness and proportion of frugivores than of non-frugivores whereas it is the opposite for habitat heterogeneity. Actual evapotranspiration (AET) emerges as the best single climatic predictor variable of avian frugivory. Significant differences in frugivore richness and proportion between select biogeographical regions remain after differences in environment (i.e. AET) are accounted for. Main conclusions: We present evidence that both environmental and historical constraints influence global patterns of avian frugivory. Whereas water-energy dynamics possibly constrain frugivore distribution via indirect effects on food plants, regional differences in avian frugivory most likely reflect historical contingencies related to the evolutionary history of fleshy fruited plant taxa, niche conservatism and past climate change. Overall our results support an important role of co-diversification and environmental constraints on regional assembly over macroevolutionary time-scales.
40405781|Aim The discipline of macroecology is increasingly being regarded as an effective vehicle for the evaluation of recent population- to ecosystem-level responses to widespread human and environmental influences. However, due to the prevalent use of time-averaged and cumulative data in macroecological analyses, the majority of the patterns that emerge from research in this field can be regarded as static. Here we review the application of dynamic macroecological analyses to changes in relationships between macroecological variables on seasonal to decadal scales. We illustrate the strength of this perspective for documenting changing patterns and testing hypotheses related to these dynamics on ecological time-scales. Location Studies were compiled and reviewed from terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Methods We review examples of temporal changes in macroecological patterns driven by recent anthropogenic influences and environmental change. Results The dynamic nature of macroecological patterns on ecological timescales has been revealed in recent years across a wide range of ecosystems, largely through the development, maintenance and analysis of biotic and environmental monitoring time series. The resultant analyses complement examinations of dynamics over evolutionary time and have similarly revealed that static portrayals can conceal important temporal dynamics that underlie the patterns of interest. As a consequence, static depictions, resting as they do on comparative analyses in which the validity of space-for-time substitutions is assumed, may be of limited use for testing hypotheses related to the mechanisms underlying the patterns revealed and, by extension, the development of reliable predictions of future states. Main conclusions Recent dynamic macroecological analyses have demonstrated the utility of combined spatial and temporal replication, and have contributed to hypothesis testing related to the mechanistic processes underlying changes in macroecological patterns on ecological time-scales. We suggest four specific avenues of future research to further the development and application of temporal approaches on similar time-scales within the field of macroecology.
3697668|Aim: Rainfall reliability has been neglected as a determinant of plant trait convergence and divergence in mediterranean-climate ecosystems. This paper reports on patterns of rainfall reliability-quantified as interannual variation in monthly and seasonal rainfall, and as the frequency of individual events in terms of their size, duration and intensity-for four fire-prone mediterranean-climate ecosystems. Location: The four mediterranean-climate regions of the world with fire-prone ecosystems, namely SW Cape (South Africa), SW Australia, California and the Mediterranean Basin (Andalusia, Spain). Methods: Using long-term monthly rainfall data from stations dispersed across the four regions, we computed monthly means and interannual variation for each month of the year - the latter quantified as the coefficient of variation (CV) - and divided these into winter and summer seasons. We also computed the mean number of rainfall events, the mean frequency in various categories of event duration (days), the amount of rainfall per event (mm) and the rainfall intensity per event (mm/day) per year for winter and summer seasons for a subset of the rainfall stations. Results: The fraction of rain falling in summer was lowest in California (5%) and similarly low (c. 25%) in the other three regions. The hierarchy of values of coefficient of variation (CV) of monthly rainfall during the winter period was as follows: California > Andalusia > > SW Cape > SW Australia; results for summer were: California > > Andalusia > > SW Australia ~ SW Cape. SW Australian sites experienced the greatest frequency of short, small and low-intensity rainfall events in both seasons; patterns in the SW Cape were intermediate between Australia and the two northern hemisphere sites which both received fewer, larger and more intense events. Overall, the two southern hemisphere regions (SW Australia and the SW Cape) had significantly more reliable regimes than the two northern hemisphere ones (Mediterranean Basin and California). Main conclusions: These differences in rainfall reliability regimes may provide a novel perspective on the distribution of certain plant life-history traits in mediterranean-climate ecosystems. Less reliable regimes would select for germination and seedling survival traits that enable persistence of genets in the face of uncertain moisture conditions during the winter and spring establishment phase. Study systems that accommodate for phylogenetic constraints, namely invasive species derived from mediterranean-climate ecosystems, as well as shared lineages, provide good opportunities to develop and test hypotheses on the implication of different rainfall reliability regimes. One of the novel implications of this study is that the distinctive trait of assemblages in the southern hemisphere regions may be a consequence not so much of their shared nutrient-poor soils as of their similarly reliable rainfall regimes.
3697609|Ongoing species invasions and extinctions are changing biological diversity in different ways at different spatial scales. Biotic homogenization (or BH) refers to the process by which the genetic, taxonomic or functional similarities of regional biotas increase over time. It is a multifaceted process that encompasses species invasions, extinctions and environmental alterations, focusing on how the identities of species (or their genetic or functional attributes) change over space and time. Despite the increasing use of the term BH in conservation biology, it is often used erroneously as a synonym for patterns of species invasions, loss of native species or changes in species richness through time. This reflects the absence of an agreed-upon, cogent definition of BH. Here, we offer an operational definition for BH and review the various methodologies used to study this process. We identify the strengths and weaknesses of these approaches, and make explicit recommendations for future studies. We conclude by citing the need for researchers to: (1) consider carefully the definition of BH by recognizing the genetic, taxonomic and functional realms of this process; (2) recognize that documenting taxonomic homogenization requires tracking the identity of species (not species richness) comprising biotas through space and time; and (3) employ more rigorous methods for quantifying BH.
3697571|Aim: The study examined qualitative predictions of ecological theories in relation to the spatial distribution of species turnover of aquatic macrophytes, through the following parameters: (1) distance between lakes (2) chemical conditions of the lakes (3) chemical differences between the lakes, and (4) the lake size. Location: 562 lakes dispersed throughout Northern Ireland were analysed. Methods: To obtain species turnover estimates independent of richness, the average distance between focal lakes and their five nearest neighbours in ordination space (DCA) was standardized by the species richness in a Generalized Additive Model (GAM). The relationships between species turnover and ecological (chemical condition, chemical difference, distance between lakes, and lake-size) and geographical parameters (latitude, longitude, and altitude) were analysed using GAM. Results: The results indicate that the pattern in species turnover is a combination of the chemical conditions and the distance between the lakes, including the interaction term. The effects of chemical heterogeneity and lake size parameters were both positive but weak. In general, increased distance and decreased ionic concentration contribute to increased turnover. The influence of distance on species turnover is strongest at low and high altitude, and at mid-elevation the species turnover is mainly driven by the chemical conditions. Towards the north there is an increasing influence of distance, whereas in the south the chemical conditions have their strongest influence. Conclusions: There is a need for components from several established ecological theories to explain the spatial trends in species turnover within Northern Ireland. Central theories in this particular study are the population/metapopulation dynamics, the continuum concept, and the species-pool concept.
3697669|Aim: Ongoing biological invasions will enhance the impacts of humans on biodiversity. Nonetheless, the effects of exotic species on diversity are idiosyncratic. Increases in diversity might be a consequence of similar responses by species to available energy, or because of positive relationships between human density, energy and propagule pressure. Here we use data from the Southern Ocean island plants and insects to investigate these issues. Location: The Southern Ocean Islands ranging from Tristan da Cunha to Heard Island and South Georgia. Methods: Generalized linear models are used to explore the relationships between indigenous and exotic species richness for plants and insects on two different islands. Similar models are used to examine interactions between indigenous and exotic species richness, energy availability and propagule pressure at the regional scale. Results: Positive relationships were found between indigenous and exotic species richness at local scales, although for plants, the relationship was partially triangular. Across the Southern Ocean Islands, there was strong positive covariation between indigenous and exotic plant species richness and insect species richness, even taking spatial autocorrelation into account. Both exotic and indigenous plant and insect species richness covaried with energy availability, as did human visitor frequency. When two islands with almost identical numbers of human visits were contrasted, it was clear that energy availability, or perhaps differences in climate-matching, were responsible for differences in the extent of invasion. Conclusion: In plants and insects, there are positive relationships between indigenous and exotic diversity at local and regional scales across the Southern Ocean islands. These relationships are apparently a consequence of similar responses by both groups and by human occupants to available energy. When visitor frequency is held constant, energy availability is the major correlate of exotic species richness, though the exact mechanistic cause of this relationship requires clarification.
40205716|Aim: Many ecological surveys record only the presence or absence of species in the cells of a rectangular grid. Ecologists have investigated methods for using these data to predict the total abundance of a species from the number of grid cells in which the species is present. Our aim is to improve such predictions by taking account of the spatial pattern of occupied cells, in addition to the number of occupied cells. Innovation: We extend existing prediction models to include a spatial clustering variable. The extended models can be viewed as combining two macroecological regularities, the abundance-occupancy regularity and a spatial clustering regularity. The models are estimated using data from five tropical forest censuses, including three Panamanian censuses (4, 6 and 50 ha), one Costa Rican census (16 ha) and one Puerto Rican census (16 ha). A serpentine grassland census (8  8 m) from northern California is also studied. Main conclusions: Taking account of the spatial clustering of occupied cells improves abundance prediction from presence-absence data, reducing the mean square error of log-predictions by roughly 54% relative to a benchmark Poisson predictor and by roughly 34% relative to current prediction methods. The results have high statistical significance.
41239338|Aim: Urban environments around the world share many features in common, including the local extinction of native plant species. We tested the hypothesis that similarity in environmental conditions among urban areas should select for plant species with a particular suite of traits suited to those conditions, and lead to the selective extinction of species lacking those traits. Location: Eleven cities with data on the plant species that persisted and those that went locally extinct within at least the last 100 years following urbanization. Methods: We compiled data on 11 plant traits for 8269 native species in the 11 cities and used hierarchical logistic regression models to identify the degree to which traits could distinguish species that persisted from those that went locally extinct in each city. The trait effects from each city were then combined in a meta-analysis. Results: The cities fell into two groups: those with relatively low rates of extinction (less than 0.05% species per year -Adelaide, Hong Kong, Los Angeles, San Diego and San Francisco), for which no traits reliably predicted the pattern of extinction, and those with higher rates of extinction (> 0.08% species per year -Auckland, Chicago, Melbourne, New York, Singapore and Worcester, MA), where shortstatured, small-seeded plants were more likely to go extinct. Main conclusions: Our analysis reveals patterns in trait selectivity consistent with local studies, suggesting some consistency in trait selection by urbanization. Overall, however, few traits reliably predicted the pattern of plant extinction across cities, making it difficult to identify a priori the extinction-prone species most likely to be affected by urban expansion.
2665421|1 Bird species numbers were studied on 109 reed islands at Lake Velence, Hungary, in the 1993 and 1994 breeding seasons. The aim was to describe and account for the abundance and distribution patterns of the bird species. 2 It was expected that an exponential model would fit the calculated species area curves. However, for the 1993 data, both the power function (LogS  LogArea) and the exponential (S  LogArea) models did so, while the power function, exponential and linear (S  A) models fitted the curves for the 1994 data. 3 The results showed that the pattern was not random: a collection of small islands held more species than a few large islands with the same total area. 4 The relative species richness of small islands is a result of the preference of most common passerine bird species for the edges of reed islands. Most individuals were found in the first 5 m of the reedbed, and no edge avoidance was detected on a local spatial scale. Large, rarer species (e.g. Great White Egret), however, were found to be dependent on large reed islands. 5 Comparison of results with two other studies on bird communities of reed islands revealed that the type of landscape matrix (e.g. deep water, shallow water or agricultural lands) among reed patches significantly influences bird communities. Deep water was dominated by grebes and coot, shallow water by reed-nesting passerines, and farmed areas by reed- and bush-nesting passerines.
2997890|Savanna woodlands and their associated species diversity and endemism are widely seen as declining through human impacts. Alternative views suggest that savanna ecosystems vary with a large number of biophysical factors, among which human impacts may be of relatively minor importance. This paper examines the debate with respect to Mkomazi Game Reserve in Northern Tanzania, where biodiversity has been inventoried and local resource use studied. It sets out the history of land use in Mkomazi and examines the available data on the area's plant, bird and invertebrate diversity. Comparative analysis is complicated by the paucity of data for other savannas in the same biogeographic zone, and by differences in sampling effort and methodology Conservation literature and Tanzanian government documents present Mkomazi as one of the richest savannas in Africa, as a centre of endemism, and as threatened by deleterious impacts of human land use. Available data do not substantiate such statements. The paper examines implications of those perceptions for management, particularly eviction of resident pastoralists from the Reserve in 1988, and subsequent exclusion of reserve-adjacent dwellers. Conservation relies increasingly on reserve-adjacent people, and on prioritizing the allocation of scarce resources. There is an urgent need for rigorous studies of the implications of human land use in savannas, for better data on biodiversity, and for rigorous standards in the way those data are applied.
3182679|Aim: The study examined the potential for change in biome representation within Canada's national park system under multiple climate change scenarios and subsequent potential vulnerabilities in Parks Canada policy and planning frameworks. Location: The study was conducted for Canada's 39 national parks. Methods: The vegetation change scenarios were based on modelling results from the BIOME3 and MAPSS equilibrium process-based global vegetation models (GVM), run with multiple doubled-CO
3182690|1 The 'big-leaf' approach to calculating the carbon balance of plant canopies is evaluated for inclusion in the ETEMA model framework. This approach assumes that canopy carbon fluxes have the same relative responses to the environment as any single leaf, and that the scaling from leaf to canopy is therefore linear. 2 A series of model simulations was performed with two models of leaf photosynthesis, three distributions of canopy nitrogen, and two levels of canopy radiation detail. Leaf- and canopy-level responses to light and nitrogen, both as instantaneous rates and daily integrals, are presented. 3 Observed leaf nitrogen contents of unshaded leaves are over 40% lower than the big-leaf approach requires. Scaling from these leaves to the canopy using the big-leaf approach may underestimate canopy photosynthesis by ~20%. A leaf photosynthesis model that treats within-leaf light extinction displays characteristics that contradict the big-leaf theory. Observed distributions of canopy nitrogen are closer to those required to optimize this model than the homogeneous model used in the big-leaf approach. 4 It is theoretically consistent to use the big-leaf approach with the homogeneous photosynthesis model to estimate canopy carbon fluxes if canopy nitrogen and leaf area are known and if the distribution of nitrogen is assumed optimal. However, real nitrogen profiles are not optimal for this photosynthesis model, and caution is necessary in using the big-leaf approach to scale satellite estimates of leaf physiology to canopies. Accurate prediction of canopy carbon fluxes requires canopy nitrogen, leaf area, declining nitrogen with canopy depth, the heterogeneous model of leaf photosynthesis and the separation of sunlit and shaded leaves. The exact nitrogen profile is not critical, but realistic distributions can be predicted using a simple model of canopy nitrogen allocation.
3697599| Aim: Previous studies conducted at the tree line in northwestern Qubec suggested that the forest tundra was created over the last 3000 years by deforestation as a result of the combined action of forest fires and climatic cooling. Our objectives were to: (1) validate at a larger spatial scale the time frame of the last 3000 years; (2) verify if the opening process was more pronounced during particular time periods; and (3) confirm that fire was the triggering mechanism. Location: Seventeen lakes from the forest tundra of northern Qubec. Methods: Pollen records were analysed to determine the date of landscape opening, as interpreted by the time of decrease towards present-day values of the ratio of Picea pollen percentage to pollen percentage of the taxa typical of open forest tundra landscapes (Betula, Ericaceae, Cyperaceae and Poaceae). Results: Landscape opening in northern Qubec started c. 3220 cal. BP (calibrated years before present) and was more pronounced between c. 2040 and 890 cal. BP. No spatial pattern was observed in the dates of landscape opening. Main conclusions: The suggestion that landscape opening in the forest tundra occurred over the last 3000 years was validated at the scale of northern Qubec. A period of more pronounced opening was identified between 2040 and 890 cal. BP and could be related to increased fire occurrence. Absence of a spatial pattern in the dates of landscape opening provides further confirmation that fire was the triggering mechanism. /// Objectif: Des tudes antrieures menes  la limite des arbres dans le nord-ouest du Qubec ont suggr que la toundra forestire aurait t cre au cours des derniers 3000 ans par la dforestation rsultant de l'action combine des feux de fort et d'un refroidissement climatique. Nos objectifs taient de (1) valider  une chelle spatiale plus importante la priode des derniers 3000 ans; (2) vrifier si le processus d'ouverture du paysage a t plus prononc  certaines priodes; et (3) confirmer que le feu a t le mcanisme dclencheur. Localisation: Dix-sept lacs de la toundra forestire du nord du Qubec. Mthodes: Les enregistrements polliniques ont t analyss pour dterminer la date d'ouverture du paysage, telle qu'interprte par le moment o survient une baisse marque vers les valeurs actuelles du ratio du pourcentage de pollen de Picea sur le pourcentage de pollen de taxons typiques des milieux ouverts de la toundra forestire (Betula, Ericaceae, Cyperaceae et Poaceae). Rsultats: L'ouverture du paysage dans le nord du Qubec a dbut vers 3220 cal. BP et s'est exprime de faon plus marque entre 2040 et 890 BP cal. Aucun patron spatial n'a t observ dans les dates d'ouverture du paysage. Principales conclusions: La suggestion selon laquelle l'ouverture du paysage dans la toundra forestire aurait eu lieu au cours des derniers 3000 ans a t valide  l'chelle du Qubec nordique. Une priode plus marque d'ouverture du paysage a t identifie entre 2040 et 890 cal. BP et pourrait tre relie  des frquences de feux plus leves. L'absence de patron spatial dans les dates d'ouverture du paysage est une confirmation supplmentaire que le feu a t le mcanisme dclencheur. 
3182664|Aim: The purpose of this study is to apply geographical information and artificial neural network (ANN) technologies in assessing ecosystem distribution on the island of Saint Lucia, as well as to develop an improved ecological classification using Holdridge's system of natural life zones. Location: Saint Lucia is a Caribbean island state located at 14
30137898|Aim: Few studies have explicitly examined the influence of spatial attributes of forest fragments when examining the impacts of fragmentation on woody species. The aim of this study was to assess the diverse impacts of fragmentation on forest habitats by integrating landscape-level and species-level approaches. Location: The investigation was undertaken in temperate rain forests located in southern Chile. This ecosystem is characterized by high endemism and by intensive recent changes in land use. Method: Measures of diversity, richness, species composition, forest structure and anthropogenic disturbances were related to spatial attributes of the landscape (size, shape, connectivity, isolation and interior forest area) of forest fragments using generalized linear models. A total of 63 sampling plots distributed in 51 forest fragments with different spatial attributes were sampled. Results: Patch size was the most important attribute influencing different measures of species composition, stand structure and anthropogenic disturbances. The abundance of tree and shrub species associated with interior and edge habitats was significantly related to variation in patch size. Basal area, a measure of forest structure, significantly declined with decreasing patch size, suggesting that fragmentation is affecting successional processes in the remaining forests. Small patches also displayed a greater number of stumps, animal trails and cow pats, and lower values of canopy cover as a result of selective logging and livestock grazing in relatively accessible fragments. However, tree richness and P3-diversity of tree species were not significantly related to fragmentation. Main conclusions: This study demonstrates that progressive fragmentation by logging and clearance is associated with dramatic changes in the structure and composition of the temperate forests in southern Chile. If this fragmentation process continues, the ability of the remnant forests to maintain their original biodiversity and ecological processes will be significantly reduced.
3697444|Aim: Our aims were to quantify climatic and soil controls on net primary productivity (NPP) and leaf area index (LAI) along subtropical to alpine gradients where the vegetation remains relatively undisturbed, and investigate whether NPP and LAI converge towards threshold-like logistic patterns associated with climatic and soil variables that would help us to verify and parameterize process models for predicting future ecosystem behaviour under global environmental change. Location: Field data were collected from 22 sites along the Tibetan Alpine Vegetation Transects (TAVT) during 1999-2000. The TAVT included the altitudinal transect on the eastern slope of the Gongga Mountains in the Eastern Tibetan Plateau, with altitudes from 1900 m to 3700 m, and the longitudinal-latitudinal transect in the Central Tibetan Plateau, of approximately 1000 km length and 40 km width. Methods: LAI was measured as the product of foliage biomass multiplied by the ratio of specific leaf area. NPP in forests and shrub communities was estimated as the sum of increases in standing crops of live vegetation using recent stem growth rate and leaf lifespan. NPP in grasslands was estimated from the above-ground maximum live biomass. We measured the soil organic carbon (C) and total and available nitrogen (N) contents and their pool sizes by conventional methods. Mean temperatures for the year, January and July and annual precipitation were estimated from available meteorological stations by interpolation or simulation. The threshold-like logistic function was used to model the relationships of LAI and NPP with climatic and soil variables. Results: Geographically, NPP and LAI both significantly decreased with increasing latitude (P < 0.02), but increased with increasing longitude (P < 0.01). Altitudinal trends in NPP and LAI showed different patterns. NPP generally decreased with increasing altitude in a linear relationship (r
3877794|Aim: There is an urgent need for conservation in threatened tropical forest regions. We explain and predict the spatial variation of  (i.e. within plot) and  (i.e. between plot) tree diversity in a tropical montane landscape subjected to a high deforestation rate. A major aim is to demonstrate the potential of a method that combines data from multiple sources (field data, remote sensing imagery and GIS) to evaluate and monitor forest diversity on a broad scale over large unexplored areas. Location: The study covered an area of c.
41239411|Aim: An understanding of the relationship between forest biomass and climate is needed to predict the impacts of climate change on carbon stores. Biomass patterns have been characterized at geographically or climatically restricted scales, making it unclear if biomass is limited by climate in any general way at continental to global scales. Using a dataset spanning multiple climatic regions we evaluate the generality of published biomass-climate correlations. We also combine metabolic theory and hydraulic limits to plant growth to first derive and then test predictions for how forest biomass should vary with maximum individual tree biomass and the ecosystem water deficit. Location: Temperate forests and dry, moist and wet tropical forests across North, Central and South America. Methods: A forest biomass model was derived from allometric functions and power-law size distributions. Biomass and climate were correlated using extensive forest plot (276 0.1-ha plots), wood density and climate datasets. Climate variables included mean annual temperature, annual precipitation, their ratio, precipitation of the driest quarter, potential and actual evapotranspiration, and the ecosystem water deficit. The water deficit uniquely summarizes water balance by integrating water inputs from precipitation with water losses due to solar energy. Results: Climate generally explained little variation in forest biomass, and mixed support was found for published biomass-climate relationships. Our theory indicated that maximum individual biomass governs forest biomass and is constrained by water deficit. Indeed, forest biomass was tightly coupled to maximum individual biomass and the upper bound of maximum individual biomass declined steeply with water deficit. Water deficit similarly constrained the upper bound of forest biomass, with most forests below the constraint. Main conclusions: The results suggest that: (1) biomass-climate models developed at restricted geographic/climatic scales may not hold at broader scales; (2) maximum individual biomass is strongly related to forest biomass, suggesting that process-based models should focus on maximum individual biomass; (3) the ecosystem water deficit constrains biomass, but realized biomass often falls below the constraint; such that (4) biomass is not strongly limited by climate in most forests so that forest biomass may not predictably respond to changes in mean climate.
41058236|Aim: Connectivity is a key determinant of the distribution and abundance of organisms and is greatly influenced by anthropogenic landscape modification, yet we lack a synthetic perspective on the magnitude and extent of matrix effects on connectivity. We synthesize results from published studies to understand the importance of matrix effects on fragmented animal populations. Location: Global. Methods: We conduct a meta-analysis of 283 fragmented populations representing 184 terrestrial animal taxa to determine the strength of matrix composition effects on the occurrence and abundance of animals in fragmented habitat. Results: Studies that use data on matrix composition report greater effects on abundance and occupancy of fragmented populations than studies that define connectivity without regard to the surrounding matrix (i. e. 'binary' studies that describe only characteristics of patch habitat). Main conclusions: Our findings underscore that conservation strategies must consider the importance of matrix habitat, have important implications for metapopulation and metacommunity paradigms, and provide direct large-scale, multi-taxa evidence that matrix habitat is an important driver of ecological dynamics in heterogeneous landscapes.
41239266|Aim: Community ecologists often compare assemblages. Alternatively, one may compare species distributions among assemblages for macroecological comparisons of species niche traits and dispersal abilities, which are consistent with metacommunity theory and a regional community concept. The aim of this metaanalysis is to use regressions of ranked species occupancy curves (RSOCs) among diverse metacommunities and to consider the common patterns observed. Location: Diverse data sets from four continents are analysed. Methods: Six regression models were translated from traditional occupancy frequency distributions (OFDs) and are distributed among four equation families. Each regression model was fitted to each of 24 data sets and compared using the Akaike information criterion. The analysed data sets encompass a wide range of spatial scales (5 cm-50 km grain, 2-7000 km extent), study scales (11-590 species, 6-5114 sites) and taxa. Observed RSOC regressions were tested for the differences in scale and taxa. Results: Three RSOC models within two equation families (exponential and sigmoidal) are required to describe the very different data sets. This result is generally consistent with OFD research, but unlike OFD-based expectations the simple RSOC patterns are not related to spatial scale or other factors. Species occupancy in diverse metacommunities is efficiently summarized with RSOCs, and multi-model inference reliably distinguishes among alternative RSOCs. Main conclusions: RSOCs are simple to generate and analyse and clearly identified surprisingly similar patterns among very different metacommunities. Species-specific hypotheses (e.g. niche-based factors and dispersal abilities) that depend on spatial scale may not translate to diverse metacommunities that sample regional communities. A novel set of three metacommunity succession and disturbance hypotheses potentially explain RSOC patterns and should be tested in subsequent research. RSOCs are an operational approach to the regional community concept and should be useful in macroecology and metacommunity ecology.
40205734|Aim: Species diversity and genetic diversity within a taxon are intrinsic parts of global biodiversity. These two levels of biodiversity can show strong correlation due to a variety of reasons (i.e. parallel processes affecting both communities and populations, genotypes of a numerically or functionally dominant species affecting community composition, a species assemblage selecting for a particular genotype by affecting its selection regime). We examined correlations between species and genetic biodiversity in four isolated endemic-rich spring systems in a hot desert and their potential link to environmental variables and physical isolation. Location: Chihuahuan Desert spring systems in the Pecos River basin of New Mexico and Texas, USA. Methods: We compared species richness of fish and benthic macroinvertebrate communities to within-population allelic richness of amphipods (monophyletic Gammarus spp.) and Pecos gambusia (Gambusia nobilis) using Mantel tests. We also compared pairwise community similarities with pairwise genetic identities of populations among the same groups. We tested correlations among diversity, similarity and environmental variables after controlling for the effects of spatial distances using partial Mantel tests. We partitioned genetic and species diversity into three spatial scales (i.e. individual springs, individual spring systems, the entire region) using AMOVA and Partition. Results: We found strong correlations between invertebrate species richness and mosquitofish allelic richness. We found even stronger correlations of amphipod and gambusia genetic identities with fish and invertebrate community similarities; these were best explained by geographic distance rather than abiotic environmental factors. Most of the taxa and communities exhibited the largest proportion of diversity at the regional level. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that drift and migration are the mechanisms that best explain our observations, and although -diversity among genes and species may not be strongly correlated, the pattern of species and allelic complementarity among these groups seems to be concordant at the regional level.
40602938|Aim: Models relating species distributions to climate or habitat are widely used to predict the effects of global change on biodiversity. Most such approaches assume that climate governs coarse-scale species ranges, whereas habitat limits fine-scale distributions. We tested the influence of topoclimate and land cover on butterfly distributions and abundance in a mountain range, where climate may vary as markedly at a fine scale as land cover. Location: Sierra de Guadarrama (Spain, southern Europe) Methods: We sampled the butterfly fauna of 180 locations (89 in 2004,91 in 2005) in a 10,800 km region, and derived generalized linear models (GLMs) for species occurrence and abundance based on topoclimatic (elevation and insolation) or habitat (land cover, geology and hydrology) variables sampled at 100-m resolution using GIS. Models for each year were tested against independent data from the alternate year, using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) (distribution) or Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (r s ) (abundance). Results: In independent model tests, 74% of occurrence models achieved AUCs of > 0.7, and 85% of abundance models were significantly related to observed abundance.Topoclimatic models outperformed models based purely on land cover in 72% of occurrence models and 66% of abundance models. Including both types of variables often explained most variation in model calibration, but did not significantly improve model cross-validation relative to topoclimatic models. Hierarchical partitioning analysis confirmed the overriding effect of topoclimatic factors on species distributions, with the exception of several species for which the importance of land cover was confirmed. Main conclusions: Topoclimatic factors may dominate fine-resolution species distributions in mountain ranges where climate conditions vary markedly over short distances and large areas of natural habitat remain. Climate change is likely to be a key driver of species distributions in such systems and could have important effects on biodiversity. However, continued habitat protection may be vital to facilitate range shifts in response to climate change.
3697514|Aim: We describe and use a model, SHIFT, to estimate potential migration due to climate change over the next 100 years. Location: Eastern United States. Methods: Five species, currently confined to the eastern half of the United States and not extending into Canada, were used to assess migration potential: Diospyros virginiana (persimmon), Liquidambar styraciflua (sweetgum), Oxydendrum arboreum (sourwood), Pinus taeda (loblolly pine), and Quercus falcata var. falcata (southern red oak). SHIFT is a matrix simulation model using simple inverse power functions to provide a distance decay of seed dispersal and is driven primarily by the abundance of the species near the boundary, the forest density within and beyond the boundary, and the distance between cells. For each cell outside the current boundary, the model creates an estimate of the probability that each unoccupied cell will become colonized over a period of 100 years. SHIFT is a 'fat-tailed' migration model that allows rare very long distance dispersal events and colonization could occur up to 500 km beyond the current distribution boundary. Model outputs were analysed using transects through sections showing relatively low and high colonization probabilities as a result of low and high densities of target trees (high source strength) as well as high densities of forest (high sink strength). We also assess migration potential for species by concentric rings around the current boundary. Results: Model outputs show the generally limited nature of migration for all five species over 100 years. There is a relatively high probability of colonization within a zone of 10-20 km (depending on habitat quality and species abundance) from the current boundary, but a small probability of colonization where the distance from the current boundary exceeds about 20 km. Whether biologically plausible or not, rare very long distance migration events are not sufficient to rescue migration. Species abundance (the source strength of migration) near the range boundary carried relatively more influence than percentage forest cover (sink strength) in determining migration rates. Main conclusion: The transect evaluation revealed the importance of abundance of the species near the boundary, indicating that rare species may have much more difficulty in unassisted northward migration due to climate change. The concentric rings analysis of the model outputs showed that only the first 10-20 km of area would have a reasonably high probability of colonization. Rare, long-distance events permit colonization of remote outliers, but much more needs to be understood about the likelihood of these rare events to predict the frequency of outlier establishment.
41058226|Aim: Species introductions and extinctions have reorganized the earth's biota, often leaving formerly spatially distinct assemblages more similar in species composition, a process termed biotic homogenization. The study of biotic homogenization has been almost entirely focused on the change in taxonomic similarity between assemblages through time. Here, we provide a trait-based method for calculating functional similarity through time and compare these trends in functional attributes with those trends generated from a taxonomic perspective. Location: Data were produced through computer simulation and gathered from North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) data and published accounts of North American birds for 10 locations across the east and west coast of the United States. Methods: We simulated change in assemblages with different trait types (binary and continuous), levels of trait overlap, number of traits and species richness to determine the relationship between change in taxonomic similarity (TS) and change in functional similarity (FS). We also assess the relationship between TS and FS for bird assemblages across 10 locales in the USA between 1968 and 2008. We used simple linear regression to determine the slope and correlation between TS and FS and used multiple regression to assess the influence of trait overlap, number of traits, species richness and the ratio of traits to species on the relationship between TS and FS. Results: Simulations reveal that trait redundancy governs the relationship between TS and FS. A decrease in trait overlap increases the slope of the regression between TS and FS and an increase in the ratio of traits to species in the regional pool increases the correlation. The relationship between TS and FS for breeding birds is comparable to simulations with low trait redundancy. Main conclusions: We show that often losing or gaining species from an assemblage tells us very little about the loss or gain of function, and that this scenario most often occurs when the two assemblages have high trait redundancy. It remains to be seen how prevalent this scenario is within empirical examples; however, the implications for the continued delivery of ecosystem functions in the face of species introductions and extinctions are large.
30134095|Aim: We aim to determine the empirical relationship between above-ground forest productivity and biomass. There are theoretical reasons to assume a relationship between forest structure and function, as both may be influenced by similar ecological factors such as moisture supply. Also, dynamic global vegetation model simulations imply that any increase in forest productivity driven by climate change will result in increases in biomass and therefore carbon storage. However, few studies have explored the strength and form of the relationship between forest productivity and biomass, whether in space or time. Location: Global scale. Methods: We collated a large data set of above-ground biomass (AGB) and aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and tested the extent to which spatial variation in forest biomass across the Earth can be predicted from forest productivity. Results: The global ANPP-AGB relationship differs fundamentally from the strongly positive, linear relationship reported in earlier analyses, which mostly lacked tropical sites. AGB begins to peak at c. 15-20 Mg ha year ANPP, plateaus at ANPP &gt; 20-25 Mg ha year, and may actually decline at higher levels of production. Main conclusions: High turnover rates in high-productivity forests may limit AGB by promoting the dominance of species with a low wood density. Predicted increases in ANPP will not necessarily favour increases in forest carbon storage, especially if changes in productivity are accompanied by compositional shifts.
4139427|Aim To assess whether eight traits of fish communities (species richness, three reproductive traits and four trophic traits) respond similarly to environmental gradients, and consequently display convergence between the lakes of France and north-east USA (NEUSA). Location 75 French and 168 north-east USA lakes. Methods The data encompass fish surveys, the assignment of species into reproductive and trophic guilds, and environmental variables characterizing the lakes and their catchments. The analytical procedure was adapted from the recommendations of Schluter (1986) [Ecology, 67, 1073-1085]. Results The comparison of the regional pools of lacustrine fishes indicated that NEUSA was about twice as speciose as France, mostly due to higher species turnover across lakes, although NEUSA lakes were consistently about 20% more speciose than French lakes for a given surface area. Warmer environments were consistently inhabited by a higher proportion of phytophilous and guarder species than were colder lakes. Hence there was convergence in community reproductive traits. Conversely, there was no evidence of convergence in the trophic structure of lacustrine fish communities between regions. Main conclusions The influence of temperature on the availability and quality of spawning substrates appears to be a major constraint on present-day lacustrine fish communities. In parallel, phylogenetic constraints, past events such as the diversification of the North American fish fauna, and selective extinctions during Pleistocene glaciations and subsequent recolonizations contribute to explaining the dissimilarities between the communi of the two regions and differences in their relationship to the environment.
3877790|Aim: Using a Dynamic Global Vegetation Model (DGVM), we assessed the independent and co-varying effects of temperature, precipitation and atmospheric CO
3877778|Aim: To evaluate Rapoport's rule for New World birds in two-dimensional geographical space. We specifically test for a topography x climate interaction that predicts little difference in range sizes between lowlands and mountains in cold climates, whereas in the tropics, montane species have narrow ranges and lowland species have broad ranges. Location: The western hemisphere. Methods: We used digitized range maps of breeding birds to generate mean range sizes in grids of 27.5 x 27.5 km and 110 x 110 km across North and South America. We examined the geographical pattern with respect to range in elevation, mean temperature in the coldest month, their interaction, biome size and continental width, using model II analysis of variance, multiple regression and simple correlation. Results: In northern latitudes species have broad ranges in both mountainous and flat areas. However, range sizes in the mountains and lowlands diverge southwards, with the most extreme differences in the tropics. Further, there are minimal differences in range sizes across latitudes in lowlands. The smallest mean ranges occur in the tropical Andes. Mean range sizes in north-central Canada, Central America and Argentina/Chile are also small, reflecting the narrowing of the continents in these areas. The best regression model explained 51% of the variation in mean range size. Main conclusions: The two-dimensional range size pattern indicates that neither winter temperature nor annual variability in temperature strongly influences the distribution of range sizes directly; rather, climate influences bird range sizes indirectly via effects on habitat size. Also, macroclimate interacts with topographic relief across latitudes, generating sharp mesoscale habitat gradients in tropical mountains but not in high latitude mountains or in lowlands at any latitude. Birds respond to these habitat gradients, resulting in 'latitudinal' range size gradients in topographically complex landscapes but not in simple landscapes.
2665336|Comparisons are made between a virgin forest remnant (primeval forest) and a lightly managed (near-to-nature) forest with regard to horizontal forest structures, the structure of forest stands, and the diversity of plant and bird species. In the virgin forest remnant the proportion of canopy gaps is smaller, there are no stands in the developmental phase of a pole stand (10 < cm d.b.h. < 30 cm), and both the growing stock and the proportion of less vigorous trees are considerably greater. In addition, there is a higher percentage of dead trees, a smaller proportion of minor tree species and a considerably lower diversity of plants. The diversity of bird species is similar for each forest type, but rare bird species are confined to the virgin forest remnant. The biological differences between the two types of forest have led to changes in the physical site conditions. The results of the research are valuable in assessing the consequences of near-to-nature forest management.
40205682|Aim: Body size is instrumental in influencing animal physiology, morphology, ecology and evolution, as well as extinction risk. I examine several hypotheses regarding the influence of body size on lizard evolution and extinction risk, assessing whether body size influences, or is influenced by, species richness, herbivory, island dwelling and extinction risk. Location: World-wide. Methods: I used literature data and measurements of museum and live specimens to estimate lizard body size distributions. Results: I obtained body size data for 99% of the world's lizard species. The body size-frequency distribution is highly modal and right skewed and similar distributions characterize most lizard families and lizard assemblages across biogeographical realms. There is a strong negative correlation between mean body size within families and species richness. Herbivorous lizards are larger than omnivorous and carnivorous ones, and aquatic lizards are larger than non-aquatic species. Diurnal activity is associated with small body size. Insular lizards tend towards both extremes of the size spectrum. Extinction risk increases with body size of species for which risk has been assessed. Main conclusions: Small size seems to promote fast diversification of disparate body plans. The absence of mammalian predators allows insular lizards to attain larger body sizes by means of release from predation and allows them to evolve into the top predator niche. Island living also promotes a high frequency of herbivory, which is also associated with large size. Aquatic and nocturnal lizards probably evolve large size because of thermal constraints. The association between large size and high extinction risk, however, probably reflects a bias in the species in which risk has been studied.
3182713|Which factors determine whether a species is obvious to collectors? For some taxa, species of small body size tend to be described later than large-bodied species, perhaps because large animals are more obvious or easily captured. Thus it has been proposed that current estimates of species numbers within taxa may be biased, as they may not include small species. However, the trend for recently described species to be small-bodied has only been observed in a few higher taxa, and may not be general. Herein, we examine the relationships between body size and date of description for the entire herpetofaunas of North America and Australia (snakes, lizards, turtles, frogs and salamanders). We found that body size is generally a poor predictor of description date in herpetofaunal taxa. Even for most taxa that did exhibit a negative relationship between these variables, recently described species could not be distinguished from a random draw from overall species pools. We interpret our results in the light of the history of exploration of these continents and the biology of reptiles and amphibians.
3182700| Studies of geographical patterns of diversity have focused largely on compiling and analysing data to evaluate alternative hypotheses for the near-universal decrease in species richness from the equator to the poles. Valuable insights into the mechanisms that promote diversity can come from studies of other patterns, such as variation in species distributions with elevation in terrestrial systems or with depth in marine systems. To obtain such insights, we analysed and interpreted data on species diversity, depth of occurrence and body size of pelagic fishes along an oceanic depth gradient. We used a database on pelagic marine fishes native to the north-east Pacific Ocean between 40N and 50N. We used data from the Pacific Rim Fisheries Program that were obtained from commercial, management and scientific surveys between 1999 and 2000. Depth of occurrence and maximum body length were used to assess the distributions of 409 species of pelagic fishes along a depth gradient from 0 to 8000 m. A presence-absence matrix was used to classify the depth range of each species into 100-m intervals. Atmar & Patterson's (1995) software was used to quantify the degree of nestedness of species distributions. Pelagic fish species diversity decreased steeply with increasing depth; diversity peaked at less than 200 m and more than half of the species had mean depths of occurrence between 0 and 300 m. The distribution of species showed a very strong nested subset pattern along the depth gradient. Whereas species with narrow ranges were generally restricted to shallow waters, wide-ranging species occurred from near the surface to great depths. The relationship between maximum body size and mean depth range differed between teleost and elasmobranch fishes: being positive for teleosts, but negative for elasmobranches. Results support hypotheses that some combination of high productivity and warm temperature promote high species diversity, and reject those that would attribute the pattern of species richness to the mid-domain effect, habitat area, or environmental constancy. The data provided a clear example of Rapoport's rule, a negative correlation between average depth range and species diversity. 
3182676|Aim: To compare theoretical approaches towards estimating risks of plant species loss to anthropogenic climate change impacts in a biodiversity hotspot, and to develop a practical method to detect signs of climate change impacts on natural populations. Location: The Fynbos biome of South Africa, within the Cape Floristic Kingdom. Methods: Bioclimatic modelling was used to identify environmental limits for vegetation at both biome and species scale. For the biome as a whole, and for 330 species of the endemic family Proteaceae, tolerance limits were determined for five temperature and water availability-related parameters assumed critical for plant survival. Climate scenarios for 2050 generated by the general circulation models HadCM2 and CSM were interpolated for the region. Geographic Information Systems-based methods were used to map current and future modelled ranges of the biome and 330 selected species. In the biome-based approach, predictions of biome areal loss were overlayed with species richness data for the family Proteaceae to estimate extinction risk. In the species-based approach, predictions of range dislocation (no overlap between current range and future projected range) were used as an indicator of extinction risk. A method of identifying local populations imminently threatened by climate change-induced mortality is also described. Results: A loss of Fynbos biome area of between 51% and 65% is projected by 2050 (depending on the climate scenario used), and roughly 10% of the endemic Proteaceae have ranges restricted to the area lost. Species range projections suggest that a third could suffer complete range dislocation by 2050, and only 5% could retain more than two thirds of their range. Projected changes to individual species ranges could be sufficient to detect climate change impacts within ten years. Main conclusions: The biome-level approach appears to underestimate the risk of species diversity loss from climate change impacts in the Fynbos Biome because many narrow range endemics suffer range dislocation throughout the biome, and not only in areas identified as biome contractions. We suggest that targeted vulnerable species could be monitored both for early warning signs of climate change and as empirical tests of predictions.
2997888|The sustainable use of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) is often put forward as a means for ensuring the conservation of forest vegetation types. This paper presents the results of research carried out in the savanna zone of Benin, which highlights the fact that the majority of species yielding important NTFPs are, in fact, located in the fields and fallows. The paper describes how the presence of villages affects the distribution of different vegetation types and how farmers selectively retain certain NTFP tree species, thereby creating a characteristic parkland landscape. It is suggested, however, that changes in the agricultural system and a gradual decline in the importance of NTFPs in people's lives will reduce the incentive for maintaining NTFP species and lead to the eventual loss of the parklands.
3697585|Aim: This research examines environmental theories and remote sensing methods that have been hypothesized to be associated with tropical dry forest structure. Location: Tropical dry forests of South Florida and the Neotropics. Methods: Field measurements of stand density, basal area and tree height were collected from 22 stands in South Florida and 30 stands in the Neotropics. In South Florida, field measurements were compared to climatic (temperature, precipitation, hurricane disturbance) and edaphic (rockiness, soil depth) variables, spectral indices (NDVI, IRI, MIRI) from Landsat 7 ETM+, and estimates of tree height from the Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM) and the National Elevation Dataset (NED). Environmental variables associated with tropical dry forest structure in South Florida were compared to tropical dry forest in other Neotropical sites. Results: There were significant correlations among temperature and precipitation, and stand density and tree height in South Florida. There were significant correlations between (i) stand density and mean NDVI and standard deviation of NDVI, (ii) MIRI and stand density, basal area and mean tree height, and (iii) estimates of tree height from SRTM with maximum tree height. In the Neotropics, there were no relationships between temperature or precipitation and tropical dry forest structure, however, Neotropical sites that experience hurricane disturbance had significantly shorter tree heights and higher stand densities. Main conclusions: It is possible to predict and quantify the forest structure characteristics of tropical dry forests using climatic data, Landsat 7 ETM+ imagery and SRTM data in South Florida. However, results based on climatic data are region-specific and not necessarily transferable between tropical dry forests at a continental spatial scale. Spectral indices from Landsat 7 ETM+ can be used to quantify forest structure characteristics, but SRTM data are currently not transferable to other regions. Hurricane disturbance has a significant impact on forest structure in the Neotropics.
41239476|Aim: To demonstrate that the concept of carrying capacity for species richness (S K ) is highly relevant to the conservation of biodiversity, and to estimate the spatial pattern of S K for native landbirds as a basis for conservation planning. Location: North America. Methods: We evaluated the leading hypotheses on biophysical factors affecting species richness for Breeding Bird Survey routes from areas with little influence of human activities. We then derived a best model based on information theory, and used this model to extrapolate S K across North America based on the biophysical predictor variables. The predictor variables included the latest and probably most accurate satellite and simulation-model derived products. Results: The best model of S K included mean annual and inter-annual variation in gross primary productivity and potential evapotranspiration. This model explained 70% of the variation in landbird species richness. Geographically, predicted S K was lowest at higher latitudes and in the arid west, intermediate in the Rocky Mountains and highest in the eastern USA and the Great Lakes region of the USA and Canada. Main conclusions: Areas that are high in S K but low in human density are high priorities for protection, and areas high in S K and high in human density are high priorities for restoration. Human density was positively related to S K , indicating that humans select environments similar to those with high bird species richness. Federal lands were disproportionately located in areas of low predicted S K .
3697643|Aims: The present paper concerns the analysis of macro-remains (plant imprints) from high altitude travertine deposits dating back to the early Holocene (9800 BP). Our results allow us to discuss treeline location and ecology, and to supplement previous data based on pollen from natural sediments and charcoal from natural soil. Location: The travertine under study is located in the Queyras massif, in the southern French Alps, along the Italian border. The site is situated on a south-facing slope. Methods: The travertine deposit has been dated by
40205649|Aim: To investigate the influence of sampling and methodological artefacts on the correlation between abundance and occupancy. Location: Global scope. Methods: A fixed effects weighted regression model was fitted to standardized effect size for 175 examples of correlations between abundance and occupancy. A regression tree model with standard effect size as the dependent variable was also fitted to the data. Results: Standard effect size, and therefore the correlation between abundance and occupancy, was found to be strongly influenced by the type of abundance measure used to characterize the abundance-occupancy relationship. Local mean abundance (also referred to as ecological mean abundance) was primarily responsible for negative correlations. Negative correlations also resulted from a mismatch in the sampling extents of abundance and occupancy measures. Main conclusions: The combination of abundance and occupancy measures selected to characterize the abundance-occupancy relationship for a given set of data has a profound impact on the sign of the correlation between the selected measures. Previous attempts to understand the processes giving rise to the pattern represented by the abundance-occupancy relationship have confounded sampling artefacts (e. g. spatial extent of abundance and occupancy information) and methodological artefacts (e. g. combining a truncated abundance measure such as local mean abundance with an untruncated occupancy measure such as proportion of occupied samples). Thus, a revision of the approach currently used to define and evaluate competing explanatory models of the abundance-occupancy relationship appears to be necessary.
40205673|Aim: To explore and identify probable mechanisms contributing to the relationships among body size, dietary niche breadth and mean, minimum, maximum and range of prey size in predaceous lizards. Location: Our data set includes species from tropical rainforests, semi-arid regions of Brazil, and from deserts of the south-western United States, Australia and the Kalahari of Africa. Methods: We calculated phylogenetic and non- phylogenetic regressions among predator body size, dietary breath and various prey size measures. Results: We found a negative association between body size and dietary niche breadth in 159 lizard species sampled across most evolutionary lineages of squamate reptiles and across major continents and habitats. We also show that mean, minimum, maximum and range of prey size were positively associated with body size. Main conclusions: Our results suggest not only that larger lizards tend to eat larger prey, but in doing so offset their use of smaller prey. Reduction of dietary niche breadth with increased body size in these lizards suggests that large predators target large and more profitable prey. Consequently, the negative association between body size and niche breadth in predators most likely results from optimal foraging. Though this result may appear paradoxical and runs counter to previous studies, resources for predators may be predictably more limited than resources for herbivores, thus driving selection for more profitable prey.
40205736|Aim: The theory of island biogeography predicts species richness based on geographical factors that influence the extinction-colonization balance, such as area and isolation. However, human influence is the major cause of present biotic changes, and may therefore modify biogeographical patterns by increasing extinctions and colonizations. Our aim was to evaluate the effect of human activities on the species richness of reptiles on islands. Location: Islands in the Mediterranean Sea and Macaronesia. Methods: Using a large data set (n = 212 islands) compiled from the literature, we built spatial regression models to compare the effect of geographical (area, isolation, topography) and human (population, airports) factors on native and alien species. We also used piecewise regression to evaluate whether human activities cause deviation of the species-area relationship from the linear (on log-log axes) pattern, and path analysis to reveal the relationships among multiple potential predictors. Results: The richness of both native and alien species was best explained by models combining geographical and human factors. The richness of native species was negatively related to human influence, while that of alien species was positively related, with the overall balance being negative. In models that did not take into account human factors, the relationship between island area and species richness was not linear. Large islands hosted fewer native species than expected from a linear (on log-log axes) species-area relationship, because they were more strongly affected by human influence than were small islands. Path analysis showed that island size has a direct positive effect on reptile richness. However, area also had a positive relationship with human impact, which in turn mediated a negative effect on richness. Main conclusion Anthropogenic factors can strongly modify the biogeographical pattern of islands, probably because they are major drivers of present-day extinctions and colonizations and can displace island biodiversity from the equilibrium points expected by theory on the basis of geographical features.
30137888|Aim: Worldwide, functional homogenization is now considered to be one of the most prominent forms of biotic impoverishment induced by current global changes. Yet this process has hardly been quantified on a large scale through simple indices, and the connection between landscape disturbance and functional homogenization has hardly been established. Here we test whether changes in land use and landscape fragmentation are associated with functional homogenization of bird communities at a national scale. Location: France. Methods: We estimated functional homogenization of a community as the average specialization of the species present in that community. We studied the spatial variation of this community specialization index (CSI) using 1028 replicates from the French Breeding Bird Survey along spatial gradients of landscape fragmentation and recent landscape disturbance, measured independently, and accounting for spatial autocorrelation. Results: The CSI was very sensitive to both measures of environmental degradation: on average, 23% of the difference in the CSI values between two sample sites was attributed to the difference in fragmentation and the disturbance between sites. This negative correlation between CSI and sources of landscape degradation was consistent over various habitats and biogeographical zones. Main conclusions: We demonstrate that the functional homogenization of bird communities is strongly positively correlated to landscape disturbance and fragmentation. We suggest that the CSI is particularly effective for measuring functional homogenization on both local and global scales for any sort of organism and with abundance or presence-absence data.
3697542|Aim: Climate is an important determinant of species distributions. We assess different aspects of risk arising from future climate change by quantifying changes in the spatial distribution of future climatic conditions compared with the recent past. Location: Europe. Methods: A 10' x 10' resolution gridded data set of five climate variables was used to calculate expected changes to the area, distance and direction of 1931-60 climatic conditions under the HadCM3 climate model for four future climate scenarios based on different rates of greenhouse gas emissions (SRES scenarios). Three levels of tolerance ranges determined the thresholds for which future conditions are considered analogous to 1931-60 (pre-warming) conditions. Results: For many parts of Europe, areas with pre-warming analogous climate conditions will be smaller and further away in the future than they are now. For any location in Europe, areas with pre-warming analogous mean annual temperature conditions will, on average, be reduced between 23.7% (B1 scenario) and 49.7% (A1FI scenario) by 2100 when assuming a medium tolerance range. The mean distance to these areas will, on average, increase between 272 km (B1) and 645 km (A1FI). These changes are more pronounced for temperature than for water availability variables and also for narrow tolerance ranges compared to wide tolerance ranges. Using a combined measure of both temperature and precipitation variables, areas with pre-warming analogous conditions are predicted to be in a more northeasterly direction in the future, but there are considerable regional differences within Europe. Main conclusions: The results suggest that, for some parts of Europe, the loss of area with any suitable climatic conditions represents the greatest risk to biodiversity, but in other regions the distances that species may have to move to reach suitable climatic conditions may be a greater problem. Quantifying the distance and direction in analyses of change of climatically suitable areas can add additional information for climate change risk assessments.
2997901|Satellite data provide the basis for geographically referenced global land cover characterization that is internally consistent, repeatable over time, and potentially more reliable than ground-based sources. During the last 20 years considerable research efforts have been devoted to the extraction of land cover information from these data. Only during the last few years have these methods begun to be applied in operational contexts. Such applications have thus far primarily addressed key global change issues such as the global carbon balance. Examples of the successful quasioperational implementation of remote sensing include NASA's Humid Tropical Landsat Pathfinder project, where high resolution data are being used at subcontinental scales to measure change in the areal extent of tropical rain forests throughout the world, and the Tropical Ecosystem Environment observation by Satellite (TREES) project to assess forest cover in the tropics. At coarser resolutions, a number of land cover products suitable for incorporation in global and regional models have been developed. Alternatives to traditional land cover classifications have also been developed to describe gradients and mosaics in the vegetation more realistically. These land cover products offer the possibility for applications in ecological and human dimensions research at regional and global scales, as well as for implementation of international agreements that require land cover information. Recently launched and future satellites will carry sensors that provide data with greatly improved capabilities for land cover characterization and advancements in computing environments make it feasible to take advantage of these new data. However, several challenges must be overcome in making a transition from research to operational land cover monitoring, including automation of methods to analyse the satellite data, more effective techniques for validation, and assurance of long-term continuity in the availability of satellite measurements.
2665411|Historical evidence indicates that Great-tailed Grackles colonized the Basin of Mexico from the Gulf Coast lowlands in the fifteenth century. They were probably assisted by an intentional introduction, but colonization succeeded because of anthropogenic habitat alterations over the previous two centuries. During the Colonial period, grackles withdrew from the Basin, only to recolonize it in recent decades. This withdrawal was also due probably to changes in land use, including drainage of much of the water from the Basin's lakes.
40205667|Aim: To investigate explanations for the maintenance of a positive spatial species richness-human population density correlation at broad scales, despite the negative impact of humans on species richness. These are (hypotheses 1-4): (1) human activities that create a habitat mosaic and (2) a more favourable climate, and (3) adequate conservation measures (e.g. sufficient natural habitat), maintain the positive species richness-human density correlation; or (4) the full range of human densities decrease the slope of the correlation without changing its form. Location: South Africa. Methods: Avian species richness data from atlas distribution maps and human population density data derived from 2001 census results were converted to a quarterdegree resolution. We investigated the number of land transformation types (anthropogenic habitat heterogeneity), irrigated area (increasing productivity), and other covarying factors (e.g. primary productivity) as predictors of species richness. We compared species richness-human density relationships among regions with different amounts of natural habitat, and investigated whether the full range of human densities decrease species richness in relation to primary productivity. Results: Hypotheses 1, 2 and 3 were supported. Human densities and activities that increase habitat heterogeneity and productivity are important beneficial factors to common species, but not to rare species. The species richness-human density relationship persists only at low land transformation levels, and no significant relationship exists at higher levels. For common species, the relationship becomes non-significant at lower land transformation levels than for rare species. Main conclusions: The persistence of the species richness-human density relationship depends mostly on the amount of remaining natural habitat. In addition, certain human activities benefit especially common species. Common species seem to be more flexible than rare species in response to human activity and habitat loss.
30137899|Aim: Niche theory emphasizes the importance of environmental conditions for the distribution and abundance of species. Using a macroecological approach our study aimed at identifying the important environmental gradients for spiders. We generated numerical values of niche position and niche width. We also investigated relationships between these niche properties as well as the degree of phylogenetic conservatism in order to draw conclusions about the evolution of the habitat niche. Location: Central Europe: lowlands of Austria, Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Methods: We analysed 244 published spider communities from 70 habitat types by correspondence analysis. The resulting community scores were used to test for correlations with habitat characteristics. Species scores were used to derive niche position (mean scores) and niche width (standard deviation of scores). To test for niche conservatism we estimated variance components across the taxonomic hierarchy. Results: The first two axes of the correspondence analysis were correlated with shading and moisture, respectively. Niche width had a hump-shaped relationship to both environmental gradients. -diversity was strikingly higher in open habitats than in forests. Habitat niche conservatism was lower than phylogenetic conservatism in body size. Main conclusions: Environmental factors are important drivers for the -diversity of spiders, especially across open habitats. This underlines the importance of preserving the whole range of moisture conditions in open habitats. Narrow niches of species occurring at the ends of both environmental gradients indicate that adaptations to extreme habitats lead to constraints in ecological flexibility. Nevertheless, the habitat niche of species seems to evolve much faster than morphological or physiological traits.
2997857| This paper attempts some preliminary evaluation of the potential of agroforestry techniques as a forestry strategy for controlling atmospheric CO
3697505| Aims: Astrocaryum sciophilum (Miq.) Pulle (Arecaceae) is an understorey palm, endemic to north-eastern South America with a patchy distribution. We tested the hypothesis that the spatial distribution of this palm species is not in equilibrium but is slowly colonizing the forest understorey. Location: Inventories and seed dispersal studies were conducted in the undisturbed tropical forest close to the Nouragues research station, French Guiana. Additional data were collected in the entire territory of French Guiana. Methods: We studied the demography of A. sciophilum on a 20-ha plot located at the edge of its distribution. The age of the palms was estimated by postulating an exponentially decreasing abundance by age class. Direct seed dispersal experiments were also conducted, to estimate dispersal parameters. The seeds of A. sciophilum were dispersed only by rodents. This information was used to parameterize a forest growth simulator, to study the spatial spread of this species. Results: Within the sampling plot, the density of A. sciophilum dropped sharply from about 500 individuals per hectare to zero. The maturation age was estimated to be 170  70 years, and over 55 years with 95% confidence. Seed-dispersal experiments yielded an average seed dispersal distance of 11 m and a maximum estimated dispersal distance of 125 m across a generational span of 55 years to maturity. Therefore, the maximal estimated colonization speed is 2.3 m/y. Conclusions: Empirical results and numerical simulations suggest that the boundary of the A. sciophilum population is a colonization front, and that the range of this species is slowly expanding. The implications of this result in respect of palaeoenvironmental changes in this region are discussed. 
4139409|Aim To analyse the patterns in species richness and endemism of the native European riverine fish fauna, in the light of the Messinian salinity crisis and the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). Location European continent. Methods After gathering native fish faunistic lists of 406 hydrographical networks, we defined large biogeographical regions with homogenous fish fauna, based on a hierarchical cluster analysis. Then we analysed and compared the patterns in species richness and endemism among these regions, as well as species-area relationships. Results Among the 233 native species present in the data set, the Cyprinidae family was strongly dominant (> 50% of the total number of species). Seven biogeographical regions were defined: Western Peri-Mediterranea, Central Peri-Mediterranea, Eastern Peri-Mediterranea, Ponto-Caspian Europe, Northern Europe, Central Europe and Western Europe. The highest regional species richness was observed for Central Peri-Mediterranea and Ponto-Caspian Europe. The highest endemic richness was found in Central Peri-Mediterranea. Species-area relationships were characterized by high slope values for Peri-Mediterranean Europe and low values for Central and Western Europe. Main conclusions The results were in agreement with the'Lago Mare' hypothesis explaining the specificity of Peri-Mediterranean fish fauna, as well as with the history of recolonization of Central and Western Europe from Ponto-Caspian Europe following the LGM. The results also agreed with the mechanisms of speciation and extinction influencing fish diversity in hydrographical networks. We advise the use of the seven biogeographical regions for further studies, and suggest considering Peri-Mediterranean Europe and Ponto-Caspian Europe as'biodiversity hotspots' for European riverine fish.
3877795|Aim: To test the Rapoport effect using null models and data sets taken from the literature. We propose an improvement on an existing method, testing the Rapoport effect in elevational and latitudinal distributions when distributions are restricted by sampling. Location: Global. Methods: First, we hypothesized that real range size distributions are similar to those expected by null assumptions (expected by only imposing boundaries to species distributions). When these distributions were different from those expected under the null assumptions, we tested the hypothesis that these distributions correspond to those expected when a Rapoport effect occurs. We used two simulation methods, random and pseudo-random, which differed only in that the latter one assumes fixed species mid-points, coinciding with real mid-points. Observed correlations between range size and mid-point were compared with the frequency distribution of 1000 simulations, using both simulation methods. We compared the correlation curves generated by 1000 simulations with those of the observed distributions, testing whether correlations indicated a Rapoport effect. Results: Several significant patterns of correlations between range size and mid-point were observed in the data sets when compared with random and pseudo-random simulations. However, few of these correlations were consistent with a Rapoport effect. Main conclusions: Although some recent studies are consistent with a Rapoport effect, our results suggest that the Rapoport effect is not a widespread pattern in global ecology.
2665380|1 Inbreeding and parthenogenesis are especially frequent in colonizing species of plants and animals, and inbreeding in wood-boring species in the weevil families Scolytinae and Platypodidae is especially common on small islands. In order to study the relationship between colonization success, island attributes and mating system in these beetles, we analysed the relative proportions of inbreeders and outbreeders for 45 Pacific and Old World tropical islands plus two adjacent mainland sites, and scored islands for size, distance from nearest source population, and maximum altitude. 2 The numbers of wood-borer species decreased with decreasing island size, as expected; the degree of isolation and maximum island altitude had negligible effects on total species numbers. 3 Numbers of outbreeding species decreased more rapidly with island size than did those of inbreeders. Comparing species with similar ecology (e.g. ambrosia beetles) showed that this difference was best explained by differential success in colonization, rather than by differences in resource utilization or sampling biases. This conclusion was further supported by analyses of data from small islands, which suggested that outbreeding species have a higher degree of endemism and that inbreeding species are generally more widespread. 4 Recently established small populations necessarily go through a period of severe inbreeding, which should affect inbreeding species much less than outbreeding ones. In addition, non-genetic ecological and behavioural (`Allee') effects are also expected to reduce the success of outbreeding colonists much more than that of inbreeders: compared with inbreeders, outbreeders are expected to have slower growth rates, have greater difficulties with mate-location and be vulnerable to random extinction over a longer period.
2665435|We used local habitat niche breadth, local abundance and body size of non-passerine afrotropical birds in Tsavo East National Park (Kenya) to predict species distributional ranges in Kenya and across Africa. Univariate analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between local abundance and distribution only on the scale of Kenya. Performing a multiple regression analysis, local abundance, local habitat niche breadth and body size explained a significant part of the variance in bird distribution, again only on the Kenyan scale. From these results, we speculate that on continental scales distributions may be more influenced by macroclimatic conditions and historical factors, whereas distributions on regional scales are predominantly influenced by ecological factors.
30137996|Aim: To estimate the effects of full-glacial atmospheric CO concentrations and climate upon leaf area index (LAI), using both global vegetation models and palaeoecological data. Prior simulations indicate lowered LAIs at the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM), but this is the first attempt to corroborate predictions against observations. Location: Eastern North America and eastern Beringia. Methods: Using a dense surface pollen data set and remotely sensed LAIs from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) instrument, we evaluate the ability of analogue-based techniques to reconstruct modern LAIs from pollen data. We then apply analogue techniques to LGM pollen records, calculate the ratio of LGM to modern LAIs (RLAI) and compare reconstructed RLAIs to RLAIs simulated by BIOME4. Sensitivity experiments with BIOME4 distinguish the effects of CO and climate on glacial LAIs. Results: Modern LAIs are skilfully predicted (r = 0.83). Data and BIOME4 indicate that LAIs at the LGM were up to 12% lower than modern values in eastern North America and 60-94% lower in Beringia. In eastern North America, LGM climates partially counteracted CO-driven decreases in LAI, while in Beringia both contributed to lowered LAIs. Main conclusions: In both regions climate is the primary driver of LGM LAIs. The decline in eastern North America LAIs is smaller than previously reported, so regional vegetation feedbacks to LGM climate may have been less significant than previously supposed. CO exerts both physiological and community effects upon LAI, by regulating resource availability for leaf production and by influencing the competitive balance among species and hence the composition and structure of plant communities. Pollen-based reconstructions using analogue methods do not incorporate the physiological effect and so are upper estimates of full-glacial LAIs. BIOME4 sensitivity experiments indicate that the community and physiological effects together caused 10% to 20% decrease in LAIs at the LGM, so simulated RLAIs that are 80-100% of reconstructed RLAIs are regarded as consistent with data.
40205740|Aim: We studied elevational species richness patterns of Schizothorax fishes and identified the roles of ecological and evolutionary factors in shaping the patterns of elevational diversity. Location: The Tibetan Plateau and its adjacent regions. Methods: We assembled distribution and altitude data for all Schizothorax species using the literature. We merged ecological and evolutionary approaches to test the relationships between species richness and ecological factors (climate, area, the middomain effect) or evolutionary factors ( diversification rates and time of colonization). Res U Its We found that species richness of Schizothorax fishes peaked at mid-elevations. Rainfall, area, the mid-domain effect and diversification rate were weak predictors of the richness pattern. Temperature showed a nonlinear relationship with species richness. Temperature and time of colonization were the most important variables in explaining the elevational diversity pattern. Main conclusion Our findings indicate that the time-for-speciation effect and niche conservatism play important roles in variation of species richness.
30134091|Aim and Location: Our aim is to develop pollen-climate inference models for southern Europe and to test their performance and inference power by cross-validation with modern climate data. Surface sediments collected from lakes along a climate gradient from the winter-cold/summer-wet Alps to winter-wet/summer-dry Sicily were analysed for modern pollen assemblages. Methods: For each lake, mean monthly temperatures, seasonal precipitation and site-specific climate uncertainties have been estimated. Pollen-climate relationships were studied using numerical analyses, and inference models were derived by partial least squares (PLS) and weighted-averaging PLS (WA-PLS) regressions for January and July temperatures (T), and for winter, spring and summer precipitation (P). In order to assess whether these variables are also of ecological importance for vegetation in the subregions, we split the data set into an Alpine and a Mediterranean subset. Results: Low bootstrap cross-validated root mean square errors of prediction (RMSEP) for January T (1.7C), July T (2.1C) and summer P (38 mm), as well as low RMSEPs expressed as a percentage of the gradient length (8-9%), indicate a good inference power. Models revealed excellent to good performance statistics for January T, July T and summer P (r = 0.8), and for winter and spring P (r = c. 0.5). We show that the variables with the highest explanatory power differ between the two subregions. These are summer T and P for the Alpine set, and January T, winter P and July T for the Mediterranean set. Main conclusions: The study reveals the influence of climatic conditions during the growing season on modern pollen assemblages and indicates the potential of pollen data for long-term climate reconstructions of parameters such as winter precipitation and temperature, which seem to be the main factors having an influence on the variability of Mediterranean climate. These models may therefore provide important information on past regional climate variability in southern Europe.
2997832|Many hypotheses have been proposed to explain regional species richness patterns. Among these, `Rapoport's rule' has sparked considerable controversy by stating that the latitudinal gradient in species richness can be explained indirectly as a function of narrower geographic ranges for species at low latitudes. Annual climatic variability, or deviation from mean climatic conditions, has been hypothesized to moderate this phenomenon. Furthermore, taxa that avoid much of this seasonality, such as temperate zone insects that enter diapause or species that migrate, were predicted to show reduced latitudinal gradients in richness. I test the suggested link between `Rapoport's rule' and species richness for two higher level insect taxa as well as for the class Mammalia. Although these taxa exhibit the well-known latitudinal gradient in species richness, simple annual climatic variability and deviation from mean annual climatic conditions provide very poor predictions of species richness in each of them. Potential evapotranspiration, a measurement of ambient climatic energy, explains most of the observed variance in regional species richness patterns for all three taxa, consistent with the species richness-energy hypothesis. I find no support for an indirect link between `Rapoport's rule' and terrestrial species richness patterns in North America.
2665370|1 This paper offers a commentary on the development of island ecological theory since the publication of MacArthur & Wilson's equilibrium theory in the 1960s. I distinguish the simple model at the core of their Equilibrium Theory of Island Biogeography (ETIB) and the broader body of their theory, which embraces evolutionary as well as ecological patterns - all, however, within the overarching framework or assumption of equilibrium. 2 The basic problems with the ETIB have long been known, and its status as a ruling paradigm has been the subject of concern for more than two decades. With the development of nonequilibrium ideas in ecology, island biogeographers arguably now have viable theoretical frameworks to set alongside or around the ETIB. Four conditions are highlighted as extremes: i) dynamic equilibrium; ii) dynamic nonequilibrium; iii) `static' equilibrium; and iv) `static' nonequilibrium: together providing a conceptual framework for island ecological analyses. 3 The importance of scale is stressed and attention is drawn to Haila's spatial-temporal continuum as an organizational device. It is argued that the processes represented within the ETIB (and by extension, other island theories) may be prominent within only a limited portion of this continuum, while elsewhere they are generally subsumed by other dominant processes. 4 Colonization and ecosystem development of near-shore islands constitute just a special case of ecological succession, and thus the development of theories of island assembly may benefit accordingly from efforts to incorporate ideas from the ecological succession literature. 5 The desirability of specifying answerable questions is stressed, as is the need to build a greater degree of complexity into the development of island ecological models. Notwithstanding which, it is also recognized that key advances are often brought about by simple, but bold models, of the form exemplified elsewhere in this issue.
41239405|Aim: We investigated the relationship between host and parasite diversity as well as latitudinal gradients in parasite diversity on a continental scale in European freshwater trematodes. Location: European freshwaters. Methods: We extracted distributional data for 564 freshwater trematodes across 25 biogeographical regions in Europe from the Limnofauna Europaea and used multiple regression analyses to test for correlations between the diversity of definitive (vertebrates) or first intermediate (gastropods) hosts and that of trematodes, and for latitudinal gradients in trematode diversity. In particular, we investigated patterns in beta diversity among latitudinal bands and between trematode species that parasitize host groups with low (autogenic) and high (allogenic) dispersal capacity. We also tested for a latitudinal gradient in the proportional representation of these two trematode groups within regional faunas. Results: Latitude or first intermediate host richness had no effect on trematode richness, but definitive host richness was a strong predictor of trematode richness, among both allogenic and autogenic parasites. We found that beta diversity of trematode faunas within latitudinal bands decreased to the north, with similar values for allogenic and autogenic trematodes. Finally, we observed an increasing proportion of autogenic species toward the north of Europe. Main conclusions: The richness of definitive hosts appears to be the driver of trematode diversity at a continental scale. The latitudinal gradient in beta diversity reflects patterns observed in free-living species and probably results from recolonization in the aftermath of the ice ages. The similar beta-diversity patterns of allogenic and autogenic trematodes and the increasing proportion of autogenic trematodes with increasing latitude are surprising. We suggest that the geographical scale of our analysis or confounding factors such as differences in habitat utilization and specialization may partly explain these patterns.
41058247|Aim: A consistent set of root characteristics for herbaceous plants growing in water-limited environments has been developed based on compilations of global root databases, but an overall analysis of why these characteristics occur is still missing. The central question in this study is whether an ecohydrological model which assumes that rooting strategies reflect maximization of transpiration can predict the variations in rooting strategies of plants in dry environments. Location: Arid ecosystems across the globe. Methods: A model was used to explore interactions between plant biomass, rootshoot allocation, root distribution, rainfall, soil type and water use by plants. Results: Model analyses showed that the predicted shifts in rooting depth and root-shoot allocation due to changes in rainfall, soil type and plant biomass were quite similar to observed shifts. The model predicted that soil type, annual rainfall and plant biomass each had strong effects on the rooting strategies that optimize transpiration, but also that these factors have strong interactive effects. The process by which plants compete for water availability (soil evaporation or drainage) especially affected the depth distribution of roots in the soil, whereas the availability of rainfall mainly affected the optimal root-shoot allocation strategy. Main conclusions: The empirically observed key patterns in rooting characteristics of herbaceous plant species in arid environments could be explained in this theoretical study by using the concept of hydrological optimality, represented here by the maximization of transpiration.
2997866|1. Three permanent plots (100 x 0m) were established in the subalpine Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) forest of Paneveggio in the spring of 1993, to begin a long-term forest ecosystem research project. The main purpose of these plots was to provide information about subalpine Norway spruce stand dynamics and to provide suggestions for close-to-nature silviculture. 2. The three stands were selected to represent the most common forest structures in the Paneveggio forest. The first stand is close to forestry roads, has a relatively regular and continuous canopy, and thinning and cutting operations only ended in the 1980s; the second stand is far from forest roads and has developed without anthropogenic influence for several decades; the third one is located at the present upper limit of the pure spruce forest and, apparently, was heavily used in the past as a pasture. 3. The first step in the investigation was to describe the structure and to study the history of the three stands using both written evidence from management plans and biological archives from tree rings. 4. The stands in plots 1 and 2 began to establish after a disturbance that removed part of the previous stands according to dendroecological studies, which are partially supported by written evidence. The remaining parts of these stands were eliminated by two major disturbances that occurred during the following decades. Written records about the use of the forest lead us to assume that the initial disturbances that occurred in the two stands were logging activities as a part of a group shelterwood system. The stand in plot 2 has developed without significant human interference for about half a century as confirmed by the presence of many dead trees. The stand in plot 3 consists of old trees that were part of an open stand and a secondary population that established after cessation of grazing.5. The study has confirmed that dendroecological techniques can be used to identify occurrence and intensity of previous disturbance in forests stands, although at Paneveggio it is difficult to distinguish between natural and anthropogenic disturbances in the tree ring record. The presence of human activity necessitates investigation of multiple lines of evidence. 6. Paneveggio's forest management plans were useful in the interpretation of the data obtained through dendroecological analysis, although events did not always correspond because data from the management plans (yearly thinning, felling, windthrow damage) never gave stand-level details, but applied to areas of several hectares. Despite these limitations, the information included in the management plans is of crucial importance in studying stand history and only by using all these sources of information is it possible to delineate the most important features of the history and disturbance that affected the origin and subsequent growth of the forest stands.
40602953|Aim: To provide the first comparative overview on the current numbers of alien species that invade representative European terrestrial and freshwater habitats for a range of taxonomie groups. Location: Europe. Methods: Numbers of naturalized alien species of plants, insects, herptiles, birds and mammals occurring in 10 habitats defined according to the European Nature Information System (EUNIS) were obtained from 115 regional data sets. Only species introduced after AD 1500 were considered. Data were analysed by ANCOVA and regression trees to assess whether differences exist among taxonomie groups in terms of their habitat affinity, and whether the pattern of occurrence of alien species in European habitats interacts with macroecological factors such as insularity, latitude or area. Results: The highest numbers of alien plant and insect species were found in human-made, urban or cultivated habitats; if controlled for habitat area in the region, wetland and riparian habitats appeared to support relatively high numbers of alien plant species too. Invasions by vertebrates were more evenly distributed among habitats, with aquatic and riparian, woodland and cultivated land most invaded. Mires, bogs and fens, grassland, heathland and scrub were generally less invaded. Habitat and taxonomie group explained most variation in the proportions of alien species occurring in individual habitats related to the total number of alien species in a region, and the basic pattern determined by these factors was fine-tuned by geographical variables, namely by the mainland-island contrast and latitude, and differed among taxonomie groups. Main conclusions: There are two ecologically distinct groups of alien species (plants and insects versus vertebrates) with strikingly different habitat affinities. Invasions by these two contrasting groups are complementary in terms of habitat use, which makes an overall assessment of habitat invasions in Europe possible. Since numbers of naturalized species in habitats are correlated among taxa within these two groups, the data collected for one group of vertebrates, for example, could be used to estimate the habitat-specific numbers of alien species for other vertebrate groups with reasonable precision, and the same holds true for insects and plants.
3182662|1 A classic biogeographic pattern is the alignment of diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid races of creosote bush (Larrea tridentata) across the Chihuahuan, Sonoran and Mohave Deserts of western North America. We used statistically robust differences in guard cell size of modern plants and fossil leaves from packrat middens to map current and past distributions of these ploidy races since the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). 2 Glacial/early Holocene (26-10
40928119|Aim: Climate change threatens to shift vegetation, disrupting ecosystems and damaging human well-being. Field observations in boreal, temperate and tropical ecosystems have detected biome changes in the 20th century, yet a lack of spatial data on vulnerability hinders organizations that manage natural resources from identifying priority areas for adaptation measures. We explore potential methods to identify areas vulnerable to vegetation shifts and potential refugia. Location: Global vegetation biomes. Methods: We examined nine combinations of three sets of potential indicators of the vulnerability of ecosystems to biome change: (1) observed changes of 20th-century climate, (2) projected 21st-century vegetation changes using the MCI dynamic global vegetation model under three Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) emissions scenarios, and (3) overlap of results from (1) and (2). Estimating probability density functions for climate observations and confidence levels for vegetation projections, we classified areas into vulnerability classes based on IPCC treatment of uncertainty. Results: One-tenth to one-half of global land may be highly (confidence 0.80-0.95) to very highly (confidence > 0.95) vulnerable. Temperate mixed forest, boreal conifer and tundra and alpine biomes show the highest vulnerability, often due to potential changes in wildfire. Tropical evergreen broadleaf forest and desert biomes show the lowest vulnerability. Main conclusions: Spatial analyses of observed climate and projected vegetation indicate widespread vulnerability of ecosystems to biome change. A mismatch between vulnerability patterns and the geographic priorities of natural resource organizations suggests the need to adapt management plans. Approximately a billion people live in the areas classified as vulnerable.
40205668|Aim: The influence of landscape structure on the distribution patterns of bats remains poorly understood for many species. This study investigates the relationship between area and isolation of islands and the probability of occurrence of six bat species to determine whether persistence and immigration abilities vary among bat species and foraging guilds. Location: Thirty-two islands in the Gulf of California near the Baja California peninsula in north-west Mexico. Methods: Using logistic regression and Akaike information criterion (AIC) model selection, we compared five a priori models for each of six bat species to explain patterns of island occupancy, including random patterns, minimum area effects, maximum isolation effects, additive area and isolation effects and compensatory area and isolation effects. Results: Five species of insectivorous bats (Pipistrellus hesperus, Myotis californicus, Macrotus californicus y Antrozous pallidus and Mormoops megalophylla) displayed minimum area thresholds on incidence. The probability of occurrence tended to decrease at moderate distances of isolation (c. 10-15 km) for these species (excepting A. pallidus). The distributions of two non-insectivorous species (Leptonycteris curasoae and Myotis vivesi) were not influenced by island size and isolation. Main conclusions: Minimum area thresholds on incidence suggest that island occupancy by insectivorous bats may be limited by resource requirements. Islands smaller than 100 ha typically did not support occupancy or use by insectivorous bats, except at minimal isolation distances. Insectivorous bat species may also be more sensitive to moderate levels of habitat isolation in some landscape contexts than previously expected. Our results suggest that differences in foraging habits may have important implications for understanding the distribution patterns of bats.
3182701|North American freshwater fishes were studied to determine whether they displayed the same relationships between log (geographical range size) and log (body size) and the same pattern of range shape as found among North American birds and mammals. The forces that produce these patterns were also investigated. The log (geographical range size):log (body size) relationship was analysed for 121 North American freshwater fish species. Thirty-two imperilled species were compared with 89 non-imperilled species to determine if the overall relationship could result from differential extinction. Range geometries were analysed, within and among habitat guilds, to determine if general patterns could be detected. The log (geographical range size):log (body size) pattern among freshwater fish species was triangular and qualitatively similar to that found for North American birds and mammals. The results suggest that below a minimum geographical range, the likelihood of extinction increases dramatically for freshwater fishes and that this minimum range size increases with body size. The pattern of fish species' range shapes differs from that found for other North American vertebrate taxa because, on average, fish possess much smaller ranges than terrestrial species and most fish species' geographical ranges extend further on a north-south axis than on an east-west axis. The log (geographical range size):log (body size) pattern reveals that fish species' geographical ranges are more constrained than those of terrestrial species. The triangular relationship may be caused by differential extinction of species with large bodies and small geographical ranges as well as higher speciation rates of small-bodied fish. The restricted geographical ranges of freshwater fishes gives them much in common with terrestrial species on oceanic islands. Range shape patterns within habitat guilds reflect guild-specific historical and current ecological forces. The overall pattern of range shapes emerges from the combination of ecologically different subunits.
30137901|Aim: We investigated whether climate change has affected the potential feeding activity of a winter active larva, the pine processionary moth (PPM), Thaumetopoea pityocampa L., and whether it may explain its range expansion. Location: The study area is France and, at a smaller scale, the Paris Basin. Methods: We used a statistical model derived from Huchon and Dmolin [1970 Revue Forestire Frangaise (special issue: La lutte biologique en fort), 220-234] to test whether their model, updated with climate change, could explain the observed range expansion. Since Battisti and colleagues have recently shown that climate could affect survival of the PPM through its effect on feeding activity, we also developed a mechanistic model based on larval feeding requirements (night air temperature above 0 C and temperature inside the nest above 9 C on the preceding day). We reconstructed the geographical distribution of feeding activity and we compared the resulting change with the PPM range expansion. Results: The statistical model did not successfully predict the observed expansion but the mechanistic model showed considerable change in the feeding activity of the PPM. In the Paris Basin, the PPM border coincided with a zone unfavourable for feeding activity in the period 1992-96. Feeding conditions became more favourable in the period 2001-04, and the PPM succeeded in crossing this zone. Over larger temporal and spatial scales improved feeding conditions in the north-western part of France were forecast by the mechanistic model. Main conclusions: (1) The range distribution of the PPM in the Paris Basin is no longer limited by unfavourable feeding conditions. (2) The pattern of range expansion of the PPM is now governed mainly by its dispersal capabilities and host tree distribution. (3) At the country scale, this approach gives an approximate prediction of the potential distribution of the PPM, though the model may not be reliable in mountainous regions.
40205651|Aim: Although parameter estimates are not as affected by spatial autocorrelation as Type I errors, the change from classical null hypothesis significance testing to model selection under an information theoretic approach does not completely avoid problems caused by spatial autocorrelation. Here we briefly review the model selection approach based on the Akaike information criterion (AIC) and present a new routine for Spatial Analysis in Macroecology (SAM) software that helps establishing minimum adequate models in the presence of spatial autocorrelation. Innovation: We illustrate how a model selection approach based on the AIC can be used in geographical data by modelling patterns of mammal species in South America represented in a grid system (n = 383) with 2 of resolution, as a function of five environmental explanatory variables, performing an exhaustive search of minimum adequate models considering three regression methods: non-spatial ordinary least squares (OLS), spatial eigenvector mapping and the autoregressive (lagged- response) model. The models selected by spatial methods included a smaller number of explanatory variables than the one selected by OLS, and minimum adequate models contain different explanatory variables, although model averaging revealed a similar rank of explanatory variables. Main conclusions: We stress that the AIC is sensitive to the presence of spatial autocorrelation, generating unstable and overfltted minimum adequate models to describe macroecological data based on non-spatial OLS regression. Alternative regression techniques provided different minimum adequate models and have different uncertainty levels. Despite this, the averaged model based on Akaike weights generates consistent and robust results across different methods and may be the best approach for understanding of macroecological patterns.
3697442|Aim: This paper examines species richness, abundance, and body size in deep-sea gastropods and how they vary over depth, which is a strong correlate of nutrient input. Previous studies have documented the empirical relationships among these properties in terrestrial and coastal ecosystems, but a full understanding of how these patterns arise has yet to be obtained. Examining the relationships among macro-ecological variables is a logical progression in deep-sea ecology, where patterns of body size, diversity, and abundance have been quantified separately but not linked together. Location: 196-5042 m depth in the western North Atlantic. Method: Individuals analysed represent all Vetigastropoda and Caenogastropoda (Class Gastropoda) with intact shells, excluding Ptenoglossa, collected by the Woods Hole Benthic Sampling Program (3424 individuals representing 80 species). Biovolume was measured for every individual separately (i.e. allowing the same species to occupy multiple size classes) and divided into log
30137879|Aim: To understand global patterns of genetic variation in plant species on mountains and to consider the significance of mountains for the genetic structure and evolution of plant species. Location: Global. Methods: We review published studies. Results: Genetic diversity within populations can vary along altitudinal gradients in one of four patterns. Eleven of 42 cited studies (26% of the total) found that populations at intermediate altitudes have greater diversity than populations at lower and higher altitudes. This is because the geographically central populations are under optimal environmental conditions, whereas the peripheral populations are in suboptimal situations. The second pattern, indicating that higher populations have less diversity than lower populations, was found in eight studies (19%). The third pattern, indicating that lower populations have lower diversity than higher populations, was found in 10 studies (24%). In 12 studies (29%), the intrapopulation genetic variation was found to be unaffected by altitude. Evidence of altitudinal differentiation was found in more than half of these studies, based on measurements of a range of variables including genome size, number of chromosomes or a range of loci using molecular markers. Furthermore, great variation has been found in phenotypes among populations at different altitudes in situ and in common garden experiments, even in cases where there was no associated variation in molecular composition. Mountains can be genetic barriers for species that are distributed at low elevations, but they can also provide pathways for species that occupy high-elevation habitats. [Correction added after publication 9 October 2007: 'less diversity' changed to greater diversity' in the second sentence of the Results section of the Abstract]. Main conclusions: Genetic diversity within populations can vary along altitudinal gradients as a result of several factors. The results highlight the importance of phenotypic examinations in detecting altitudinal differences. The influence of mountain ridges on genetic differentiation varies depending, inter alia, on the elevation at which the species occurs. Based on these findings, zoning by altitudes or ridges would be helpful for the conservation of tree populations with the onset of global warming.
3697466|Aim: To test the potential to conserve rare dry forest tree and shrub species circa situm. Location: Oaxaca, Mexico and Southern Honduras. Methods: Local uses (timber, posts and firewood) of species were determined principally through semistructured interviews with 20 rural householders in each of four communities in Honduras and four in Oaxaca. Tree and shrub diversity inventories were carried out in a total of 227 forest patches and parcels of farmland in those eight communities. Species' conservation priorities were determined using the star system of Hawthorne (1996) and IUCN listings. Results: Despite a large number of useful species, remarkably few were also conservation priorities. Useful species were found to be substitutable as is illustrated by Bombacopsis quinata, Cordia alliodora, Guaiacum sanctum and G. coulteri. Conclusions: In these areas, circa situm conservation is inhibited by the lack of species that are both rare and useful. Usefulness must be interpreted as a function of substitut-ability. Natural regeneration provides an abundance of diversity, farmers are unlikely to invest in the management of a species when suitable substitutes are freely available. The key to conserving rare species may be in maintaining or enhancing the value of the landscape elements in which they are found.
40602951|Aim: To review published evidence regarding the factors that influence the geographic variation in diversity of soil organisms at different spatial scales. Location: Global. Methods: A search of the relevant literature was conducted using the Web of Science and the author's personal scientific database as the major sources. Special attention was paid to include seminal studies, highly cited papers and/or studies highlighting novel results. Results: Despite their significant contribution to global biodiversity, our taxonomic knowledge of soil biota is still poor compared with that of most aboveground organisms. This is particularly evident for small-bodied taxa. Global patterns of soil biodiversity distribution have been poorly documented and are thought to differ significantly from what is reported above-ground. Based on existing data, it appears that microorganisms do not respond to large-scale environmental gradients in the same way as metazoans. Whereas soil microflora seem to be mainly represented by cosmopolitan species, soil animals respond to altitudinal, latitudinal or area gradients in the same way as described for above-ground organisms. At local scales, there is less evidence that local factors regulate above-and below-ground communities in the same way. Except for a few taxa, the humpbacked response to stress and disturbance gradients doesn't seem to apply underground. Soil communities thus appear weakly structured by competition, although competitive constraints may account for assembly rules within specific taxa. The main factor constraining local soil biodiversity is the compact and heterogeneous nature of soils, which provides unrivalled potential for niche partitioning, thus allowing high levels of local biodiversity. This heterogeneity is increased by the impact of ecosystem engineers that generate resource patchiness at a range of spatio-temporal scales.
41239346|Aim: The strength of consumer-plant interactions may decrease with latitude. Our objectives were to assess the spatial variation in folivory on Nothofagus pumilio and understand the influence of climate on folivory patterns as mediated by changes in folivore density and leaf traits. Location: Nothofagus pumilio forests, between 38 and 55S (Argentina). Methods: We studied the correlation of leaf damage with latitude on data from 47 sampling sites, and evaluated spatial patterns of autocorrelation on latitudinally detrended data with a principal coordinates of neighbour matrices method. Path analysis was used to test the association of temperature and precipitation with leaf damage, mediated by folivore density and leaf traits. We evaluated the adequacy of this ecological model by examining the spatial pattern of autocorrelation in the residuals, and combined spatial and environmental predictors of leaf damage into partial regression. Results: Leaf damage decreased with latitude, which was the only significant spatial predictor. The latitudinal decrease in temperature and precipitation was correlated with a decrease in the density of folivores and leaf size, and diminished leaf damage. Our ecological model adequately explained the spatial autocorrelation in the data: 44% of the variation in leaf damage was explained by the latitudinally structured component of the environment, whereas local environmental effects accounted for another 22%. Main conclusions: We conclude that N. pumilio forests show consistent latitudinal patterns of variation in folivory, folivore density and leaf traits. Our study suggests that the latitudinal variation in folivory rates is partly driven by the influence of climate on both plants and herbivores. This warns us about the potential susceptibility of folivory rates to climate warming. We emphasize the value of large-scale analyses as complementary to local experimental approaches to understanding the regulation of herbivory.
3697667|The noosphere concept was originally proposed as a sphere of mind or thought that has emerged from the biosphere over the course of human evolution. Two versions of the noosphere concept were developed in the 20th century and they differed with respect to whether the noosphere was to be considered separate from the biosphere or a new form of the biosphere. Both versions shared an assumption that collective human thought based on a scientific epistemology would achieve a benevolent relationship with the biosphere. Research in global ecology continues to reveal the growing influence of humanity on the biota and on the global biogeochemical cycles, but recent history has not confirmed humanity's ability to self-regulate. Nevertheless, the noosphere concept remains useful because it acknowledges the uniquely subjective aspect of human brain functioning and the propensity for humans to share ideas and work collaboratively. Both of these features will be needed to develop a structured coupling of humanity and the biosphere that preserves the biophysical processes sustaining the ecosphere.
30137887|Aim: A recent upsurge of interest in the island biogeography of exotic species has followed from the argument that they may provide valuable information on the natural processes structuring island biotas. Here, we use data on the occurrence of exotic bird species across oceanic islands worldwide to demonstrate an alternative and previously untested hypothesis that these distributional patterns are a simple consequence of where humans have released such species, and hence of the number of species released. Location: Islands around the world. Methods: Statistical analysis of published information on the numbers of exotic bird species introduced to, and established on, islands around the world. Results: Established exotic birds showed very similar species-area relationships to native species, but different species-isolation relationships. However, in both cases the relationship for established exotics simply mimicked that for the number of exotic bird species introduced. Exotic bird introductions scaled positively with human population size and island isolation, and islands that had seen more native species extinctions had had more exotic species released. Main conclusion: The island biogeography of exotic birds is primarily a consequence of human, rather than natural, processes.
2665422|1 We model the potential vegetation and annual net primary production (NPP) of China on a 10' grid under the present climate using the processed-based equilibrium terrestrial biosphere model BIOME3. The simulated distribution of the vegetation was in general in good agreement with the potential natural vegetation based on a numerical comparison between the two maps using the V statistic (V = 0.23). Predicted and measured NPP were also similar, especially in terms of biome-averages. 2 A coupled ocean atmosphere general circulation model including sulphate aerosols was used to drive a double greenhouse gas scenario for 2070 2099. Simulated vegetation maps from two different CO<sub>2</sub> scenarios (340 and 500 p.p.m.v.) were compared to the baseline biome map using V. Climate change alone produced a large reduction in desert, alpine tundra and ice/polar desert, and a general pole-ward shift of the boreal, temperate deciduous, warm-temperate evergreen and tropical forest belts, a decline in boreal deciduous forest and the appearance of tropical deciduous forest. The inclusion of CO<sub>2</sub> physiological effects led to a marked decrease in moist savannas and desert, a general decrease for grasslands and steppe, and disappearance of xeric woodland/scrub. Temperate deciduous broadleaved forest, however, shifted north to occupy nearly half the area of previously temperate mixed forest. 3 The impact of climate change and increasing CO<sub>2</sub> is not only on biogeography, but also on potential NPP. The NPP values for most of the biomes in the scenarios with CO<sub>2</sub> set at 340 p.p.m.v. and 500 p.p.m.v. are greater than those under the current climate, except for the temperate deciduous forest, temperate evergreen broadleaved forest, tropical rain forest, tropical seasonal forest, and xeric woodland/scrub biomes. Total vegetation and total carbon is simulated to increase significantly in the future climate scenario, both with and without the CO<sub>2</sub> direct physiological effect. 4 Our results show that the global process-based equilibrium terrestrial biosphere model BIOME3 can be used successfully at a regional scale.
40405783|Aim Although patterns are emerging for macroorganisms, we have limited understanding of the factors determining soil microbial community composition and productivity at large spatial extents. The overall objective of this study was to discern the drivers of microbial community composition at the extent of biogeographical provinces and regions. We hypothesized that factors associated with land use and climate would drive soil microbial community composition and biomass. Location Great Basin Province, Desert Province and California Floristic Province,California, USA. Methods Using phospholipid fatty acid analysis, we compared microbial communities across eight land-use types sampled throughout the State of California, USA (n = 1117). Results The main factor driving composition and microbial biomass was landuse type, especially as related to water availability and disturbance. Dry soils were more enriched in Gram-negative bacteria and fungi, and wetter soils were more enriched in Gram-positive, anaerobic and sulphate-reducing bacteria. Microbial biomass was lowest in ecosystems with the wettest and driest soils. Disturbed soils had less fungal and more Gram-positive bacterial biomass than wildland soils. However, some factors known to influence microbial ommunities, such as soil pH and specific plant taxa, were not important here. Main conclusions Distinct microbial communities were associated with landuse types and disturbance at the regional extent. Overall, soil water availability was an important determinant of soil microbial community composition. However, because of the inclusion of managed and irrigated agricultural ecosystems, the effect of precipitation was not significant. Effects of environmental and management factors, such as flooding, tillage and irrigation, suggest that agricultural management can have larger effects on soil microbial communities than elevation and precipitation gradients.
3697478|Aims: Throughout South-East Asia, droughts associated with ENSO (El
30137884|Aim: Our aim was to test whether extinction risk of frog species could be predicted from their body size, fecundity or geographical range size. Because small geographical range size is a correlate of extinction risk in many taxa, we also tested hypotheses about correlates of range size in frogs. Location: Global. Methods: Using a large comparative data set (n = 527 species) compiled from the literature, we performed bivariate and multiple regressions through the origin of independent contrasts to test proposed macroecological patterns and correlates of extinction risk in frogs. We also created minimum adequate models to predict snout-vent length, clutch size, geographical range size and IUCN Red List status in frogs. Parallel non-phylogenetic analyses were also conducted. We verified the results of the phylogenetic analyses using gridded data accounting for spatial autocorrelation. Results: The most threatened frog species tend to have small geographical ranges, although the relationship between range and extinction risk is not linear. In addition, tropical frogs with small clutches have the smallest ranges. Clutch size was strongly positively correlated with geographical range size (r = 0.22) and body size (r = 0.28). Main conclusions: Our results suggest that body size and fecundity only affect extinction risk indirectly through their effect on geographical range size. Thus, although large frogs with small clutches tend to be endangered, there is no comparative evidence that this relationship is direct. If correct, this inference has consequences for conservation strategy: it would be inefficient to allocate conservation resources on the basis of low fecundity or large body size; instead it would be better to protect areas that contain many frog species with small geographical ranges.
40205658|Aim: To examine the trends of 1982-2003 satellite-derived normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) values at several spatial scales within tundra and boreal forest areas of Alaska. Location: Arctic and subarctic Alaska. Methods: Annual maximum NDVI data from the twice monthly Global Inventory Modelling and Mapping Studies (GIMMS) NDVI 1982-2003 data set with 64-km pixels were extracted from a spatial hierarchy including three large regions: ecoregion polygons within regions, ecozone polygons within boreal ecoregions and 100-km climate station buffers. The 1982-2003 trends of mean annual maximum NDVI values within each area, and within individual pixels, were computed using simple linear regression. The relationship between NDVI and temperature and precipitation was investigated within climate station buffers. Results: At the largest spatial scale of polar, boreal and maritime regions, the strongest trend was a negative trend in NDVI within the boreal region. At a finer scale of ecoregion polygons, there was a strong positive NDVI trend in cold arctic tundra areas, and a strong negative trend in interior boreal forest areas. Within boreal ecozone polygons, the weakest negative trends were from areas with a maritime climate or colder mountainous ecozones, while the strongest negative trends were from warmer basin ecozones. The trends from climate station buffers were similar to ecoregion trends, with no significant trends from Bering tundra buffers, significant increasing trends among arctic tundra buffers and significant decreasing trends among interior boreal forest buffers. The interannual variability of NDVI among the arctic tundra buffers was related to the previous summer warmth index. The spatial pattern of increasing tundra NDVI at the pixel level was related to the west-to-east spatial pattern in changing climate across arctic Alaska. There was no significant relationship between interannual NDVI and precipitation or temperature among the boreal forest buffers. The decreasing NDVI trend in interior boreal forests may be due to several factors including increased insect/disease infestations, reduced photosynthesis and a change in root/leaf carbon allocation in response to warmer and drier growing season climate. Main conclusions: There was a contrast in trends of 1982-2003 annual maximum NDVI, with cold arctic tundra significantly increasing in NDVI and relatively warm and dry interior boreal forest areas consistently decreasing in NDVI. The annual maximum NDVI from arctic tundra areas was strongly related to a summer warmth index, while there were no significant relationships in boreal areas between annual maximum NDVI and precipitation or temperature. Annual maximum NDVI was not related to spring NDVI in either arctic tundra or boreal buffers.
3877783|Aims: Hantaviruses are zoonotic, aetiological agents maintained by rodents of the family Muridae. The occurrence of hantavirus in rodent hosts has been correlated to a number of climatic and environmental factors, including landscape structure. To date, most of these correlative studies have been conducted at moderate to fine spatial resolution. Our aim is to determine whether land cover classes defined at a mapping resolution of 1 km
2665349|1 Relationships between body mass and latitude, and body mass and elevation are examined in the assemblage of Andean passerine birds. 2 Across species, body mass is positively correlated with the mid-point of the species elevational distribution, but there is no significant relationship between body mass and latitudinal range mid-point. 3 When the assemblage is separated into Andean endemic and non-endemic species, the former group shows a significant positive relationship between body mass and elevation, and the latter a significant positive relationship between body mass and latitude (`Bergmann's rule'). Andean endemic species exhibit Bergmann's rule once elevation is controlled for using multiple regression. 4 These relationships are not a consequence of the phylogenetic non-independence of species. All the effects shown are very weak, with latitude and elevation explaining only a few per cent of the variation in body mass. Relationships are strongest when phylogenetically controlled analyses are performed just within genera. 5 The implications of these results for the mechanistic understanding of Bergmann's rule are discussed.
30137821|Aim: Distribution modelling relates sparse data on species occurrence or abundance to environmental information to predict the population of a species at any point in space. Recently, the importance of spatial autocorrelation in distributions has been recognized. Spatial autocorrelation can be categorized as exogenous (stemming from autocorrelation in the underlying variables) or endogenous (stemming from activities of the organism itself, such as dispersal). Typically, one asks whether spatial models explain additional variability (endogenous) in comparison to a fully specified habitat model. We turned this question around and asked: can habitat models explain additional variation when spatial structure is accounted for in a fully specified spatially explicit model? The aim was to find out to what degree habitat models may be inadvertently capturing spatial structure rather than true explanatory mechanisms. Location: We used data from 190 species of the North American Breeding Bird Survey covering the conterminous United States and southern Canada. Methods: We built 13 different models on 190 bird species using regression trees. Our habitat-based models used climate and landcover variables as independent variables. We also used random variables and simulated ranges to validate our results. The two spatially explicit models included only geographical coordinates or a contagion term as independent variables. As another angle on the question of mechanism vs. spatial structure we pitted a model using related bird species as predictors against a model using randomly selected bird species. Results: The spatially explicit models outperformed the traditional habitat models and the random predictor species outperformed the related predictor species. In addition, environmental variables produced a substantial R in predicting artificial ranges. Main conclusions: We conclude that many explanatory variables with suitable spatial structure can work well in species distribution models. The predictive power of environmental variables is not necessarily mechanistic, and spatial interpolation can outperform environmental explanatory variables.
3182663|1 Analysis of digitized aerial photographs taken in 1941 and 1994, using image processing and geographical information system technology, enabled the quantification of change in the coverage of forest and grassland patches that occur within a Eucalyptus savanna matrix in a subcoastal region of the Australian monsoon tropics. The 3058 ha study area was orientated along a low escarpment that separated a sandstone plateau from lowlands that comprised 58% and 42% of the area, respectively. 2 In the 53-year period, humans modified less than 1% of the study area, primarily for road building, and primarily in savanna areas. More than 85% of the study area at both sample times was covered by savanna. However, over the same period, the forest coverage increased from 5.03% to 9.91% of the study area and coverage of grassland decreased from 6.70% to 2.47%. The aerial photography also showed that tree density in the savanna had increased, although this was not assessed quantitatively. 3 There was an increase in the number of forest patches from 116 to 142. The number of grassland patches decreased (particularly those > 1 ha) from 87 to 59, although the size class distribution of forest and grassland patches was statistically similar for both sample times. 4 A 50-m GIS buffer was used to distinguish creek-lines environments from surrounding catchments. Using this criterion, 14% of the study area was classified as plateau creek-lines and 9% lowland creek-lines. Although the expansion of forest and loss of grassland varied significantly amongst catchment and creek-lines on the plateau and lowlands, the 1941 rank order of coverage of each vegetation type was maintained in these four landscape categories in 1994. In both years the greatest extent of forest and grassland occurred on the lowland catchments, despite their accounting for only one-third of the study area. 5 Transition matrices for vegetation change among the four landscape categories demonstrated that, unlike the other vegetation types, grasslands, particularly on the plateau, had a low probability of remaining unchanged during the study period. 6 The cause(s) of the overall increase of woody biomass across the topographic and edaphic gradient remains unclear but may be related to a period of increased rainfall since the 1970s, as well as to the cessation of Aboriginal landscape burning at the beginning of the study period.
40405758|Aim: We test the ' energetic equivalence rule' (EER) -the idea that the amount of energy used by a population per unit area per unit time is independent of body mass -in meio-invertebrate communities from a series of natural, multitrophic aquatic ' rock pool' microcosms. Our study represents the first rigorous test of the EER at local scales of observation in a community of naturally coexisting species. Location: Discovery Bay, Jamaica. Method: We estimated population energy use (PEU) for every occurrence of every species of meio-invertebrate fauna found in each of 29 microcosms (233 observations of 31 species) using estimates of population density obtained in January 2005 in combination with published metabolism-mass relations for closely related taxa. Results: In the rock pool system as a whole, population density decreased (ANCOVA: b = -0.38 (-0.55 to -0.19), r = 0.19, P< 0.001) and PEU increased with body mass (ANCOVA: b = 0.55 (0.36-0.73), r = 0.28, P < 0.001). Main conclusions: The positive PEU-body mass relation found here suggests that larger organisms are energetically dominant and points to the importance of sizestructured competition in these systems. Our results contrast those obtained in the few other previously published tests of the EER and challenge the idea that all species use similar amounts of energy regardless of their size.
3697429|Aim: To investigate the relative contributions of current vs. historical factors in explaining broad-scale diversity gradients using a combination of contemporary factors and a quantitative estimate of the temporal accessibility of areas for recolonization created by glacial retreat following the most recent Ice Age. Location: The part of the Nearctic region of North America that was covered by ice sheets during the glacial maximum 20 000 BP. Methods: We used range maps to estimate the species richness of mammals and terrestrial birds in
3697525|Aim: Inventorying plant species in an area based on randomly placed quadrats can be quite inefficient. The aim of this paper is to test whether plant species richness can be inventoried more efficiently by means of a spectrally-based ordering of sites to be sampled. Location: The study area was a complex wetland ecosystem, the Lake Montepulciano Nature Reserve, central Italy. This is one of the most important wetland areas of central Italy because of the diverse plant communities and the seasonal avifauna. Methods: Field sampling, based on a random stratified sampling design, was performed in June 2002. Plant species composition was recorded within sampling units of 100 m
2665369|1 The equilibrium model of island biogeography developed in the 1960s by MacArthur and Wilson has provided an excellent framework in which to investigate the dynamics of species richness in island and island-like systems. It is comparable in many respects to the Hardy Weinberg equilibrium model used in genetics as the basis for defining a point of reference, thus allowing one to discover the factors that prevent equilibrium from being achieved. Hundreds of studies have used the model effectively, especially those dealing with brief spans of time and limited geographical areas. In spite of this utility, however, there are important limitations to the MacArthur-Wilson model, especially when we consider long-term and large-scale circumstances. 2 Although their general theory is more complex, the MacArthur-Wilson equilibrium model treats colonization and extinction as the only two processes that are relevant to determining species richness. However, it is likely that phylogenetic diversification (phylogenesis) often takes place on the same time-scale as colonization and extinction; for example, colonization, extinction, and phylogenesis among mammals on occanic and/or old land-bridge islands in South-east Asia are all measured in units of time in the range of 10 000 l million years, most often in units of 100 000 years. 3 Phylogenesis is not a process that can be treated simply as `another form of colonization', as it behaves differently than colonization. It interacts in a complex manner with both colonization and extinction, and can generate patterns of species richness almost independently of the other two processes. In addition, contrary to the implication of the MacArthur-Wilson model, extinction does not drive species richness in highly isolated archipelagoes (those that receive very few colonists) to progressively lower values; rather, phylogenesis is a common outcome in such archipelagoes, and species richness rises over time. In some specific instances, phylogenesis may have produced an average of 14 times as many species as direct colonization, and perhaps 36 species from one such colonization event. Old, stable, large archipelagoes should typically support not just endemic species but endemic clades, and the total number of species and the size of the endemic clades should increase with age of the archipelago. 4 The existence of long-term equilibrium in actual island archipelagoes is unlikely. The land masses that make up island archipelagoes are intrinsically unstable because the geological processes that cause their formation are dynamic, and substantial changes can occur (under some circumstances) on a time-scale comparable to the processes of colonization, phylogenesis, and extinction. Large-scale island-like archipelagoes on continents also are unstable, in the medium term because of global climatic fluctuations, and in the long term because of the geologically ephemeral existence of, for example, individual mountain ranges. 5 Examples of these phenomena using the mammals of South-east Asia, especially the Philippines, make it clear that the best conceptual model of the long-term dynamics of species richness in island archipelagoes would be one in which colonization, extinction, and phylogenesis are recognized to be of equivalent conceptual importance. Furthermore, we should expect species richness to be always in a dynamic state of disequilibrium due to the constantly changing geological/geographical circumstances in which that diversity exists, always a step or two out of phase with the constantly changing equilibrium point for species richness.
40801922|Aim: Globally, one of the major threats to the integrity of native faunas is the loss of biodiversity that can result from the introduction of exotics. Here we document recent changes in the distribution of five common fish species that are linked to introductions in Chile.
3697576|Aim: The decrease in species richness with increasing elevation is a widely recognized pattern. However, recent work has shown that there is variation in the shape of the curve, such that both negative monotonic or unimodal patterns occur, influenced by a variety of factors at local and regional scales. Discerning the shape of the curve may provide clues to the underlying causes of the observed pattern. At regional scales, the area of the altitudinal belts and mass effects are important determinants of species richness. This paper explores the relationship between bird species richness, elevation, mass effects and area of altitudinal zones for birds in tropical mountains. Location: The three Andean ranges of Colombia and the peripheral mountain ranges of La Macarena and Santa Marta. Methods: Lists of bird species were compiled for altitudinal belts in eastern and western slopes of the three Andean Cordilleras and for La Macarena and Santa Marta. The area of the altitudinal belts was computed from digital elevation models. The effect of area was analysed by testing for differences among altitudinal belts in the slopes and intercepts of the species-area relationships. Mass effects were explored by separately analysing two sets of species: broadly distributed species, i.e. lowland species whose distributions extend into the Andes, and tropical Andean species, i.e., species that evolved in the Andes. Results: Plotting total number of species in each altitudinal belt revealed a decline in species richness with elevation. In slopes with a complete elevational gradient from lowlands to mountain peaks, the decrease was monotonic. In internal Andean slopes where the lower elevational belts are truncated, there was a peak at mid elevations. There was a linear relationship between number of species and area of the altitudinal belts. When controlling for area, there were no differences in the number of species among altitudinal belts (500-2600 m), except for the two upper-elevation zones (2600-3200 and > 3200 m), which had lower species richness. Diversity of widely distributed species declined monotonically with elevation, whereas tropical Andean species exhibited a mid-elevation peak. Main conclusions: A large proportion of the variation in species richness with elevation was explained by area of the altitudinal belts. When controlling for area, species richness remained constant up to 2600 m and then decreased. This pattern contrasts with a previously reported hump-shaped pattern for Andean birds. Diversity patterns of widely distributed species suggested that immigration of lowland species inflates diversity of lower elevational belts through mass effects. This influence was particularly evident in slopes with complete altitudinal gradients (i.e. connected to the lowlands). Tropical Andean species, in contrast, were more diverse in mid-elevational belts, where speciation rates are expected to be higher. The influence of these species was more prevalent in internal Andean slopes with no connection to the lowlands. The decline of species richness at high elevations may be related to higher extinction rates and lower resource levels.
40801851|Aim: Islands have often been used as model systems in community ecology. The incorporation of information on phylogenetic relatedness of species in studies of island assemblage structure is still uncommon, but could provide valuable insights into the processes of island community assembly. We propose six models of island community assembly that make different predictions about the associations between co-occurrences of species pairs on islands, phylogenetic relatedness and ecological similarity. We then test these models using data on mammals of Southeast Asian islands.
2665368|1 I present an alternative to the equilibrium theory of island biogeography, one which is based on the premise that many of the more general patterns in insular community structure result from, not despite, nonrandom variation among species. 2 For the sake of simplicity, the model is limited to patterns and processes operating over scales of ecological space and time: evolution is not included in the current version of the model. 3 The model assumes, as did MacArthur and Wilson's model, that insular community structure is dynamic in ecological time, but the model does not assume a balance, or equilibrium, of immigration and extinction. 4 The model presented here is hierarchical, phenomenological (it requires little parameterization beyond that which is directly derived from distributional data), graphical, and it includes potential feedback processes (including interspecific interactions). 5 The model offers an alternative explanation for a variety of patterns ranging from distributions of individual species, species-area and species-isolation relationships, to patterns of assembly of insular communities. The model also generates some new predictions and identifies some potentially important areas for future studies.
41058237|Aim: We deconstructed the mammal species richness pattern in Europe to assess the importance of large-scale gradients in current macroclimate relative to biogeographic history, habitat heterogeneity and human influence (HHH variables) as richness determinants for total species, and for widespread and endemic species separately. Location: Europe, west of 30  E. Methods: We deconstructed total species richness (50-km resolution) into its widespread and endemic species richness components. We used simultaneous autoregressive modelling (SAR) with information-theoretic model selection and variation partitioning to assess the importance of macroclimate and HHH variables. The HHH variables included two historical factors, estimated by novel methodologies: (1) ice-age-driven dynamics, represented by accessibility to recolonization from hindcasting-estimated glacial refugia, and (2) biogeographic peninsular dynamics, represented by distance to the entry region for the main European faunal source in western Asia. Results: A large fraction of explained variation was shared between macroclimate and HHH in the SAR models. For total species richness, more variation could be uniquely attributed to macroclimate than to HHH, whereas for the deconstructed patterns (widespread and endemic species) the opposite was the case. Considering the individual factors, there was a strong peninsula effect on both widespread and endemic species richness but not on total richness. Main conclusions: Both macroclimate and HHH variables (history, habitat heterogeneity and human influence) proved important predictors of species richness, but also difficult to disentangle. Notably, biogeographic history, in particular peninsular dynamics, is an important determinant of widespread and endemic species richness.
40405755|Predicting past distributions of species climatic niches, hindcasting, by using climate envelope models (CEMs) is emerging as an exciting research area. CEMs are used to examine veiled evolutionary questions about extinctions, locations of past rfugia and migration pathways, or to propose hypotheses concerning the past population structure of species in phylogeographical studies. CEMs are sensitive to theoretical assumptions, to model classes and to projections in non-analogous climates, among other issues. Studies hindcasting the climatic niches of species often make reference to these limitations. However, to obtain strong scientific inferences, we must not only be aware of these potential limitations but we must also overcome them. Here, I review the literature on hindcasting CEMs. I discuss the theoretical assumptions behind niche modelling, i. e. the stability of climatic niches through time and the equilibrium of species with climate. I also summarize a set of'recommended practices' to improve hindcasting. The studies reviewed: (1) rarely test the theoretical assumptions behind niche modelling such as the stability of species climatic niches through time and the equilibrium of species with climate; (2) they only use one model class (72% of the studies) and one palaeoclimatic reconstruction (62.5%) to calibrate their models; (3) they do not check for the occurrence of non-analogous climates (97%); and (4) they do not use independent data to validate the models (72%). Ignoring the theoretical assumptions behind niche modelling and using inadequate methods for hindcasting CEMs may well entail a cascade of errors and nave ecological and evolutionary inferences. We should also push integrative research lines linking macroecology, physiology, population biology, palaeontology, evolutionary biology and CEMs for a better understanding of niche dynamics across space and time.
3182724|Aim: To map net primary productivity (NPP) over the Canadian landmass at 1-km resolution. Location: Canada. Methods: A simulation model, the Boreal Ecosystem Productivity Simulator (BEPS), has been developed. The model uses a sunlit and shaded leaf separation strategy and a daily integration scheme in order to implement an instantaneous leaf-level photosynthesis model over large areas. Two key driving variables, leaf area index (every 10 days) and land cover type (annual), are derived from satellite measurements of the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR). Other spatially explicit input data are also prepared, including daily meteorological data (radiation, precipitation, temperature, and humidity), available soil water holding capacity (AWC) and forest biomass. The model outputs are compared with ground plot data to ensure that no significant systematic biases are created. Results: The simulation results show that Canada's annual net primary production was 1.22 Gt C year
41058219|Aims: Twentieth-century climate, the spatial pattern of tree establishment and positive feedback influence upper tree line ecotones. Here, I investigate how these factors interact to gain a more holistic understanding of how broad-scale abiotic and local-scale site conditions regulate tree establishment within upper tree line ecotones. Location: A latitudinal gradient (c. 35-45  N) in the US Rocky Mountains. Study sites (n = 22) were located in the Bighorn (BH), Medicine Bow (MB), Front Range (FR) and Sangre de Cristo (SDC) mountain ranges. Methods: Dendroecological techniques were used to reconstruct tree establishment dates that were compared with 20th-century climate data using correlation and regime shift analyses. Spatial patterns of tree establishment were analysed by Ripley's K and used to determine local-scale interactions capable of ameliorating broad-scale climate inputs through positive feedback. Results: Significant correlations (P < 0.01) between tree establishment and climate were confined to the FR, where a positive correlation was found with summer (June-August) and cool season (November-April) temperature (T<sub>max</sub>-T<sub>min</sub>). These trees were almost exclusively situated in a random spatial pattern. Similar patterns exist in the BH, yet their establishment was contingent on the availability of local shelter in the lee of boulders. Trees in the MB and SDC were primarily clustered in space and had no significant correlations with climate. Considerable lag times exist between regime shift changes in climate towards more favourable growing conditions and corresponding shifts in tree establishment in all mountain ranges except the FR, where synchronous shifts occurred in the early 1950s. Main conclusions: These results suggest that the influence of broad-scale climate on upper tree line dynamics is contingent on the local-scale spatial patterns of tree establishment and related influences of positive feedback. This research has important implications for understanding how vegetation communities will respond to global climate change.
30137868|Aim We seek to determine the factors which control the success of lianas across macroecological gradients. Lianas have a strong impact on the growth, mortality and biomass of tropical trees, and are reported to be increasing in dominance, so understanding their behaviour is important from the perspectives of both ecological and global change. Location Lowland and montane Neotropical forests. Methods Using 65 standardized samples of lianas ( 2.5 cm diameter) from across the Neotropics, we attempted to account for characteristics of both the environment and the forest in explaining macroecological variation in liana success in Neotropical forests, using regression analyses and structural equation modelling. Results We found that both liana density and basal area were unrelated to mean annual precipitation, dry season length or soil variables, except for a weak effect of mean annual precipitation on liana basal area. Structural characteristics of the forest explained more of the variation in liana density and basal area than the physical environment. More disturbed forests generally tended to have a higher liana density. Liana basal area, however, was highest in undisturbed forests. Main conclusions The availability of host trees and their characteristics may be more important than the direct effects of the physical environment in controlling the success of lianas in Neotropical forests. Changes to the tropical climate in the coming century may not strongly affect lianas directly, but could have very substantial indirect effects via changes in tree community structure and dynamics.
40801859|Aim: Climbing plants are characterized by long, wide vessel elements, which may be vulnerable to cold-or drought-induced embolism. However, the difference in vulnerability between lianas (woody climbing plants) and vines (herbaceous climbing plants) has not yet been reported. Here we hypothesize that both lianas and vines are more sensitive to variations in water and temperature than are self-supporting plants. Consequently, the proportions of lianas and vines in flora are expected to decline significantly along geographical and environmental gradients.
2665312|1 The history of a forest stand over the last 6000 years has been reconstructed by studying pollen, macrofossils and charcoal from a small, wet hollow in Suserup Skov on the island of Sjaelland in eastern Denmark. 2 The earliest recorded forest was Tilia-dominated but contained an intimate mixture of many different tree species that included Acer campestre, A. platanoides, Alnus glutinosa, Betula pubescens, Corylus avellana, Frangula alnus, Fraxinus excelsior, Malus sylvestris, Populus tremula, Pinus sylvestris, Quercus robur, Q. petraea, Salix spp., Sorbus aucuparia, Tilia cordata and T. platyphyllos. The preserved fruits of T. platyphyllos confirm its hitherto doubtful status as a native member of the Danish flora. 3 The present-day woodland developed after a period of intensive anthropogenic disturbance between  600 BC and AD 900, during which time open canopy conditions prevailed at Suserup. Fagus sylvatica and Fraxinus excelsior are the dominant trees at present, together with some Quercus robur and Ulmus glabra. 4 Charcoal was present in the sediments from most time periods except at the Ulmus decline. In the last 1000 years of the sequence - the period of Fagus dominance - charcoal counts were consistently low. 5 Pinus sylvestris was a natural component of this primarily deciduous forest, and the last macrofossil find dates from c. AD 900. Macrofossil Pinus cone scales recorded c. AD 1800 originate from planted individuals. Prior to Fagus dominance, the forest had an open structure partly caused by frequent, low-intensity fires associated with the presence of Pinus sylvestris. 6 The replacement of Tilia by Fagus in this forest was catalysed by human activity. If the forest had not been so disturbed, the rich diversity of trees would most probably have persisted up to the present time, with only a moderate-sized Fagus population.
3182727| Most previous attempts to model the geographical range expansion of an invading species assume random dispersal of organisms through a homogeneous environment. These models result in a series of uniformly increasing circles radiating out from the centre of origin over time. Although these models often give reasonable fits to available data, they do not typically include mechanisms of dispersal. Alternatively, models that include assumptions of non-random dispersal and a heterogeneous environment inevitably result in an anisotropic or jagged invasion front. This front will include propagules of pioneer individuals for the expanding species. Existing data from biological invasions reveal that the spatial structure of an invading species usually exhibits these propagules. Using population data gathered from the past century, we investigated the propagules of two North American invading bird species: the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris Linnaeus), and the house finch (Carpodacus mexicanus Mller), and found a correlation between propagule location and habitat quality. These results suggest that dispersing individuals seek out favourable habitat and remain there, thus introducing a possible mechanism for explaining non-uniform dispersal during invasions. When combined with results from other studies, our results suggest that propagules provide starting points for future population expansion of an invading species. 
30134089|Aim: The long-term stability of coastal ecosystems such as mangroves and salt marshes depends upon the maintenance of soil elevations within the intertidal habitat as sea level changes. We examined the rates and processes of peat formation by mangroves of the Caribbean Region to better understand biological controls on habitat stability. Location: Mangrove-dominated islands on the Caribbean coasts of Belize, Honduras and Panama were selected as study sites. Methods: Biological processes controlling mangrove peat formation were manipulated (in Belize) by the addition of nutrients (nitrogen or phosphorus) to Rhizophora mangle (red mangrove), and the effects on the dynamics of soil elevation were determined over a 3-year period using rod surface elevation tables (RSET) and marker horizons. Peat composition and geological accretion rates were determined at all sites using radiocarbon-dated cores. Results: The addition of nutrients to mangroves caused significant changes in rates of mangrove root accumulation, which influenced both the rate and direction of change in elevation. Areas with low root input lost elevation and those with high rates gained elevation. These findings were consistent with peat analyses at multiple Caribbean sites showing that deposits (up to 10 m in depth) were composed primarily of mangrove root matter. Comparison of radiocarbon-dated cores at the study sites with a sea-level curve for the western Atlantic indicated a tight coupling between peat building in Caribbean mangroves and sea-level rise over the Holocene. Main conclusions: Mangroves common to the Caribbean region have adjusted to changing sea level mainly through subsurface accumulation of refractory mangrove roots. Without root and other organic inputs, submergence of these tidal forests is inevitable due to peat decomposition, physical compaction and eustatic sea-level rise. These findings have relevance for predicting the effects of sea-level rise and biophysical processes on tropical mangrove ecosystems.
40205664|Aim: Models of the potential distributions of invading species have to deal with a number of issues. The key one is the high likelihood that the absence of an invading species in an area is a false absence because it may not have invaded that area yet, or that it may not have been detected. This paper develops an approach for screening pseudo-absences in a way that is logical and defensible. Innovation: The step-wise approach involves: (1) screening environmental variables to identify those most likely to indicate conditions where the species cannot invade; (2) identifying and selecting the most likely limiting variables; (3) using these to define the limits of its invasion potential; and (4) selecting points outside these limits as true absence records for input into species distribution models. This approach was adopted and used for the study of three prominent Hakea species in South Africa. Models with and without the false absence records were compared. Two rainfall variables and the mean minimum temperature of the coldest month were the strongest predictors of potential distributions. Models which excluded false absences predicted that more of the potential distribution would have a high invasion potential than those which included them. Main conclusions: The approach of applying a priori knowledge can be useful in refining the potential distribution of a species by excluding pseudo-absence records which are likely to be due to the species not having invaded an area yet or being undetected. The differences between the potential distributions predicted by the different models convey more information than making a single prediction, albeit a consensus model. The robustness of this approach depends strongly on an adequate knowledge of the ecology, invasion history and current distribution of that species.
3877780|Aim: Over the next 100 years, human-driven climate change and resulting changes in species occurrences will have global impacts on biodiversity, ecosystem function, and human health. Here we examine how climate change may affect the occurrences of tick species in Africa and alter the suitability of habitat outside Africa for African ticks. Location: Africa and the world. Methods: We predicted continental and global changes in habitat suitability for each of 73 African tick species, using multiple regression models in different climate change scenarios that cover a wide range of uncertainty. Results: Global habitat suitability improves for nearly all tick species under each of a representative range of eight climate change scenarios. Depending on the scenario, African tick species experience an average increase in global habitat suitability of between 1 million and 9 million square kilometres between 1990 and 2100. Main conclusions: The potential for successful translocations of ticks and their pathogens from Africa to the rest of the world is likely to increase over the next 100 years. Although the general trend is one of range expansion, there are winners and losers among tick species in each scenario, suggesting that tick community composition will be disrupted substantially by climate change. If this is also typical of other invertebrates, then climate change will disrupt not only the geographic location of communities but also their structure. Changes in tick communities are also likely to influence tick-borne pathogens.
40205665|Aim: To determine whether arthropod richness and abundance for combined taxa, feeding guilds and broad taxonomic groups respond in a globally consistent manner to a range of agricultural land-use and management intensification scenarios. Location: Mixed land-use agricultural landscapes, globally. Methods: We performed a series of meta-analyses using arthropod richness and abundance data derived from the published literature. Richness and abundance were compared among land uses that commonly occur in agricultural landscapes and that represent a gradient of increasing intensification. These included land-use comparisons, such as wooded native vegetation compared with improved pasture, and a management comparison, reduced-input cropping compared with conventional cropping. Data were analysed using three different meta-analytical techniques, including a simple vote counting method and a formal fixed-effects/random-effects meta-analysis. Results: Arthropod richness was significantly higher in areas of less intensive land use. The decline in arthropod richness was greater between native vegetation and agricultural land uses than among different agricultural land uses. These patterns were evident for all taxa combined, predators and decomposers, but not herbivorous taxa. Overall, arthropod abundance was greater in native vegetation than in agricultural lands and under reduced-input cropping compared with conventional cropping. Again, this trend was largely mirrored by predators and decomposers, but not herbivores. Main conclusions: The greater arthropod richness found in native vegetation relative to agricultural land types indicates that in production landscapes still containing considerable native vegetation, retention of that vegetation may well be the most effective method of conserving arthropod biodiversity. Conversely, in highly intensified agricultural landscapes with little remaining native vegetation, the employment of reduced-input crop management and the provision of relatively low-intensity agricultural land uses, such as pasture, may prove effective in maintaining arthropod diversity, and potentially in promoting functionally important groups such as predators and decomposers.
3697476|Aim: The objectives of this study were to determine the relationships between climatic factors and litterfall in coniferous and broadleaf forests in Eurasia and to explore the difference in litterfall between coniferous and broadleaf forests as related to climate at a continental scale. Location: We have used data from across Eurasia. Methods: The relationships between litterfall and climatic factors were examined using linear regression analysis of a compilation of published data from coniferous and broadleaf forests in Eurasia. Results: The relationships between litterfall and climatic factors show that in the temperate, subtropical, and tropical areas, broadleaf forests had higher litterfall than coniferous ones, whilst the opposite was found for boreal forests. Combining all climatic zones, a multiple regression analysis using annual mean temperature (T) and annual precipitation (P) as independent variables gave an adjusted
2665396|Studies of elevation clines in diversity and composition of ecological communities date back to the origins of biogeography. A modern resurgence of interests in these elevational clines is likely to contribute important insights for developing a more general theory of species diversity. In order to gain a more comprehensive understanding of geographical clines in diversity, the research programme for montane biogeography should include statistically rigorous tests of apparent patterns, comparisons of patterns among regions and taxonomic or ecological groups of species, and analyses of clines in environmental variables concurrent with biogeographical surveys. The conceptual framework for this research programme should be based on the assumption that elevational gradients in species diversity result from a combination of ecological and evolutionary processes, rather than the presumed independent effects of one overriding force. Given that montane ecosystems are hot spots of biological diversity, an expanded and integrated programme for biogeographic surveys in montane regions should provide valuable insights for conservation biologists.
3182697|Aim: To detect regional patterns of plant species richness in temperate nature reserves and determine the unbiased effects of environmental variables by mutual correlation with operating factors. Location: The Czech Republic. Methods: Plant species richness in 302 nature reserves was studied by using 14 explanatory variables reflecting the reserve area, altitude, climate, habitat diversity and prevailing vegetation type. Backward elimination of explanatory variables was used to analyse the data, taking into account their interactive nature, until the model contained only significant terms. Results: A minimal adequate model with reserve area, mean altitude, prevailing vegetation type and habitat diversity (expressed as the number of major habitat types in the reserve) accounted for 53.9% of the variance in species number. After removing the area effect, habitat diversity explained 15.6% of variance, while prevailing vegetation type explained 29.6%. After removing the effect of both area and vegetation type, the resulting model explained 10.3% of the variance, indicating that species richness further increased with habitat diversity, and most obviously towards warm districts. After removing the effects of area, habitat diversity and climatic district, the model still explained 9.4% of the variance, and showed that species richness (i) significantly decreased with increasing mean altitude and annual precipitation, and with decreasing January temperature in the region of the mountain flora, and (ii) increased with altitudinal range in regions of temperate and thermophilous flora. Main conclusions: We described, in quantitative terms, the effects of the main factors that might be considered to be determining plant species richness in temperate nature reserves, and evaluated their relative importance. The direct habitat effect on species richness was roughly equal to the direct area effect, but the total direct and indirect effects of area slightly exceeded that of habitat. It was shown that the overall effect of composite variables such as altitude or climatic district can be separated into particular climatic variables, which influence the richness of flora in a context-specific manner. The statistical explanation of richness variation at the level of families yielded similar results to that for species, indicating that the system of nature conservation provides similar degrees of protection at different taxonomic levels.
2665388|Hybrid zones are either distributed along clines or in a mosaic of patches. This distribution may depend upon variation in taxon habitat use. Habitat use and distribution of diverse taxa of water frogs (Rana ridibunda, R. lessonae, R. perezi, R. kl. grafi and R. kl. esculenta) in France are analysed to determine whether water frog complexes conform to the mosaic or clinal model. Biogeographical scenarios may be invoked in order to explain the distribution of water frogs. However, the distribution of R. perezi and R. kl. grafi, being restricted to regions characterized by Mediterranean or Oceanic climatic conditions, suggests that these frogs do not endure cold winters. R. ridibunda is widespread in Southern France and its distribution suggests multiple introductions. It is concluded that water frogs conform to the mosaic zone model rather than to the tension zone model because: (i) taxa exhibited differences in habitat use, (ii) pure parental species were documented and (iii) hybrids are not unfit relative to parental species.
2665386|This paper presents an analysis of the distributional patterns of blenniids (Pisces: Blenniidae) in the north-eastern Atlantic. Two peaks of species diversity were found, both in terms of number of species and number of endemics: one in the tropical African coast and another in the Mediterranean Sea. A cluster analysis of similarity values (Jaccard coefficient) among the eastern Atlantic zoogeographical areas, revealed the following groups: a north temperate group, a tropical group formed by the tropical African coast and Mauritania, another group formed by the islands of Cape Verde, a south temperate group (South Africa), and a southern Atlantic group formed by the islands of Ascension and St Helena. Within the north temperate group, the subgroups with higher similarities were: Azores and Madeira, Canary Islands and Morocco, and the Mediterranean and the Atlantic coast of the Iberian Peninsula. Based on affinity indices, the probable directions of faunal flows were inferred. The tropical coast of Africa and the Mediterranean emerged from this analysis as probable speciation centres of the north-eastern Atlantic blenniid fauna. The Mediterranean may have also acted as a refuge during glacial periods.
40928125|Aim: Species distribution models (SDMs) are used to infer niche responses and predict climate change-induced range shifts. However, their power to distinguish real and chance associations between spatially autocorrelated distribution and environmental data at continental scales has been questioned. Here this is investigated at a regional (10 km) scale by modelling the distributions of 100 plant species native to the UK. Location: UK. Methods: SDMs fitted using real climate data were compared with those utilizing simulated climate gradients. The simulated gradients preserve the exact values and spatial structure of the real ones, but have no causal relationships with any species and so represent an appropriate null model. SDMs were fitted as generalized linear models (GLMs) or by the Random Forest machine-learning algorithm and were either non-spatial or included spatially explicit trend surfaces or autocovariates as predictors. Results: Species distributions were significantly but erroneously related to the simulated gradients in 86% of cases (P < 0.05 in likelihood-ratio tests of GLMs), with the highest error for strongly autocorrelated species and gradients and when species occupied 50% of sites. Even more false effects were found when curvilinear responses were modelled, and this was not adequately mitigated in the spatially explicit models. Non-spatial SDMs based on simulated climate data suggested that 70-80% of the apparent explanatory power of the real data could be attributable to its spatial structure. Furthermore, the niche component of spatially explicit SDMs did not significantly contribute to model fit in most species. Main conclusions: Spatial structure in the climate, rather than functional relationships with species distributions, may account for much of the apparent fit and predictive power of SDMs. Failure to account for this means that the evidence for climatic limitation of species distributions may have been overstated. As such, predicted regional- and national-scale impacts of climate change based on the analysis of static distribution snapshots will require re-evaluation.
40405784|Aim Climatic factors are known to influence species distributions. However, elucidating the underlying mechanisms is challenging because direct and indirect effects of climatic and non-climatic factors are correlated. In the absence of this covariation and at fine-grain resolutions the direct effect of climate via physiological constraints should be stronger on the distributions of ectothermic organisms. So far, no comprehensive study has explicitly tested the influence of climate on species distributions by quantitatively comparing ectothermic and endothermic vertebrates. Location Peninsular Spain. Methods Presence-absence data of native terrestrial vertebrates in Peninsular Spain were modelled using generalized additive models to disentangle the influence of climate and other contemporary correlated factors (topography and plant cover). We performed partial regressions to partition the deviance explained by climatic and non-climatic effects into independent and shared components. We compared the independent contributions of climatic and non-climatic effects between ectothermic and endothermic vertebrates, and among mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians. Results After reducing the covariation with non-climatic factors, climate explained a greater proportion of deviance in ectotherms than in endotherms. Also, the contribution of temperature was highest for reptiles, and the contribution of precipitation was highest for amphibians, after extracting their overlaps with precipitation and temperature, respectively. The contribution of topography and plant cover remained high for birds after extracting the overlap with climate. Main conclusions Our results are consistent with the prediction that, at fine resolutions, the direct influence of climate (via physiological constraints) on range distributions is stronger in ectothermic vertebrates. Also, at least for birds, indirect effects of climate (via plant productivity) and other habitat characteristics remained relatively important once their covariation with climate was reduced. This study shows that controlling the direct effects of climate by their indirect effects and/or other correlated factors, combined with comparisons among functional groups, can be a useful approach to elucidate causal links with the spatial patterns of organisms.
4139430|Aim To determine whether invasive and locally abundant non-native species have a more homogenizing effect on plant communities than non-invasive and less abundant non-native species. Location California and Florida counties, conservation areas in the USA, and eight US cities. Methods Species lists among counties, conservation areas and cities were compared to see whether invasive and abundant non-native species increased the Jaccard index of similarity between localities beyond any increases caused by non-invasive and less abundant non-native species. Results For all comparisons, we found that invasive non-native species have a significantly greater homogenizing effect than non-invasive non-native species. For the US conservation areas, we found that locally abundant invasive species tend to be more widespread and more widely shared than less abundant invasive species. There is also a positive relationship between homogenization by invasive species and the magnitude of human disturbance. Main conclusions Invasive non-native species tend to be disproportionately shared among communities relative to non-invasive non-native species. This effect is enhanced by human disturbance, as measured by the ratio of non-native to native species. There is a synergism between abundance and geographical range which enhances the homogenizing effects of abundant species. Invasive species, with wide ecological niches, are more widely shared among communities and more locally abundant. Abundant invasive species are thus more spatially homogenizing, and more ecologically dominant (functionally homogenizing). Also, 'perceived homogenization' is probably greater than homogenization measured by the increase in shared species. The abundant species typically seen by the casual observer in a biological community are probably more commonly shared between communities than less common species. Studies that lack abundance data and measure homogenization only on the basis of shared species, which includes most homo studies to date, probably underestimate the homogenizing impacts of non-native species as perceived by people.
40602957|Aim: We examined data on corals and reef fishes to determine how particular local habitat types contribute to variation in community structure across regions covering gradients in species richness and how consistent this was over time. Location: Great Barrier Reef (GBR), Australia. Methods: We compared large-scale (1300 km), long-term (11 years) data on fishes and corals that were collected annually at fixed sites in three habitats (inshore, mid-shelf and outer-shelf reefs) and six regions (latitudinal sectors) along a gradient of regional species richness in both communities. We used canonical approaches to partition variation in community structure (sites x species abundance data matrices) into components associated with habitat, region and time and Procrustes analyses to assess the degree of concordance between coral and fish community structure. Results: Remarkably similar patterns emerged for both fish and coral communities occupying the same sites. Reefs that had similar coral communities also had similar fish communities. The fraction of the community data that could be explained by regional effects, independent of pure habitat effects, was similar in both fish (33%) and coral (36.9%) communities. Pure habitat effects were slightly greater in the fish (31.3%) than in the coral (20.1%) community. Time explained relatively little variation (fish = 7.9%, corals = 9.6%) compared with these two spatial factors. Conclusions: Our results indicate either that fish and coral communities were structured in similar ways by processes associated with region, habitat and time, or that the variation in fish community structure tracked variation associated with the coral communities at these sites and thereby reflects an indirect link between the environment and the structure offish communities mediated by corals. Irrespective of the causes of such commonality, we demonstrate that community structure, not just species richness, can be related to both habitat differences and regional setting simultaneously.
40205659|Aim: To estimate the potential effect of global climate change on the phenological responses of plants it is necessary to estimate spatial variations at larger scales. However, previous studies have not estimated latitudinal patterns in the phenological response directly. We hypothesized that the phenological response of plants varies with latitude, and estimated the phenological response to long-term climate change using autumn phenological events that have been delayed by recent climate change. Location: Japan. Methods: We used a 53-year data set to document the latitudinal patterns in the climate responses of the timing of autumn leaf colouring and fall for two tree species over a wide range of latitudes in Japan (31 to 44 N). We calculated single regression slopes for leaf phenological timing and air temperature across Japan and tested their latitudinal patterns using regression models. The effects of latitude, time and their interaction on the responses of the phenological timings were also estimated using generalized linear mixed models. Results: Our results showed that single regression slopes of leaf phenological timing and air temperature in autumn were positive at most stations. Higher temperatures can delay the timing of leaf phenology. Negative relationships were found between the phenological response of leaves to temperature and latitude. Single regression slopes of the phenological responses at lower latitudes were larger than those at higher latitudes. Main conclusions: We found negative relationships between leaf phenological responsiveness and latitude. These findings will be important for predicting phenological timing with global climate change.
41239347|Aims: Sin Nombre virus (SNV), a strain of hantavirus, causes hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) in humans, a deadly disease with high mortality rate (> 50%). The primary virus host is the deer mouse, and greater abundance of deer mice has been shown to increase the human risk of HPS. Our aim is to identify and compare vegetation indices and associated time lags for predicting hantavirus risk using remotely sensed imagery. Location: Utah, USA. Methods: A 5-year time-series of moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite imagery and corresponding field data was utilized to compare various vegetation indices that measure productivity with the goal of indirectly estimating mouse abundance and SNV prevalence. Relationships between the vegetation indices and deer mouse density, SNV prevalence and the number of infected deer mice at various time lags were examined to assess which indices and associated time lags might be valuable in predicting SNV outbreaks. Results: The results reveal varying levels of positive correlation between the vegetation indices and deer mouse density as well as the number of infected deer mice. Among the vegetation indices, the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and the enhanced vegetation index (EVI) produced the highest correlations with deer mouse density and the number of infected deer mice using a time lag of 1.0 to 1.3 years for May and June imagery. Main conclusions: This study demonstrates the potential for using MODIS time-series satellite imagery in estimating deer mouse abundance and predicting hantavirus risk. The 1-year time lag provides a great opportunity to apply satellite imagery to predict upcoming SNV outbreaks, allowing preventive strategies to be adopted. Analysis of different predictive indices and lags could also be valuable in identifying the time windows for data collection for practical uses in monitoring rodent abundance and subsequent disease risk to humans.
3697513|Aim: This study examines the effectiveness of the selected 'network' of Natura 2000 Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) at a regional scale in Greece, in terms of its representativeness of plant biodiversity. Location: The island of Crete is used as a case study because it is considered to be one of the 10 hotspots for biodiversity in the Mediterranean Basin. Methods: Hotspot analysis and complementarity algorithms are used to define priority areas for conservation and calculate their spatial overlap with the Natura 2000 SACs in Crete. Results: The various categories of hotspots contain subsamples of plant categories, used for their definition. Spatial overlap among different categories of hotspots, areas of complementary diversity and Natura 2000 SCAs is low. Main conclusions: The results show that the Natura 2000 SACs 'network' in Crete seems insufficient to ensure satisfactory representation of the regional plant biodiversity elements.
3697588|Aim: Africa is identified by the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as the least studied continent in terms of ecosystem dynamics and climate variability. The aim of this study was (1) to adapt the Lund-Postdam-Jena-GUESS (LPJ-GUESS) ecological modelling framework to Africa by providing new parameter values for tropical plant functional types (PFT), and (2) to assess the sensitivity of some African biomes to changes in precipitation regime. Location: The study area was a representative transect (
40928121|Aim: To examine whether change in the timing of a large number of phenological events and their response to temperature differs between trophic levels during the period 1988-2008. Location: In the vicinity of Kazan, Tatarstan Republic, Russia (5545 N, 4908 E). Methods: Observations of the dates of first events of 22 plant phases, 8 insect phases, 3 herpetofauna phases and 26 migrant bird phases were examined using regression to assess changes over time and response to temperature. Differences between trophic levels were assessed using ANOVA. Results: In comparison to studies from western Europe, relatively few phenological series (15) revealed a significant advance over time, but a much larger number (37), including all the herpetofauna and nearly all the plants, showed a response to temperature. Trends in birds were, on average, twice as great as those for plants, but plants had a significantly greater temperature response. Over the study period local temperatures had not risen significantly but some phenological change was still evident. Main conclusions: Phenological change has been less marked in the eastern edge of Europe than in western and central Europe. This is compatible with a lack of significant local warming during the study period. A large number of species show strong responses to temperature so will be expected to advance if/when local temperatures do increase. In contrast to results from elsewhere in Europe, early events were not the most temperature responsive, suggesting local adaptation preventing precocious behaviour and the consequent dangers of sub-zero temperatures.
40205666|Aim: One of the most recognized ecological paradigms on earth is the increase in species richness from the poles towards the equator. Here we undertake a comprehensive survey of the latitudinal gradients of species richness (LGSR) of coastal cephalopod fauna in the western (WA) and eastern margins (EA) of the Atlantic Ocean, and test climate and non-climate theories to explain the variation in diversity. Location: The coastal Atlantic Ocean. Methods: The diversity and geographical ranges of coastal cephalopods were investigated by means of an exhaustive survey of the primary literature, reports and on-line data bases. In order to test the productivity, ambient energy and area hypotheses, we investigated the relationship between diversity and net primary production (NPP), sea surface temperature (SST; measure of solar energy input) and continental shelf area, respectively. Results: LGSR of cephalopod molluscs are present at both Atlantic coasts, but are quite distinct from each other. Historical processes (rise of the Central American Isthmus, formation of 'Mare Lago' and glaciations) explained much of the shape and the zenith of LGSR. Contemporary climate and non-climate variables also each explained over 83% and 50% of the richness variation in WA and EA, respectively, and the best fitted models accounted for < 92% of the variance. By combining latitude with depth a strong Rapoport effect was observed in WA but not in EA. Main conclusions: Besides the evolutionary history, we demonstrate that the contemporary environmental gradients (SST and NPP), shelf area and extent of coral habitat can predict many of the diversity patterns. The longitudinal difference in Rapoport's bathymetric rule is attributed to western fauna specialization to shallow coral reef habitats and greater ecological tolerance of eastern fauna to upwelling ecosystem dynamics. A combined approach of historical biogeography and species-area-energy theories was essential to fully understand broad-scale variation in cephalopod biodiversity.
30137883|Aim: Estimates of abundances and densities of birds and mammals have often been shown to be scale dependent, in that population sizes over large areas are overestimated if extrapolated from surveys of small plots. Previous tests of the mechanisms suggested to cause this decelerating scaling pattern found evidence of a biased choice of small plots in patches of homogeneous habitat. Here we show that negative density-area relationships can also arise as result of not considering plots where individuals of the species or assemblage of interest are absent in surveys of differing spatial resolution. Location: We took a complete census of violets (Viola spp.) in 800 m of chalk grassland in Wye, Kent, UK, and used human population censuses for Finnish, Swiss and Italian municipalities, English districts, states of the USA and European countries. Methods: We used mixed models of logarithmically transformed number of individuals or densities as a function of area. Results: The census of violets shows that by increasing the survey resolution and by not considering plots without individuals, the effectively occupied area diminishes and a negative density-area relationship arises. The finding that negative density-area relationships are also common for people is evidence that the non-random choice of plots in population surveys of varying areas can be responsible for many observed negative density-area relationships. The shallower slope of the people-administrative area relationship for Switzerland and Finland compared with Italy, as well as for England and the USA compared with Europe, confirms that less than proportionate individuals-area relationships can be the consequence of larger plot areas containing a higher proportion of areas without individuals. Main conclusions: Densities should be reported together with the effective areas for which they were estimated. It should be clearly conveyed whether or not plots where the surveyed species was absent were included in the density estimation.
4139417|Discerning the processes influencing geographical patterns of species richness remains one of the central goals of modern ecology. Traditional approaches to exploring these patterns have focused on environmental and ecological correlates of observed species richness. Recently, some have suggested these approaches suffer from the lack of an appropriate null model that accounts for species ranges being constrained to occur within a bounded domain. Proponents of these null geometric constraint models (GCMs), and the mid-domain effect these models produce, argue their utility in identifying meaningful gradients in species richness. This idea has generated substantial debate. Here we discuss what we believe are the three major challenges in the application of GCMs. First, we argue that there are actually two equally valid null models for the random placement of species ranges within a domain, one of which actually predicts a uniform distribution of species richness. Second, we highlight the numerous decisions that must be made to implement a GCM that lead to marked differences in the predictions of the null model. Finally, we discuss challenges in evaluating the importance of GCMs once they have been implemented.
30137824|Aim: The degree to which a species is predictably encountered within its range varies tremendously across species. Understanding why some species occur less frequently within their range than others has important consequences for conservation and for analyses of ecological patterns based on range maps. We examined whether patterns in geographical range occupancy can be explained by species-level traits. Location: North America. Methods: We used survey data from 1993 to 2002 from the North American Breeding Bird Survey along with digital range maps produced by NatureServe to calculate range occupancy for 298 species of terrestrial birds. We tested whether species traits explained variation in range occupancy values using linear regression techniques. Results: We found three species traits that together explained more than half of the variation in range occupancy. Population density and niche breadth were positively correlated with occupancy, while niche position was negatively correlated with occupancy. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that high range occupancy will occur in species that are common at sites on which they occur, that tolerate a relatively wide range of ecological conditions and that tend to have ranges centred on areas with common environmental conditions. Furthermore, it appears that niche-based characteristics may explain patterns of distribution and abundance from local habitats up to the scale of geographical ranges.
3697519|Aim: Cross-system comparisons of species richness of benthic macrofauna and environmental factors were made of estuaries and adjacent sea areas in order to reveal possible regulating factors of estuarine biodiversity. Location: Denmark. Methods: Annual species abundance and biomass data from four years, from unvegetated soft sea/estuary floors were used from 26 grids, of which 15 were situated in estuaries. Bottom water data for oxygen concentration, salinity, and temperature were obtained from stations in or close to, the grids. Data on nutrient loading, water residence time and morphology were obtained for whole estuaries. Species richness from the grids, standardized to the same sample size, were related to environmental variables using linear regression. Results: Species richness was unrelated to oxygen deficiency and productivity, but positively related to salinity. However, an equally high degree of explanation (
3697437|Although some studies of seed dispersal mutualisms have documented adaptive relationships between fruits and frugivores, others have shown that adaptive patterns are constrained by phylogenetic, historical or climatic effects. Variable results among studies have thwarted attempts to find a paradigm to unite the field and direct research. Two recent studies in Global Ecology and Biogeography exemplify this dichotomy. One paper reported adaptive relationships between abundances of birds and fruits, while the other study found that bird-fruit abundance patterns were constrained by climatic effects. Almost paradoxically, both studies were conducted at the same locale. However, they focused on different spatio-temporal scales. These results are surprisingly consistent with several other recent studies that have taken a macroecological approach. They also indicate that mutualistic relationships between fruits and frugivores are scale dependent. When viewed together, recent work suggests that the conflicting results of previous studies may result from spatio-temporal variability of mutualistic relationships. This paper briefly reviews the emerging field of seed dispersal macroecology. A growing appreciation for scale appears to be leading the field in a new direction.
2665371|MacArthur and Wilson's equilibrium theory revolutionized the field of island biogeography and, to a large degree, ecology as well. The theory, which quickly became the ruling paradigm of island biogeography, has changed little over the past three decades. It has not kept pace with relevant theory and our growing appreciation for the complexity of nature, especially with empirical findings that species diversity on many islands: 1) is not in equilibrium; 2) is influenced by differences in speciation, colonization, and extinction among taxa; and 3) is influenced by differences among islands in characteristics other than area and isolation. The discipline of biogeography, itself, is in a state of disequilibrium. We may again be about to witness another paradigm shift, which will see the replacement of MacArthur and Wilson's theory. Wherever this shift may take us, we are confident that the next generation of biogeographers will still look to islands for insights into the forces that shape biological diversity.
3697431|Aims: Gradients of environmental variability have been proposed to explain spatial variation in patterns of geographical range size. We explore this relationship in NE Pacific algae and NW Atlantic gastropods by using the characteristics of species' bathymetric distributions as a proxy for tolerance of environmental variability. Location: NE Pacific and NW Atlantic. Methods: Data on species bathymetric and geographical distributions were compiled from the literature. Results: For both algae and gastropods, species that inhabit highly seasonal, shallow depth zones have broader latitudinal ranges, and occupy more biogeographical provinces, than species that live in more temporally stable, deeper zones. Furthermore, species that tolerate spatial variability along the bathymetric axis, i.e. those that occur in multiple depth zones, have broader geographical ranges than species restricted to fewer depth zones. Main conclusions: Within-range environmental variability, through both space and time, is predictive of large geographical ranges for marine algae and gastropods. Analysis of species distributions across perpendicular gradients (e.g. depth and latitude) is a powerful approach to discerning the mechanisms that govern biogeographical patterns, and provides easily obtainable broad-brush predictions regarding the biogeographical outcomes of global change.
3697611|Aim: To investigate the relationship between geographical range size and abundance (population density) in Australian passerines. Location: Australia (including Tasmania). Methods: We analysed the relationship between range size and local abundance for 272 species of Australian passerines, across the whole order and within families. We measured abundance as mean and maximum abundance, and used a phylogenetic generalized least-squares regression method within a maximum-likelihood framework to control for effects of phylogeny. We also analysed the relationship within seven different habitat types. Results: There was no correlation between range size and abundance for the whole set of species across all habitats. Analyses within families revealed some strong correlations but showed no consistent pattern. Likewise we found little evidence for any relationship or conflicting patterns in different habitats, except that woodland/forest habitat species exhibit a negative correlation between mean abundance and range size, whilst species in urban habitats exhibit a significant positive relationship between maximum abundance and range size. Despite the general lack of correlation, the raw data plots of range size and abundance in this study occupied a triangular space, with narrowly distributed species exhibiting a greater variation in abundances than widely distributed species. However, using a null model analysis, we demonstrate that this was due to a statistical artefact generated by the frequency distributions for the individual variables. Conclusions: We find no evidence for a positive range size-abundance relationship among Australian passerines. This absence of a relationship cannot be explained by any conflicting effects introduced by comparing across different habitats, nor is it explained by the fact that large proportions of Australia are arid. We speculate that the considerable isolation and evolutionary age of Australian passerines may be an explanatory factor.
3182699|The productivity hypothesis in respect of an animal species' geographical range predicts that whereas higher productivity at the equatorial periphery of a species' range favours superior competitors, lower productivity at the centre of a species' range favours high reproduction and reduced competitive traits. I test whether life-history patterns follow this hypothesis, using demographic data from 15 Canadian moose (Alces alces) populations. Two models are contrasted; the first assumes that intraspecific variation in age at maturity is explained proximately by density and juvenile mortality. Age at maturity was found to increase with decreasing juvenile mortality (P = 0.01) and increasing density (P = 0.006). To test the productivity hypothesis, the second model additionally included primary productivity and seasonality as geographical explanatory variables that would ultimately influence age at maturity via juvenile mortality and density. Path analysis indicated that including productivity and seasonality improved the model predictions of variation in age at maturity (R
30137885|Aim: This study aims to improve the formulation and results of the Brazilian Center for Weather Forecasting and Climate Studies Potential Vegetation Model (CPTECPVM) by developing a new parameterization for the long-term occurrence of fire in regions of potential savannas in the tropics. Compared with the relatively slow processes of carbon uptake and growth in vegetation, fast mortality and biomass consumption by fires may favour grasses and reduce tree coverage. Location: The tropics. Methods: For finding large-scale relationships between fires and other environmental factors, we made two main simplifying assumptions. First, lightning is the most important source of ignition for natural fires. Second, over continental areas in the tropics, lightning is mainly related to the zonal flux of moisture transport. Results: The parameterization of fire occurrence was built based on a simple empirical relationship, combining information on mean and intra-annual variance of the zonal wind. Main conclusions: The implementation of this new relationship improved the formulation and the results of the CPTEC-PVM. As a result of this new parameter, the accuracy of the model in allocating the correct vegetation (seasonal forests) instead of savannas for large regions in India and Southeast Asia is now substantially higher than in previous studies.
4139435| Aim We examined the relative contributions of spatial gradients and local environmental conditions to macroinvertebrate assemblages of boreal headwater streams at three hierarchical extents: bioregion, ecoregion and drainage system. We also aimed to identify the environmental variables most strongly related to assemblage structure at each study scale, and to assess how the importance of these variables is related to regional context and spatial structuring at different scales. Location Northern Finland (62-68 N, 25-32 E). Methods Variation in macroinvertebrate data was partitioned using partial canonical correspondence analysis into components explained by spatial variables (nine terms from the cubic trend surface regression), local environmental variables (15 variables) and spatially structured environmental variation. Results The strength of the relationship between assemblage structure and local environmental variables increased with decreasing spatial extent, whereas assemblage variation related to spatial variables and spatially structured environmental variation showed the opposite pattern. At the largest extents, spatial variation was related to latitudinal gradients, whereas spatial autocorrelation among neighbouring streams was the likely mechanism creating spatial structure within drainage systems. Only stream size and water acidity were consistently important in explaining assemblage structure at all study scales, while the importance of other environmental variables was more context-dependent. Main conclusions The importance of local environmental factors in explaining macroinvertebrate assemblage structure increases with decreasing spatial extent. This scale-related pattern is not caused solely by changes in study extent, however, but also by variable sample sizes at different regional extents. The importance of environmental gradients is context-dependent and few factors are likely to be universally important correlates of macroinvertebrate assemblage structure. Finally, our results suggest that bioassessment should give due attention to spatial structuring of stream assemblages, because important assemblage gradients may not only be related to local factors but also to biogeographical constraints and neighbourhood dispersal processes. 
41058246|Aim: In this paper, we compare species description rates to predict the numbers of undescribed species. These data are used to discuss the merits of various attempts to estimate species richness in the oceans. Location: European marine areas. Methods: Predictions of how many species may exist on Earth have lacked an inventory of how many have been described, except for a few small taxa. The ocean is a good place to start an inventory because it includes all but one of the phyla and most classes of life on Earth. The European Register of Marine Species (ERMS) was compiled by taxonomic experts, covered all marine taxa, and accounted for synonyms. Reflecting taxonomic history, Europe's species are the best described in the world. Results: ERMS listed 29,713 species of animals, plants and protists, but excluded bacteria and viruses. An estimated 6500 described species were not included. The best prediction of the number of species remaining to be described was 5613. Plots of years when species were first described showed no decrease in the rate of description for any taxa except birds, mammals and krill. If taxonomic effort has increased, whether due to more resources globally or greater efficiencies of productivity, then description rates per unit effort may be declining and the number of undescribed species may be lower than predicted. However, apart from reduced rates of description during the World Wars, there were no changes in description rates that could be easily attributed to such factors. Conclusions: There are about 36,000 species described from European seas, and we predict that 40,000 to 48,000 may exist. This comprises 15% of the estimated 230,000 described marine species. However, this area is well known compared with other seas and the proportion of species yet to be discovered will be higher elsewhere.
3697625|Aim: To determine if non-native plant species are homogenizing species composition among widely dispersed plant communities. Location: Twenty localities in North America. Methods: Species lists among localities were compared to measure the influence of non-native species richness at each locality on the Jaccard Index (JI) of similarity between localities. Results: After removing the effects of distance, because shared native species decreased with distance, three (nonexclusive) lines of evidence indicate that non-native species promote homogenization. First, pairs of sites with a high combined total of non-native species tend to have higher similarity than those with a low total of non-natives. Second, for a given distance, more non-native than native species tended to be shared among localities. Third, whereas most of the site comparisons with high total non-native richness have a non-native/native JI ratio greater than 1 (often much greater), only half of the comparisons with low total non-native richness have a ratio greater than one. Main conclusions: These findings provide quantitative support for the widely held, but rarely tested, notion that non-native species tend to homogenize biological communities because they are more commonly shared among communities. Such testing is important as non-native species could theoretically have no impact or even reduce homogenization among communities, if non-native colonizers consist of different species pools.
3697601| Aim: We describe the changes in species richness, rarity and composition with altitude, and explore whether the differences in Scarabaeinae dung beetle composition along five altitudinal transects of the same mountain range are related to altitude or if there are interregional differences in these altitudinal gradients. Location: Field work was carried out on the eastern slope of the eastern Cordillera, Colombian Andes, between Tam Peak to the north, in the Tam National Park (0723' N, 7223' W) and the San Miguel River (0028' N, IT 17' W) to the south. Methods: Sampling was carried out between February 1997 and November 1999 in five regions spanning elevation gradients. In each gradient, six sites were chosen at 250 m intervals between 1000 and 2250 m a.s.l. Results: We found a curvilinear relationship between altitude and mean species richness, with a peak in richness at middle elevations. However, the diversity of dung beetle assemblages does not seem to be related to the interregional differences in environmental conditions. The number of geographically restricted species is negatively and significantly related to altitude, with geographically restricted species more frequent at low altitude sites. Ordination delimited the two main groups according to altitude: one with all the highest sites (1750-2250 m a.s.l.) and a second group with the remaining sites (< 1750 m a.s.L). Analysis of species co-occurrence shows that these dung beetle assemblages seem to be spatially structured when all sites have the same probability of being chosen. In contrast, the spatial structure of species assemblages seems to be random when the probability of choosing any site is proportional to its altitude. Main conclusions: The altitude of sites is the main factor that influences the diversity of these dung beetle assemblages. The peak in species richness at middle elevations, the higher number of geographically restricted species at lower altitudinal levels, and the compositional differences along these mountain gradients seem to result from the mixing at these altitudes of dung beetle assemblages that have different environmental adaptations and, probably, different origins. The relevance of altitude in these assemblages is related to the limited role of these Neotropical high altitude environments as centres of refuge and vicariance for a monophyletic group of warm-adapted species, for which the vertical colonization of these high mountain environments by lineages distributed at lower altitudes would have been very difficult. 
3182729|We used a large forested preserve (Olympic National Park, USA) to examine the habitat associations of a unique and environmentally sensitive stream amphibian fauna: Ascaphus truei Stegneger, Rhyacotriton olympicus (Gaige) and Dicamptodon copei Nussbaum. We quantified the relative abundance of stream amphibians and compared them to physical, topographic, climatic and landscape variables. All three species were associated with the south-west to north-east climate gradient, tending to be most abundant in the south-west. Although a habitat generalist relative to the other two species, Dicamptodon copei was absent from the north-eastern portion of the park. Ascaphus truei and Rhyacotriton olympicus were both associated with coarse substrates and steep gradients. Unlike studies in harvested forests, all stream amphibians were common in waters with unconsolidated surface geology (e.g. marine sediments that erode easily). Studies of ecological preserves can provide an important baseline for evaluating species associations with environmental gradients and can reveal patterns not evident in more disturbed landscapes.
3697616|Aims: Quantification of the effects and interactions of natural and anthropogenic factors, including climate, canopy structure, land use and management conditions, on vegetation burning. The study of these relationships is fundamental to predict regional fire patterns and develop sound management and regulation policies for biomass burning at national and global levels. Location: Southern South America, including Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, Bolivia and Chile. Methods: Based on National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration-Advance Very High Resolution Radiometer (NOAA-AVHRR) satellite images, we identified fires in southern South America with a daily frequency for two periods (1999/2000 and 2000/01) using a contextual fire detection algorithm and integrating the density of these fires at a monthly scale into a
41239414|Aim: To describe and explain geographical patterns of false absence and false presence prediction errors that occur when describing current plant species ranges with species distribution models. Location: Europe. Methods: We calibrated species distribution models (generalized linear models) using a set of climatic variables and gridded distribution data for 1065 vascular plant species from the Atlas Florae Europaeae. We used randomly selected subsets for each species with a constant prevalence of 0.5, modelled the distribution 1000 times, calculated weighted averages of the model parameters and used these to predict the current distribution in Europe. Using a threshold of 0.5, we derived presence/absence maps. Comparing observed and modelled species distribution, we calculated the false absence rates, i.e. species wrongly modelled as absent, and the false presence rates, i.e. species wrongly modelled as present, on a 50  50 km grid. Subsequently, we related both error rates to species range properties, land use and topographic variability within grid cells by means of simultaneous autoregressive models to correct for spatial autocorrelation. Results: Grid-cell-specific error rates were not evenly distributed across Europe. The mean false absence rate was 0.16  0.12 (standard deviation) and the mean false presence rate was 0.22  0.13. False absence rates were highest in central Spain, the Alps and parts of south-eastern Europe, while false presence rates were highest in northern Spain, France, Italy and south-eastern Europe. False absence rates were high when range edges of species accumulated within a grid cell and when the intensity of human land use was high. False presence rates were positively associated with relative occurrence area and accumulation of range edges. Main conclusions: Predictions for various species are not only accompanied by species-specific but also by grid-cell-specific errors. The latter are associated with characteristics of the grid cells but also with range characteristics of occurring species. Uncertainties of predictive species distribution models are not equally distributed in space, and we would recommend accompanying maps of predicted distributions with a graphical representation of predictive performance.
30137988|Aim: By dissolving natural physical barriers to movement, human-mediated species introductions have dramatically reshuffled the present-day biogeography of freshwater fishes. The present study investigates whether the antiquity of Australia's freshwater ichthyofauna has been altered by the widespread invasion of non-indigenous fish species. Location: Australia. Methods: Using fish presence-absence data for historical and present-day species pools, we quantified changes in faunal similarity among major Australian drainage divisions and among river basins of north-eastern Australia according to the Sorensen index, and related these changes to major factors of catchment disturbance that significantly alter river processes. Results: Human-mediated fish introductions have increased faunal similarity among primary drainages by an average of 3.0% (from 17.1% to 20.1% similarity). Over three-quarters of the pairwise changes in drainage similarity were positive, indicating a strong tendency for taxonomic homogenization caused primarily by the widespread introduction of Carassius auratus, Gambusia holbrooki, Oncorhynchus mykiss and Poecilia reticulata. Faunal homogenization was highest in drainages subjected to the greatest degree of disturbance associated with human settlement, infrastructure and change in land use. Scenarios of future species invasions and extinctions indicate the continued homogenization of Australian drainages. In contrast, highly idiosyncratic introductions of species in river basins of north-eastern Australia have decreased fish faunal similarity by an average of 1.4%. Main conclusions: We found that invasive species have significantly changed the present-day biogeography of fish by homogenizing Australian drainages and differentiating north-eastern river basins. Decreased faunal similarity at smaller spatial scales is a result of high historical similarity in this region and reflects the dynamic nature of the homogenization process whereby sporadic introductions of new species initially decrease faunal similarity across basins. Our study points to the importance of understanding the role of invasive species in defining patterns of present-day biogeography and preserving the antiquity of Australia's freshwater biodiversity.
40801915|Aim: To understand the scenarios of'anthropogenic biomes' that integrate human and ecological systems, we need to explore the impacts of climate and human disturbance on vegetation in the past and present. Interactions among surface pollen, modern vegetation and human activities along climate and land-use gradients are tested to evaluate the natural and anthropogenic forces shaping the modern vegetation, and hence to aid the reconstruction of vegetation and climate in the past. This in turn will help with future predictions.
41058248|Aim: We examined evidence for the mesopredator release hypothesis at a subcontinental scale by investigating the relationship between indices of abundance of the dingo Canis lupus dingo (top-order predator) and the invasive red fox Vulpes vulpes (mesopredator) in three large regions across mainland Australia. The red fox is known to be one of the major threats to the persistence of small and medium-sized native vertebrates across the continent. Location: Australia. Methods: Indices of abundance were calculated from three independently collected datasets derived from bounty returns and field surveys. Data were analysed using univariate parametric, semi-parametric and nonparametric techniques. Results: Predator abundance indices did not conform to a normal distribution and the relationships between dingo and fox abundance indices were not well described by linear functions. Semi-parametric and nonparametric techniques revealed consistently negative associations between indices of dingo and fox abundance. Main conclusions: The results provide evidence that mesopredator suppression by a top predator can be exerted at very large geographical scales and suggest that relationships between the abundances of top predators and mesopredators are not linear. Our results have broad implications for the management of canid predators. First, they suggest that dingoes function ecologically to reduce the activity or abundance of red foxes and thus are likely to dampen the predatory impacts of foxes. More generally, they provide support for the notion that the mesopredatorsuppressive effects of top predators could be incorporated into broad-scale biodiversity conservation programmes in many parts of the world by actively maintaining populations of top predators or restoring them in areas where they are now rare. Determining the population densities at which the interactions of top predators become ecologically effective will be a critical goal for conservation managers who aim to maintain or restore ecosystems using the ecological interactions of top predators.
40205671|Aim: To identify geographical and climatic correlates of the timing of fruit production in fleshy fruited plant communities. Location: Global. Methods: We searched the literature for studies documenting monthly variation in the number of fleshy fruited species bearing ripe fruits in plant communities (i.e. fruit phenologies). From these data, we used circular vector algebra to characterize seasonal peaks in fruit production (mean date, as an angle) and the length of fruiting seasons (as a circular standard deviation). Generalized linear models and circular correlations were used to assess whether latitudinal patterns in fruit phenologies could be explained by variation in temperature, precipitation and actual evapotranspiration (AET). Results: Dates of peak fruit production and the length of fruiting seasons showed consistent differences with latitude. Annual peaks in fruit production occurred 1 to 3 months after the summer solstice at high-latitude sites in both hemispheres. Fruiting seasonality increased with latitude, indicating that fruiting seasons were longer in the tropics and shorter toward the poles. AET was the best climatic predictor of fruit phenologies. Annual peaks in fruit production were positively associated with annual peaks in AET and temperature, while fruiting seasons were shorter in areas with pronounced annual variation in AET. Main conclusions: Global patterns in fruiting seasons are associated with global variation in climate. Across the globe, fleshy fruits are produced after annual periods of elevated water-energy availability. Fruiting seasonality is also more pronounced in areas with strongly seasonal water-energy inputs. Therefore, the timing of reproduction in fleshy fruited plant communities appears to be determined, at least in part, by spatial and temporal variation in energy supplies needed to subsidise plant reproduction.
4139422|Aim Recently, a flurry of studies have focused on the extent to which geographical patterns of diversity fit mid-domain effect (MDE) null models. While some studies find strong support for MDE null models, others find little. We test two hypotheses that might explain this variation among studies: small-ranged groups of species are less likely than large-ranged species to show mid-domain peaks in species richness, and mid-domain null model predictions are less robust for smaller spatial extents than for larger spatial extents. Location We analyse data sets from elevational, riverine, continental and other domains from around the world. Methods We use a combination of Spearman rank correlations and binomial tests to examine whether differences within and among studies and domains in the predictive power of MDE null models vary with spatial scale and range size. Results Small-ranged groups of species are less likely to fit mid-domain predictions than large-ranged groups of species. At large spatial extents, diversity patterns of taxonomic groups with large mean range sizes fit MDE null model predictions better than did diversity patterns of groups with small mean range sizes. MDE predictions were more explanatory at larger spatial extents than at smaller extents. Diversity patterns at smaller spatial extents fit MDE predictions poorly across all range sizes. Thus, MDE predictions should be expected to explain patterns of species richness when ranges and the scale of analysis are both large. Main conclusions Taken together, the support for these hypotheses offers a more sophisticated model of when MDE predictions should be expected to explain patterns of species richness, namely when ranges and the scale of analysis are both large. Thus the circumstances in which the MDE is important are finite and apparently predictable.
40205684|Aim: Although bats of the Caribbean have been studied extensively, previous work is largely restricted to zoogeography, phylogeography or the effects of island characteristics on species richness. Variation among islands in species composition that is related to geographical or environmental variation remains poorly understood for much of the Caribbean. Location: Caribbean islands, including the Bahamas, Greater Antilles and Lesser Antilles. Methods: Using presence-absence data, we assessed the extent to which island area, maximum island elevation, inter-island distance and hurricane-induced disturbance affected patterns of composition and nestedness for bats in the Bahamas, Greater Antilles and Lesser Antilles. Analyses were conducted for all species, as well as for two broadly defined guilds: carnivores and herbivores. Results: For the Bahamas, only inter-island distance accounted for variation in species composition between islands. For the Greater and Lesser Antilles, differences in island area and inter-island distance accounted for differences in species composition between islands. Variation in species composition was not related significantly to differences in elevation or hurricane-related disturbance. In general, results of analyses restricted to a particular broad guild (i.e. carnivores or herbivores) mirrored those for all bats. Bat species composition was nested significantly in each island group. Nestedness was stronger in the Greater Antilles and in the Lesser Antilles than in the Bahamas. Carnivore assemblages were nested significantly in the Greater and in the Lesser Antilles, but not in the Bahamas. In contrast, herbivore assemblages were nested significantly in each island group. Main conclusions: Inter-island distance had a greater effect on compositional similarity of Caribbean bat assemblages than did island area, elevation or disturbance related to hurricanes. Differential immigration and hierarchical habitat distributions associated with elevational relief are likely to be primary causes for nestedness of Caribbean bat assemblages.
3182739|Borrichia aborescens (L.) DC. is a salt-tolerant perennial herb that is common on small islands in the central Bahamas. Two morphotypes are present: one with densely pubescent leaves and one with glabrous leaves. I conducted surveys in three archipelagos to document the geographical distribution of pubescence in this species and to infer the underlying mechanisms. B. aborescens was also grown from seed in a greenhouse. The pubescent form of B. aborescens was relatively more abundant on small islands than on nearby large 'mainland' islands. In two of the three archipelagoes, pubescence increased with distance on small islands. The pubescent form was relatively more abundant on small islands exposed to the open ocean compared to small islands that were protected by mainland islands or reefs on all sides. On a large mainland island, the pubescent form decreased in relative abundance inland from the coast. B. aborescens cultivated in a greenhouse revealed the effect of a genetic factor on the expression of pubescence. The observed patterns of variation are consistent with a physiological explanation for the adaptive benefit of pubescence. Trichomes may prevent physical blockage of the stomata by accumulation of salt in areas near breaking waves and salt spray.
30137817|Aim: In light of the current biodiversity crisis, there is a need to identify and protect species at greatest risk of extinction. Ecological theory and global-scale analyses of bird and mammal faunas suggest that small-bodied species are less vulnerable to extinction, yet this hypothesis remains untested for the largest group of vertebrates, fish. Here, we compare body-size distributions of freshwater and marine fishes under different levels of global extinction risk (i.e. listed as vulnerable, endangered or critically endangered according to the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species) from different major sources of threat (habitat loss/degradation, human harvesting, invasive species and pollution). Location: Global, freshwater and marine. Methods: We collated maximum body length data for 22,800 freshwater and marine fishes and compared body-size frequency distributions after controlling for phylogeny. Results: We found that large-bodied marine fishes are under greater threat of global extinction, whereas both small-and large-bodied freshwater species are more likely to be at risk. Our results support the notion that commercial fishing activities disproportionately threaten large-bodied marine and freshwater species, whereas habitat degradation and loss threaten smaller-bodied marine fishes. Main conclusions: Our study provides compelling evidence that global fish extinction risk does not universally scale with body size. Given the central role of body size for trophic position and the functioning of food webs, human activities may have strikingly different effects on community organization and food web structure in freshwater and marine systems.
40405788|Aims To better understand how demographic processes shape the range dynamics of woody plants (in this case, Proteaceae), we introduce a likelihood framework for fitting process-based models of range dynamics to spatial abundance data. Location The fire-prone Fynbos biome (Cape Floristic Region, South Africa). Methods Our process-based models have a spatially explicit demographic submodel (describing dispersal, reproduction, mortality and local extinction) as well as an observation submodel (describing imperfect detection of individuals), and are constrained by species-specific predictions of habitat distribution models and process-based models for seed dispersal by wind. Free model parameters were varied to find parameter sets with the highest likelihood. After testing this approach with simulated data, we applied it to eight Proteaceae species that differ in breeding system (monoecy versus dioecy) and adult fire survival. We assess the importance of Allee effects and negative density dependence for range dynamics, by using the Akaike information criterion to select between alternative models fitted for the same species. Results The best model for all dioecious study species included Allee effects, whereas this was true for only one of four monoecious species. As expected, sprouters (in which adults survive fire) were estimated to have lower rates of reproduction and catastrophic population extinction than related non-sprouters. Overcompensatory population dynamics seem important for three of four non-sprouters. We also found good quantitative agreement between independent data and most estimates of reproduction, carrying capacity and extinction probability. Main conclusions This study shows that process-based models can quantitatively describe how large-scale abundance distributions arise from the movement and interaction of individuals. It stresses links between the life history, demography and range dynamics of Proteaceae: dioecious species seem more susceptible to Allee effects which reduce migration ability and increase local extinction risk, and sprouters seem to have high persistence of established populations, but their low reproduction limits habitat colonization and migration.
41058230|Aim: An important issue regarding biodiversity concerns its influence on ecosystem functioning. Experimental work has led to the proposal of mechanisms such as niche complementarity. However, few attempts have been made to confirm these in natural systems, especially in forests. Furthermore, one of the most interesting unresolved questions is whether the effects of complementarity on ecosystem functioning (EF) decrease in favour of competitive exclusions over an increasing productivity gradient. Using records from permanent forest plots, we asked the following questions. (1) Is tree productivity positively related to diversity? (2) Does the effect of diversity increase in less productive forests? (3) What metric of diversity (e.g. functional or phylogenetic diversity) better relates to tree productivity? Location: Temperate, mixed and boreal forests of eastern Canada. Methods: Over 12,000 permanent forest plots, from temperate to boreal forests, were used to test our hypotheses in two steps. (1) Stepwise regressions were used to identify the best explanatory variables for tree productivity. (2) The selected climatic and environmental variables, as well as density and biodiversity indices, were included in a structural equation model where links (paths) between covarying variables are made explicit, making structural equation modelling the best tool to explore such complicated causal networks. Results: This is the first large-scale demonstration of a strong, positive and significant effect of biodiversity on tree productivity with control for climatic and environmental conditions. Important differences were noted between the two forest biomes investigated. Main conclusions: We show for the first time that complementarity may be less important in temperate forests growing in a more stable and productive environment where competitive exclusion is the most probable outcome of species interactions, whereas in the more stressful environment of boreal forests, beneficial interactions between species may be more important. The present work is also a framework for the analysis of large datasets in biodiversity-ecosystem functioning (B-EF) research.
2665424|1 The present study provides quantitative estimates of soil, vegetation structure and species distribution in 144 stands along two transects in two extreme desert zones of western Egypt. This study had two aims: (1) to describe the floristic composition of the accidental type of vegetation growing in parts of the Western Desert of Egypt; and (2) to analyse the distribution of species in relation to certain environmental factors by multivariate data analysis. 2 Eight environmental variables were recorded: salinity, pH, calcium carbonate, soil moisture, organic matter content, and percentages of sand, silt and clay. A total of 60 species belonging to 19 families of the angiosperms and Ephedra alata was recorded. Chamacphytes and therophytes were the most frequent, denoting a typical desert life-form spectrum, mainly of Saharo-Arabian distribution. 3 The samples were classified into eight TWINSPAN groups. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) showed that these groups could be distinguished by the first two DCA axes. They could also be effectively interpreted and explained with canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Based on forward regression, salinity, fine sediments, organic matter and soil moisture content related closely to the first three canonical axes, and accounted for 84.1% of the species-environment relationship among the stands. 4 Both classification and ordination resulted in a clear demonstration of the vegetation pattern in the study area. Other TWINSPAN groups were characterized in addition to those identified previously. In conclusion, the study area has a transitional character where the Nubian Desert and the Northern Mediterranean vegetation meet.
41239260|Aim: To determine where mammals that are presumed to be extinct are most likely to be rediscovered, and to test predictions of two hypotheses to explain trajectories of decline in mammals. Range collapse is based on the premise that extinction rates at the edge of species ranges are highest because habitat is suboptimal, so declining species are predicted to survive longer near the centre of their ranges. We predicted that under range collapse, remnant populations are most likely be rediscovered within their former core range. Conversely, if threats usually spread across ranges, declining species will be pushed to the periphery (range eclipse), so rediscoveries are predicted at the edge of the pre-decline range. If so, species would be more likely to be rediscovered in marginal habitat, and at higher elevations than the sites from which they disappeared. Location: World-wide. Methods: Using data on 67 species of mammals which have been rediscovered, I tested whether species were disproportionately rediscovered in the outer 50% of their former range area or at higher elevations than their last recorded locations, and which species characteristics were associated with rediscovery location and habitat change, using both the phylogenetic generalized least squares method to account for phylogenetic non-independence and linear models of raw species data. Results: Species affected by habitat loss were more likely to be rediscovered at the periphery than the centre of their former range, consistent with range eclipse caused by the spread of habitat destruction. High human population pressure predicted which species changed habitat between their previous records and rediscovery. Coastal species experienced higher human population densities, and were more likely to be rediscovered at the periphery of their former ranges, and there was some evidence of an up-slope shift associated with higher human populations at lower elevations. Main conclusion: The locations of rediscoveries of species affected by habitat loss were consistent with range eclipse through a mechanism of spreading habitat loss and human population pressure, rather than with range collapse. Searches for mammals that have declined from habitat loss should include range edges and marginal habitat, especially in areas of high human population density.
3182691|1 Advances in dynamic ecosystem modelling have made a number of different approaches to vegetation dynamics possible. Here we compare two models representing contrasting degrees of abstraction of the processes governing dynamics in real vegetation. 2 Model (a) (GUESS) simulates explicitly growth and competition among individual plants. Differences in crown structure (height, depth, area and LAI) influence relative light uptake by neighbours. Assimilated carbon is allocated individually by each plant to its leaf, fine root and sapwood tissues. Carbon allocation and turnover of sapwood to heartwood in turn govern height and diameter growth. 3 Model (b) (LPJ) incorporates a 'dynamic global vegetation model' (DGVM) architecture, simulating growth of populations of plant functional types (PFTs) over a grid cell, integrating individual-level processes over the proportional area (foliar projective cover, FPC) occupied by each PFT. Individual plants are not simulated, but are replaced by explicit parameterizations of their growth and interactions. 4 The models are identical in their representation of core physiological and biogeochemical processes. Both also use the same set of PFTs, corresponding to the major woody plant groups in Europe, plus a grass type. 5 When applied at a range of locations, broadly spanning climatic variation within Europe, both models successfully predicted PFT composition and succession within modern natural vegetation. However, the individual-based model performed better in areas where deciduous and evergreen types coincide, and in areas subject to pronounced seasonal water deficits, which would tend to favour grasses over drought-intolerant trees. 6 Differences in model performance could be traced to their treatment of individual-level processes, in particular light competition and stress-induced mortality. 7 Our results suggest that an explicit individual-based approach to vegetation dynamics may be an advantage in modelling of ecosystem structure and function at the resolution required for regional-to continental-scale studies.
3697628| Aim: To quantify the latitudinal gradient in species richness in the New World Triatominae and to explore the species-energy and area hypotheses as possible causes. Location: The gradient was studied for North and South America, between 43 N and 32 S. Methods: A database was constructed containing the geographical distribution of the 118 New World Triatominae species based on data extracted from several published sources. Species richness was recorded as the number of species present within 5 latitudinal bands. We used univariate and multivariate models to analyse the relationship between area within each latitudinal belt, land surface temperature, and potential evapotranspiration as explanatory variables, and species richness. All variables were georeferenced and data were extracted using a GIS. Results: Species richness of Triatominae increases significantly from the poles towards the Equator, peaking over the 5-10 S latitudinal band. It increases according to a linear model, both north and south of the Equator, although a quadratic model fits better to southern hemisphere data. Richness correlates with habitable geographical area, when it is analysed through a nonlinear multiple regression factoring out latitude, only in the southern hemisphere. Regarding the species-energy hypothesis, a multiple regression analysis controlling the effect of latitude shows a significant relationship between temperature and species richness. This effect is more pronounced in the southern hemisphere. Species richness shows a strong longitudinal trend south of the Equator (increasing to the east), but not north of the Equator. This differential pattern is reflected in significant interactions between longitude and both latitude and temperature in models of the species richness of the New World Triatominae. Main conclusions: To our knowledge, this is the first time that a latitudinal gradient in species richness has been shown and analysed for obligate haematophagous organisms, and it shows that the species-energy hypothesis can account for this phenomenon. This relationship is stronger in the southern hemisphere. 
2665400|1 Distribution data were assembled for non-volant small mammals along elevational gradients on mountain ranges in the western U.S.A. Elevational distributions in the species-rich Uinta Mountains were compared to those on smaller mountain ranges with varying degrees of historical isolation from the Uintas. 2 For mountain ranges supporting the richest faunas, species richness is highest over a broad low- to mid-elevation zone and declines at both lower and higher elevations. Patterns on other mountain ranges are similar but reflect lower overall species richness. 3 A basic relationship between elevational and geographical distribution is apparent in the occurrence patterns of mammals on regional mountains. Faunas on mountains that have had low levels of historical isolation appear to be influenced by immigration rather than extinction. Species restricted to high elevations in the Uintas are poorly represented on historically isolated mountains and form a portion of local faunas shaped by extinction. Species occurring at lower elevations in the Uintas have better representation on isolated mountains and apparently maintain populations through immigration. 4 Several widespread species show substantial variation in maximum elevation records on different mountain ranges. This involves (1) an upward shift in habitat zones on small, isolated mountain ranges, allowing greater access by low-elevation species, and (2) expansion of certain low- and mid-elevation species into habitats normally occupied by absent high-elevation taxa. 5 Results indicate that montane mammal faunas of the intermountain region have been shaped by broad-scale historical processes, unique regional geography and local ecological dynamics. Parallel examples among mammals of the Philippine Islands suggest that such patterns may characterize many insular faunas.
2665425|The biogeographic history of three cirrhitoid species pairs with east-west allopatric distributions across southern Australia was examined by determining levels of mitochondrial DNA sequence divergence and applying molecular clock calibrations. Similar levels of genetic divergence were observed for Aplodactylus Valenciennes and Goniistius Gill species pairs, but these were more than twice that observed for a Nemadactylus Richardson pair. Molecular clock calibrations suggested divergences occurred during the late Miocene and mid Pliocene, respectively. Given evidence of high dispersal capabilities, the habitat and climatic barriers of the Australian south coast appear too small to have facilitated speciation of the cirrhitoids examined. A mechanism is proposed by which ancestral cirrhitoids were vicariantly isolated into east and west coast populations during periods of climate change. Although Aplodactylus and Goniistius divergences occurred during the same period, separate vicariant events across the Australian north and south coasts are invoked.
3697590|Aim: The aim of this study was to analyse whether, and how, the inclusion of habitat specialists and edge-preferring species modifies the species-area relationship predictions of the island biogeography theory for an insect group (ground beetles, Coloptera: Carabidae) living in natural fragments. Species-habitat island area relationships applied to terrestrial habitat islands can be distorted by the indiscriminate inclusion of all species occurring in the fragments. Matrices surrounding terrestrial habitat fragments can provide colonists that do not necessarily distinguish the fragment from the matrix and can survive and reproduce there. Edge-preferring species can further distort the expected relationship, as smaller fragments have larger edge:core ratios. Location: Nineteen forest fragments were studied in the Bereg Plain, Hungary, and SW Ukraine. This area contains natural forest patches, mainly of oak and hornbeam, and supports a mountain entomofauna. Methods: Ground beetles (Carabidae) present in the 19 forest patches were categorized into generalists, forest specialists and edge-preferring species. We analysed the relationship between species richness and fragment area using species richness in the different categories. Results: The assemblages contained a high share of generalist species (species that occur also in the surrounding matrix). Forest patch size and the number of generalist species showed a marginally significant negative relationship, indicating that generalist species were more important in smaller patches. Forest specialist species richness was correlated positively with patch area. Edge-preferring species were shown to influence the species-area relationship: the number of edge-preferring species increased with the edge:area ratio. Main conclusions: Both generalist and edge-preferring species can considerably distort the species-area relationship. Island biogeography theory can be applied to habitat islands only if the habitat islands are defined correctly from the viewpoint of the target species.
3182659|Aim: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of climate, geography, census area and the distribution of body mass on the mass:density relationship in terrestrial mammal populations. Location: The areas covered include most major terrestrial biomes including the tropics, savannas, and temperate forests. Method: Data on population density and body mass from 827 populations belonging to 330 different terrestrial mammal species were derived from a review of the literature. Results: LOWESS and polynomial regression analysis indicated that the overall mass:density relationship on log-log scales was not linear and that the slope of this relationship behaves differently across the range of body mass. Body mass explained between 37 and 67% of the variability in population density depending upon the dietary category or the biome group. We also developed two multivariate models that can explain up to 65% of the variability in population density in terrestrial mammals. We also tested for a confounding effect of census area on the mass:density relationship on log-log scales in terrestrial mammals. Conclusions: Our findings support previous studies suggesting that body mass is a major predictor of the variance in population density in terrestrial mammals. We suggest that the non-linearity of the mass:density relationship may result from the fact that the overall distribution of body mass is a mixture of distributions across dietary groups and biomes. In contrast to body mass, our results indicate that climatic and geographical factors have a minor effect on population density. Although census area was closely correlated with body mass, body mass was generally a better predictor of population density than was census area.
41058223|Aim: Woody plants affect vegetation-environment interactions by modifying microclimate, soil moisture dynamics and carbon cycling. In examining broadscale patterns in terrestrial vegetation dynamics, explicit consideration of variation in the amount of woody plant cover could provide additional explanatory power that might not be available when only considering landscape-scale climate patterns or specific vegetation assemblages. Here we evaluate the interactive influence of woody plant cover on remotely sensed vegetation dynamics across a climatic gradient along a sky island. Location: The Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, USA. Methods: Using a satellite-measured normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) from 2000 to 2008, we conducted time-series and regression analyses to explain the variation in functional attributes of vegetation (productivity, seasonality and phenology) related to: (1) vegetation community, (2) elevation as a proxy for climate, and (3) woody plant cover, given the effects of the other environmental variables, as an additional ecological dimension that reflects potential vegetationenvironment feedbacks at the local scale. Results: NDVI metrics were well explained by interactions among elevation, vegetation community and woody plant cover. After accounting for elevation and vegetation community, woody plant cover explained up to 67% of variation in NDVI metrics and, notably, clarified elevation-and community-specific patterns of vegetation dynamics across the gradient. Main conclusions: In addition to the environmental factors usually considered -climate, reflecting resources and constraints, and vegetation community, reflecting species composition and relative dominance -woody plant cover, a broad-scale proxy of many vegetation-environment interactions, represents an ecological dimension that provides additional process-related understanding of landscapescale patterns of vegetation function.
3697620|The constraint envelope describing the relationship between geographical range size and body size has usually been explained by a minimum viable population size model, furnishing a strong argument for species selection if geographical range size turns out to be 'heritable'. Recent papers have questioned this assumption of nonzero geographical range heritability at a phylogenetic level, meaning that the logic that constraint envelopes provide support for higher-level selection fails. However, I believe that analysis of constraint envelopes can still furnish insights for the hierarchical expansion of evolutionary theory because the fitness furnished by variation in body size, which is frequently measured as a highly 'heritable' trait at the species level, can be partitioned into anagenetic and cladogenetic components. The constraint envelope furnishes an explicit mechanism for large-body biased extinction rates influencing the distribution of body size. More importantly, it is possible to envisage a scenario in which anagenetic trends driving an increase in body size in higher latitudes within species (Bergmann's rule) are counteracted by available habitat area or continental edges constraining overall species distribution in these higher latitudes, increasing the probability of extinction. Under this combined model, faunas at higher latitudes and under habitat constraints may reach equilibrium points between these opposing hierarchical adaptive forces at smaller body size than faunas with less intense higher-level constraints and will tend to be more right-skewed.
3697530|Aim: To introduce Gaussian mixture distributions and sequential maximum a posteriori image segmentation (GM-SMAP) as a model that predicts species ranges from mapped climatic variables, and to compare its predictive capacity with two commonly used bioclimatic models: regression tree analysis (RTA) and smoothed response surfaces (SRS). Location: North-west North America. Methods: We compared models for their ability to predict the distributional range of western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla). We calculated and projected nine climatic and water-balance variables to a 2-km grid up to 140 km from the T. heterophylla range. Models were trained using the five variables selected by RTA, as well as subsets of three variables. Goodness of fit was assessed using models trained and tested on the entire study area. Predictive capacity was assessed using 100 cross-validation tests, each trained on a randomly sampled 1% of the study area and tested on the complement of the study area. Results: Models using all five variables were significantly better than three-variable models. Model fit was greatest for SRS. GM-SMAP misclassified slightly more area and RTA misclassified almost twice the area compared to SRS. However, crossvalidation showed that the predictive capacity was clearly greatest for GM-SMAP and lowest for SRS, indicating that GM-SMAP makes more accurate predictions from sparse data. Main conclusions: GM distributions prevent overfitting using an information-theoretic approach, and the SMAP algorithm minimizes the spatial extent of the largest misclassified area using a multiscale method. These properties, useful for image classification, also aid their strong predictive capacity as a bioclimatic model. SRS overfit the data, lowering its predictive capacity, and RTA failed to capture details of interactions among variables, yielding a poor fit. These results demonstrate the strong potential of GM-SMAP as a bioclimatic model.
2997897|1. Britain is unusual in the quantity and quality of species and habitat data available, at both national and regional scales. This paper reviews the sources, coverage and quality of these data. 2. Habitat and species data are used by conservation agencies in England, Scotland and Wales for site selection and for monitoring habitat quality. The paper argues, however, that neither habitat data nor species distribution data on their own are sufficient to locate and monitor habitats for nature conservation purposes effectively. 3. Differences in sampling methodologies between habitat and species surveys present methodological difficulties for the development of an integrated monitoring system that uses both types of data. These problems need to be overcome if habitat and species data are to be used more effectively for nature conservation in the wider countryside. 4. A more integrated system based on the concept of biotope occupancy is proposed and discussed. The implementation of the system would assist with understanding those factors that explain observed patterns in species distribution and diversity, thereby helping to improve the effectiveness of policies for nature conservation
2997831|The aim of this study is to establish a practical index that considers both the size of the global range, and the mean relative abundance of species within their range. Detailed general distribution maps provide the basis for a classification of ranges into nine size categories. The abundance data are arranged into five categories, ranging from very rare to very common. These categories are derived directly from floristic literature. The Area-abundance-index is calculated using an empirical formula, i.e. by the addition of the mean relative global abundance and the range size category number. Values of the index range from 2 (very rare and range  10 km
3697600|Aim: We present a new method to economically map gradual changes in plant species composition in lowland rain forests using field data and satellite images. Such a method will be a useful tool in planning the sustainable use and conservation of Amazonian rain forests. Location: The study covered an area of c. 700 km
2997865|1. Predictions on species richness and incidence of species are made using data for three scales of mapping from the Greater Manchester butterfly atlas; for the whole of the conurbation (2 km x 2 km scale) and for two sample areas centred on the Mersey Valley (l km x 1 km scale; l ha scale). Predictions are based on data for recording effort, altitude, biotopes, host-plants and nectar resources. 2. Data for Greater Manchester indicate that substantial shortfalls may occur in recording butterfly species for atlases despite the fact that butterflies are generally easily identified and well supported with recorders. Shortfalls tend to be larger for species with fewer records, indicating that some species may be more easily overlooked than others. 3. The results demonstrate that targeting squares for re-survey is necessary and feasible. The predictions have other valuable research applications, the most important of which is being able to assess the accuracy of distribution maps, to correct them, and to make projections of distribution changes. 4. Predictions may be enhanced by improvements to mapping in three ways: (i) Collecting data on recording effort. Variation in recording effort typically accounts for differences in species richness and incidence of species more than any other variable; (ii) Collecting data on biotopes and specific resources. The present results are promising and demonstrate that the collection of environmental data linked to a suitable sampling frame could facilitate knowledge of the distribution of species over extensive areas that remain under-recorded; and (iii) Distinguishing between breeding individuals and vagrants. Vagrancy is a problem associated both with species and scale. Although species vary substantially in their capacity to migrate beyond their habitats, the effect of vagrancy on distribution maps becomes an increasingly large problem as the grain of mapping (size of recording units) decreases. It is suggested that over-recording can be a problem, particularly when mapping is fine-grained.
3697488|Circumstances have conspired to render the conservation movement curiously diffident in the expression of the fundamental beliefs that underpin it. 'Oppositional' activists assume their case as proven, while 'institutional' tacticians tend to adopt the point of view of those they oppose, deploying utilitarian/economic arguments. The latter arguments represent an unstable long-term option because they are an inadequate defence against compelling forces of corrosion and corruption. On present evidence, in a few hundred years the planet will be devoid of major natural areas, and the quality of human life will have been utterly compromised. A more honest admission that the natural world is an inalienable component of the human capacity to experience freedom (which is also a mental circumstance) would transform the way we treat the natural environment and hence the prospects for the long-term survival of biological diversity.
2665329|1 A zero-dimensional model of local atmosphere - vegetation interaction is presented. The model includes essentials of water related two-way feedbacks, such as the influence of vegetation on evapotranspiration, and the impact of temperature and drought on biomass growth and mortality. The simple model serves as a framework for the preliminary investigation of vegetation related feedbacks under climate change scenarios. 2 Model simulations for a mid-latitude forest area for an increasing external forcing indicate a transient growth of biomass up to a critical forcing, where drought stress begins to dominate the response. Beyond, biomass decreases, reinforced by the reduced evapotranspiration of a diminished vegetation, leading to an additional temperature increase (biomass evapotranspiration feedback). 3 The implementation of an additional feedback loop based on the hypothesis that drought stress implies not only a reduction in aboveground biomass, but also a net reduction in roots and therefore a reduction of the amount of water accessible to the plants for transpiration, leads to the occurrence of a second stable state in the atmosphere-vegetation system. In the bistable regime, a moderate perturbation can trigger an abrupt change of state. 4 The present conceptual investigations underline the importance of a dynamic vegetation subsystem in transient climate change, and stress in particular the possible role of feedbacks related to root dynamics.
3697558|Many commentators attest to a paradigm shift in biodiversity conservation, away from exclusive protected areas towards more people-centred or community-based conservation. This has been referred to as 'new conservation'. However, new conservation could be thought of as an attempt to re-label and re-package conservation and to 'get people on board' existing strategies. According to its critics even so-called new conservation policy, practice and institutions remain expert-driven, undemocratic and autocratic. I argue that for new conservation to become reality, then more fundamental changes in priority-setting, decision-making and organization are required. This paper presents three challenges for a real people-centred conservation: a more pluralist approach to understanding knowledge and values of different actors, greater deliberation and inclusion in decision-making, and a remodelling of institutions to support conservation.
40205703|Aim: In their recent paper, Kissling & Carl (2008) recommended the spatial error simultaneous autoregressive model
40405761|Aim: To evaluate the role of habitat heterogeneity on species richness and turnover in the mega species-rich Cape Floristic Region (Cape), the mediterranean region of southern Africa. Location: The Cape and Drakensberg regions of southern Africa. Methods: Bioclimatic data were used to estimate habitat amount and habitat heterogeneity in the Cape and Drakensberg regions; these data were then used to explain the patterns of species diversity in the Pentaschistis clade (Poaceae) in these two regions. Habitat variables were used to create ' bioclimatic units' to characterize 1' x 1' cells in southern Africa and to describe the niches of species. Using these bioclimatic units, the niche and range sizes of species in the two regions were compared. A phylogram was used to test for age and lineage effects. Results: Pentaschistis species diversity and turnover are higher in the Cape than the Drakensberg. There is no significant difference in the habitat amount and heterogeneity between the two regions. Species occupy the same range of estimated niche sizes, yet there are significantly more range-restricted Pentaschistis species in the Cape. Main conclusions: The roles of age-and lineage-related effects are rejected; biodiversity differences lie in the regions. Current macrohabitat does not explain the differences in biodiversity between the two regions. The larger number of range-restricted species in the Cape cannot be explained by dispersal mechanism or the occupation of range-restricted habitats. Species of Pentaschistis and other Cape clades share characteristics associated with species from historically climatically stable areas, and palaeoclimatic and palaeontological evidence indicates the Cape climate has been more stable than the Drakensberg climate throughout the Pleistocene. We conclude that the corresponding lack of extinction might have allowed an accumulation of species in the Cape. Similar climatic and biological evidence for the south-west Australian Floristic and Mediterranean regions indicate that the same mechanism might explain the high species richness of these mediterranean regions.
2665413|A systematic account of fish species inhabiting waters surrounding the Desventuradas Islands, off Chile, is presented. The 61 species recognized belong to 33 families of Osteichthyes, and one of Chondrichthyes (Squalidae). It was found that the icthyofaunal links were stronger to the Western Pacific (90.7%) than to the Eastern Pacific (6.9%), despite the fact that these islands are much closer to the South American coast than to the coasts of Oceania. Hydrographic and physical barriers are postulated as explaining this pattern.
4139410|Aims We present an analysis of grid-based species-richness data for European plants, mammals, birds, amphibians and reptiles, designed to test the proposition of Hawkins et al. (2003a) that the single best factor describing richness variation switches from the water regime to the energy regime in the mid-latitudes and that the 'breakpoint' is related to the physiological character of the taxa. We go on to develop subregional models showing the extent to which regional model fits vary as a function of the extent of the study system, and compare the relative performance of 'water', 'energy' and 'water-energy' models of richness for southern, northern and pan-European models. Location Western Europe. Methods We use atlas data comprising species range data for 187 species of mammals, 445 species of breeding birds, 58 amphibians, 91 reptiles and 2362 plant species, inserted into a c. 50 x 50 km grid cell system. We used 11 modelled climate variables, averaged for the period 1961-90. Statistical analyses were carried out using generalized additive models (GAMs), with splines simplified to a maximum of four degrees of freedom, and we tested for spatial autocorrelation using Moran's I values obtained at 10 different distance intervals. We selected favoured models on the grounds of deviance explained combined with a simple parsimony criterion, such that we selected either: (1) the best two-variable energy, water or water-energy model, or (2) a four-variable water-energy model, where the latter improved on the best two-variable model by a minimum of 5% deviance explained. Results Threshold energy values, at which richness shows a transition from an increasing to a decreasing function of annual solar radiation, were identified for all taxa apart from reptiles. We found conditional support for the switch from dominance of water variables (southern models) to energy variables (northern models). Our favoured models switched between 'water' and 'energy' for mammals, and between energy' and 'water-energy' for birds, depending on whether we used data of pan-European extent, southern or northern subsets. Deviance explained in our favoured models varied from 15% (birds, southern Europe) to 72% (amphibians, northern Europe), i.e. ranging from very poor to good fits with the data. Comparison with previous work indicates that our models are generally consistent with (if sometimes weaker than) previous findings. Main conclusions Our models are incomplete representations of factors influencing macro-scale richness patterns across Europe, taking no explicit account of, for example, topographic variation, human influences or long-term climatic variation. However, with the exception of birds, for which only the northern model attains over one-third deviance explained, the models show that climate can account for meaningful proportions of the deviance. We find general support for considering water and energy regimes together in modelling species richness, and for the proposition that water is more limiting in southern Europe and energy in the north. Our analyses demonstrate the sensitivity of model outcomes to the geographical location and extent of the study system, illustrating that simple curve-fitting exercises like these, particularly if based on regions with the complex history and geography characteristic of Europe, are unlikely to provide the basis for global, predictive models. However, such exercises may be of value in detecting which aspects of water and energy regimes may be of most importance in refining independently generated global models for regional application.
40205704|Aim: To examine the global pattern of the net primary production (NPP)/gross primary production (GPP) ratio of the Earth's land area along geographical and climatic gradients. Location: The global planetary ecosystem. Methods: The 4-year average annual NPP/GPP ratio of the Earth's land area was calculated using 2000-03 Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data. The global pattern of the NPP/GPP ratio was investigated by comparing it among each typical terrestrial ecosystem and plotting it along a geographical and climatic gradient, including latitude, altitude, temperature and precipitation. Results: The global terrestrial ecosystem had an average NPP/GPP ratio value of 0.52 with minor variation from 2000 to 2003. However, the NPP/GPP ratio showed considerable spatial variation associated with ecosystem type, geographical location and climate. Densely vegetated ecosystems had a lower NPP/GPP ratio than sparsely vegetated ecosystems. Forest ecosystems had a lower NPP/GPP ratio than shrub and herbaceous ecosystems. Geographically, the NPP/GPP ratio increased with altitude. In the Southern Hemisphere, the NPP/GPP ratio decreased along latitude from 30 to 10 and it exhibited high fluctuation in the Northern Hemisphere. Climatically, the NPP/GPP ratio exhibited a decreasing trend along enhanced precipitation when it was less than 2300 mm year and a static trend when the annual precipitation was over 2300 mm. The NPP/GPP ratio showed a decreasing trend along temperature when it was between -20 C and 10 C, and showed an increasing trend along rising temperature when it was between - 10 C and 20 C. Within each ecosystem, the NPP/GPP ratio revealed a similar trend to the global trend along temperature and precipitation. Conclusions The NPP/GPP ratio exhibited a pattern depending on the main climatic characteristics such as temperature and precipitation and geographical factors such as latitude and altitude. The findings of this research challenge the widely held assumption that the NPP/ GPP ratio is consistent regardless of ecosystem type.
3697563|Aim: Previous studies have developed strong, site-specific relationships between canopy metrics from lidar (light detecting and ranging) remote sensing data and forest structural characteristics such as above-ground biomass (AGBM), but the generality of these relationships is unknown. In this study, we examine the generality of relationships between lidar metrics and forest structural characteristics, including AGBM, from two study areas in Central America with different precipitation patterns. Location: A series of tropical moist forest sites in Panama and a tropical wet forest in Costa Rica. Methods: Canopy metrics (e.g. canopy height) were calculated from airborne lidar data. Basal area, mean stem diameter and AGBM were calculated from measurements taken as a part of ongoing forest dynamics studies in both areas. We examined the generality of relationship between lidar metrics and forest structure, and possible environmental effects (e.g. leaf phenology). Results: We found that lidar metrics were strongly correlated (
41239267|Aim: To explore the impacts of imperfect reference data on the accuracy of species distribution model predictions. The main focus is on impacts of the quality of reference data (labelling accuracy) and, to a lesser degree, data quantity (sample size) on species presence-absence modelling. Innovation: The paper challenges the common assumption that some popular measures of model accuracy and model predictions are prevalence independent. It highlights how imperfect reference data may impact on a study and the actions that may be taken to address problems. Main conclusions: The theoretical independence of prevalence of popular accuracy measures, such as sensitivity, specificity, true skills statistics (TSS) and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), is unlikely to occur in practice due to reference data error; all of these measures of accuracy, together with estimates of species occurrence, showed prevalence dependency arising through the use of a non-gold-standard reference. The number of cases used also had implications for the ability of a study to meet its objectives. Means to reduce the negative effects of imperfect reference data in study design and interpretation are suggested.
3697446|Aim: This paper investigates the use of an ecosystem simulation model, FOREST-BGC, to estimate the main ecophysiological processes (transpiration and photosynthesis) of Mediterranean coastal forest areas using remotely sensed data. Location: Model testing was carried out at two protected forest sites in central Italy, one of which was covered by Turkey oak (Circeo National Park) and the other by holm-oak (Castelporziano Estate). Methods: At both sites, transpiration and photosynthesis measurements were collected in the field during the growing seasons over a four-year period (1999 and 2001 for the Turkey oak; 1997, 1999 and 2000 for the holm-oak). Calibration of the model was obtained through combining information derived from ground measurements and remotely sensed data. In particular, remote sensing estimates of the Leaf Area Index derived from 1 x 1-km NOAA AVHRR Normalized Difference Vegetation Index data were used to improve the adaptation of the model to local forest conditions. Results: The results indicated different strategies regarding water use efficiency, 'water spending' for Turkey oak and 'water saving' for holm-oak. The water use efficiency for the holm-oak was consistently higher than that for the Turkey oak and the relationship between VPD and WUE for the holm-oak showed a higher coefficient of determination (
40602937|Aim: Patterns of fire regimes across Australia exhibit biogeographic variation in response to four processes. Variations in area burned and fire frequency result from differences in the rates of 'switching' of biomass growth, availability to burn, fire weather and ignition. Therefore differing processes limit fire (i.e. the lowest rate of switching) in differing ecosystems. Current and future trends in fire frequency were explored on this basis. Location: Case studies of forests (cool temperate to tropical) and woodlands (temperate to arid) were examined. These represent a broad range of Australian biomes and current fire regimes. Methods: Information on the four processes was applied to each case study and the potential minimum length of interfire interval was predicted and compared to current trends. The potential effects of global change on the processes were then assessed and future trends in fire regimes were predicted. Results: Variations in fire regimes are primarily related to fluctuations in available moisture and dominance by either woody or herbaceous plant cover. Fire in woodland communities (dry climates) is limited by growth of herbaceous fuels (biomass), whereas in forests (wet climates) limitation is by fuel moisture (availability to burn) and fire weather. Increasing dryness in woodland communities will decrease potential fire frequency, while the opposite applies in forests. In the tropics, both forms of limitation are weak due to the annual wet/dry climate. Future change may therefore be constrained. Main conclusions: Increasing dryness may diminish fire activity over much of Australia (dominance of dry woodlands), though increases may occur in temperate forests. Elevated CO effects may confound or reinforce these trends. The prognosis for the future fire regime in Australia is therefore uncertain.
3182715|Are latitudinal gradients in regional diversity random or biased with respect to body size? Using data for the New World avifauna, I show that the slope of the increase in regional species richness from the Arctic to the equator is not independent of body size. The increase is steepest among small and medium-sized species, and shallowest among the largest species. This is reflected in latitudinal variation in the shape of frequency distributions of body sizes in regional subsets of the New World avifauna. Because species are added disproportionately in small and medium size classes towards low latitudes, distributions become less widely spread along the body size axis than expected from the number of species. These patterns suggest an interaction between the effects of latitude and body size on species richness, implying that mechanisms which vary with both latitude and body size may be important determinants of high tropical diversity in New World birds.
2997882|Key issues related to the monitoring by remote sensing of open forest degradation in a tropical context are discussed. Degradation of forest-cover is often a complex process, with some degree of ecological reversibility and a strong interaction with climatic fluctuations. Only a representation of land cover as a continuous field of several biophysical variables can lead to an accurate detection of forest degradation. For this purpose, repetitive measurements of spectral, spatial and temporal indicators of the land surface have to be performed. Each set of indicators brings a specific type of information on the land cover. These indicators must therefore be combined to achieve a comprehensive description of the surface processes. The detection of inter-annual changes in landscape spatial structure is more likely to reveal long term and long lasting land-cover changes, while spectral indicators are more sensitive to fluctuations in primary productivity associated with climatic fluctuations. Different monitoring systems may be optimal for different ecosystems. A long time series of observations is always required. The monitoring of the spatio-temporal distribution of biomass burning may also give indications of open forest degradation.
2665348|1 Taxocenes - monophyletic ecological assemblages - are a key focus of macroecology. Abundance (individuals per area) is a basic property of taxocenes but has received less attention than diversity, although the two are probably related. Abundance reflects a taxocene's ability to harvest and sequester available energy and divide it among individuals. This paper explores how two properties of all taxocenes - trophic makeup and taxonomic level (e.g. genus, tribe, subfamily, family ...) - may contribute to patterns of local abundance at geographical scales. 2 Forty-nine ground ant taxocenes, in habitats ranging from New World deserts to rain forests, were surveyed along a three-orders of magnitude productivity gradient using transects of 30 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats at each site. Abundance - the number of nests per transect - varied over two orders of magnitude. 3 Over 80% of the genera collected were omnivores. However, herbivore, omnivore, and predator taxa were added to ant taxocenes in roughly 1 order of magnitude steps up the productivity gradient. Specialist detritivores were added last. 4 Net primary productivity and mean monthly temperature both consistently entered regression models predicting abundance. However, while productivity was the dominant predictor of abundance for higher taxa (families, subfamilies), temperature was the dominant predictor of abundance for lower taxa (tribes, genera). The answer to the question `What regulates the abundance of a taxocene?' is thus sensitive to the taxonomic level of analysis. 5 These data support the following scenario. Lower taxa are abiotic specialists given the insufficient number of genomes and generations required for the exploration of the entire abiotic envelope. Higher taxa, in contrast, consist of suites of abiotic specialists arrayed along the entire productivity gradient, with access to productivity everywhere the taxon occurs. If this scenario is true, individual species may respond to global changes in temperature; the higher taxa they belong to may most respond to global changes in productivity.
3182688|The objective of the European Terrestrial Ecosystem Modelling Activity (ETEMA) was to address some of the major challenges in developing generalized models to examine responses of natural and seminatural ecosystems to environmental change at the regional to European scale. The approach described herein was to break down the totality of ecosystem functioning into its key components, each with its characteristic spatial and temporal scales. A conceptual framework was developed describing the configuration of these components as modules within a generalized simulation model. The framework describes the key inputs, outputs and state variables, their spatial and temporal contexts, and information flows between modules. The 'backbone' of the model is a system of nested timing loops corresponding to the disparate time scales at which different ecosystem processes occur. The framework is a theoretical construct into which ecosystem models at levels of complexity ranging from the very general to the highly detailed can be mapped, and thus provides a guide for development of models for novel, particularly regional-scale, applications. A number of subsystem studies of the major components of ecosystem functioning, i.e. modules of the conceptual framework, are briefly introduced herein. The general aim of the subsystem studies was to identify the key alternative formulations (as opposed to minor variants) and test these against observational data. The various subsystem studies concern planetary boundary layer-ecosystem interactions, ecosystem CO
3182726|Desert precipitation is often characterized as more variable than precipitation in nondesert biomes. However, empirical support for this generalization is lacking. I analysed precipitation variability in five desert and four nondesert biomes that represent a xeric to mesic gradient in the South-western United States, using data from 328 weather stations, for a total of 18 337 station-years. I examined precipitation variability at two temporal scales: among years and among months, within years. Each of these scales was analysed for annual precipitation, summer precipitation and winter precipitation for a total of 18 separate analyses. Overall, precipitation variability does increase as precipitation decreases. However, I found little support for the generalization that desert precipitation is more variable than precipitation in nondeserts. At most time scales, many south-western American desert biomes are no more variable than nondesert biomes. The level of variability is highly dependent on which desert biome is under study, where in the biome a particular site is located, and what time scale is used to measure variability. Certain desert sites are in fact more variable than nondesert sites, in some cases by as much as fivefold. However, and perhaps more importantly, each desert biome includes many sites that are no more variable, across many or all time scales, than sites in the grassland or pine forest biomes. These results emphasize the importance of measuring variability for each study site of interest and caution against extrapolating from a few sites to biomes or gradients in general. Implications for the study of adaptations to environmental variability are discussed.
41239259|Aim: We tested whether coarse-grained occurrence data can be used to detect climatic niche shifts between native and non-native ranges for a set of widely introduced freshwater fishes. Location: World-wide. Methods: We used a global database of freshwater fish occurrences at the river basin scale to identify native and non-native ranges for 18 of the most widely introduced fish species. We also examined climatic conditions within each river basin using fine-grained climate data. We combined this information to test whether climatic niche shifts have occurred between native and non-native ranges. We defined climatic niche shifts as instances where the ranges of a climatic variable within native and non-native basins exhibit zero overlap. Results: We detected at least one climatic niche shift for each of the 18 studied species. However, we did not detect common patterns in the thermal preference or biogeographic origin of the non-native fish, hence suggesting a species-specific response. Main conclusions: Coarse-grained occurrence data can be used to detect climatic niche shifts. They also enable the identification of the species experiencing niche shifts, although the mechanisms responsible for these shifts (e.g. local adaptation, dispersal limitation or physiological constraints) have yet to be determined. Furthermore, the coarse-grained approach, which highlights regions where climatic niche shifts have occurred, can be used to select specific river basins for more detailed, fine-grained studies.
3697657|Aim: We analysed spatial datasets of abundance across the entirety, or near entirety, of the geographical ranges of 134 tree species to test macroecological hypotheses concerning the distribution of abundance across geographical ranges. Location: Our abundance estimates came via the USDA Forest Service Forest Inventory and Analysis Eastwide Database, which contains data for 134 eastern North American tree species. Methods: We extracted measures of range size and the spatial location of abundance relative to position in the range for each species to test four hypotheses: (a) species occur in low abundance throughout most of their geographical range; (b) there is a positive interspecific relationship between abundance and range size; (c) species are more abundant in the centre of their range; and (d) there is a bimodal distribution of spatial autocorrelation in abundance across a species range. Results: Our results demonstrate that (a) most species (85%) are abundant somewhere in their geographical range; (b) species achieving relatively high abundance tend to have larger range sizes; (c) the widely held assumption that species exhibit an 'abundant-centre distribution' is not well supported for the majority of species; we suggest 'abundant-core' as a more suitable term; and (d) there is no evidence of a bimodal distribution of spatial autocorrelation in abundance. Main Conclusions: For many tree species, high abundance can be achieved at any position in the range, though suitable sites are found with less frequency towards range edges. Competitive relationships may be involved in the distribution of abundance across tree ranges and species with larger ranges (and possibly broader niches) may be affected more by biotic interactions than smaller ranging species.
3697549|Aim: Polymorphism at neutral markers and at MHC loci in rodent populations living on islands is generally low. The main genetic factors that may contribute to a reduced level of genetic variability are genetic drift, reduced gene flow and founder events. We investigated the pattern of polymorphism at the second exon of the Mhc-DQA gene in island populations of Apodemus sylvaticus and in their mainland counterparts to investigate the pattern of MHC polymorphism in a phylogeographical context and to assess the impact of insularity on diversity at this locus. Location: Eight north Mediterranean populations of Apodemus sylvaticus were studied, including five island populations (Majorca, Minorca, Porquerolles, Port-Cros and Sicily) and three mainland populations. Methods: cDNA sequencing and nucleotide sequences analyses. Synonymous and non-synonymous substitutions were examined at the PBR and non-PBR sites. The DQA allelic distribution in populations was compared with the woodmouse phylogeography. Results: This study presents novel DQA alleles. High polymorphism of the DQA locus is recorded in natural populations of A. sylvaticus with 13 alleles being widely distributed irrespective of the geographical origin and palaeoclimatic history of populations. The DQA locus does not show the expected pattern for non-synonymous substitutions at the PBR sites. However, island populations show a weak loss of polymorphism in comparison with their mainland counterparts. Main conclusions: The DQA locus in the woodmouse seems to be subject to weak selection and does not allow resolution of phylogeographical relationships among European woodmouse populations. The presence of at least three alleles in island populations and the maintenance of five alleles between the two European lineages over 1.5 Myr suggest that balancing selection may act within populations, and more precisely within island populations, to maintain genetic variability. This study shows that phylogeographical studies are a prerequisite for any genetic investigation of selected genes in natural populations.
3697554|Aim: To test the mechanisms driving bird species richness at broad spatial scales using eigenvector-based spatial filtering. Location: South America. Methods: An eigenvector-based spatial filtering was applied to evaluate spatial patterns in South American bird species richness, taking into account spatial autocorrelation in the data. The method consists of using the geographical coordinates of a region, based on eigenanalyses of geographical distances, to establish a set of spatial filters (eigenvectors) expressing the spatial structure of the region at different spatial scales. These filters can then be used as predictors in multiple and partial regression analyses, taking into account spatial autocorrelation. Autocorrelation in filters and in the regression residuals can be used as stopping rules to define which filters will be used in the analyses. Results: Environmental component alone explained 8% of variation in richness, whereas 77% of the variation could be attributed to an interaction between environment and geography expressed by the filters (which include mainly broad-scale climatic factors). Regression coefficients of environmental component were highest for AET. These results were unbiased by short-scale spatial autocorrelation. Also, there was a significant interaction between topographic heterogeneity and minimum temperature. Conclusion: Eigenvector-based spatial filtering is a simple and suitable statistical protocol that can be used to analyse patterns in species richness taking into account spatial autocorrelation at different spatial scales. The results for South American birds are consistent with the climatic hypothesis, in general, and energy hypothesis, in particular. Habitat heterogeneity also has a significant effect on variation in species richness in warm tropical regions.
30137892|Aim: To critically review the status of the green sea turtle (Chelonia mydas) using the best available scientific studies as there is a prevailing view that this species is globally endangered and its marine ecosystem functions compromised. Location: Ogasawara (Japan), Hawaii (USA), Great Barrier Reef (Australia), Florida (USA), Tortuguero (Costa Rica). Methods: We compiled seasonal nesting activity data from all reliable continuous long-term studies (> 25 years), which comprised data series for six of the world's major green turtle rookeries. We estimated the underlying time-specific trend in these six rookery-specific nester or nest abundance series using a generalized smoothing spline regression approach. Results: Estimated rates of nesting population increase ranged from c. 4-14% per annum over the past two to three decades. These rates varied considerably among the rookeries, reflecting the level of historical exploitation. Similar increases in nesting population were also evident for many other green turtle stocks that have been monitored for shorter durations than the long-term studies presented here. Main conclusions: We show that six of the major green turtle nesting populations in the world have been increasing over the past two to three decades following protection from human hazards such as exploitation of eggs and turtles. This population recovery or rebound capacity is encouraging and suggests that the green turtle is not on the brink of global extinction even though some stocks have been seriously depleted and are still below historical abundance levels. This demonstrates that relatively simple conservation strategies can have a profound effect on the recovery of once-depleted green turtle stocks and presumably the restoration of their ecological function as major marine consumers.
3697430|Aim To examine the effect on the observed relationship between spatial turnover and latitude of both the measure of beta diversity used and the method of analysis. Location: The empirical analyses presented herein are for the New World. Methods: We take the spatial distributions of the owls of the New World as an exemplar data set to investigate the patterns of beta diversity across latitudes revealed by different analytical methods. To illustrate the strengths and weaknesses of alternative measures of beta diversity and different analytical approaches, we also use a simple random distribution model, focusing in particular on the influence of richness gradients and landmass geometry. Results: Our simple spatial model of turnover demonstrates that different combinations of analytical approach and measure of beta diversity can give rise to strikingly different relationships between turnover and latitude. The analyses of the bird data for the owls of the New World demonstrate that this observation extends to real data. Conclusions: For the particular assemblage considered, we present strong evidence that species richness declines at higher latitudes, and there is also some evidence that species turnover is greater nearer the equator, despite conceptual and practical difficulties involved in analysing spatial patterns of species turnover. We suggest some ways of overcoming these difficulties.
40205723|Aim: To test the influence of various species traits, elevation and phylogeographical history on the genetic diversity of high-mountain plants in the Alps and Carpathians. Location: The regular sampling grid comprised the whole range of the European Alps and the Carpathians. Methods: Twenty-two high-mountain plant species were exhaustively sampled and their genetic diversity was assessed with amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). ANOVAs were used to check for relationships between species traits and species genetic diversity, and to test whether genetic diversity was influenced by altitude and phylogeographical history (i.e. Alps versus Carpathians). Results: In both mountain systems, species dispersed and pollinated by wind showed higher genetic diversity than species with self or insect pollination, and with animal-or gravity-dispersed seeds. Only in the Alps did altitudinal range size affect species genetic diversity significantly: species with narrow altitudinal ranges in the highest vegetation belts had significantly higher genetic diversity than those expanding over wide altitudinal ranges. Genetic diversity was species specific and significantly higher in the Alps than in the Carpathians, but it was not influenced by elevation. Main conclusions: Wind pollination and wind dispersal seem to foster high genetic diversity. However, species traits are often associated and their effects on genetic diversity cannot be clearly disentangled. As genetic diversity is species specific, comparisons across species need to be interpreted with care. Genetic diversity was generally lower in the Carpathians than in the Alps, due to higher topographical isolation of alpine habitats in the Carpathians and this mountain massif's divergent phylogeographical history. Elevation did not influence genetic diversity, challenging the long-held view of decreasing genetic diversity with increasing elevation in mountain plants.
40801917|Aim: Increases in annual mean temperature in the course of current climate change are expected to facilitate mass species migration towards higher altitudes and latitudes.However, this migration may be slowed, or even temporarily reversed, by infrequent and unpredictable episodes of low winter temperatures. Iran experienced a severe cold wave in January and February 2008, giving an opportunity to observe the effects on a large number of woody plant species, many growing further north than their natural ranges.
2665326|We describe three models predicting relationships between: (a) the taxonomic composition of the regional species pool of phytophagous insects and the composition of the phytophagous insect fauna on a host taxon; and (b) the faunal composition of two host taxa. The predictions of these models were compared with empirical data representing the regional pool of phytophages in Central Europe and the faunas of two plant taxa: the cabbage plants (Brassicaceae) and the thistles (Asteraceae: Cardueae). Three important findings emerge at a general level. (1) Different taxonomic levels of insects (orders, families, genera) of the regional pool and on the investigated host taxa are well correlated in terms of species richness, but there is no consistent trend in the variance explained by this correlation across taxonomic levels. (2) The model considering evolutionary interactions and speciation processes is consistent with patterns found in the empirical data. (3) Asymmetries in sampled species numbers of insect families on both host taxa may be accounted for by reference to the biology of these insects. We conclude that the faunas of single host taxa can provide the basis for extrapolating to the regional pool, at least at high taxonomic levels.
3697551|Aim: Predictions of aquatic ecosystem change with global warming require basic data that accurately reflect the environmental conditions underlying species distributions. However, in remote arctic areas such baseline data are scarce. We assess the influence of environmental variables on chironomid distribution and taxon richness in shallow, isothermal lakes in a poorly studied arctic region. We pay particular attention to community variation along the treeline ecotonal zone where many environmental variables change abruptly in a relatively small area. Location: Lake transect in Finnish Lapland spanning from boreal coniferous forest to arctic tundra. Methods: Chironomid assemblages were determined from surface-sediment samples of 50 shallow (< 10 m) natural lakes. Abundance and taxon richness data were related to 24 limnological variables using canonical ordination techniques (DCA, CCA, RDA). A Monte Carlo permutation procedure was used to assess the explanatory power of single variables. Between-vegetation zone differences of richness were tested for statistical significance using one-way ANOVA. Results: In total, 7771 chironomid head capsules were identified, consisting of 13 species, 10 species groups, four subgenera, 41 genera, four genus groups, five types and three with uncertain taxonomic affiliation. A hump-shaped relationship between taxon richness and elevation was noted along the study transect with a peak in taxon richness occurring in mountain birch woodland lakes at middle elevations, decreasing then towards both warmer and colder ends of the elevation/temperature gradient. Of the individual parameters, sediment organic content, total organic carbon, pH, and lake-specific air temperature accounted for the greatest amount of variation in the chironomid data. Main conclusions: Maximum taxon richness occurred at mid-elevations where aquatic algae also reached their maximum diversity. This area coincides with an ecotonal transitional zone, which seems more likely to account for the peak in species richness. Our study demonstrates that the factors most strongly affecting chironomids in Finnish Lapland (i.e. temperature, and ecosystem features) are those that with great probability will also change as a result of future climate change. This will likely have an effect on the distribution of chironomids in subarctic and arctic areas.
2997896|Near-to-nature forestry is an attractive concept, but it is difficult to apply in a landscape where (i) the remaining fragments of original-natural forests are small and far apart; (ii) most large forests are secondary and very artificial; (iii) long-naturalized trees and other forest species are present throughout the country, and; (iv) natural disturbance regimes and their consequences cannot readily be observed. This paper summarizes the issues and problems relating to ancient seminatural woods and conifer plantation forests in Britain. Measures are indicated that would bring their management nearer to nature. Natural elements can be incorporated into stand composition, stand structure, processes and patterns, provided general principles are interpreted in a pragmatic and flexible manner.
3182681|The Mediterranean area is regarded nowadays as one of the hot-spots of world biodiversity. The Baetic ranges in Spain have such a large number of endemic plant taxa that the territory has been recognized as a well-defined biogeographical unit. These endemic taxa tend to concentrate on disjunct highland areas that have been described consequently as 'highland islands'. Despite the importance and complexity of these sites, the research carried out so far has produced only descriptive classifications. These approaches overlook the relationships between the sites and do not serve to identify the main centres of endemism. Herein, multivariate analysis techniques (cluster analysis and reciprocal averaging) and the parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE), applied to the 222 orophilous endemic taxa of the Baetic ranges, have been used to reveal the floristic similarities between the areas involved, to identify the centres of endemism and to re-assess the previous classifications. Four centres of endemism are defined, one siliceous and three calcareous. The most outstanding feature in the Baetic ranges is precisely the floristic difference between siliceous and calcareous mountains. Calcareous territories extend along a SW-NE axis in line with the oceanic-continental gradient. The nature of the soil in the vast siliceous and calcareous-dolomitic territories of the Sierra Nevada is probably the cause of the remarkable floristic diversity. Not surprisingly, in our analysis these areas stand out as centres of endemism. We conclude that previous biogeographical classifications of the ranges are too rigid and do not properly reflect the floristic similarities of the area under study.
40205709|Aim: Nestedness occurs when species present in depauperate sites are subsets of those found in species-rich sites. The degree of congruence of site nestedness among different assemblages can inform commonalities of mechanisms structuring the assemblages. Well-nested assemblages may still contain idiosyncratic species and sites that notably depart from the typical assemblage pattern. Idiosyncrasy can arise from multiple processes, including interspecific interactions and habitat preferences, which entail different consequences for species co-occurrences. We investigate the influence of fine-scale habitat variation on nestedness and idiosyncrasy patterns of beetle and bird assemblages. We examine community-level and pairwise species co-occurrence patterns, and highlight the potential influence of interspecific interactions for assemblage structure. Location: Cte-Nord region of Qubec, Canada. Methods: We sampled occurrences of ground-dwelling beetles, flying beetles and birds at sites within old-growth boreal forest. We examined the nestedness and idiosyncrasy of sites and sought relationships to habitat attributes. We analysed non-ran1dom species co-occurrence patterns at pairwise and community levels, using null model analysis and five 'association' indices. Results: All three assemblages were significantly nested. There was limited congruence only between birds and flying beetles whose nestedness was related to canopy openness. For ground-dwelling beetles, nestedness was related to high stand heterogeneity and sapling density, whereas site idiosyncrasy was inversely related to structural heterogeneity. For birds, site idiosyncrasy increased with canopy cover, and most idiosyncratic species were closed-canopy specialists. In all assemblages, species idiosyncrasy was positively correlated with the frequency of negative pairwise associations. Species co-occurrence patterns were non-random, and for flying beetles and birds positive species pairwise associations dominated. Communitylevel co-occurrence summaries may not, however, always reflect these patterns. Main conclusions: Nestedness patterns of different assemblages may not correlate, even when sampled at common locations, because of different responses to local habitat attributes. We found idiosyncrasy patterns indicating opposing habitat preferences, consistent with antagonistic interactions among species within assemblages. Analysis of such patterns can thus suggest the mechanisms generating assemblage structures, with implications for biodiversity conservation.
30137991|Aim: Spatial autocorrelation is a frequent phenomenon in ecological data and can affect estimates of model coefficients and inference from statistical models. Here, we test the performance of three different simultaneous autoregressive (SAR) model types (spatial
41239340|Aim: It has been qualitatively understood for a long time that climate change will have widely varying effects on human well-being in different regions of the world. The spatial complexities underlying our relationship to climate and the geographical disparities in human demographic change have, however, precluded the development of global indices of the predicted regional impacts of climate change on humans. Humans will be most negatively affected by climate change in regions where populations are strongly dependent on climate and favourable climatic conditions decline. Here we use the relationship between the distribution of human population density and climate as a basis to develop the first global index of predicted impacts of climate change on human populations. Location: Global. Methods: We use spatially explicit models of the present relationship between human population density and climate along with forecasted climate change to predict climate vulnerabilities over the coming decades. We then globally represent regional disparities in human population dynamics estimated with our ecological niche model and with a demographic forecast and contrast these disparities with CO emissions data to quantitatively evaluate the notion of moral hazard in climate change policies. Results: Strongly negative impacts of climate change are predicted in Central America, central South America, the Arabian Peninsula, Southeast Asia and much of Africa. Importantly, the regions of greatest vulnerability are generally distant from the high-latitude regions where the magnitude of climate change will be greatest. Furthermore, populations contributing the most to greenhouse gas emissions on a per capita basis are unlikely to experience the worst impacts of climate change, satisfying the conditions for a moral hazard in climate change policies. Main conclusions: Regionalized analysis of relationships between distribution of human population density and climate provides a novel framework for developing global indices of human vulnerability to climate change. The predicted consequences of climate change on human populations are correlated with the factors causing climate change at the regional level, providing quantitative support for many qualitative statements found in international climate change assessments.
40205726|Aim: Spatial turnover of species, or beta diversity, varies in relation to geographical distance and environmental conditions, as well as spatial scale. We evaluated the explanatory power of distance, climate and topography on beta diversity of mammalian faunas of North America in relation to latitude. Location: North America north of Mexico. Methods: The study area was divided into 313 equal-area quadrats (241241 km). Faunal data for all continental mammals were compiled for these quadrats, which were divided among five latitudinal zones. These zones were comparable in terms of latitudinal and longitudinal span, climatic gradients and elevational gradients. We used the natural logarithm of the Jaccard index (lnJ) to measure species turnover between pairs of quadrats within each latitudinal zone. The slope of lnJ in relation to distance was compared among latitudinal zones. We used partial regression to partition the variance in lnJ into the components uniquely explained by distance and by environmental differences, as well as jointly by distance and environmental differences. Results: Mammalian faunas of North America differ more from each other at lower latitudes than at higher latitudes. Regression models of lnJ in relation to distance, climatic difference and topographic difference for each zone demonstrated that these variables have high explanatory power that diminishes with latitude. Beta diversity is higher for zones with higher mean annual temperature, lower seasonality of temperature and greater topographic complexity. For each latitudinal zone, distance and environmental differences explain a greater proportion of the variance in lnJ than distance, climate or topography does separately. Main conclusions: The latitudinal gradient in beta diversity of North American mammals corresponds to a macrodimatic gradient of decreasing mean annual temperature and increasing seasonality of temperature from south to north. Most of the variance in spatial turnover is explained by distance and environmental differences jointly rather than distance, climate or topography separately. The high predictive power of geographical distance, climatic conditions and topography on spatial turnover could result from the direct effects of physical limiting factors or from ecological and evolutionary processes that are also influenced by the geographical template.
3697560|Aim: This paper presents a probabilistic method for the characterization of pollen taxa using attributes, and for the reconstitution of past biomes. The probabilities are calculated on the basis of European floristic and pollen databases sufficiently large and exhaustive to provide robust estimates. Location: The analysis is based on data from approximately 1000 sites throughout Europe. Method: We use all the pollen data from the European Pollen Database (EPD), which contains about 50 000 pollen assemblages distributed across Europe and covering the period from the Last Glacial Maximum to the present. Using existing floras, each pollen taxon has been characterized by allocating one or more modes of several attributes, chosen according to the biogeography and phenology of the taxon. With this information, conditional probabilities are defined, representing the chance of a given attribute mode occurring in a given pollen spectrum, when the taxa assemblage is known. The concept of co-occurrence is used to provide a greater amount of information to compensate for difficulties in the identification of pollen grains, allowing a better interpretation when there is little diversity in the pollen assemblage. Results: The method has been validated using a dataset of modern samples against existing methods of biome classification and remote sensing data. An application is proposed in which the new method is used to produce biomes for pollen data 6000 years ago. This confirms previous results showing an extension of the deciduous forest to the north, east and south, explained by milder winters in western and northern Europe, and cooler and wetter climate in the Mediterranean region. Conclusion: The results show the new method to be efficient, reliable and flexible and to be an improvement over the previous method of biomization. They will be used to test simulations of earth system models running on periods with climate significantly different from the present day, enabling a robust test of the validity of applying these models to the future.
40205656|Aim: To examine the way in which 'area' and 'habitat diversity' interact in shaping species richness and to find a simple and valid way to express this interaction. Location: The Natura 2000 network of terrestrial protected areas in Greece, covering approximately 16% of the national territory. Methods: We used the Natura 2000 framework, which provides a classification scheme for natural habitat types, to quantify habitat heterogeneity. We analysed data for the plant species composition in 16,143 quadrats in which 5044 species and subspecies of higher plants were recorded. We built a simple mathematical model that incorporates the effect of habitat diversity on the species-area relationship (SAR). Results: Our analysis showed that habitat diversity was correlated with area. However, keeping habitat diversity constant, species richness was related to area; while keeping area constant, species richness was related to habitat diversity. Comparing the SAR of the 237 sites we found that the slope of the species-area curve was related to habitat diversity. Main conclusions: Discussion of the causes of the SAR has often focused on the primacy of area per se versus habitat heterogeneity, even though the two mechanisms are not mutually exclusive and should be considered jointly. We find that increasing habitat diversity affects the SAR in different ways, but the dominant effect is to increase the slope of the SAR. While a full model fit typically includes a variety of terms involving both area and habitat richness, we find that the effect of habitat diversity can be reduced to a linear perturbation of the slope of the species accumulation curve.
3182680|Aim: Conservation strategies currently include little consideration of climate change. Insights about the biotic impacts of climate change from biogeography and palaeoecology, therefore, have the potential to provide significant improvements in the effectiveness of conservation planning. We suggest a collaboration involving biogeography, ecology and applied conservation. The resulting Climate Change-integrated Conservation Strategies (CCS) apply available tools to respond to the conservation challenges posed by climate change. Location: The focus of this analysis is global, with special reference to high biodiversity areas vulnerable to climate change, particularly tropical montane settings. Methods: Current tools from climatology, biogeography and ecology applicable to conservation planning in response to climate change are reviewed. Conservation challenges posed by climate change are summarized. CCS elements are elaborated that use available tools to respond to these challenges. Results: Five elements of CCS are described: regional modelling; expanding protected areas; management of the matrix; regional coordination; and transfer of resources. Regional modelling uses regional climate models, biotic response models and sensitivity analysis to identify climate change impacts on biodiversity at a regional scale appropriate for conservation planning. Expansion of protected areas management and systems within the planning region are based on modelling results. Management of the matrix between protected areas provides continuity for processes and species range shifts outside of parks. Regional coordination of park and off-park efforts allows harmonization of conservation goals across provincial and national boundaries. Finally, implementation of these CCS elements in the most biodiverse regions of the world will require technical and financial transfer of resources on a global scale. Main conclusions: Collaboration across disciplines is necessary to plan conservation responses to climate change adequately. Biogeography and ecology provide insights into the effects of climate change on biodiversity that have not yet been fully integrated into conservation biology and applied conservation management. CCS provide a framework in which biogeographers, ecologists and conservation managers can collaborate to address this need. These planning exercises take place on a regional level, driven by regional climate models as well as general circulation models (GCMs), to ensure that regional climate drivers such as land use change and mesoscale topography are adequately represented. Sensitivity analysis can help address the substantial uncertainty inherent in projecting future climates and biodiversity response.
40405777|Aim: To analyse the effects of simultaneously using spatial and phylogenetic information in removing spatial autocorrelation of residuals within a multiple regression framework of trait analysis. Location: Switzerland, Europe. Methods: We used an eigenvector filtering approach to analyse the relationship between spatial distribution of a trait (flowering phenology) and environmental covariates in a multiple regression framework. Eigenvector filters were calculated from ordinations of distance matrices. Distance matrices were either based on pure spatial information, pure phylogenetic information or spatially structured phylogenetic information. In the multiple regression, those filters were selected which best reduced Moran's / coefficient of residual autocorrelation. These were added as covariates to a regression model of environmental variables explaining trait distribution. Results: The simultaneous provision of spatial and phylogenetic information was effectively able to remove residual autocorrelation in the analysis. Adding phylogenetic information was superior to adding purely spatial information. Applying filters showed altered results, i.e. different environmental predictors were seen to be significant. Nevertheless, mean annual temperature and calcareous substrate remained the most important predictors to explain the onset of flowering in Switzerland; namely, the warmer the temperature and the more calcareous the substrate, the earlier the onset of flowering. A sequential approach, i.e. first removing the phylogenetic signal from traits and then applying a spatial analysis, did not provide more information or yield less autocorrelation than simple or purely spatial models. Main conclusions: The combination of spatial and spatio-phylogenetic information is recommended in the analysis of trait distribution data in a multiple regression framework. This approach is an efficient means for reducing residual autocorrelation and for testing the robustness of results, including the indication of incomplete parameterizations, and can facilitate ecological interpretation.
41058250|The latitudinal diversity gradient (LDG) has been known for over a century, but its origin remains poorly understood. Because both latitude and species richness are broadly related to temperature, environmental temperature has been proposed as a driver of the LDG. Recently, Wang et al. (2009, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 106,13388-13392) used datasets compiled from tree distributions in eastern Asia and North America to compare the species richness-temperature relationship between the two regions at several spatial scales and framed their analyses in the context of the metabolic theory of ecology. Here, we show that their datasets lack comparability between eastern Asia and North America and that some aspects of their analyses probably biased their results, casting doubt on some of their conclusions.
3182696|Aim: To predict French Scarabaeidae dung beetle species richness distribution, and to determine the possible underlying causal factors. Location: The entire French territory has been studied by dividing it into 301 grid cells of 0.72 x 0.36 degrees. Method: Species richness distribution was predicted using generalized linear models to relate the number of species with spatial, topographic and climate variables in grid squares previously identified as well sampled (n = 66). The predictive function includes the curvilinear relationship between variables, interaction terms and the significant third-degree polynomial terms of latitude and longitude. The final model was validated by a jack-knife procedure. The underlying causal factors were investigated by partial regression analysis, decomposing the variation in species richness among spatial, topographic and climate type variables. Results: The final model accounts for 86.2% of total deviance, with a mean jack-knife predictive error of 17.7%. The species richness map obtained highlights the Mediterranean as the region richest in species, and the less well-explored south-western region as also being species-rich. The largest fraction of variability (38%) in the number of species is accounted for by the combined effect of the three groups of explanatory variables. The spatially structured climate component explains 21% of variation, while the pure climate and pure spatial components explain 14% and 11%, respectively. The effect of topography was negligible. Conclusions: Delimiting the adequately inventoried areas and elaborating forecasting models using simple environmental variables can rapidly produce an estimate of the species richness distribution. Scarabaeidae species richness distribution seems to be mainly influenced by temperature. Minimum mean temperature is the most influential variable on a local scale, while maximum and mean temperature are the most important spatially structured variables. We suggest that species richness variation is mainly conditioned by the failure of many species to go beyond determined temperature range limits.
4139411| Aim Climate is often egarded as the primary control determining the location of an ecotone between two vegetation zones. However, other ecological factors may also be important, especially when the northern limit of the dominant species of a vegetation zone extends further than the limit of the zone itself. This study aimed to identify the ecological variables explaining the transition between two zones within the boreal biome in Quebec (eastern Canada): the southern mixedwood forests dominated by balsam fir (Abies balsamea) and white birch (Betula papyrifera), and the northern coniferous forests dominated by black spruce (Picea mariana). Location Quebec (eastern Canada). Methods Data from 5023 sampling plots from the ecological inventory of the Qubec Ministry of Natural Resources distributed throughout the two bioclimatic zones were used in logistic regressions to determine the relationships between the presence or absence of balsam fir stands and different abiotic and biotic variables, at both stand and landscape scales. Results The presence of balsam fir stands was negatively related to the thick organic horizons, coarse xeric deposits and low positions on the slope, whereas stands were favoured by high elevations, steep slopes and moderate drainage. These results defined the suitable conditions for the development of balsam fir stands. In the coniferous zone these suitable conditions were less abundant. Furthermore, the saturation level of suitable sites was lower, as well as the incidence of balsam fir stands in unsuitable sites (overflow). Balsam fir stands were mostly located near lakes and rivers. All significant variables at both the stand and landscape scales explained between 34 and 42% of the location of the potential northern distribution limit of the mixedwood zone. Main conclusions Our results suggest the important role of historical factors related to post-glacial vegetation and past disturbances in determining the relative abundance of balsam fir in both zones of the boreal biome. 
41058242|Aim: To investigate the potential distribution of Seasonally Dry Tropical Forests (SDTFs) during the Quaternary climatic fluctuations; to reassess the formerly proposed 'Pleistocenic arc hypothesis' (PAH); and to identify historically stable and unstable areas of SDTF distributions in the light of palaeodistribution modelling. Location: SDTFs in lowland cis-Andean eastern-central South America. Methods: We first developed georeferenced maps depicting the current distributional extent of SDTFs under two distinct definitions (narrow and broad). We then generated occurrence datasets, which were used with current and past bioclimatic variables to predict SDTF occurrence by implementing the maximum entropy machine-learning algorithm. We obtained historical stability maps by overlapping the presence/absence projections of each of three climatic scenarios [current, 6 kyr  during the Holocene, and 21 kyr  during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM)]. Finally, we checked the consistencies of the model prediction with qualitative comparisons of vegetation types inferred from available fossil pollen records. Results: The present-day SDTF distribution is disjunct, but we provide evidence that it was even more disjunct during the LGM. Reconstructions support a progressive southward and eastward expansion of SDTFs on a continental scale since the LGM. No significant expansion of SDTFs into the Amazon Basin was detected. Areas of presumed long-term stability are identified and confirmed (the three nuclear regions, Caatinga, Misiones and Piedmont, plus the Chiquitano region), and these possibly acted as current and historical refugial areas. Main conclusions: The LGM climate was probably too dry and cold to support large tracts of SDTF, which were restricted to climatically favourable areas relative to the present day (in contrast with the PAH, as it was originally conceived). Expansions of SDTFs are proposed to have occupied the southern portion of Caatinga nucleus more recently during the early-middle Holocene transition. We propose an alternative scenario amenable to further testing of an earlier SDTF expansion (either at the Lower Pleistocene or the Tertiary), followed by fragmentation in the LGM and secondary expansion in the Holocene. The stability maps were used to generate specific genetic predictions at both continental and regional scales (stable areas are expected to have higher genetic diversity and endemism levels than adjacent unstable areas) that can be used to direct field sampling to cover both stable (predicted refugia) and unstable (recently colonized) areas. Lastly, we discuss the possibility that SDTFs may experience future expansion under changing climate scenarios and that both stable and unstable areas should be prioritized by conservation initiatives.
3697470|Aim: Spatial autocorrelation in ecological data can inflate Type I errors in statistical analyses. There has also been a recent claim that spatial autocorrelation generates 'red herrings', such that virtually all past analyses are flawed. We consider the origins of this phenomenon, the implications of spatial autocorrelation for macro-scale patterns of species diversity and set out a clarification of the statistical problems generated by its presence. Location: To illustrate the issues involved, we analyse the species richness of the birds of western/central Europe, nort Africa and the Middle East. Methods: Spatial correlograms for richness and five environmental variables were generated using Moran's I coefficients. Multiple regression, using both ordinary least-squares (OLS) and generalized least squares (GLS) assuming a spatial structure in the residuals, were used to identify the strongest predictors of richness. Autocorrelation analyses of the residuals obtained after stepwise OLS regression were undertaken, and the ranks of variables in the full OLS and GLS models were compared. Results: Bird richness is characterized by a quadratic north-south gradient. Spatial correlograms usually had positive autocorrelation up to c. 1600 km. Including the environmental variables successively in the OLS model reduced spatial autocorrelation in the residuals to non-detectable levels, indicating that the variables explained all spatial structure in the data. In principle, if residuals are not autocorrelated then OLS is a special case of GLS. However, our comparison between OLS and GLS models including all environmental variables revealed that GLS de-emphasized predictors with strong autocorrelation and long-distance clinal structures, giving more importance to variables acting at smaller geographical scales. Conclusion: Although spatial autocorrelation should always be investigated, it does not necessarily generate bias. Rather, it can be a useful tool to investigate mechanisms operating on richness at different spatial scales. Claims that analyses that do not take into account spatial autocorrelation are flawed are without foundation.
3697603|Aim: Bioclimatic envelope models are often used to make projections of species' potential responses to climate change. It can be hypothesized that species with different kinds of distributions in environmental niche and geographical space may respond differently to changes in climate. Here, we compare projections of shifts in species ranges with simple descriptors of species niche (position and breadth) and geographical (range size) distributions. Location: Europe. Methods: The future distribution for 1200 European plant species were predicted by niche-based models using seven climate variables known to have an important role in limiting plant species distributions. Ecological niche properties were estimated using a multivariate analysis. Species range changes were then related to species niche properties using generalized linear models. Results: Generally, percentage of remaining suitable habitat in the future increased linearly with niche position and breadth. Increases in potential suitable habitat were associated with greater range size, and had a hump-shaped relationship with niche position on temperature gradient. By relating species chorotypes to percentage of remaining or gained habitat, we highlighted biogeographical patterns of species sensitivity to climate change. These were clearly related to the degree of exposure according to regional patterns of projected climate change. Main conclusion: This study highlights general patterns about the relationships between sensitivity of species to climate change and their ecological properties. There is a strong convergence between simple inferences based on ecological characteristics of species and projections by bioclimatic 'envelope' models, confirming macroecological assumptions about species sensitivity based on niche properties. These patterns appear to be most strongly driven by the exposure of species to climate change, with additional effects of species niche characteristics. We conclude that simple species niche properties are powerful indicators of species' sensitivity to climate change.
2997898|Mount Bloomfield has been shown to have several vegetation types, including medium stature forest on greywacke, small stature forest on serpentinized peridotite, and scrub and Gymnostoma woodland on dunite. The causes of the large physiognomic and floristic differences among these vegetation types have been investigated by soil chemical analyses, soil physical studies, and by a phytometer experiment involving the crop plant Zea mays. There was no relationship between maximum tree height and the soil chemical factors analysed (P, K, Ca, Mg, Ni) but there was a directly proportional relationship between maximum tree height and soil water retention. The phytometer experiment supported the idea that there is no acute soil toxicity in spite of the high soil Ni and Mg/Ca quotients recorded in this study. It is concluded that soil water retention, perhaps in combination with fire, is the major cause of stature differences among the vegetation types and together with soil chemistry is an important determinant of floristic composition.
40602948|Aim: Atmospheric CO concentrations depend, in part, on the amount of biomass locked up in terrestrial vegetation. Information on the causes of a broad-scale vegetation transition and associated loss of biomass is thus of critical interest for understanding global palaeoclimatic changes. Pollen records from the northeastern Tibet-Qinghai Plateau reveal a dramatic and extensive forest decline beginning c. 6000 cal. yr BP. The aim of this study is to elucidate the causes of this regional-scale change from high-biomass forest to low-biomass steppe on the Tibet-Qinghai Plateau during the second half of the Holocene. Location: Our study focuses on the north-eastern Tibet-Qinghai Plateau. Stratigraphical data used are from Qinghai Lake (3200 m a.s.l., 3632'-3715'N, 9936'-10047'E). Methods: We apply a modern pollen-precipitation transfer function from the eastern and north-eastern Tibet-Qinghai Plateau to fossil pollen spectra from Qinghai Lake to reconstruct annual precipitation changes during the Holocene.The reconstructions are compared to a stable oxygen-isotope record from the same sediment core and to results from two transient climate model simulations. Results: The pollen-based precipitation reconstruction covering the Holocene parallels moisture changes inferred from the stable oxygen-isotope record. Furthermore, these results are in close agreement with simulated model-based past annual precipitation changes. Main conclusions: In the light of these data and the model results, we conclude that it is not necessary to attribute the broad-scale forest decline to human activity.Climate change as a result of changes in the intensity of the East Asian Summer Monsoon in the mid-Holocene is the most parsimonious explanation for the widespread forest decline on the Tibet-Qinghai Plateau. Moreover, climate feedback from a reduced forest cover accentuates increasingly drier conditions in the area, indicating complex vegetation-climate interactions during this major ecological change.
40602955|Aim: The diversity-productivity relationship is a controversial issue in ecology. Diversity is sometimes seen to increase with productivity but a unimodal relationship has often been reported. Competitive exclusion was cited initially to account for the decrease of diversity at high productivity. Subsequently, the roles of evolutionary history (species pool size) and dispersal rate have been acknowledged. We explore how the effects of species pool, dispersal and competition combine to produce different diversity productivity relationships. Methods: We use a series of simulations with a spatially explicit, individual-based model. Following empirical expectations, we used four scenarios to characterize species pool size along the productivity gradient (uniformly low and high, linear increase and unimodal). Similarly, the dispersal rate varied along the productivity gradient (uniformly low and high, and unimodal). We considered both neutral communities and communities with competitive exclusion. Results and main conclusions: Our model predicts that competitive interactions will result in unimodal diversity-productivity relationships. The model often predicts unimodal patterns in neutral communities as well, although the decline in richness at high productivity is less than in competing communities. A positive diversity-productivity relationship is simulated for neutral communities when the species pool size increases with productivity and the dispersal rate is high. This scenario is probably more widespread in nature than the others since positive diversity-productivity relationships have been observed more frequently than previously expected, especially in the tropics and for woody species. Our simulated effects of species pool, dispersal and competition on diversity patterns can be linked to empirical observations to uncover mechanisms behind the diversityproductivity relationship.
3182740|Avian seed dispersal mutualisms are characterized frequently by stochastic interactions between birds and fruits; however, many studies report coarse-scale correlations in annual abundances of birds and fruits at particular locales (i.e. 'phenological synchrony'). This study tested the geographical consistency of phenological synchrony in a meta-analysis of data from 14 biogeographic locations. Data from a single site in British Columbia, Canada, were then used to test the dispersal facilitation hypothesis, which postulates that synchronous bird-fruit abundance patterns result from deterministic seed dispersal processes (i.e. avian fruit consumption). Results showed that phenological synchrony is a geographically consistent pattern. However, fruit production occurred after peak periods of bird abundances in British Columbia. Although phenological patterns were asynchronous at this site, observational and experimental fruit removal patterns supported the dispersal facilitation hypothesis. Avian fruit consumption covaried with bird abundances, suggesting selection may favour earlier fruit production and increased phenological synchrony. Environmental data suggest that earlier fruit production is constrained by cold spring temperatures, which inhibit the activity of pollinators and earlier dates of fruit maturation. Overall, the results show that phenological synchrony is a geographically consistent pattern in seed dispersal mutualisms. However, decoupled bird-fruit abundance patterns may occur despite deterministic processes favouring phenological synchrony.
40602944|Aim: Our objective was to document the general relationship between plant species richness (SR) and above-ground net primary productivity (ANPP) at different spatial scales and the environmental influence on this relationship. Location: Temperate and alpine grasslands of China. Methods: We investigated SR and ANPP at 321 field sites (1355 plots) across the widely distributed temperate and alpine grasslands of China. Ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions were used to test SR-ANPP relatinships among site means. Plot-level data of SR and ANPP were analysed with general linear models (GLMs) and the correlation between SR and ANPP was decomposed into covariance components to test the influence of climatic variables, region, vegetation type and remaining variation among sites on SR, ANPP and their relationship. Results: We found positive linear relationships between SR and ANPP among sites in both the alpine and temperate grassland regions and in different grassland vegetation types of these biomes. Environmental gradients such as growing-season precipitation affected both SR and ANPP in parallel. However, after removing the among-site environmental variation, residual SR and ANPP were no longer correlated at the pooled within-site level. Main conclusions: The positive SR-ANPP relationship across large-scale environmental gradients among sites was most likely the result of climatic variables influencing SR and ANPP in parallel. Our results suggest that in China's natural grasslands there is no direct relationship between SR and ANPP, presumably because the pool of available species for local community assembly is large, in contrast to experiments where species pools are artificially reduced.
40602960|Aim: Coral reefs are widely considered to be particularly vulnerable to changes in ocean temperatures, yet we understand little about the broad-scale spatio-temporal patterns that may cause coral mortality from bleaching and disease. Our study aimed to characterize these ocean temperature patterns at biologically relevant scales. Location: Global, with a focus on coral reefs. Methods: We created a 4-km resolution, 21-year global ocean temperature anomaly (deviations from long-term means) database to quantify the spatial and temporal characteristics of temperature anomalies related to both coral bleaching and disease. Then we tested how patterns varied in several key metrics of disturbance severity, including anomaly frequency, magnitude, duration and size. Results: Our analyses found both global variation in temperature anomalies and fine-grained spatial variability in the frequency, duration and magnitude of temperature anomalies. However, we discovered that even during major climatic events with strong spatial signatures, like the El Nio-Southern Oscillation, areas that had high numbers of anomalies varied between years. In addition, we found that 48% of bleaching-related anomalies and 44% of disease-related anomalies were less than 50 km 2 , much smaller than the resolution of most models used to forecast climate changes. Main conclusions: The fine-scale variability in temperature anomalies has several key implications for understanding spatial patterns in coral bleaching-and disease-related anomalies as well as for designing protected areas to conserve coral reefs in a changing climate. Spatial heterogeneity in temperature anomalies suggests that certain reefs could be targeted for protection because they exhibit differences in thermal stress. However, temporal variability in anomalies could complicate efforts to protect reefs, because high anomalies in one year are not necessarily predictive of future patterns of stress. Together, our results suggest that temperature anomalies related to coral bleaching and disease are likely to be highly heterogeneous and could produce more localized impacts of climate change.
40928132|Aim: Species-body size distributions (SBDs) are plots of species richness across body size classes. They have been linked to energetic constraints, speciation-extinction dynamics and to evolutionary trends. However, little is known about the spatial variation of size distributions. Here we study SBDs of European springtails (Collembola) at a continental scale and test whether minimum, average and maximum body size and the shapes of size distributions change across latitudinal and longitudinal gradients and whether SBDs of islands and mainlands differ. We also test whether the island rule and the positive body size-range size relationship of vertebrates also holds for Collembola. Location: Europe. Methods: We use a unique data set on the spatial distributions of 2102 species of European springtails across 52 countries and larger islands together with associated data on body size, area, climate variables, longitude and latitude. Differences in the central moments of SBDs are inferred from simultaneous spatial autoregression models. Results: The SBD of the European Collembola and its largest suborder Entomobryomorpha is unimodal and symmetrical. Average, minimum and maximum body weight and the skewness of the mainland/island SBDs peaked at intermediate latitudes. We could not find simple latitudinal gradients in minimum and maximum body weight. Average and maximum body size increased with country/island area in accordance with the island rule in vertebrates, while minimum body size did not significantly differ between islands and mainlands. Finally, we found a weak but statistically significant positive correlation of range size and body size. Main conclusions: We provide evidence for differences in body size distributions between islands and mainlands that are in part in line with the island rule in invertebrates. We also find evidence for an interspecific body size-range size relationship similar to that of vertebrates although the vertebrate pattern is much stronger than the springtail pattern. Our results on latitudinal gradients of maximum and average body size imply the need to account for species richness and area effects in the study of latitudinal gradients in body size. We recommend implementing sample size and area effects in the study of body size distributions on islands and mainlands.
40205733|Aim: Deep-sea pelagic diversity is poorly understood. Local (SL) and regional (SR) ichthyonekton species richness are presented and analysed with respect to local and regional environmental factors, and biogeographical processes. Location: Sixty-six stations from the Atlantic Ocean and adjacent sector of the Southern Ocean, 65 N to 57 S. Methods: Estimation of SL by means of rarefaction. Stepwise evaluation of SL and SR relationships by means of the second-order corrected Akaike information criterion (AICc) after locally weighted scatterplot smoothing (LOESS) and linear fitting, analysis of saturation effects by means of slopes of species accumulation curves (log-log plots). Results: Latitudinal gradients were present for SL and SR, and were asymmetric between the Northern and Southern hemispheres. Relatively low species richness was encountered for the Southern Ocean. Asymmetry at the regional level by means of higher SR was attributed to area effects in the South Atlantic. Log-log plots indicated saturation of local assemblages and dependence on environmental factors. SL was related to productivity; this relationship was hump-shaped. SR was positively related to area size and negatively to seasonality of production. Biogeographical effects were indicated in that SR peaks coincided with overlap zones of boreal and tropical faunas as a consequence of historical faunal exchange processes. Main conclusions: The stepwise approach allowed for distinction between effects of area size, productivity and biogeographical processes on diversity at local and regional scales. Productivity in particular is important in two ways. At the local scale, the link of productivity to SL is explained by a successional-functional hypothesis of resource utilization, whereas the seasonality effect for SR reinforces the hypothesis of dependence of deep-sea fishes on seasonality of production through changes of life-history traits. The causes of low Antarctic faunal diversity remained unresolved.
2665437|A new method of environmental inference is presented. This method uses the climatic restriction index (CRI) for each mammal species, based on its geographical range within different climatic regimes, and a set of calculated summary indexes known as the bioclimatic spectrum. Analysis of 50 faunas throughout the world shows that terrestrial mammal communities are effective tools for accurate climatic inference at large spatial scale. The results also indicate that the use of entire mammalian fauna is the best inference system, followed by those based on separate groups such as Insectivora, Rodentia, micromammals and macromammals. Removing Chiroptera from the analysis does not change the results significantly. Bioclimatic analysis appears to be a good method for environmental interpretation. This new method ensures a high qualitative precision. It provides an empirical model for mammal community characterization that must be taken into account for palaeoclimatic reconstructions of continental environments.
30137905|Aim: We assessed the rates of turnover of tree species with distance (beta diversity) in wet forests of the Western Ghats (WG) complex of India to see whether climate, topographic variation or species traits influence beta diversity. Location: The Western Ghats is a chain of mountains about 1600 km in length, running parallel to the western coast of the Indian Peninsula from above 80 N to almost 21 N latitude. Methods: We used data from 60 small plot inventories concentrated in three regions: the southernmost part of the Western Ghats (SWG) (824 to 937 N), the Nilgiri Hills (1112 to 1114 N), and the central Western Ghats (CWG) (1232 to 1451 N). We used Sorensen's index (SI) to estimate the similarity in species composition between two plots and regressed SI against the logarithm of the distance between plots to assess beta diversity. A bootstrapping procedure provided confidence intervals for regression coefficients. To test for the effects of climate, we regressed seasonality differences between plots against SI for low-elevation (< 800 m) plots along the north-south axis, and all plots in the SWG. We assessed the impact of the rainfall gradient in the Kogar region. Results: Among all three regions, beta diversity was highest along the latitudinal axis, and along the rainfall gradient in the Kogar region. Differences in seasonality between sites were strongly related to beta diversity along the north-south seasonality gradient and within the SWG. Within the three regions, beta diversity was highest in the region with the strongest rainfall gradient and lowest for the topographically heterogeneous SWG. Beta diversity did not differ between forest strata and dispersal modes. Main conclusions: We conclude that climate, particularly seasonality, is probably the primary driver of beta diversity among rain forest trees of the Western Ghats complex.
2665339|1 Assessments of climate change impacts on the global carbon cycle have to rely on accurate models describing the contribution of the terrestrial biosphere. Interannual climate fluctuations provide an ideal test case for their reliability because results can be checked against atmospheric measurements. 2 Intercomparisons have so far shown rather large discrepancies between the results of different terrestrial ecosystem models, especially for net primary productivity (NPP). Therefore, identification of the processes contributing most to modelling uncertainties is another necessary step towards more reliable predictions. 3 The Biosphere Energy-Transfer and Hydrology model (BETHY) is used to simulate global photosynthesis, and plant and soil respiration embedded within the full energy and water balance, based on 13 years of meteorological data. A series of sensitivity experiments is defined to assess the effects of estimated global uncertainties in a range of parameters. 4 It is found that modelling uncertainties are responsible for a large range of computed values of global annual NPP, while interannual climate fluctuations create only relatively minor changes. These fluctuations, however, are responsible for imbalances between carbon uptake by and release from the terrestrial biosphere, creating interannual fluctuations of the net biosphere-atmosphere CO<sub>2</sub> exchange. Here, different model versions tend to agree with each other, which indicates that the net flux is generally better constrained than average NPP. A comparison with net fluxes derived from atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> data shows a good agreement for most models. 5 The results support the hypothesis that at the time scale of a decade, the terrestrial biosphere causes most of the interannual fluctuations of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations, with the tropies playing a dominant role. They also indicate that modelling uncertainties for the net carbon exchanges tend to be less pronounced than for NPP. The method presented here, applied to other modelling studies, should also help in the identification of major uncertainties in biosphere process description, eventually leading to improved predictive capabilities of such models.
3697653| Aim: To examine the exploitation, recovery and current status of green turtles (Chelonia mydas) nesting at Ascension Island. Location: Ascension Island (UK) (757' S, 1422' W), South Atlantic Ocean. Methods: We analysed records of the harvest of green turtles nesting at Ascension Island between 1822 and 1935, illustrating the decline in numbers over this period. Using a deterministic age-class structured model we predict the initial number of breeding females present in the population prior to the recorded harvest and compare this to our estimate of the current population based upon our recent annual surveys (1999-2004). Results: Prior to 1822 we estimate the nesting population of green turtles to have been at least 19,000-22,000 individuals in order for the population to have survived the level of harvest recorded. From recent data (1999-2004), we estimate the current breeding population of green turtles at this site to be 11,000-15,000 females. Our results illustrate a dramatic recovery of the population, which is still increasing exponentially and shows no evidence of slowing, suggesting it has not reached 50% of its carrying capacity. Main conclusions: We estimate that, since the 1970s, the Ascension Island population of green turtles has increased by 285% and question the recent listing of this species as endangered by the IUCN (World Conservation Union), in particular in the Atlantic Ocean, where 75% of the populations assessed by the IUCN are increasing. Indeed, we estimate the global population of this species to be in excess of 2.2 million individuals. We suggest that the IUCN's global listing process detracts attention from those populations that are truly threatened with extinction and should not, in its present form, be applied to globally distributed long-lived species such as marine turtles. 
41239404|Aim: To assess the influence of natural environmental factors and historic and current anthropogenic processes as determinants of vegetation distributions at a continental scale. Location: Africa. Methods: Boosted regression trees (BRTs) were used to model the distribution of African vegetation types, represented by remote-sensing-based land-cover (LC) types, as a function of environmental factors. The contribution of each predictor variable to the best models and the accuracy of all models were assessed. Subsequently, to test for anthropogenic vegetation transformation, the relationship between the number of BRT false presences per grid cell and human impact was evaluated using hurdle models. Finally, the relative contributions of environmental, current and historic anthropogenic factors on vegetation distribution were assessed using regression-based variation partitioning. Results: Deserts and evergreen forests were best predicted by environmental variables, though most other LC classes were also relatively well predicted by the environment. Annual precipitation emerged as the most important determinant of all LC classes. At low rainfall levels, LC classes with increasing woody cover replaced each other as rainfall increased, while LC class rainfall optima overlapped at high rainfall levels. With some exceptions, anthropogenic factors had a relatively small influence on the distribution of most LC classes. However, anthropogenic factors did have an influence on the inaccuracies in BRT models, and these models provided an indication of which LC classes have been most reduced by transformation. Main conclusions: Here we show, for the first time, how environmental and anthropogenic factors influence vegetation distribution across Africa. LC classes at rainfall extremes are best predicted by the environment. In addition, we corroborate, also for the first time, the much-stated claim that rainfall is the most important variable for the distribution of African vegetation for all African vegetation types. Finally, we indicate how anthropogenic drivers affect LC distributions.
40801857|Aim: To establish the extent to which archipelagos follow the same species-area relationship as their constituent islands and to explore the factors that may explain departures from the relationship.
40405759|Aim: To evaluate the relative potential contribution of native ruderals and aliens to plant homogenization at a regional scale, after taking into account the effect of diverse environmental distances. Location: Catalonia (north-east Spain) Methods: We have used the flora module of the BDBC project (Catalonian Database of Biodiversity), which provides information on plant species distribution per 10x10 km Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) cell. Pairwise floristic similarities of: (1) total, (2) native non-ruderal, (3) native ruderal, and (4) alien vascular plant species have been calculated for a particularly well-sampled subset of UTM cells, using a modified version of the Simpson index. These similarities have been compared per UTM pair using Mantel tests, before and after considering their relative association with geographical, climatic and landscape distances from linear regression models. The floristic similarity of both total and native non-ruderal species was also correlated with the proportion of alien and native ruderal species after discounting the effects of environmental distances. Results: The proportion of variance explained by environmental correlates was highest for the floristic similarity of native non-ruderal plants and lowest for that of aliens. In all plant groups, climatic distance was the main significant variable of species similarity. Geographical distance was only significant for total and native non-ruderal species and was of secondary importance in both cases. Landscape distance was not significant in any case. Similarities among both aliens and native ruderals were significantly higher than among native non-ruderals, but these differences disappeared after removing the effect of environmental distances. Main conclusions: Species similarity between sites may depend on differences in environmental factors other than geographical distance. This has to be taken into account when exploring the implications for biotic homogenization. In the case of Catalonian flora, the potentially homogenizing effect of native ruderal and alien species seems to be associated with their lower dependence on geographical distance and climatic factors compared with those of native, non-ruderal species.
3697614|Aims: To describe the pattern of mean body size of native mammals in Europe, and to investigate its relationships with environmental predictors related to four hypotheses: (1) dispersal; (2) heat conservation; (3) heat dissipation; and (4) resource availability. Location: Continental western Europe and Great Britain. Methods: We used range maps to estimate the mean body size (average log mass) of mammals in 386 cells of
30134100|Aim: Many high-latitude floras contain more calcicole than calcifuge vascular plant species. The species pool hypothesis explains this pattern through an historical abundance of high-pH soils in the Pleistocene and an associated opportunity for the evolutionary accumulation of calcicoles. To obtain insights into the history of calcicole/calcifuge patterns, we studied species richness-pH-climate relationships across a climatic gradient, which included cool and dry landscapes resembling the Pleistocene environments of northern Eurasia. Location: Western Sayan Mountains, southern Siberia. Methods: Vegetation and environmental variables were sampled at steppe, forest and tundra sites varying in climate and soil pH, which ranged from 3.7 to 8.6. Species richness was related to pH and other variables using linear models and regression trees. Results: Species richness is higher in areas with warmer winters and at medium altitudes that are warmer than the mountains and wetter than the lowlands. In treeless vegetation, the species richness-pH relationship is unimodal. In tundra vegetation, which occurs on low-pH soils, richness increases with pH, but it decreases in steppes, which have high-pH soils. In forests, where soils are more acidic than in the open landscape, the species richness-pH relationship is monotonic positive. Most species occur on soils with a pH of 6-7. Main conclusions: Soil pH in continental southern Siberia is strongly negatively correlated with precipitation, and species richness is determined by the opposite effects of these two variables. Species richness increases with pH until the soil is very dry. In dry soils, pH is high but species richness decreases due to drought stress. Thus, the species richness-pH relationship is unimodal in treeless vegetation. Trees do not grow on the driest soils, which results in a positive species richness-pH relationship in forests. If modern species richness resulted mainly from the species pool effects, it would suggest that historically common habitats had moderate precipitation and slightly acidic to neutral soils.
40205691|Aim: A latitudinal gradient in species richness, defined as a decrease in biodiversity away from the equator, is one of the oldest known patterns in ecology and evolutionary biology. However, there are also many known cases of increasing poleward diversity, forming inverse latitudinal biodiversity gradients. As only three processes (speciation, extinction and dispersal) can directly affect species richness in areas, similar factors may be responsible for both classical (high tropical diversity) and inverse (high temperate diversity) gradients. Thus, a modified explanation for differential species richness which accounts for both patterns would be preferable to one which only explains high tropical biodiversity. Location: The New World. Methods: We test several proposed ecological, temporal, evolutionary and spatial explanations for latitudinal diversity gradients in the New World snake tribe Lampropeltini, which exhibits its highest biodiversity in temperate regions. Results: We find that an extratropical peak in species richness is not explained by latitudinal variation in diversification rate, the mid-domain effect, or Rapoport's rule. Rather, earlier colonization and longer duration in the temperate zones allowing more time for speciation to increase biodiversity, phylogenetic niche conservatism limiting tropical dispersal and the expansion of the temperate zones in the Tertiary better explain inverse diversity gradients in this group. Main conclusions: Our conclusions are the inverse of the predictions made by the tropical conservatism hypothesis to explain higher biodiversity near the equator. Therefore, we suggest that the processes invoked are not intrinsic to the tropics but are dependent on historical biogeography to determine the distribution of species richness, which we refer to as the 'biogeographical conservatism hypothesis'.
40928130|Aims: We have compared local (alpha) and regional (beta) species diversities of dung beetles in wet forests in the main tropical regions including Madagascar. Madagascar is exceptional in lacking native large herbivorous mammals which produce the key resource for dung beetles elsewhere. Location: Central and South America, mainland Africa, Madagascar and Southeast Asia. Methods: Trapping data on dung beetles and data on mammalian faunas were obtained from published and unpublished studies. We used our original data for Madagascar. Results: Species richness of dung beetles and that of large-bodied (> 15 mm length) species in particular were highly significantly explained by the regional number of large-bodied (> 10 kg) mammals (R from 50 to 80%). For a given pairwise spatial distance between two communities, beta diversity was significantly higher in Madagascar than elsewhere, explaining the very high total species richness in Madagascar in spite of low local diversity. Main conclusion: The presence and numbers of large herbivorous mammals greatly influence the species richness of dung beetles in tropical wet forests. The lack of native large herbivores rather than a limited species pool explains the low local diversity in Madagascar. Exceptionally high beta diversity in Madagascar suggests a pattern of old radiation involving extensive allopatric speciation.
2997885|1. The South and Middle American tropics contain the world's largest area of moist savanna. Despite an apparent uniformity in appearance, floristic groupings can be detected and four zones are provisionally outlined with a number of characteristic plants. 2. Although current knowledge of their biogeography and palaeoecology is scattered and incomplete, it is evident that there have been significant changes throughout the neotropics since the glacial maximum. 3. The largest and most significant savanna formations are the Brazilian cerrados, which occupy nearly 23% of that country, an area equivalent to that of western Europe. The cerrados range from savanna woodlands (cerradao), through progressively less arboreal formations (cerrado), to nearly treeless grasslands (campo). A number of adjoining vegetation formations are closely related, including evergreen and deciduous forests, scrub woodlands and wetlands. 4. Until the last decade, the biological diversity of the neotropical savannas was thought to be limited since, structurally, they appeared to form a relatively simple mosaic of repeated physiognomic units. New evidence reveals a rich diversity of tree, shrub and herbaceous plants in a continuously changing spatial pattern Such diversity reflects the great area of the biome, together with local differences in topography and drainage, soil conditions and fire frequency. 5. Research on the dynamic processes affecting savannas is of increasing importance and urgency given the potential value of the area that is still relatively undisturbed (about 50% of the original, but with less than 2% having federal reserve status) and the pace of current conversion to different forms of land use.
2665347|In complex areas of international policy, such as biodiversity conservation, there is a risk that well-promoted strategies will be received by decision makers as a cure-all. The U.S.-based Conservation International is promoting biodiversity hotspots as a `silver bullet' strategy for conserving most species for least cost. We assess the degree to which this goal is compatible with four social values that characterize the conservation movement. We find that biodiversity hotspots provide only a partial response because conservation does not treat all species as equal. We argue that explicit recognition of such values is fundamental to a structured debate contributing to the development of a common strategy for biodiversity conservation.
3697671|Aim: The elevational gradients of species richness have been well documented; however, studies about species turnover (i.e. beta diversity) in such gradients are limited. We aimed to evaluate the relationship between species turnover and elevation in rodents, and particularly to assess two assumptions at the local scale: (1) species turnover is higher at an intermediate elevation; and (2) turnover decreases at higher elevations as a result of species with larger elevational ranges; and a third assumption at a regional scale; (3) beta diversity changes positively with the size of the elevational range. Location: We selected 13 studies from the literature that evaluated the relationship between elevation and species richness in rodents, which include diverse sites around the world. Methods: We constructed presence/absence matrices of species occurring at 500-m intervals, in order to measure spatial species turnover, using Whittaker's (
41239263|Aim: To estimate population extinction rates within freshwater fish communities since the fragmentation of palaeo-rivers due to sea level rise at the end of the Pleistocene; to combine this information with rates estimated by other approaches (population surveys, fossil records); and to build an empirical extinction-area relationship. Location: Temperate rivers from the Northern Hemisphere, with a special focus on rivers discharging into the English Channel, in north-western France. Methods: (1) French rivers. We used a faunal relaxation approach to estimate extinction rates in coastal rivers after they became isolated by the sea level rise. Tributaries within the Seine were used to build a species-area relationship for a non-fragmented river system to predict species richness in coastal rivers before their fragmentation. (2) Other rivers. Extinction rates obtained for four other Holarctic river systems fragmented at the end of the Pleistocene, the fragmented populations of one salmonid species (Japan) and the fossil records from the Mississippi Basin were included in the study. Results: (1) French rivers. Within strictly freshwater fish species, rare and/or habitat specialist species were the most affected by fragmentation. In contrast, euryhaline species were not affected. A negative relationship between extinction rate and river basin size was observed. (2) Other rivers. Our study established a common scaling relationship for freshwater fish population extinction rates that spans seven orders of magnitude in river basin size. Main conclusions: This study strongly suggests that extinctions of fish populations occurred within French coastal rivers after they became isolated 8000 years ago. The patterns observed at regional and inter-continental scales are consistent with the expectation that large populations are less prone to extinction than small ones, resulting in a strong extinction-area relationship coherent over a large spatiotemporal scale. Our study is the first multi-scale quantitative assessment of background extinction patterns for freshwater fishes.
40801920|Aim: To test six hypotheses that could explain or mediate the positive correlation between human population density (HPD) and bird species richness while controlling for biased sampling effort. These hypotheses were labelled as follows: productivity (net primary productivity, NPP); inherent heterogeneity (diversity of vegetation types); anthropogenic heterogeneity (diversity of land uses); conservation policy (proportion of conservation land); increased productivity (humaninduced productivity increases); and the reduced-slope hypothesis (which predicts that humans have a negative impact on species numbers across the full range of variation in HPD).
40205718|Aim: To examine frequency distributions of body sizes for mammal assemblages at several spatial scales and assess the generality of results heretofore obtained only for North and South America. Location: Africa. Methods: Terrestrial African mammals were allocated to major biomes, and regional and local assemblages were extracted from published and unpublished literature. We produced body size frequency distributions for local, regional, biomic and continental distributions, both for whole assemblages and for three foraging strata, and compared these with several standard metrics (e. g. mean and median size, interquartile range, skew, bimodality, etc.). Differences between distributions were quantified using t-tests and analysis of variance. Results: African mammal faunas exhibit features in common with those of North and South America, most notably the gradual reduction in the modality and skew of body size distributions with decreasing spatial scale. Unlike other continents, however, the African mammal fauna exhibits a bimodal frequency distributions at all spatial scales. Our data suggest a role for competitive interactions in local assembly, as documented elsewhere, but further data on locally interacting assemblages are needed. Main conclusions: The African fauna appears unique in the expression of bimodality at all spatial scales. The presence of a secondary mode at large body size may reflect co-evolutionary adjustments to proto- human hunters and consequent escape from anthropogenic Pleistocene extinctions, but the absence of species of intermediate body size (c. 250- 4000 g) remains anomalous and is not readily explained by either historical or modern (ecological) factors. For the African mammal fauna, a key question in understanding the role of history versus ecology may not be why there are so many large species, but why there are so few intermediate-sized species.
3182735|Aim: Species assemblages with high proportions of localized taxa occur in regional islands with a history of strong ecoclimatic separation from adjacent systems. Current disturbance in such islands of relictualism or endemism disrupts the distinctive local character in favour of regionally distributed taxa with a wider range of tolerances. However, rehabilitation of the system should restore the localized biota. Thus, we used biogeographical composition to assess progress towards restoration of the dung beetle fauna associated with such an island of endemism following dredge-mining. Location: The study was conducted in natural coastal dune forest and a 23-year chronosequence of regenerating dune vegetation in the Maputaland centre of endemism, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Methods: Dung beetles were trapped in eight stands of regenerating vegetation of different ages (< 1 year to ~21 years) and in four stands of natural dune forest with differing ecological characteristics defined by measurements of vegetative physiognomy and microclimate. Species groups defined from multivariate analysis of biogeographical distribution patterns and vegetation associations were used to demonstrate quantitative compositional changes in the dung beetle assemblages across the chronosequence to natural forest. Results: Three biogeographical groups were defined. One group comprised species widespread in southern Africa or both southern and east Africa. The other two groups were endemic, one to the east coast and the other to Maputaland. There was a general trend from dominance by regionally distributed dung beetle taxa to dominance by locally distributed taxa across the chronosequence of regenerating vegetation from grassland, to open Acacia karroo thicket, to dense A. karroo-dominated woodland. However, this trend was linked closely to the relative physiognomic and microclimatic similarity between the regenerating vegetation and natural forest. Thus, proportions of locally distributed taxa were lower in older chronosequence woodland (~18-~21 years) with its low canopy cover and open understorey than in dense early chronosequence woodland (~9-~12 years), which is physiognomically and microclimatically closer to species-diverse natural forest with its dense canopy and understorey. Overall, the present dung beetle community comprises five species groups. Single widespread (21 spp.) and endemic groups (14 spp.) showed similar patterns of association with early chronosequence grassland and open thicket stands. A single widespread (3 spp.) and two endemic shade-associated groups (3 and 11 spp.) showed differing patterns of association centred, respectively, in late chronosequence woodland, natural forest, or all shaded stands. Main conclusions: At 23 years, vegetative regeneration is still at an early stage, but abundant activity of most, although not all species recorded in natural forest, is recovered with the closure of the woodland canopy at ~9 years. Compositional differences with respect to natural forest vary closely with vegetative physiognomy and its effect on the microclimate. Therefore, full compositional recovery is dependent on the re-establishment of natural forest physiognomy and microclimate.
3697622|Aim: Local-regional (LR) species diversity plots were conceived to assess the contribution of regional and local processes in shaping the patterns of biological diversity, but have been used also to explore the scaling of diversity in terms of its alpha, beta, and gamma components. Here we explore the idea that patterns in the geographical ranges of species over a continent can determine the shape of small region to large region (SRLR) plots, which are equivalent to LR plots when comparing the diversity of sites at two regional scales. Location: To test that idea, we analysed the diversity patterns at two regional scales for the mammals of North America, defined as the mainland from Alaska and Canada to Panama. Method: We developed a theoretical model relating average range size of species over a large-scale region with its average regional point species diversity (RPD). Then, we generated a null model of expected SRLR plots based on theoretical predictions. Species diversities at two scales were modelled using linear and saturation functions for Type I and Type II SRLR relationships, respectively. We applied the models to the case of North American mammals by examining the regional diversity and the RPD for 21 large-scale quadrats (with area equal to
2665408|1 This study compares the structural characteristics of 12 old-growth and six postfire second-growth hemlock-northern hardwood stands in north central Adirondack Park, New York, in order to test the null hypothesis that there are no differences in species composition, size structure, age structure and attributes such as dead wood and canopy gaps between old-growth stands and this type of second-growth forest. 2 The second-growth forests of this study regenerated following widespread logging-related fires in either 1903 or 1908; the old growth and second growth have similar environmental settings. 3 Estimates of stand ages, derived from an increment core of the oldest tree in each stand, range from 88 to 390 years. 4 Structural attributes are related to stand age (i.e. stage of development). In comparison with the second-growth forests of this study, older stands are characterized as (a) a larger average diameter of canopy trees; (b) a greater basal area of trees; (c) a lower density of canopy trees and of all trees 10 cm d.b.h.; (d) a higher density of eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carriere) trees; (e) a higher density of large trees (50 cm d.b.h.); (f) larger canopy gaps; and (g) a greater volume of coarse woody debris (both logs 20 cm d.b.h. and snags 10 cm d.b.h.). 5 Despite differences between old growth and second growth, especially in species composition, it appears from observations of the 18 stands that second-growth forests are developing some structural characteristics of old growth. 6 Structural attributes of the old-growth forests are similar to characteristics of the same forest type in geographically distant areas in eastern USA.
3697456|Aim: Species belonging to higher taxa endemic to islands are more likely to go extinct following human arrival. This selectivity may occur because more highly endemic island species possess features that make them uniquely vulnerable to impacts associated with human arrival, specifically: (1) restricted distribution (2) reduced predator escape response, including loss of flight, and (3) life history traits, such as large body mass, associated with greater susceptibility to hunting or habitat loss. This study aims to identify which of these features can explain the selective extinction of more highly endemic bird species in New Zealand. Location: North and South Island, New Zealand. Methods: Bird species breeding in New Zealand prior to human arrival were classified according to whether they became extinct or not during two periods of human settlement, prehistoric (post-Maori but pre-European arrival) and historic (post-European arrival). We modelled the relationships between extinction probability, level of endemism and life history traits in both periods. Results: The prehistoric extinction-endemism relationship can be explained entirely by the selective extinction of large-bodied species, whereas the historic extinction-endemism relationship appears due to increased susceptibility to introduced predators resulting from the loss of predator escape responses, including loss of flight. Conclusions: These features may explain extinction-endemism relationships more generally, given that human hunting and predator introductions are major impacts associated with human arrival on islands.
2997830|This paper describes structural change and damage to the natural tree vegetation in the Dr Alfredo Barrera Marin Botanical Garden, following Hurricane Gilbert in September, 1988. Post-hurricane data were compared with pre-hurricane data from the same plots, focusing mainly on composition and structure. Near complete defoliation of trees and plants of the understorey occurred and average foliage loss was estimated to be 4.5 t/ha. The density of trees decreased by 33%, and the basal area decreased by 12%. Small diameter trees accounted for the great majority of losses and trees in the largest diameter classes survived best. The average height of trees in the lower canopy decreased by 6% and for those in the upper canopy by 9%. The frequency of understorey plants decreased by 51% and their cover decreased by 70%. Floristic richness decreased only slightly after the hurricane
3697610|Aim: To investigate the major paradigms of intense isolation and little anthropogenic influence around Antarctica and to examine the timings and scales of the modification of the southern polar biota. Location: Antarctica and surrounding regions. Methods: First, mechanisms of and evidence for long-term isolation are reviewed. These include continental drift, the development of a surrounding deep-water channel and the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC). They also include levels of endemism, richness and distinctiveness of assemblages. Secondly, evidence for past and modern opportunities for species transport are investigated. Comparative levels of alien establishments are also examined around the Southern Ocean. Discussion: On a Cenozoic time-scale, it is clear that Gondwana's fragmentation led to increasing geographical isolation of Antarctica and the initiation of the ACC, which restricted biota exchange to low levels while still permitting some movement of biota. On a shorter Quaternary time-scale, the continental ice-sheet, influenced by solar (Milankovitch) cycles, has expanded and contracted periodically, covering and exposing terrestrial and continental shelf habitats. There were probably refugia for organisms during each glacial maxima. It is also likely that new taxa were introduced into Antarctica during cycles of ice sheet and oceanic front movement. The current situation (a glacial minimum) is not 'normal'; full interglacials represent only 10% of the last 430 ka. On short (ecological) time-scales, many natural dispersal processes (airborne, oceanic eddy, rafting and hitch-hiking on migrants) enable the passage of biota to and from Antarctica. In recent years, humans have become influential both directly by transporting organisms and indirectly by increasing survival and establishment prospects via climate change. Main conclusions: Patterns of endemism and alien establishment are very different across taxa, land and sea, and north vs. south of the Polar Frontal Zone. Establishment conditions, as much as transport, are important in limiting alien establishment. Three time-scales emerge as important in the modification of Antarctica's biota. The natural 'inter glacial' process of reinvasion of Antarctica is being influenced strongly by humans.
40928123|Aim: We test how productivity, disturbance rate, plant functional composition and species richness gradients control changes in the composition of high-latitude vegetation during recent climatic warming. Location: Northern Fennoscandia, Europe. Methods: We resampled tree line ecotone vegetation sites sampled 26 years earlier. To quantify compositional changes, we used generalized linear models to test relationships between compositional changes and environmental gradients. Results: Compositional changes in species abundances are positively related to the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI)-based estimate of productivity gradient and to geomorphological disturbance. Competitive species in fertile sites show the greatest changes in abundance, opposed to negligible changes in infertile sites. Change in species richness is negatively related to initial richness, whereas geomorphological disturbance has positive effects on change in richness. Few lowland species have moved towards higher elevations. Main conclusions: The sensitivity of vegetation to climate change depends on a complex interplay between productivity, physical and biotic disturbances, plant functional composition and richness. Our results suggest that vegetation on productive sites, such as herb-rich deciduous forests at low altitudes, is more sensitive to climate warming than alpine tundra vegetation where grazing may have strong buffering effects. Geomorphological disturbance promotes vegetation change under climatic warming, whereas high diversity has a stabilizing effect.
3697414|Aim: One of the limitations to using species' distribution atlases in conservation planning is their coarse resolution relative to the needs of local planners. In this study, a simple approach to downscale original species atlas distributions to a finer resolution is outlined. If such a procedure yielded accurate downscaled predictions, then it could be an aid to using available distribution atlases in real-world local conservation decisions. Location: Europe. Methods: An iterative procedure based on generalized additive modelling is used to downscale original European 50 x 50 km distributions of 2189 plant and terrestrial vertebrate species to c. 10 x 10 km grid resolution. Models are trained on 70% of the original data and evaluated on the remaining 30%, using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) procedure. Fitted models are then interpolated to a finer resolution. A British dataset comprising distributions of 81 passerine-bird species in a 10 x 10 km grid is used as a test bed to assess the accuracy of the downscaled predictions. European-wide, downscaled predictions are further evaluated in terms of their ability to reproduce: (1) spatial patterns of coincidence in species richness scores among different groups; and (2) spatial patterns of coincidence in richness, rarity and complementarity hotspots. Results: There was a generally good agreement between downscaled and observed fine-resolution distributions for passerine species in Britain (median Jaccard similarity = 70%; lower quartile = 36%; upper quartile = 88%). In contrast, the correlation between downscaled and observed passerine species richness was relatively low (rho = 0.31) indicating a pattern of error propagation through the process of overlaying downscaled distributions for many species. It was also found that measures of model accuracy in fitting original data (ROC) were a poor predictor of models' ability to interpolate distributions at fine resolutions (rho = -0.10). Although European hotspots were not fully coincident between observed and modelled coarse-resolution data, or between modelled coarse resolution and modelled downscaled data, there was evidence that downscaled distributions were able to maintain original cross-taxon coincidence of species-richness scores, at least for terrestrial vertebrate groups. Downscaled distributions were also able to uncover important environmental gradients otherwise blurred by coarse-resolution data. Main conclusions: Despite uncertainties, downscaling procedures may prove useful to identify reserves that are more meaningfully related to local patterns of environmental variation. Potential errors arising from the presence of false positives may be reduced if downscaled-distribution records projected to occur outside the range of original coarse-resolution data are excluded. However, the usefulness of this procedure may be limited to data-rich regions. If downscaling procedures are applied to data-poor regions, then there is a need to undertake further research to understand the structure of error in models. In particular, it would be important to investigate which species are poorly modelled, where and why. Without such an assessment it is difficult to support unsupervised use of downscaled data in most real-world situations.
30137997|Aim: In response to a recent paper suggesting the failure of ecological niche models to predict between native and introduced distributional areas of fire ants (Solenopsis invicta), we sought to assess methodological causes of this failure. Location: Ecological niche models were developed on the species' native distributional area in South America, and projected globally. Methods: We developed ecological niche models based on six different environmental data sets, and compared their respective abilities to anticipate the North American invasive distributional area of the species. Results: We show that models based on the 'bioclimatic variables' of the WorldClim data set indeed fail to predict the full invasive potential of the species, but that models based on four other data sets could predict this potential correctly. Main conclusions: The difference in predictive abilities appears to centre on the complexity of the environmental variables involved. These results emphasize important influences of environmental data sets on the generality and ability of ecological niche models to anticipate novel phenomena, and offer a simpler explanation for the lack of predictive ability among native and invaded distributional areas than that of niche shifts.
40205730|Aim: This first global quantification of the relationship between leaf traits and soil nutrient fertility reflects the trade-off between growth and nutrient conservation. The power of soils versus climate in predicting leaf trait values is assessed in bivariate and multivariate analyses and is compared with the distribution of growth forms (as a discrete classification of vegetation) across gradients of soil fertility and climate. Location: All continents except for Antarctica. Methods: Data on specific leaf area (SLA), leaf N concentration (LNC), leaf P concentration (LPC) and leaf N:P were collected for 474 species distributed across 99 sites (809 records), together with abiotic information from each study site. Individual and combined effects of soils and climate on leaf traits were quantified using maximum likelihood methods. Differences in occurrence of growth form across soil fertility and climate were determined by one-way ANOVA. Results: There was a consistent increase in SLA, LNC and LPC with increasing soil fertility. SLA was related to proxies of N supply, LNC to both soil total N and P and LPC was only related to proxies of P supply. Soil nutrient measures explained more variance in leaf traits among sites than climate in bivariate analysis. Multivariate analysis showed that climate interacted with soil nutrients for SLA and area-based LNC. Mass-based LNC and LPC were determined mostly by soil fertility, but soil P was highly correlated to precipitation. Relationships of leaf traits to soil nutrients were stronger than those of growth form versus soil nutrients. In contrast, climate determined distribution of growth form more strongly than it did leaf traits. Main conclusions: We provide the first global quantification of the trade-off between traits associated with growth and resource conservation 'strategies' in relation to soil fertility. Precipitation but not temperature affected this trade-off. Continuous leaf traits might be better predictors of plant responses to nutrient supply than growth form, but growth forms reflect important aspects of plant species distribution with climate.
2665352|Despite considerable published literature on the above-ground ecology of the pinewoods of Scotland, little research has considered the way in which pinewood soils differ from those under other vegetation types. Soil properties were compared between ancient, semi-natural Scots pine forest and moorland on three soil types in the Abernethy Forest Reserve in the Cairngorm Mountains of Scotland. Soil morphology differed considerably between the vegetation types on each soil type, principally in the thickness of organic layers. Forest soils had thicker organic layers and this was particularly true of the F horizon. Forest soils were slightly less acid than equivalent moorland soils and had accumulated significantly more carbon. Forest soils in this environment therefore have the capacity to sequester larger amounts of carbon than moorland, and therefore represent a significant potential carbon sink. The quantity of nitrogen and phosphorus was also consistently larger in the organic layers under pine forest and since little difference existed in these properties in the mineral horizons, it was concluded that this accumulation was real and represented a net addition to the tree-soil system.
3877793| Aim: To determine the relationship between the distribution of climate, climatic heterogeneity and pteridophyte species richness gradients in Australia, using an approach that does not assume potential relationships are spatially invariant and allows for scale effects (extent of analysis) to be explicitly examined. Location: Australia, extending from 10 S to 43 S and 112 E to 153 E. Method: Species richness within 50 x 50 km grid cells was determined using point distribution data. Climatic surfaces representing the distribution and availability of water and energy at 1 km and 5 km cell resolutions were obtained. Climate at the 50 km resolution of analysis was represented by their mean and standard deviation in that area. Relationships were assessed using geographically weighted linear regression at a range of spatial bandwidths to investigate scale effects. Results: The parameters and the predictive strength of all models varied across space at all extents of analysis. Overall, climatic variables representing water availability were more highly correlated to pteridophyte richness gradients in Australia than those representing energy. Their variance in cells further increased the strength of the relationships in topographically heterogeneous regions. Relationships with water were strong across all extents of analysis, particularly in the tropical and subtropical parts of the continent. Water availability explained less of the variation in richness at higher latitudes. Main conclusions: This study brings into question the ability of aspatial and single-extent models, searching for a unified explanation of macro-scaled patterns in gradients of diversity, to adequately represent reality. It showed that, across Australia, there is a positive relationship between pteridophyte species richness and water availability but the strength and nature of the relationship varies spatially with scale in a highly complex manner. The spatial variance, or actual complexity, in these relationships could not have been demonstrated had a traditional aspatial global regression approach been used. Regional scale variation in relationships may be at least as important as more general relationships for a true understanding of the distribution of broad-scale diversity. 
2665387|The species composition of reef-fish assemblages from nine Brazilian major coastal sites and four oceanic islands are compared. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was utilized to identify groups of sites based on similarity of composition, and to correlate environmental trends with such groups. Five distinct groups of sites were recognized: (1) the South and South-eastern coastal reefs (from Guarapari Islands to Santa Catarina, the southernmost Brazilian reefs); (2) the Northeastern coast (extending from the Manuel Luis Reefs to Abrolhos Archipelago); (3) Trindade Island; (4) Fernando de Noronha and Atol das Rocas; and (5) St Paul's Rocks. Water temperature, coral richness, distance from mainland, primary production and shelf width strongly correlated with the diversity and composition of the reef sites.
2665338|Five major drylands in South American display very low levels of faunal similarity. The remarkable consistency of faunal structure, however, suggests that it may be possible to extend earlier conclusions based only on the mammal fauna of the Altiplano and the Atacama Desert to all of South America's arid lands.
2665381|Three years of pollen trapping data from Barro Colorado Island, Panama, are compared with local vegetation inventories. Two hypotheses relating pollen representation to `messy' pollination and flower form are tested. Dioecious taxa were found to be over-represented in pollen spectra compared with their occurrence in local forests. Similarly, anemophilous and `messy' pollination types were found to be over-represented. While anemophilous taxa were the best dispersed pollen types, zoophilous taxa were also well-represented in dispersal classes of 20-40 m and > 40 m. Thus pollen arriving to lake sediments is most likely to be from anemophilous species or those zoophilous species exhibiting `messy' pollination syndromes. Pollination mechanisms will predictably bias the fossil record against certain flower morphologies. These data are of significance to those using the fossil pollen record to reconstruct the timing and sequence of angiosperm evolution. These data help prioritize plants to be included in modern pollen reference collections and to focus the search for `unknown' types on most-likely candidate families.
30137828|Aim: Many species are currently expanding their ranges in response to climate change, but the mechanisms underlying these range expansions are in many cases poorly understood. In this paper we explore potential climatic factors governing the recent establishment of new palm populations far to the north of any other viable palm population in the world. Location: Southern Switzerland, Europe, Asia and the world. Methods: We identified ecological threshold values for the target species, Trachycarpus fortunei, based on gridded climate data, altitude and distributional records from the native range and applied them to the introduced range using local field monitoring and measured meteorological data as well as a bioclimatic model. Results: We identified a strong relationship between minimum winter temperatures, influenced by growing season length and the distribution of the palm in its native range. Recent climate change strongly coincides with the palm's recent spread into southern Switzerland, which is in concert with the expansion of the global range of palms across various continents. Main conclusions: Our results strongly suggest that the expansion of palms into (semi-)natural forests is driven by changes in winter temperature and growing season length and not by delayed population expansion. This implies that this rapid expansion is likely to continue in the future under a warming climate. Palms in general, and T. fortunei in particular, are significant bioindicators across continents for present-day climate change and reflect a global signal towards warmer conditions.
3697615|Aim: To forecast the responses of alpine flora to the expected upward shift of treeline ecotones due to climatic warming, we investigated species richness patterns of vascular plants at small spatial scales across elevational transects. Location: Richness patterns were assessed at local scales along the elevational gradient in two undisturbed treeline ecotones and one disturbed treeline ecotone in the Spanish Pyrenees. Methods: We placed a rectangular plot (0.3-0.4 ha) in each treeline ecotone. We estimated and described the spatial patterns of plant richness using the point method and Moran's I correlograms. We delineated boundaries based on plant richness and tree cover using moving split windows and wavelet analysis. Then, to determine if floristic and tree cover boundaries were spatially related, overlap statistics were used. Results: Plant richness increased above the forest limit and was negatively related to tree cover in the undisturbed sites. The mean size of richness patches in one of these sites was 10-15 m. Moving split windows and wavelets detected the sharpest changes in plant richness above the forest limit at both undisturbed sites. Most tree cover and plant richness boundaries were not spatially related. Main conclusions: The upslope decrease of tree cover may explain the increase of plant richness across alpine treeline ecotones. However, the detection of abrupt richness boundaries well above the forest limit indicates the importance of local environmental heterogeneity to explain the patterns of plant richness at smaller scales. We found highly diverse microsites dominated by alpine species above the forest limit, which should be monitored to describe their response to the predicted upward shift of forests.
3697640|Aim: To investigate latitudinal and altitudinal patterns in body size variation among north-west European land snail species, as well as factors influencing such patterns. Location: Latitudinal patterns were investigated in northwest Europe from the British Isles and France in the west to Finland, Poland, Slovakia and Hungary in the east and from Norway in the north to France (with the exception of the Mediterranean part of the country), Switzerland, Austria and Hungary in the south. Altitudinal patterns were examined in the Alps in Austria and Switzerland. Methods: Data on latitudinal ranges of 366 north-west European land snail species, on altitudinal ranges of 175 species from Austria and 150 species from Switzerland, and on their body sizes were used to test for the presence of interspecific latitudinal or altitudinal body size patterns. Four methods, Stevens' method, the midpoint method, the across-species method, and a phylogenetically controlled analysis (CAIC) were applied. Results: As a result of the predominance of some small bodied clades at higher latitudes and some large bodied clades at lower latitudes, body size of north-west European land snails decreases significantly with increasing latitude. However, little of the body size variation across species is explained by latitude and the phylogenetically controlled analysis showed that the decrease of body size with increasing latitude is not a result of repeated and independent evolution of an association between body size and latitude in many clades. There is no significant correlation between body size of land snail species and altitude in the Alps although a negative correlation of body size and altitude is frequent within species. Main conclusion: If phylogenetic effects are controlled for, neither latitudinal nor altitudinal patterns in body size could be found. Bergmann's rule, which predicts a positive correlation between body size of species and latitude, could not be confirmed for north-west European land snails.
40205681|Aim: Vegetation exhibiting landscape-scale regular spatial patterns has been reported for arid and semi-arid areas world-wide. Recent theories state that such structures are bound to low-productivity environments and result from a selforganization process. Our objective was to test this relationship between periodic pattern occurrence and environmental factors at a global scale and to parametrize a predictive distribution model. Location: Arid and semi-arid areas world-wide. Methods: We trained an empirical predictive model (Maxent) for the occurrence of periodic vegetation patterns, based on environmental predictors and known occurrences verified on Landsat satellite images. Results: This model allowed us to discover previously unreported pattern locations, and to report the first ever examples of spotted patterns in natural systems. Relationships to the main environmental drivers are discussed. Main conclusions: These results confirm that periodic patterned vegetations are ubiquitous at the interface between arid and semi-arid regions. Self-organized patterning appears therefore to be a biome-scale response to environmental conditions, including soil and topography. The set of correlations between vegetation patterns and their environmental conditions presented in this study will need to be reproduced in future modelling attempts.
4139407| Aim To eyaluate frugivorous butterflies as indicators of forest disturbance in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. Location The study area is located in the municipality of Cotia, So Paulo State, south-eastern Brazil (2335-2350 S, 4645-4715 W). Methods Sampling was done at four sites inside a large forest block, the Morro Grande State Reserve, and in five forest fragments in an adjacent fragmented landscape. Butterflies were sampled with portable traps, baited with a fermented mixture of banana and sugar cane juice. Sampling was carried out during the period most favourable for the capture of frugivorous butterflies in south-eastern Brazil. Results All richness-related results indicated no effect of forest fragmentation on the frugivorous butterfly guild, concurring with the suggestion of appreciable resistance of Atlantic Forest butterflies to habitat modification. However, species composition discriminated between the two landscapes, indicating that fragmentation may have effects beyond simple species richness. When species were analysed individually, clear patterns of distribution emerged, with some species that were very abundant in the fragmented landscape being practically absent in the continuous landscape, and vice versa. This pattern seems consistent even for some subfamilies. Main conclusion Our findings support the usefulness of the frugivorous butterfly guild as a biological indicator of forest disturbance effects in one of the world's most threatened ecosystems. 
40205724|Aim: Soil nutrient content plays a key role in plant growth through mineral nutrition and toxicity. Its impact on plant species and community distribution is studied on a large geographical scale through surrogates like topography or geology. We investigated the importance of soil pH and C: N ratio, as direct nutritional gradients, to determine, with climatic factors, the spatial distribution of plant communities over large territories. Location: We studied the distribution of six beech habitats of the NATURA 2000 network throughout France (550,000 km). Methods: Models were calibrated with 2108 floristic plots classified in the NATURA 2000 system and including climatic and topographic variables and soil nutritional measurements carried out in a laboratory. Logistic regression was used to model habitat distribution according to environmental variables. Climatic layers, a digital elevation model and maps of soil pH and nitrogen content, created using plant indicator values and large floristic databases, were used to map the sites suitable for beech communities. Distribution models were evaluated with an independent set of 2091 phytosociological plots. Results: pH and nitrogen supply were the key distribution drivers for four of the six beech communities on a national scale. Their use in the distribution models distinguished within homogeneous climatic territories a gradient of nutritional conditions from acidic areas, suitable for nutrient-poor beech communities, to calcareous areas suitable for nutrient-rich ones. Predicted maps of beech habitats fit the spatial distribution of validation plots. Main conclusions: Soil pH and nitrogen supply strongly improve predictions of forest community distribution carried out with climatic variables on a broad geographical scale. They allow delineation of areas with nutritional conditions suitable for each community, as well as the realization of predictive high-resolution maps over large areas useful for sustainable and conservation management. Nomenclature Tutin & Heywood (2001) Flora Europaea. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
3182677|Aim: Climate change has the potential to have significant impacts on the distribution of species and on the composition of habitats. This paper identifies the potential changes in the future distribution of species under the UKCIP98 climate change scenarios, in order that such changes can be taken into account in conservation management. Location: The model was applied to Britain and Ireland. Methods: A model based on an artificial neural network was used to predict the changing bioclimate envelopes of species in Britain and Ireland. Fifty-four species representing 15 habitats were modelled. Results: The modelled species could be placed into three categories: those losing suitable climate space, those gaining it, and those showing little or no change. When the species were associated with habitats it was found that Arctic-Alpine/montane heath communities were the most sensitive to climate change, followed by pine woodland and beech woodland in southern England. In lowland heath, wet heath, cereal field margins, coastal grazing marsh, drought-prone acid grassland and calcareous grassland, the species either showed little change or an increase in suitable climate space. The other eight habitats showed a mixed response. Conclusions: The species show a variety of responses to climate change and thus their current habitat associations may alter. The uncertain future of some species and habitats is highlighted. Conservation policy and practice will need to be revised in the face of climate change.
3697413|Aim: A key question in ecology and ecological management is the extent to which management guidelines developed in one location can be generalized to other areas. Landscapes differ in their biophysical characteristics and the degree of human alteration imposed on them. Our aim was to develop a conceptual framework of Australian landscapes, on the basis of a few simple indicators, that can be used to enhance the communication of information in planning and managing landscapes, particularly for biodiversity conservation. Location: The project considered landscapes across the continent of Australia. Methods: The project was a desktop exercise and the approach was to identify the minimum set of variables, and levels within variables, that are most meaningful from the perspective of Australian landscapes and their management. This involved the identification of the key environmental axes and development of a proposed set of matrices involving various combinations of the axes, which was revised following consultation with stakeholders. Results: We developed a framework based on the primary variables of climate and vegetation. For climate, we used an agro-climatic classification incorporating a moisture index, growth index and seasonality, with climate classes aligned to existing bioregions. Vegetation was broadly classified on the presence or absence of a tree layer and whether the understorey was grassy or shrub-dominated. Secondary variables were the degree of landscape alteration and modification. The sensitivity of broad categories to ecosystem dysfunction was assessed, and the relative abundance of different categories across Australia was determined. Not all categories need to be considered since not all combinations of variables occur. Main conclusions: The framework provides a set of broad categories of landscapes with differing characteristics. We can then assess the importance of different types of threat in the different categories. By pulling together the potential threats in a systematic way across categories, we can start to consider what appropriate management responses might be in each case. Further, by providing a convenient way to compare landscapes in different categories, it becomes possible to see where generalizations among different landscapes may be possible and where they are definitely not likely to be helpful.
3697416| Aim: The main goal of this paper is to propose a new tool, in the form of Quantitative Bioclimatic Models (QnBMs), for reconstructing past climates based on fossil mammal associations. As a case study, European climatic conditions during the basal early Pleistocene will be inferred using QnBMs. Location: The study uses faunas throughout the world to develop a quantitative bioclimatic model, which is then applied to Quaternary faunas from Eurasia. Methods: The models were constructed by applying multivariate linear regression to modern mammal faunas and climates from all over the world. The models were validated with a second group of modern faunas, which includes several from transitional zones between different climates (ecotones). To test the reliability of the method when applied to fossil associations, the results obtained for the Pleistocene have been compared with those obtained from palynology. Results: Validation of the models shows that as many as 11 climatic factors can be inferred with high reliability using the regression models developed in this work. Comparisons of results in the late Pleistocene-Holocene of Barov (Czech Republic) between a palynological study and the quantitative bioclimatic analysis show a high degree of similarity. The results for the early Pleistocene show colder and drier climatic conditions for Europe than today. Main conclusions: The application of the quantitative bioclimatic models to present day as well as Quaternary mammal faunas proves to be a useful tool for palaeoclimatic reconstruction during the Quaternary and probably most of the Neogene. Transfer functions are presented for a complete set of climatic factors, allowing a precise estimation of the climate in a locality from its mammal fauna. 
40801858|Aim: Latitudinal-and regional-scale studies of reptile diversity suggest a predominant temperature effect, unlike many other vertebrate richness patterns which tend to be highly correlated with both temperature and water variables. Here I examine montane gradients in reptile species richness with separate analyses of snakes and lizards from mountains around the world to assess a predominant temperature effect and three additional theories of diversity, including a temperature-water effect, the species-area effect and the mid-domain effect (MDE).
3877777|Aim: Species richness-area theory predicts that more species should be found if one samples a larger area. To avoid biases from comparing species richness in areas of very different sizes, area is often controlled by counting the numbers of co-occupying species in near-equal area grid cells. The assumption is that variation in grid cell size accrued from working in a three-dimensional world is negligible. Here we provide a first test of this idea. We measure the surface area of c. 50 x 50 km and c. 220 x 220 km grid cells across western Europe. We then ask how variation in the area of grid cells affects: (1) the selection of climate variables entering a species richness model; and (2) the accuracy of models in predicting species richness in unsampled grid cells. Location: Western Europe. Methods: Models are developed for European plant, breeding bird, mammal and herptile species richness using seven climate variables. Generalized additive models are used to relate species richness, climate and area. Results: We found that variation in the grid cell area was large (50 x 50 km:
30137904|Aim: Comparative studies have revealed strong links between ecological factors and the number of parasite species harboured by different hosts, but studies of different taxonomic host groups have produced inconsistent results. As a step towards understanding the general patterns of parasite species richness, we present results from a new comprehensive data base of over 7000 host-parasite combinations representing 146 species of carnivores (Mammalia: Carnivora) and 980 species of parasites. Methods: We used both phylogenetic and non-phylogenetic comparative methods while controlling for unequal sampling effort within a multivariate framework to ascertain the main determinants of parasite species richness in carnivores. Results: We found that body mass, population density, geographical range size and distance from the equator are correlated with overall parasite species richness in fissiped carnivores. When parasites are classified by transmission mode, body mass and home range area are the main determinants of the richness of parasites spread by close contact between hosts, and population density, geographical range size and distance from the equator account for the diversity of parasites that are not dependent on close contact. For generalist parasites, population density, geographical range size and latitude are the primary predictors of parasite species richness. We found no significant ecological correlates for the richness of specialist or vector-borne parasites. Main conclusions: Although we found that parasite species richness increases instead of decreases with distance from the equator, other comparative patterns in carnivores support previous findings in primates, suggesting that similar ecological factors operate in both these independent evolutionary lineages.
2997854|Woody community phenology was studied in the central lowveld, South Africa, over a twelve month period at three sites along a rainfall gradient, with both toplands and bottomlands sampled at each site Each month, individual plants, in replicated samples, were scored into a number of categories describing their phenological state Position on the rainfall gradient influenced (1) onset and magnitude of leaf emergence, (2) onset and duration of mature leaves, and (3) the proportion of leafless trees Generally, the moist site demonstrated earlier leaf growth than the intermediate or arid sites Emergent and mature leaves were recorded earlier, and in the case of mature leaves, retained longer. Overall, there was a lower proportion of leafless trees during the dry season at the moist site, followed by the semi-arid site, followed by the arid site Differences with respect to catenal position were evident for the proportion of trees in winter with mature leaves, and the proportion of trees with senescent leaves Bottomlands had a greater proportion of trees with leaves during winter, but a lower proportion of trees recorded with senescent leaves Both of these findings were a result of the greater proportion of evergreen species in bottomlands, as well as increased leaf retention by the deciduous species Phenological activity of leaves was related to plant stem size In particular, there was greater leaf retention during the dry period by small stems, relative to large stems
40602941|Aim: To analyse how the patterns of species richness for the whole family Phyllostomidae determine the structure of diversity fields (sets of species-richness values) within the ranges of individual bat species. Location: The range of the family Phyllostomidae in North and South America. Methods: We generated a database of the occurrence of 143 phyllostomid bat species in 6794 quadrats, analysing the species-richness frequency distribution for all sites, and for subsets of sites defined by the geographic ranges of species.Range-diversity plots, depicting simultaneously the size and the mean species richness of ranges, were built to explore the patterns of co-occurrence in widespread and restricted species. We compared the empirical patterns against two null models: (1) with scattered (non-cohesive) ranges, and (2) with cohesive ranges modelled with the spreading-dye algorithm. Diversity fields were analysed with richness maps for individual species and with comparisons of species-richness frequency distributions. Results: Overall richness frequency distribution showed a multimodal patterrn, whereas simulated distributions showed lower values of variance, and were unimodal (for model 1) and bimodal (for model 2). Range-diversity plots for the empirical data and for the cohesive-ranges simulation showed a strong tendency of species to co-occur in high-diversity sites. The scattered-ranges simulation showed no such tendency. Diversity fields varied according to idiosyncratic features of species generating particular geographic patterns and richness frequency distributions. Main conclusions: Phyllostomid bats show a higher level of co-occurrence than expected from null models. That tendency in turn implies a higher variance in species richness among sites, generating a wider species-richness frequency distribution. The diversity field of individual species results from the size, shape and location of ranges, but also depends on the general pattern of richness for the whole family.
2997856|Five edaphically-restricted or -endemic butterflies, mostly associated with serpentine, are shown to be distributed in the western foothills of the Sierra Nevada in addition to their previously documented areas of occupancy in the California North Coast Ranges Two species are absolutely limited by the edaphic restriction of their host plants, while the other three seemingly are not The controversies concerning the origins of serpentine endemism in plants apply to butterflies as well. Long-term relictualism can presumably apply only at the metapopulation level, not the local population level, due to the frequency of fire in these habitats. Development and habitat-conversion trends pose a high risk to the long-term survival of these species in the Sierra Nevada
3697492|Aim: The aim of our study was to reveal relationships between richness patterns of native vs. alien plant species and spatial heterogeneity across varying landscape patterns at a regional scale. Location: The study was carried out in the administrative district of Dessau (Germany), covering around
3697415|Aim: The conservation of biological and genetic diversity is a major goal of reserve systems at local, regional, and national levels. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources suggests a 12% threshold (area basis) for adequate protection of biological and genetic diversity of a plant community. However, thresholds based on area may protect only a small portion of the total diversity if the locations are chosen without regard to the variation within the community. The objectives of this study were to demonstrate methods to apply a coarse-filter approach for identifying gaps in the current reserve system of the Psuedotsuga menziesii (Douglas-fir) forest type group based on current climatic conditions and a global climate change scenario. Location: Western United States. Method: We used an ecological envelope approach that was based on seven bioclimatic factors, two topographic factors, and two edaphic factors. Multivariate factor analysis was then used to reduce the envelope to two dimensions. The relative density of habitat and protected areas were identified in each part of the envelope based on the current climate and potential future climate. We used this information to identify gaps in the reserve system. Results: Although the protected areas occurred in all parts of the envelope, most existed in colder and drier areas. This was true for both the current climate and potential future climate. Main conclusion: To protect more of the ecological envelope, future conservation efforts would be most effective in western Oregon, north-western Washington, and north-western California.
3697420|Aim: The aim of this work was to estimate on a regional scale the effects of nitrogen (N) deposition and harvest intensity on N-budgets in forest soils as a basis for strategies of emission reduction and sustainable forest management methods. Location: The calculations were applied to Sweden, a country with a managed forest area of
3697443|Aim: To analyse the importance of local and regional influences on the patterns of species richness in natural and man-made lakes and to infer the impacts of human-mediated introductions on these patterns. Location: France. Methods: Species occurrence data were gathered for 25 natural and 51 man-made lakes. Analysis is based on regression models of local richness against their related regional richness and lake environmental variables. Results: Local native richness was mostly controlled by the regional richness. Conversely, local total richness was mainly explained by local variables. These statements apply to both natural and man-made lakes. Lacustrine systems displayed weak resistance to invaders. Main conclusions: Species introductions have apparently contributed to saturate fish communities in these systems even if no clear negative effect on the survival of native species (i.e. species extinction) is detectable so far.
3697559|Aim: In this study, we examine patterns of local and regional ant species richness along three elevational gradients in an arid ecosystem. In addition, we test the hypothesis that changes in ant species richness with elevation are related to elevation-dependent changes in climate and available area. Location: Spring Mountains, Nevada, U.S.A. Methods: We used pitfall traps placed at each 100-m elevational band in three canyons in the Spring Mountains. We compiled climate data from 68 nearby weather stations. We used multiple regression analysis to examine the effects of annual precipitation, average July precipitation, and maximum and minimum July temperature on ant species richness at each elevational band. Results: We found that patterns of local ant species richness differed among the three gradients we sampled. Ant species richness increased linearly with elevation along two transects and peaked at mid-elevation along a third transect. This suggests that patterns of species richness based on data from single transects may not generalize to larger spatial scales. Cluster analysis of community similarity revealed a high-elevation species assemblage largely distinct from that of lower elevations. Major changes in the identity of ant species present along elevational gradients tended to coincide with changes in the dominant vegetation. Regional species richness, defined here as the total number of unique species within an elevational band in all three gradients combined, tended to increase with increasing elevation. Available area decreased with increasing elevation. Area was therefore correlated negatively with ant species richness and did not explain elevational patterns of ant species richness in the Spring Mountains. Mean July maximum and minimum temperature, July precipitation and annual precipitation combined to explain 80% of the variation in ant species richness. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that in arid ecosystems, species richness for some taxa may be highest at high elevations, where lower temperatures and higher precipitation may support higher levels of primary production and cause lower levels of physiological stress.
30137990|Aim: Local communities are subject to spatiotemporal contingencies of landscape processes; community assembly is thus often considered to be unpredictable and idiosyncratic. However, evolved trade-offs of species' life histories may set distinct constraints on the assembly of species communities. In plants, the recruitment and invasion success of species into communities depend primarily on the number of propagules available and on their generative or vegetative character. Life-history trade-offs prevent individual plants from producing large numbers of both generative and vegetative propagules, but it is not clear whether this constrains their availability at the landscape scale. We thus tested whether: (1) the observed relationship between generative and vegetative propagules deviates from the null expectation stating that species contributing the bulk of generative propagules to the propagule rain should also contribute the bulk of vegetative propagules; and (2) whether vegetative and generative propagule pressures are negatively correlated once species abundance in the regional pool is accounted for. Location: A large riparian landscape in the Netherlands. Methods: Analyses were based on an extensive trapping of floating propagules (214,049 propagules of 47 species), and a rough proxy of species abundance across the entire pool. We used both species and phylogenetically independent contrasts as data points, and accounted for variation in size of generative propagules. Results: Both hypotheses were confirmed. Numbers of generative and vegetative propagules trapped per species were significantly negatively correlated (r= -0.33;
3697495|Aim: This study developed high-resolution datasets of the area of maize, soybean and wheat cultivation in the United States for 1950, 1970 and 1992. The datasets were used to examine the relationship between individual crop cover and nutrient levels in rivers across the Mississippi River Basin. Location: This study was conducted in the United States, with focus on the Mississippi River Basin. Methods: County and state-level estimates of the planted area of maize, soybean and wheat were integrated with a satellite-derived pattern in total cropland to develop 5' x 5' resolution datasets of the fractional area of maize, soybean and wheat in the United States for 1950, 1970 and 1992. Regression analysis was used to determine the relationships between mean levels of nitrogen, phosphorous and silica in 25 rivers across the Mississippi Basin, and the extent of maize, soybean and wheat cultivation in the watersheds. Results: The crop datasets provide a spatially explicit representation of the area of the three primary crops in 1950, 1970 and 1992. The datasets clearly depict the rapid expansion of soybean cultivation, the increased specialization of individual agricultural regions, and the accompanying reduction in agricultural biodiversity since 1950. The statistical analysis identified strong correlations between the extent of maize and soybean cover in a watershed and the level of nitrogen (N) and phosphorous (P) at the watershed outlet. In particular, the area of maize appears to be strongly related to the concentration of total-N and the ratio of dissolved inorganic-N and organic-N at the watershed outlet. Conclusions: The intensification of cultivation of the three primary crops - maize, soybean and wheat - has altered land cover and water quality across the U.S. since 1950. The high present-day rate of fertilizer use on maize and the expansion of soybean cultivation could be largely responsible for the change in nutrient ratios in the Mississippi River since 1950.
4139423| Aim To search for differences in the spatial variability of upper and lower elevational distribution limits of tropical ferns, based on the assumption that these are determined to different degrees by biotic and abiotic factors. Location The Yungas biogeographical region, in the Bolivian Andes. Methods From a data base of > 25,000 herbarium records, we analysed the skewness of the elevational distribution of 220 montane pteridophyte species, each with  15 records. Additionally, we compared the spatial variability of upper and lower elevational range limits of ferns in 351 plots of 400 m each along four elevational transects separated by 15-450 km. Results Individual species showed variable elevational distribution patterns, ranging from symmetric to asymmetric, i.e. downward and upward skewed, but overall there was a statistically significant trend towards asymmetric distributions with abrupt upper limits and diffuse lower limits. This trend, however, was almost exclusively due to terrestrial species occurring at and above the current timberline. The analysis of the elevational transects revealed no significant trends. Main conclusions The downward-skewed distributional abundance of terrestrial, open-country ferns near the timberline appears to be a result of the extensive forest destruction that has lowered the timberline in the high Andes by 500-800 m, opening up habitats for a restricted suite of species. Our study shows that a limited number of species can cause a general trend in the overall data set, and that failure to extract these data may result in unsupported conclusions, in our case to assign a greater importance to biotic and abiotic factors in the elevational limitation of plants at lower and upper elevations, respectively. 
40801921|Aim: To test whether functional homogenization of bird communities is promoted by anthropogenic landscape transformation, using specialization and habitat preference indices that account for the multidimensionality of niches.
4139439| Aim With the ever-increasing threats to biodiversity, efforts are being directed towards identifying hotspots of special importance for conservation. In particular, there has been an effort to identify irreplaceable regions that are especially rich in rare species. Areas of transition between ecological systems in which multiple species coincide are expected, almost by definition, to be species-rich. Here, we examine whether this is simply a result of an overlap between two communities in boundary regions, or whether boundary areas also hold concentrations of rare (e.g. range-limited) species. We ask whether an analysis that includes areas of transition may be a useful contribution to the identification of biodiversity centres. Location and methods To address these questions, we examined the relationship between passeriform richness and range size rarity of approximately 2300 bird species in 4889 1 New World grid cells, and the distance of the cells to boundaries between adjacent plant-based ecoregions. Results Areas nearer to boundary regions between ecoregions not only had more bird species, but also scored more highly in terms of species rarity. The range centres of the rarest 10% of species were distributed significantly closer to boundaries between ecoregions than were species in general. This pattern persisted for rarity when we divided the New World into three latitudinal belts and analysed each separately, and when we excluded the Andes. It also persisted when compared with randomly generated ecoregion polygons. Main conclusions The findings of this work suggest that transitiopal environments harbour many rare species, in addition to high richness. Consequently areas of biotic transition should be highly valued as biodiversity centres and need to be included in future global conservation analyses and decisions. 
3697516|Aim: The local distribution of woody vegetation affects most functional aspects of semiarid landscapes, from soil erosion to nutrient cycling. With growing concern about anthropogenic climate change, it has become critical to understand the ecological determinants of woody plant distribution in semiarid landscapes. However, relatively little work has examined the determinants of local variation in woody cover. Here we examine water balance controls associated with patterns of tree cover density in a topographically complex semiarid woodland. Location: Los Pinos Mountains, Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge LTER, New Mexico, USA. Methods: To explore the relationship between local water balance variation and tree cover density, we used a combination of high-resolution (1 x 1 m), remotely sensed imagery and quantitative estimates of water balance variation in space and time. Regression tree analysis (RTA) was used to identify the environmental parameters that best predict variation in tree cover density. Results: Using six predictor variables, the RTA explains 39% of the deviance in tree cover density over the landscape. The relationship between water balance conditions and tree cover density is highly contingent; that is, similar tree cover densities occur under very different combinations of water balance parameters. Thus, the effect of one environmental parameter on tree cover density depends on the values of other parameters. After tree cover density is adjusted for water balance conditions, residual variation is related to tree cover density in the neighbourhood of a particular location. Conclusion: In semiarid landscapes, vegetation structure is largely controlled by water supply and demand. Results presented here indicate that localized feedbacks and site-specific historical processes are critical for understanding the responses of semiarid vegetation to climate change.
3182692|1 SOMKO is a new simulation model of soil organic matter (SOM) dynamics aimed at predicting long-term and short-term SOM dynamics based on a mechanistic approach focusing on microbes as the key agents of decomposition. 2 SOM is partitioned into cohorts and chemical quality pools (classified by age and chemical composition), the microbial community processes are explicitly represented, and the C:N stoichiometric constraints are accounted for through a new mechanism of offer and demand. 3 The analysis of model equations shows that: (1) SOM C:N cannot decrease below microbial C:N; and (2) the nitrogen limitation of decomposition depends on SOM C:N, microbial biomass and soil mineral nitrogen. First tests of the model show good qualitative behaviour for simulating the dynamics of short-term litter-bag type decomposition, long-term SOM increase, pulsed mineral nitrogen production, the priming effect due to easily decomposable carbon addition, and the effects of vegetation clearance and climate change on SOM. Simulations are in good agreement with long-term experimental data. 4 SOMKO is an integrated component of the coupled soil-vegetation models within the ETEMA (European Terrestrial Ecosystem Modelling Activity) framework. Future extensions of this work include: (1) estimating microbial parameters from specific experiments; (2) spatial distribution of SOMKO in multistrata models; and (3) implementing nitrification/denitrification processes, phosphorus limitation and microfaunal activity.
41239264|Aim: The scale dependence of many ecological patterns and processes implies that general inference is reliant on obtaining scale-response curves over a large range of grains. Although environmental correlates of richness have been widely studied, comparisons among groups have usually been applied at single grains. Moreover, the relevance of environment-richness associations to fine-grain assemblages has remained surprisingly unclear. We present a first global cross-scale assessment of environment-richness associations for birds, mammals and amphibians from 2000 km down to c. 20 km. Location: World-wide. Methods: We performed an extensive survey of the literature for well-sampled terrestrial vertebrate inventories over clearly defined small extents. Coarser grain richness was estimated from the intersection of extent-of-occurrence range maps with concentric equal-distance circles around fine-grain assemblage location centroids. General linear and simultaneous autoregressive models were used to relate richness at the different grains to environmental correlates. Results: The ability of environmental variables to explain species richness decreases markedly toward finer grains and is lowest for fine-grained assemblages. A prominent transition in importance occurs between productivity and temperature at increased grains, which is consistent with the role of energy affecting regional, but not local, richness. Variation in fine-grained predictability across groups is associated with their purported grain of space use, i.e. highest for amphibians and narrow-ranged and small-bodied species. Main conclusions: We extend the global documentation of environmentrichness associations to fine-grained assemblages. The relationship between finegrained predictability of a group and its ecological characteristics lends empirical support to the idea that variation in species fine-grained space use may scale up to explain coarse-grained diversity patterns. Our study exposes a dramatic and taxonomically variable scale dependence of environment-richness associations and suggests that environmental correlates of richness may hold limited information at the level of communities.
3182652|Insular mammalian populations living in areas of small size are often characterized by a drastic change in body mass compared to related continental populations or species. Generally, small mammals (less than 100 g) evolve into giant forms while large mammals (up to 100 g) evolve into dwarf forms. These changes, coupled with changes in other life, behavioural, physiological or demographic traits are referred to generally as the insular syndrome. We tested in this study the relative contribution of three factors - area of island, numbers of competitor species and number of predator species - to changes in body size of the woodmouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) in the Western Mediterranean Sea. Our results, based on a comparative analysis using the phylogenetic independent contrasts method, indicate that the increase in body size is related both to the decrease of island size and to the lower number of predator species. A decrease of competitor species does not seem to have an important effect.
40405770|Aim: To evaluate the ability of species distribution models (SDMs) to predict the spatial structure of tree species within their, geographical ranges (how trees are distributed within their ranges). Location: Continental Spain. Methods: We used an extensive dataset consisting of c. 90,000 plots (1 plot km) where presence/absence data for 23 common Mediterranean and Atlantic tree species had been surveyed. We first generated SDMs relating the presence or absence of each species to a set of 16 environmental predictors, following a stepwise modelling process based on maximum likelihood methods. Superimposing spatial correlograms generated from the predictions of the SDMs over those generated from the raw data allowed a model-observation comparison of the nature, scale and intensity (level of aggregation) of spatial structure with the species ranges. Results: SDMs predicted accurately the nature and scale of the spatial structure of trees. However, for most species, the observed intensity of spatial structure (level of aggregation of species in space) was substantially greater than that predicted by the SDMs. On average, the intensity of spatial aggregation was twice that predicted by SDMs. In addition, we also found a negative correlation between intensity of aggregation and species range size. Main conclusions: Standard SDM predictions of spatial structure patterns differ among species. SDMs are apparently able to reproduce both the scale and intensity of species spatial structure within their ranges. However, one or more missing processes not included in SDMs results in species being substantially more aggregated in space tfran can be captured by the SDMs. This result adds to recent calls for a new generation of more biologically realistic SDMs. In particular, future SDMs should incorporate ecological processes that are likely to increase the intensity of spatial aggregation, such as source-sink dynamics, fine-scale environmental heterogeneity and disequilibrium.
30137886|Aim: To determine the functional relationships between, and the relative importance of, different driver variables (mean annual precipitation, soil properties, fire and herbivory) in regulating woody plant cover across broad environmental gradients in African savannas. Location: Savanna grasslands of East, West and Southern Africa. Methods: The dependence of woody cover on mean annual precipitation (MAP), soil properties (texture, nitrogen mineralization potential and total phosphorus), fire regimes, and herbivory (grazer, browser + mixed feeder, and elephant biomass) was determined for 161 savanna sites across Africa using stochastic gradient boosting, a refinement of the regression tree analysis technique. Results: All variables were significant predictors of woody cover, collectively explaining 71% of the variance in our data set. However, their relative importance as regulators of woody cover varied. MAP was the most important predictor, followed by fire return periods, soil characteristics and herbivory regimes. Woody cover showed a strong positive dependence on MAP between 200 and 700 mm, but no dependence on MAP above this threshold when the effects of other predictors were accounted for. Fires served to reduce woody cover below rainfall-determined levels. Woody cover showed a complex, non-linear relationship with total soil phosphorus, and was negatively correlated with delay content. There was a strong negative dependence of woody cover on soil nitrogen (N) availability, suggesting that increased N-deposition may cause shifts in savannas towards more grassy states. Elephants, mixed feeders and browsers had negative effects on woody cover. Grazers, on the other hand, depressed woody cover at low biomass, but favoured woody vegetation when their biomass exceeded a certain threshold. Main conclusions: Our results indicate complex and contrasting relationships between woody cover, rainfall, soil properties and disturbance regimes in savannas, and suggest that future environmental changes such as altered precipitation regimes, N-enrichment and elevated levels of CO are likely to have opposing, and potentially interacting, influences on the tree-grass balance in savannas.
3697457|Aim: This paper presents a probabilistic method of pollen spectra analysis. The method relies on a pollen taxon characterization using biotic and abiotic plant attribute modes, and their occurrence in a given pollen spectrum at a specific site. This type of analysis can provide an interpretation, which can lead to the reconstruction of the biome and, to an extent, of the abiotic conditions at the site. Methods: The analysis has been carried out at the European scale using data provided by the European Pollen Database for about 1000 sites. This dataset contains about 50,000 pollen spectra from the last 21 ka. In these spectra, each pollen taxon has been characterized by a set of 10 chosen attributes. These have been selected with regard to their relevance in biome reconstruction, but also on the basis of available literature. By using the probability of occurrence of each taxon in a given pollen spectrum, it is possible to calculate an affinity index for the spectrum to the attribute considered. To overcome difficulties caused by pollen identification in low diversified pollen spectra, a co-occurrence concept has been used to give more information. Results: The method has been validated on a set of 1327 modern surface samples by comparing the results to the major climatic and environmental variables that control the distribution of the vegetation. A reconstruction exercise on various characteristics of the plants was then carried out on a 6-ka dataset. This confirmed previous studies by showing a strong dominance of deciduous forest over most of Europe, related to a milder climate than at present in the north and a wetter and colder climate than at present in the south. By analysing the change in pollen/seed dispersion strategies and the light requirement, we show that the history of vegetation dynamics in relation to human influences can be assessed using this method. Main conclusions: Our results show that the probabilistic method is an objective tool for pollen assemblage analysis. It allows reconstruction of various characteristics of the vegetation at the continental and global scale for periods and sites with significantly different climate conditions. This method can also be used to compare maps of vegetation attributes for the validation of the new generalized dynamic ecosystems models.
41239339|Aim: It has long been assumed that deteriorating climate (cooling and warming above the norm) could shrink the carrying capacity of agrarian lands, depriving the human population of sufficient food. Population collapses (i.e. negative population growth) follow. However, this human-ecological relationship has rarely been verified scientifically, and evidence of warming-caused disaster has never been found. This research sought to explore quantitatively the temporal pattern, spatial pattern and triggers of population collapses in relation to climate change at the global scale over 1100 years. Location: Various countries/regions in the Northern Hemisphere (NH) during the pre-industrial era. Methods: We performed time-series analysis to examine the association between temperature change and country-wide/region-wide population collapses in different climatic zones. All of the known population collapse incidents in the NH in the period ce 8001900 were included in our data analysis. Results: Nearly 90% of population collapses in various NH countries/regions occurred during periods of climate deterioration characterized by shrinking carrying capacity of the land. In addition, we found that cooling dampened the human ecosystem and brought about 80% of the collapses in warmer humid, cooler humid and dry zones, while warming adversely affected the ecosystems in dry and tropical humid zones. All of the population collapses and growth declines in periods of warm climate occurred in dry and tropical humid zones. Malthusian checks (famines, wars and epidemics) were the dominant triggers of population collapses, which peaked dramatically when climate deteriorated. Main conclusions: Global demographic catastrophes and most population collapse incidents occurred in periods with great climate change, owing to overpopulation caused by diminished carrying capacity of the land and the resultant outbreak of Malthusian checks. Impacts of cooling or warming on land carrying capacity varied geographically, as a result of the diversified ecosystems in different parts of the Earth. The observed climatepopulation synchrony challenges Malthusian theory and demonstrates that it is not population growth alone but climateinduced subsistence shortage and population growth working synergistically, that cause large-scale human population collapses on the long-term scale.
41058227|Aim: Body size often plays a significant role in community assembly through its impacts on the life history and ecological attributes of species. Insight into the importance of size in structuring communities can be gained by examining the distribution of sizes of individuals [i.e. the individual size distribution (ISD) or size spectrum] in a community. ISDs have been studied extensively in aquatic and tree communities, but have received little attention in terrestrial animal communities. Here, we conduct the first macroecological analysis of ISDs in terrestrial animal communities to determine whether they show broad-scale consistency in shape. Location: North America, north of Mexico. Methods: Using likelihood-based methods and Gaussian mixture modelling, coupled with data from the Breeding Bird Survey and Christmas Bird Count, we determine whether the ISDs for thousands of breeding and wintering North American bird communities are: (1) monotonically decreasing, (2) unimodal or (3) multimodal. Results: We find that avian ISDs are consistently multimodal, with most characterized by more than five modes in both breeding and wintering communities from local to continental scales. In addition, the positions of these modes along the size axis are remarkably consistent. Main conclusions: The striking consistency in the ISD within bird communities, as with tree and aquatic communities, indicates that the ISD is an important and informative characterization of resource utilization within an ecological assemblage. The differences in shape of the ISD among these groups also suggest that differences in body size-related constraints affect interactions within a group and with the environment. Our results confirm that avian assemblages do exhibit structure along the body size axis, and therefore it will be fruitful to explore this pattern in greater detail.
4139420|Aim Broad-scale spatial variation in species richness relates to climate and physical heterogeneity but human activities may be changing these patterns. We test whether climate and heterogeneity predict butterfly species richness regionally and across Canada and whether these relationships change in areas of human activity. Location Canada. Methods We modelled the ranges of 102 butterfly species using genetic algorithms for rule-set production (GARP). We then measured butterfly species richness and potentially important aspects of human activity and the natural environment. These were included in a series of statistical models to determine which factors are likely to affect butterfly species richness in Canada. We considered patterns across Canada, within predominantly natural areas, human-dominated areas and particular ecozones. We examined independent observations of butterfly species currently listed under Canada's endangered species legislation to test whether these were consistent with findings from statistical models. Results Growing season temperature is the main determinant of butterfly species richness across Canada, with substantial contributions from habitat heterogeneity (measured using elevation). Only in the driest areas does precipitation emerge as a leading predictor of richness. The slope of relationships between all of these variables and butterfly species richness becomes shallower in human-dominated areas, but butterfly richness is still highest there. Insecticide applications, habitat loss and road networks reduce butterfly richness in human-dominated areas, but these effects are relatively small. All of Canada's at-risk butterfly species are located in these human-dominated areas. Main conclusions Temperature affects butterfly species richness to a greater extent than habitat heterogeneity at fine spatial scales and is generally far more important than precipitation, supporting both the species richness-energy and habitat heterogeneity hypotheses. Human activities, especially in southern Canada, appear to cause surprisingly consistent trends in biotic homogenization across this region, perhaps through range expansion of common species and loss of range-restricted species.
2665328|1 The role of undisturbed tropical land ecosystems in the global carbon budget is not well understood. It has been suggested that interannual climate variability can affect the capacity of these ecosystems to store carbon in the short term. In this paper, we use a transient version of the Terrestrial Ecosystem Model (TEM) to estimate annual carbon storage in undisturbed Amazonian ecosystems during the period 1980-94, and to understand the underlying causes of the year-to-year variations in net carbon storage for this region. 2 We estimate that the total carbon storage in the undisturbed ecosystems of the Amazon Basin in 1980 was 127.6 Pg C, with about 94.3 Pg C in vegetation and 33.3 Pg C in the reactive pool of soil organic carbon. About 83% of the total carbon storage occurred in tropical evergreen forests. Based on our model's results, we estimate that, over the past 15 years, the total carbon storage has increased by 3.1 Pg C (+2%), with a 1.9-Pg C (+2%) increase in vegetation carbon and a 1.2-Pg C (+4%) increase in reactive soil organic carbon. The modelled results indicate that the largest relative changes in net carbon storage have occurred in tropical deciduous forests, but that the largest absolute changes in net carbon storage have occurred in the moist and wet forests of the Basin. 3 Our results show that the strength of interannual variations in net carbon storage of undisturbed ecosystems in the Amazon Basin varies from a carbon source of 0.2 Pg C/year to a carbon sink of 0.7 Pg C/year. Precipitation, especially the amount received during the drier months, appears to be a major controller of annual net carbon storage in the Amazon Basin. Our analysis indicates further that changes in precipitation combine with changes in temperature to affect net carbon storage through influencing soil moisture and nutrient availability. 4 On average, our results suggest that the undisturbed Amazonian ecosystems accumulated 0.2 Pg C/year as a result of climate variability and increasing atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> over the study period. This amount is large enough to have compensated for most of the carbon losses associated with tropical deforestation in the Amazon during the same period. 5 Comparisons with empirical data indicate that climate variability and CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization explain most of the variation in net carbon storage for the undisturbed ecosystems. Our analyses suggest that assessment of the regional carbon budget in the tropics should be made over at least one cycle of El Nino-Southern Oscillation because of interannual climate variability. Our analyses also suggest that proper scaling of the site-specific and subannual measurements of carbon fluxes to produce Basin-wide flux estimates must take into account seasonal and spatial variations in net carbon storage.
3877784|Aim: In this continental-scale study, the biodiversity of benthic and planktonic algal communities was explored. A recent analysis of extinct and extant tree communities by Enquist et al. (2002) showed that richness of higher taxa was a power function of species richness, invariant across temporal and spatial scales. Here we examined whether the relationships between algal richness at hierarchical taxonomic levels conform to power laws as seen for trees, and if these relationships differ between benthic and planktonic habitats. Location: Streams from more than 50 major watersheds in the United States. Method: A total of 3698 samples were collected from 1277 locations by the National Water-Quality Assessment Program. Three types of stream habitat were sampled: richest targeted habitats, depositional targeted habitats, and phytoplankton. The relationships between taxonomic richness at the species level vs. all higher categories from genus to phylum across the three habitats were examined by ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions after In-transformation of all variables. The slopes, b, of these regressions represent the exponents of the power functions that scaled the richness of higher taxonomic levels (T) to species richness (5) in the form:
41058221|Aim: This paper presents a tool for long-term global change studies; it is an update of the History Database of the Global Environment (HYDE) with estimates of some of the underlying demographic and agricultural driving factors. Methods: Historical population, cropland and pasture statistics are combined with satellite information and specific allocation algorithms (which change over time) to create spatially explicit maps, which are fully consistent on a 5' longitude/latitude grid resolution, and cover the period 10,000 BC to AD 2000. Results: Cropland occupied roughly less than 1% of the global ice-free land area for a long time until AD 1000, similar to the area used for pasture. In the centuries that followed, the share of global cropland increased to 2% in AD 1700 (c. 3 million km 2 ) and 11% in AD 2000 (15 million km), while the share of pasture area grew from 2% in AD 1700 to 24% in AD 2000 (34 million km) These profound land-use changes have had, and will continue to have, quite considerable consequences for global biogeochemical cycles, and subsequently global climate change. Main conclusions: Some researchers suggest that humans have shifted from living in the Holocene (emergence of agriculture) into the Anthropocene (humans capable of changing the Earth's atmosphere) since the start of the Industrial Revolution.But in the light of the sheer size and magnitude of some historical land-use changes (e. g. as result of the depopulation of Europe due to the Black Death in the 14th century and the aftermath of the colonization of the Americas in the 16th century) we believe that this point might have occurred earlier in time. While there are still many uncertainties and gaps in our knowledge about the importance of land use (change) in the global biogeochemical cycle, we hope that this database can help global (climate) change modellers to close parts of this gap.
4139428|Aim Phylogenetic conservatism or heritability of the geographical range sizes of species (i.e. the tendency for closely related species to share similar range sizes) has been predicted to occur because of the strong phylogenetic conservatism of niche traits. However, the extent of such heritability in range size is disputed and the role of biology in shaping this attribute remains unclear. Here, we investigate the level of heritability of geographical range sizes that is generated from neutral models assuming no biological differences between species. Methods We used three different neutral models, which differ in their speciation mode, to simulate the life-history of 250,000 individuals in a square lattice of 50 x 50 cells. These individuals can speciate, reproduce, migrate and die in the metacommunity according to stochastic events. We ran each model for 3000 steps and recorded the range size of each species at each step. The heritability of geographical range size was assessed using an asymmetry coefficient between range sizes of sister species and using the coefficient of correlation between the range sizes of ancestors and their descendants. Results Our results demonstrated the ability of neutral models to mimic some important observed patterns in the heritability of geographical range size. Consistently, sister species exhibited higher asymmetry in range sizes than expected by chance, and correlations between the range sizes of ancestor-descendant species pairs, although often weak, were almost invariably positive. Main conclusions Our findings suggest that, even without any biological trait differences, statistically significant heritability in the geographical range sizes of species can be found. This heritability is weaker than that observed in some empirical studies, but suggests that even here a substantial component of heritability may not necessarily be associated with niche conservatism. We also conclude that both presentday and fossil data sets may provide similar information on the heritability of the geographical range sizes of species, while the omission of rare species will tend to overestimate this heritability.
40405772|Aim: To test how well species distributions and abundance can be predicted following invasion and climate change when using only species distribution and abundance data to estimate parameters. Location: Models were developed for the species' native range in the Americas and applied to Australia. Methods: We developed a predictive model for an invasive neotropical shrub (Parkinsonia aculeata) using a popular ecophysiological biodimatic modelling technique (CLIMEX) fitted against distribution and abundance data in the Americas. The effect of uncertainty in model parameter estimates on predictions in Australia was tested. Alternative data sources were used when model predictions were sensitive to uncertainty in parameter estimates. The resulting best-fit model was run under two climate change scenarios. Results: Of the 19 parameters used, 9 could not be fitted using data from the native range. However, only parameters that lowered temperature or increased moisture requirements for growth noticeably altered the model prediction in Australia. Differences in predictions were dramatic, and reflect climates in Australia that were not represented in the Americas (novel climates). However, these poorly fitted parameters could be fitted post hoc using alternative data sources prior to predicting responses to climate change. Conclusions: Novel climates prevented the development of a predictive model which relied only on native-range distribution and abundance data because certain parameters could not be fitted. In fact, predictions were more sensitive to parameter uncertainty thaft to climate change scenarios. Where uncertainty in parameter estimates affected predictions, it could be addressed through the inclusion of alternative data sources. However, this may not always be possible, for example in the absence of post-invasion data.
3697536|Aim: To examine temporal variation in nestedness and whether nestedness patterns predict colonization, extinction and turnover across islands and species. Location: Dahlak Archipelago, Red Sea. Method: The distributions of land birds on 17 islands were recorded in two periods 30 years apart. Species and islands were reordered in the Nestedness Temperature Calculator, software for assessing degrees of nestedness in communities. The occupancy probability of each cell, i.e. species-island combinations, was calculated in the nested matrix and an extinction curve (boundary line) was specified. We tested whether historical and current nested ranks of species and islands were correlated, whether there was a relationship between occupancy probability (based on the historical data) and number of extinctions or colonizations (regression analyses) and whether the boundary line could predict extinctions and colonizations (chi-square analyses). Results: Historical and current nested ranks of islands and species were correlated but changes in occupancy patterns were common, particularly among bird species with intermediate incidence. Extinction and turnover of species were higher for small than large islands, and colonization was negatively related to isolation. As expected, colonizations were more frequent above than below the boundary line. Probability of extinction was highest at intermediate occupancy probability, giving a quadratic relationship between extinction and occupancy probability. Species turnover was related to the historical nested ranks of islands. Colonization was related negatively while extinction and occupancy turnover were related quadratically to historical nested ranks of species. Main conclusions: Some patterns of the temporal dynamics agreed with expectations from nested patterns. However, the accuracy of the predictions may be confounded by regional dynamics and distributions of idiosyncratic, resource-limited species. It is therefore necessary to combine nestedness analysis with adequate knowledge of the causal factors and ecology of targeted species to gain insight into the temporal dynamics of assemblages and for nestedness analyses to be helpful in conservation planning.
41239349|Aim: The spatial organization of soil microbial communities on large scales and the identification of environmental factors structuring their distribution have been little investigated. The overall objective of this study was to determine the spatial patterning of microbial biomass in soils over a wide extent and to rank the environmental filters most influencing this distribution. Location: French territory using the French Soil Quality Monitoring Network. This network covers the entire French territory and soils were sampled at 2150 sites along a systematic grid. Methods: The soil DNA extracted from all these soils was expressed in terms of soil molecular microbial biomass and related to other soil and land-use data over French territory. Results: This study provides the first extensive map of microbial biomass and reveals the heterogeneous and spatially structured distribution of this biomass on the scale of France. The main factors driving biomass distribution are the physicochemical properties of the soil (texture, pH and total organic carbon) as well as land use. Soils from land used for intensive agriculture, especially monoculture and vineyards, exhibited the smallest biomass pools. Interestingly, factors known to influence the large-scale distribution of macroorganisms, such as climatic factors, were not identified as important drivers for microbial communities. Main conclusions: Microbial abundance is spatially structured and dependent on local filters such as soil characteristics and land use but is relatively independent of global filters such as climatic factors or the presence of natural barriers. Our study confirms that the biogeography of microorganisms differs fundamentally from the biogeography of 'macroorganisms' and that soil management can have significant large-scale effects.
30137822|Aim: There is a debate as to whether biotic interactions exert a dominant role in governing species distributions at macroecological scales. The prevailing idea is that climate is the key limiting factor; thus models that use present-day climate-species range relationships are expected to provide reasonable means to quantify the impacts of climate change on species distributions. However, there is little empirical evidence that biotic interactions would not constrain species distributions at macroecological scales. We examine this idea, for the first time, and provide tests for two null hypotheses:
30137994|Aim: To evaluate seasonal body-size patterns for New World birds in geographical space, to develop environmental models to explain the gradients, and to estimate phylogenetic and adaptive contributions. Location: The Western Hemisphere. Methods: We used range maps to generate gridded geometric mean body masses. Summer and winter patterns were distinguished based on breeding and non-breeding ranges. We first generated the geographical gradients, followed by phylogenetic eigenvector regression to generate body sizes predicted by the birds' positions in a phylogenetic tree, which were used to generate the expected phylogenetic gradient. Subtracting the expected pattern from the observed pattern isolated the adaptive component. Ordinary least squares multiple-regression models examined factors influencing the phylogenetic, adaptive and combined components of the seasonal body-size patterns, and non-spatial and spatial models were compared. Results: Birds are larger in the temperate zones than in the tropics. The gradient is quantitatively stronger in winter than in summer. Regression models explained 66.6% of the variance in summer mass and 45.9% of the variance in winter mass. In summer, phylogenetic and adaptive responses of birds contribute equally to the gradient. In winter, the gradient in North America is much stronger than that expected by taxonomic turnover, and responses of species independent of their family membership drive the overall pattern. Main conclusions: We confirm Bergmann's rule in New World birds and conclude that winter temperatures ultimately drive the pattern, exerting selection pressures on birds that overwhelm patterns expected by phylogenetic inertia at the family level. However, in summer, the movement of migratory species into the temperate zone weakens the gradient and generates a pattern more congruent with that expected from the taxonomic composition of the fauna. The analytical method we develop here represents a useful tool for partitioning the phylogenetic and non-phylogenetic components of spatially explicit macroecological data.
4139413| Aim To provide the first global quantification of the slope and shape of the latitudinal gradient in seed mass, and to determine whether global patterns in seed mass are best explained by growth form, vegetation type, seed dispersal syndrome, or net primary productivity (NPP). Location Global. Methods We collected seed mass data for 11,481 species x site combinations from around the world. We used regression to describe the latitudinal gradient in seed mass, then applied general linear models to quantify the relative explanatory power of each of the variables hypothesized to underlie the latitudinal gradient in seed size. Results There is a 320-fold decline in geometric mean seed mass between the equator and 60 . This decline is not linear. At the edge of the tropics, there is a sudden 7-fold drop in mean seed mass. The strongest correlates of the latitudinal gradient in seed mass are plant growth form, and vegetation type, followed by dispersal syndrome and NPP. A model including growth form, vegetation type, dispersal syndrome and NPP explains 51% of the variation in seed mass. Latitude explains just 0.2% of the residual variation from this model. Main conclusions This is the first demonstration of a major decrease in seed size at the edge of the tropics. This drop in seed mass is most closely correlated with changes in plant growth form and vegetation type. This suggests that the drop in seed mass might be part of a sudden change in plant strategy at the edge of the tropics. 
3697528|Aim: To quantify the relationship between the description dates of anuran species in the Brazilian Cerrado and some macroecological traits, and to verify the spatial patterns of average description dates and their correlation with human occupation and biodiversity knowledge. Location: Brazilian Cerrado (South America). Methods: The average date of description of 131 species of anurans found in 181 cells overlaying the Brazilian Cerrado was recorded. Description date was regressed across species on body size and geographical range size. Phylogenetic effects that could bias the significance tests of the multiple regression model of description dates on macroecological traits were taken into account using a phylogenetic subtraction method in which families and genera were classificatory factors in a nested two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) model. We also conducted a spatial analysis of the average description date that was estimated for each cell. This cell-based metric was regressed on human population size, the year of foundation of the municipalities and the number of inventories undertaken in each cell. The influence of spatial autocorrelation patterns was taken into account by using the geographically effective number of degrees of freedom. Results: The number of new species being discovered in the Brazilian Cerrado has been increasing, especially over the last 50 years. Cross-species analyses indicated that description dates were negatively correlated with body size and geographical range size, taking phylogenetic effects into account. Even after controlling for the spatial structures in all variables, average description date was positively correlated with human population in geographical space, but because of multicolinearity structure in the data, it was not possible to quantify the independent influence of human population and number of inventories on description date. Conclusions: As found in previous papers, large-bodied and widely distributed species are likely to be described first. Species yet to be discovered are probably small-bodied and with narrow distributions, more restricted to the Cerrado biome. Also, the explicit spatial approach showed that the average description date is spatially correlated with total human population and biodiversity knowledge in the Cerrado region. Our findings suggest that incorporating human population density into the reserve design algorithms, which has usually been done to avoid or minimize conservation conflicts, may also produce good results because this will preserve many places where most of the non-described species will probably be found in the future.
30137873|Aim To produce a robust, comprehensive global biome reconstruction for the Middle Pliocene (c. 3.6-2.6 Ma), which is based on an internally consistent palaeobotanical data set and a state-of-the-art coupled climate-vegetation model. The reconstruction gives a more rigorous picture of climate and environmental change during the Middle Pliocene and provides a new boundary condition for future general circulation model (GCM) studies. Location Global. Methods Compilation of Middle Pliocene vegetation data from 202 marine and terrestrial sites into the comprehensive GIS data base TEVIS (Tertiary Environmental Information System). Translation into an internally consistent classification scheme using 28 biomes. Comparison and synthesis of vegetation reconstruction from palaeodata with the outputs of the mechanistically based BIOME4 model forced by climatology derived from the HadAM3 GCM. Results The model results compare favourably with available palaeodata and highlight the importance of employing vegetation-climate feedbacks and the anomaly method in biome models. Both the vegetation reconstruction from palaeobotanical data and the BIOME4 prediction indicate a general warmer and moister climate for the Middle Pliocene. Evergreen taiga as well as temperate forest and grassland shifted northward, resulting in much reduced tundra vegetation. Warm-temperate forests (with subtropical taxa) spread in mid and eastern Europe and tropical savannas and woodland expanded in Africa and Australia at the expense of deserts. Discrepancies which occurred between data reconstruction and model simulation can be related to: (1) poor spatial model resolution and data coverage; (2) uncertainties in delimiting biomes using climate parameters; or (3) uncertainties in model physics and/or geological boundary conditions. Main conclusions The new global biome reconstruction combines vegetation reconstruction from palaeobotanical proxies with model simulations. It is an important contribution to the further understanding of climate and vegetation changes during the Middle Pliocene warm interval and will enhance our knowledge about how vegetation may change in the future.
2997868|In order to investigate the hypothesis that the Earth's climate and vegetation patterns may have more than one basic state, we use the fully coupled GENESIS-IBIS model. GENESIS is an atmospheric general circulation model. IBIS is a dynamic global vegetation model that integrates biophysical, physiological, and ecological processes. GENESIS and IBIS are coupled by way of a common land surface interface to allow for the full and transient interaction between changes in the vegetation structure and changes in the general circulation of the atmosphere. We examine two modern climate simulations of the coupled model initialized with two different initial conditions. In one case, we initialize the model vegetation cover with the modern observed distribution of vegetation. In the other case, we initialize the vegetation cover with evergreen boreal forests extending to the Arctic coast, replacing high-latitude tundra. We interpret the coupled model's behaviour using a conceptual model for multistability and demonstrate that in both simulations the climate-vegetation system converges to the same equilibrium state. In the present climate, feedbacks between land, ocean, sea ice, and the atmosphere do not result in the warming required to support an expanded boreal forest.
3697445|Aim: Traditional methodologies of mapping vegetation, as carried out by ecologists, consist primarily of field surveying or mapping from aerial photography. Previous applications of satellite imagery for this task (e.g. Landsat TM and SPOT HRV) have been unsuccessful, as such imagery proved to have insufficient spatial resolution for mapping vegetation. This paper reports on a study to assess the capabilities of the recently launched remote sensing satellite sensor Ikonos, with improved capabilities, for mapping and monitoring upland vegetation using traditional image classification methods. Location: The location is Northumberland National Park, UK. Methods: Traditional remote sensing classification methodologies were applied to the Ikonos data and the outputs compared to ground data sets. This enabled an assessment of the value of the improved spatial resolution of satellite imagery for mapping upland vegetation. Post-classification methods were applied to remove noise and misclassified pixels and to create maps that were more in keeping with the information requirements of the NNPA for current management processes. Results: The approach adopted herein for quick and inexpensive land cover mapping was found to be capable of higher accuracy than achieved with previous approaches, highlighting the benefits of remote sensing for providing land cover maps. Main conclusions: Ikonos imagery proved to be a useful tool for mapping upland vegetation across large areas and at fine spatial resolution, providing accuracies comparable to traditional mapping methods of ground surveys and aerial photography.
3697426| Macroecological studies infer ecological processes based on observed patterns. An often used measure of pattern is the species-area curve. Insufficient attention has been paid to the variety of methods used to construct those curves. There are six different methods based on different combinations of: (1) the pattern of quadrats or areas sampled (nested, contiguous, noncontiguous, or island); (2) whether successively larger areas are constructed in a spatially explicit fashion or not; and (3) whether the curve is constructed from single values or mean values. The resulting six types of curves differ in their shapes, how diversity is encapsulated, and the scales encompassed. Inventory diversity () can either represent a single value or a mean value, creating a difference in the focus of the measure. Differentiation diversity () can vary in the extent encompassed, and thus the spatial scale, depending on the pattern of quadrat placement. Species-area curves are used for a variety of purposes: extrapolation, setting a common grain, and hypothesis testing. The six types of curves differ in how they are used or interpreted in these contexts. A failure to recognize these differences can result in improper conclusions. Further work is needed to understand the sampling and measurement properties of the different types of species-area curves. 
40205652|Aim: We examine issues of uncertainty regarding the spatial and temporal representativeness of phenological observations using a newly compiled Europe-wide data base of phenological observations for Betula species. Location: Europe. Methods: A new data base was compiled from national phenological observations covering 15 European countries, with the longest observational periods exceeding several decades for some sites. From this, the spatial and temporal representativeness of phenological observations were evaluated via statistical analysis. Results: The results showed that there was a significant and irreducible uncertainty related to the use of data of a single station, which varied from 3 to 8 days depending on the station location. In more continental and northern climatic zones the uncertainty was lower, probably due to faster spring-time weather developments. In mild climatic conditions, the uncertainty of dates of the phenological phases registered by a single station exceeded 1 week. The considerable number of data allowed us to preliminarily estimate the features of some stations, marking them as 'late', 'early', 'representative' or 'random', depending on the dates reported by these sites and the corresponding regional means. Main conclusions: The uncertainties discovered in single-site phenological observations are significant for virtually any potential application. Possible approaches for handling the uncertainty problem are station pre-averaging and spatial regularization of the data set, pre-selection (down-sampling) or changing the description of the phenomena from deterministic to probabilistic.
40205717|Aim: Nutrient resorption from senescing leaves is an important mechanism of nutrient conservation in plants, but the patterns of nutrient resorption at the global scale are unknown. Because soil nutrients vary along climatic gradients, we hypothesize that nutrient resorption changes with latitude, temperature and precipitation. Location: Global. Methods: We conducted a meta-analysis on a global data set collected from published literature on nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) resorption of woody plants. Results: For all data pooled, both N resorption efficiency (NRE) and P resorption efficiency (PRE) were significantly related to latitude, mean annual temperature (MAT) and mean annual precipitation (MAP): NRE increased with latitude but decreased with MAT and MAP. In contrast, PRE decreased with latitude but increased with MAT and MAP. When functional groups (shrub versus tree, coniferous versus broadleaf and evergreen versus deciduous) were examined individually, the patterns of NRE and PRE in relation to latitude, MAT and MAP were generally similar. Main conclusions: The relationships between N and P resorption and latitude, MAT and MAP indicate the existence of geographical patterns of plant nutrient conservation strategies in relation to temperature and precipitation at the global scale, particularly for PRE, which can be an indicator for P limitation in the tropics and selective pressure shaping the evolution of plant traits. Our results suggest that, although the magnitude of plant nutrient resorption might be regulated by local factors such as substrate, spatial patterns are also controlled by temperature or precipitation.
3182714|The species richness of ecosystems can remain stable over time, despite changes in species composition and changes in the dominant plant species. While this pattern of stability is known to occur temporally, it has been examined poorly in a spatial context. To examine this spatially, the species richness, diversity and composition of native woodlands (of oak and bay trees) and exotic woodlands (of eucalypt trees) were compared in California. Species richness was nearly identical for understorey plants, leaf-litter invertebrates, amphibians and birds; only rodents had significantly fewer species in eucalypt sites. Species diversity patterns (using the Shannon-Wiener Index) were qualitatively identical to those for species richness, except for leaf-litter invertebrates, which were significantly more diverse in eucalypt sites during the spring. Species composition was different between sites, as evidenced by a principal components analysis, coefficients of similarity, and the relatively few species shared between native and eucalypt sites. Thus, the consistency in richness and diversity observed for most groups, in most seasons, occurred despite significant differences in species composition. These results are consistent with previous demonstrations of temporal stability, suggesting that species richness may often be stable, both temporally and spatially, despite changes in composition and regardless of the dominant vegetation.
40205672|Aim: Using a new approach to analyse fossil pollen data, we investigate temporal and spatial patterns in Populus (poplar, cottonwood, aspen) from the Late Glacial to the present at regional to continental scales. Location: North America. Methods: We extracted data on the timing and magnitude of the maximum value of Populus pollen from each pollen diagram in the North American Pollen Database (NAPD). The information was plotted in histograms of 150-year bins to identify times when Populus was abundant on the landscape. We also mapped the maximum values to identify spatial patterns and their causes. Results: Our analyses show that there have been several periods since the Late Glacial when Populus was abundant on the landscape: (1) from 12.35 to 12.65 kyr BP, in eastern North America, largely in response to the opening of the forest following the onset of the Younger Dryas; (2) from 10.85 to 11.75 kyr BP, following the termination of the Younger Dryas; and (3) during the last 150 years, as land was cleared for agricultural use, especially in the midwestern United States. Main conclusion Since the Late Glacial, changes in the abundance of Populus were caused more by the effects of abrupt climate change on its major competitors, rather than the direct effects of climate on Populus itself.
41239403|Savannas are defined based on vegetation structure, the central concept being a discontinuous tree cover in a continuous grass understorey. However, at the highrainfall end of the tropical savanna biome, where heavily wooded mesic savannas begin to structurally resemble forests, or where tropical forests are degraded such that they open out to structurally resemble savannas, vegetation structure alone may be inadequate to distinguish mesic savanna from forest. Additional knowledge of the functional differences between these ecosystems which contrast sharply in their evolutionary and ecological history is required. Specifically, we suggest that tropical mesic savannas are predominantly mixed tree-C grass systems defined by fire tolerance and shade intolerance of their species, while forests, from which C grasses are largely absent, have species that are mostly fire intolerant and shade tolerant. Using this framework, we identify a suite of morphological, physiological and life-history traits that are likely to differ between tropical mesic savanna and forest species. We suggest that these traits can be used to distinguish between these ecosystems and thereby aid their appropriate management and conservation. We also suggest that many areas in South Asia classified as tropical dry forests, but characterized by fire-resistant tree species in a C grass-dominated understorey, would be better classified as mesic savannas requiring fire and light to maintain the unique mix of species that characterize them.
3182723|Aim: Species generally become rarer and more patchily distributed as the margins of their ranges are approached. We predicted that in such marginal sites, tree species would tend to occur where some key environmental factors are at particularly favourable levels, compensating in part for the low overall suitability of marginal sites. Location: The article considers the spatial distributions of trees in Southeast Alaska (the Alaskan 'panhandle'). Methods: We quantified range marginality using spatial distributions of eight tree species across more than one thousand surveyed sites in Southeast Alaska. For each species we derived a site core/margin index using a three-dimensional trend surface generated from logistic regression on site coordinates. For each species, the relationships between the environmental factors slope, aspect and site marginality were then compared for occupied and unoccupied sets of sites. Results: We found that site slope is important for more Alaskan tree species than aspect. Three out of eight had a significant core/margin by occupied/unoccupied interaction, tending to be present in significantly shallower-sloped (more favourable) sites in the marginal areas than the simple core/margin trend predicted. For site aspect, one species had a significant interaction, selecting potentially more favourable northerly aspects in marginal areas. A finer-scale analysis based on the same data came to the same overall conclusions. Conclusions: There is evidence that several tree species in Alaska tend to occur in especially favourable sites in marginal areas. In these marginal areas, these species amplify habitat preferences shown in core areas.
3697623|Aim: To investigate the formation of nestedness and species co-occurrence patterns at the local (sampling station), the intermediate (island group), and the archipelago scale. Location: The study used data on the distribution of terrestrial isopods on 20 islands of the central Aegean (Greece). These islands are assigned to two distinct subgroups (Kyklades and Eastern islands). Methods: The Nestedness Temperature Calculator was used to obtain nestedness values and maximally nested matrices, the EcoSim7 software and a modified version of Sanderson (2000) method were used for the analysis of species cooccurrences. Idiosyncratic temperatures of species and the order of species placement in the maximally nested matrices were used for further comparisons among spatial scales. The relationships of nestedness values with beta-diversity, habitat diversity and a number of ecological factors recorded for each sampling station were also investigated. Results: Significant nestedness was found at all spatial scales. Levels of nestedness were not related to beta-diversity or habitat diversity. Nestedness values were similar among spatial scales, but they were affected by matrix size. The species that contributed most to the nested patterns within single islands were not the same as those that produce nestedness at the archipelago scale. There was significant variation in the frequency of species occurrence among islands and among spatial scales. There was no direct effect of ecological factors on the shaping of patterns of nestedness within individual islands, but habitat heterogeneity was crucial for the existence of such patterns. Positive associations among species prevailed at all scales when species per station were considered, while negative associations prevailed in the species per island matrices. All associations resulted from the habitat structure of sampling stations and from particularities of geographical distributions. Conclusions: There was no clear-cut distinction between nestedness patterns among spatial scales, even though different species, and partially different factors, contributed to the formation of these patterns in each case. There was a core of species that contributed to the formation of nested patterns at all spatial scales, while the patterns of species associations suggested that biotic interactions are not an important causal factor. The results of this study suggest that locally rare species cannot be widespread at a higher spatial scale, while locally common species can have a restricted distribution.
40405785|Aim Tropical forests have been recognized as important global carbon sinks and sources. However, many uncertainties about the spatial distribution of live tree above-ground biomass (AGB) remain, mostly due to limited availability of AGB field data. Recent studies in the Amazon have already shown the importance of large sample size for accurate AGB gradient analysis. Here we use a large stem density, basal area, community wood density and AGB dataset to study and explain their spatial patterns in an Asian tropical forest. Location Borneo, Southeast Asia. Methods We combined stem density, basal area, community wood density and AGB data from 83 locations in Borneo with an environmental database containing elevation, climate and soil variables. The Akaike information criterion was used to select models and environmental variables that best explained the observed values of stem density, basal area, community wood density and AGB. These models were used to extrapolate these parameters across Borneo. Results We found that wood density, stem density, basal area and AGB respond significantly, but differentially, to the environment. AGB was only correlated with basal area, but not with stem density and community wood specific gravity. Main conclusions Unlike results from Amazonian forests, soil fertility was an important positive correlate for AGB in Borneo while community wood density, which is a main driver of AGB in the Neotropics, did not correlate with AGB in Borneo. Also, Borneo's average AGB of 457.1 Mg ha was c. 60% higher than the Amazonian average of 288.6 Mg ha. We find evidence that this difference might be partly explained by the high density of large wind-dispersed Dipterocarpaceae in Borneo, which need to be tall and emergent to disperse their seeds. Our results emphasize the importance of Bornean forests as carbon sinks and sources due to their high carbon storage capacity.
3697659|Aim: To distinguish the effects of physical geography and socioeconomic conditions on the extinction of butterflies in European states, and to compare patterns influencing extinctions with patterns influencing species richness. Location: Europe. Method: Per-state species richness and extinctions were taken from the Red Data Book of European Butterflies, and their relationships with physical geography and socioeconomic predictors were analysed using regression analysis. Two hypothesis were explored: (1) extinctions are related primarily to identical physical geography factors that influence species richness; and (2) extinctions are influenced primarily by human pressure on natural biotopes and follow correlates of modern land use. Results: Extinctions and richness are not correlated. Richness increased towards low latitudes and with biotope and topographic heterogeneity, and decreased in states affected by Quaternary glaciation and on islands. The only socioeconomic correlate was human density, exhibiting a weak negative effect. Extinctions were negatively correlated with area and with biotope and topographic heterogeneity. They peaked in regions with mild climate in central latitudes. The strongest socioeconomic correlate was high density of railways, interpreted as a proxy of early industrialization. Further correlates were human density and urban employment. Main conclusion: Topographic and biotope heterogeneity predicts both high species richness and low extinction rates. Losses of butterflies result from a complex interplay of geography and relatively recent economic history, as low topographic heterogeneity and flat relief favoured the early advent of industrialization and intensive land use.
30137878|The area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, known as the AUC, is currently considered to be the standard method to assess the accuracy of predictive distribution models. It avoids the supposed subjectivity in the threshold selection process, when continuous probability derived scores are converted to a binary presence-absence variable, by summarizing overall model performance over all possible thresholds. In this manuscript we review some of the features of this measure and bring into question its reliability as a comparative measure of accuracy between model results. We do not recommend using AUC for five reasons: (1) it ignores the predicted probability values and the goodness-of-fit of the model; (2) it summarises the test performance over regions of the ROC space in which one would rarely operate; (3) it weights omission and commission errors equally; (4) it does not give information about the spatial distribution of model errors; and, most importantly, (5) the total extent to which models are carried out highly influences the rate of well-predicted absences and the AUC scores.
30137862|Aim To investigate the general pattern of changes in species richness and diversity of vascular plants due to environmental contamination and associated habitat changes imposed by point polluters, and identify the sources of variation in the response of plant communities to industrial pollution. Location Global. Methods We collected species richness and diversity data from 86 studies that were conducted around 60 atmospheric point polluters worldwide and reported in 95 papers (published in 1953-2007). We used meta-analysis to search for a general effect and to compare between polluter types and plant groups, and linear regression to describe the latitudinal gradient and to quantify relationships between pollution and effect size. Results Although the species richness of vascular plants generally decreased with pollution, the effects were not uniform across the studies. Polluters that cause soil acidification imposed a stronger detrimental effect on plant diversity than industries whose emissions increased soil pH. An overall adverse effect was primarily due to the contribution of non-ferrous smelters and aluminium plants; the effects of other
3697432| Aim: The bioclimatic model is a new method for palaeoclimatic reconstruction built on the assumption of a significant correlation between climate and mammal community composition. The goal of this approach is to infer past climatic conditions using mammal fossil associations as source data. Location: The study used mammal faunas from all over the world to develop the bioclimatic model. As an example of the potential of the model, we have applied it to Quaternary faunas from Eurasia. Methods: The proposed model was constructed by applying multivariate discriminant analysis to modern mammal faunas and climates from throughout the world. The model was validated with a different set of modern faunas than those used in the discriminant analysis, including some from transitional zones between different climates (ecotones). To test the reliability of the method in the Pleistocene, the results have been compared to those obtained with data from other disciplines, such as palaeobotany. Results: The results obtained in the validation of the model show that more than 90% of the localities have been classified correctly. Comparisons of results in the late Pleistocene-Holocene of Barov between a palaeobotanical study and the bioclimatic analysis show the latter to be highly accurate. The results for early Pleistocene faunas show somewhat drier and more open climatic conditions for Europe than the present day, with larger areas of steppe environments. Main Conclusions: The bioclimatic model could be used to infer climatic conditions from mammal faunas. The results presented in this work provide a preliminary example of the potential that bioclimatic analysis has as a tool for palaeoclimatic inference. Finally, this method offers the opportunity to standardize data coming from vertebrate palaeontology for use in the construction and evaluation of climatic models. 
2997855|Carbon and oxygen isotopic data are reported from 116 Pleistocene Equus teeth from sixty-six localities in the New World ranging from 68
3697453|Scheiner (2003) presented a classification of species-area curves into six types based on the pattern of sampling and how the data are combined to form the curves. Gray et al. (2004) contended that five of those types should be termed 'species-accumulation curves', reserving 'species-area curve' for those based on island-type data. Their proposition contradicts 70 years of usage and confounds curves that are area-explicit with those that are area-undefined. In exploring these issues, I highlight additional aspects of species-area and species-accumulation curves, including the assumption of nesting in Type IV (island) curves, how to convert area-unspecified curves into area curves, and the effects of the grain of the analysis on the properties of the curve. Further exploration, theoretical development, and dialogue are needed before we will understand all the biology that species-area curves summarize.
40205698|Aims: The combined effects of changes in climate and land use on tree mortality and growth patterns have rarely been addressed. Relict tree species from the Mediterranean Basin serve as appropriate models to investigate these effects, since they grow in climatically stressed areas which have undergone intense cover changes. The aim is to use climate, aerial photographs, stand structure and radial-growth data to explain the mortality and historical patterns of growth of Abies pinsapo in the area where this relict species was first protected. Location: Sierra de las Nieves, West Baetic Range, southern Spain. Methods: We assessed variations of tree cover in A. pinsapo forests through image analyses of aerial photographs spanning the last 50 years. We sampled 31 stands to assess current altitudinal patterns of forest structure and mortality. We evaluated the relationships between radial growth and regional climate using linear models in three sites at different elevations. Results: Regional warming and a decrease in precipitation were detected. Forest tree cover increased at all elevations from 1957 until 1991, but it afterwards decreased below 1100 m. Currently, the likelihood of tree mortality increases downwards and is associated with dense, closed stands with a low living basal area. In contrast to previous droughts, a sharp synchronized reduction in tree growth, not fully accounted for in linear climate-growth models, occurred at low elevations in 1994-95, but not upwards. It was preceded by a weakening of the negative association between low-elevation growth and water deficit since the late 1970s. Conclusions The intense densification of A. pinsapo forests following strict protection measures in the late 1950s enhanced the vulnerability of climate-sensitive A. pinsapo forests to recent drier conditions. Such abrupt land-use changes help to explain recent patterns of mortality and growth decline in low-elevation A. pinsapo forests.
40205706|Aim: To assess whether the water availability measures commonly used in species distribution models might be misleading because they do not account for the hydrological effects of changes in vegetation structure and functioning. Location: Europe. Methods: We compared different methods for estimating water availability in species distribution models with the soil water content predicted by a process-based ecosystem model. The latter also accounted for the hydrological effects of dynamic changes in vegetation structure and functioning, including potential physiological effects of increasing CO . Results: All proxies showed similar patterns of water availability across Europe for current climate, but when projected into the future, the changes in the simpler water availability measures showed no correlation with those projected by the more complex ecosystem model, even if CO effects were switched off. Main conclusions: Results from species distribution modelling studies concerning future changes in species ranges and biodiversity should be interpreted with caution, and more process-based representations of the water balance of terrestrial ecosystems should be considered within these models.
3182665|We investigated the relationship between species richness and numbers and types of individuals and species present in forests with different physiognomies in the southern Cape Province, South Africa. Data were collected from three different 'plot' types: 400 m
40801918|Aim: The Tibetan Plateau accounts for about a quarter of the total land area of China and has a variety of ecosystems ranging from alpine tundra to evergreen tropics. Its soils are dominated by permafrost and are rich in organic carbon. Its climate is unique due to the influence of the Asian monsoon and its complex topography. To date, the carbon dynamics of the Tibetan Plateau have not been well quantified under changes of climate and permafrost conditions. Here we use a process-based biogeochemistry model, the Terrestrial Ecosystem Model which was incorporated with a soil thermal model, to examine the permafrost dynamics and their effects on carbon dynamics on the plateau during the past century.
3697564| Aim: To develop the first national databases on land use and agricultural land use intensity in Canada for a wide variety of environmental monitoring applications. Location: Canada. Methods: In this paper, we describe a new system for the construction of both land use and land use intensity (within agricultural regions) called LUCIA (land use and cover with intensity of agriculture). Our methodology combines the highly detailed Canadian Census of Agriculture and recent growing season composites derived from the SPOT4/VEGETATION sensor. Census data are of much coarser resolution than the remotely sensed data but, by removing non-agricultural pixels from each census sampling area, we were able to refine the census data sufficiently to allow their use as ground truth data in some areas. The 'refined' census data were then used in the final step of an unsupervised classification of the remotely sensed data. Results: and main conclusions The results of the land use classification are generally consistent with the input census data, indicating that the LUCIA output reflects actual land use trends as determined by national census information. Land use intensity, defined as the principal component of census variables that relate to agricultural inputs and outputs (e.g. chemical inputs, fertilizer inputs and manure outputs), is highest in the periphery of the great plains region of central Canada but is also very high in southern Ontario and Qubec. 
30137865|Aim Using a global data base of the distribution of extant bird species, we examine the evidence for spatial variation in the evolutionary origins of contemporary avian diversity. In particular, we assess the possible role of the timing of mountain uplift in promoting diversification in different regions. Location Global. Methods We mapped the distribution of avian richness at four taxonomic levels on an equal-area 1 grid. We examined the relationships between richness at successive taxonomic levels (e.g. species richness vs. genus richness). We mapped the residuals from linear regressions of these relationships to identify areas that are exceptional in the number of lower taxa relative to the number of higher taxa. We use generalized least squares models to test the influence of elevation range and temperature on lower-taxon richness relative to higher-taxon richness. Results Peaks of species richness in the Neotropics were congruent with patterns of generic richness, whilst peaks in Australia and the Himalayas were congruent with patterns of both genus and family richness. Hotspots in the Afrotropics did not reflect higher-taxon patterns. Regional differences in the relationship between richness at successive taxonomic levels revealed variation in patterns of taxon co-occurrence. Species and genus co-occurrence was positively associated with elevational range across much of the world. Taxon occurrence in the Neotropics was associated with a positive interaction between elevational range and temperature. Conclusions These results demonstrate that contemporary patterns of richness show different associations with higher-taxon richness in different regions, which implies that the timing of historical effects on these contemporary patterns varies across regions. We suggest that this is due to dispersal limitation and phylogenetic constraints on physiological tolerance limits promoting diversification. We speculate that diversification rates respond to long-term changes in the Earth's topography, and that the role of tropical mountain ranges is implicated as a correlate of contemporary diversity, and a source of diversification across avian evolutionary history.
2665397|1 It is widely accepted that tropical lowland rain forest holds the greatest diversity of organisms, and it is often implied that this general pattern is also true for virtually all individual higher-level taxa. Standardized elevational transect surveys of non-flying small mammals (Insectivora and Rodentia) on geologically old, species-rich islands in the Philippines consistently show maximum diversity and relative abundance in upper montane/lower mossy forest at 1500-2200 m, often exceeding lowland species richness and relative abundance by a factor of three or more. 2 On mountains where maximum elevation exceeds 2000 m, there is a decline in species richness above about 1500-2000 m, yielding a curvilinear pattern of species richness along the elevational gradient. The peak in species richness occurs at the area of transition from montane to mossy forest, which is also the point at which rainfall probably peaks. In parallel with species richness, relative abundance of small mammals in the Philippines also increases from the lowlands to 1500-2200 m, increasing by a factor from two to 10. 3 Twelve hypotheses concerning patterns of diversity along elevational gradients, plus the null hypothesis, are evaluated. The null hypothesis of no variation and the hypotheses that maximum diversity is in the lowlands, that diversity is highest in areas of least perturbation, and that diversity increases with increasing area, are rejected. There is weak or ambiguous support for the hypotheses that diversity is greatest in areas of community interdigitation, that diversity is highest in the area of highest productivity, that diversity is correlated with habitat complexity, and that diversity is correlated with habitat diversity. There is strongest support for the hypotheses that diversity is correlated with annual rainfall, with total abundance of individuals in the community, with food resource diversity, with areas of reduced competition from other organisms, and with areas characterized by high rates of speciation. 4 Causality is difficult to evaluate because many hypotheses make non-exclusive predictions, they probably represent non-independent aspects of causal factors (in other words, there is much interaction among the processes highlighted by the various hypotheses), and they represent the range from proximate to ultimate and from descriptive to causal. All the hypotheses probably represent phenomena that exist in nature, but few (or none) represent phenomena found in all taxa. The primary challenge in the future will not be simply to accept or reject individual hypotheses, but rather to determine the circumstances under which the various causal factors are most important, how they interact, and how they can be combined into a more comprehensive and general multi-factorial model.
40928131|Aim: Biodiversity patterns along altitudinal gradients are less studied in aquatic than terrestrial systems, even though aquatic sites provide a more homogeneous environment independent of moisture constraints. We studied the altitudinal species richness pattern for planktonic rotifers in freshwater lakes and identified the environmental predictors for which altitude is a proxy. Location: Two hundred and eighteen lakes of Trentino-South Tyrol (Italy) in the eastern Alps; lakes covered 98% (range 65-2960 m above sea level) of the altitudinal gradient in the Alps. Methods: We performed: (1) linear regression between species richness and altitude to evaluate the general pattern, (2) multiple linear regression between species richness and environmental predictors excluding altitude to identify the most important predictors, and (3) linear regression between the residuals of the best model of step (2) and altitude to investigate any additional explanatory power of altitude. Selection of environmental predictors was based on limnological importance and non-parametric Spearman correlations. We applied ordinary least squares regression, generalized linear, and generalized least squares modelling to select the most statistically appropriate model. Results: Rotifer species richness showed a monotonie decrease with altitude independent of scale effects. Species richness could be explained (R = 51%) by lake area as a proxy for habitat diversity, reactive silica and total phosphorus as proxies for productivity, water temperature as a proxy for energy, nitrate as a proxy for human influence and north-south and east-west directions as covariates. These predictors completely accounted for the species richness-altitude pattern, and altitude had no additional effect on species richness. Main conclusions: The linear decrease of species richness along the altitudinal gradient was related to the interplay of habitat diversity, productivity, heat content and human influence. These factors are the same in terrestrial and aquatic habitats, but the greater environmental stability of aquatic systems seems to favour a linear pattern.
40205694|Aim: We examined whether species occurrences are primarily limited by physiological tolerance in the abiotically more stressful end of climatic gradients (the asymmetric abiotic stress limitation (AASL) hypothesis) and the geographical predictions of this hypothesis: abiotic stress mainly determines upper-latitudinal and upper-altitudinal species range limits, and the importance of abiotic stress for these range limits increases the further northwards and upwards a species occurs. Location: Europe and the Swiss Alps. Methods: The AASL hypothesis predicts that species have skewed responses to climatic gradients, with a steep decline towards the more stressful conditions. Based on presence-absence data we examined the shape of plant species responses (measured as probability of occurrence) along three climatic gradients across latitudes in Europe (1577 species) and altitudes in the Swiss Alps (284 species) using Huisman-Olff-Fresco, generalized linear and generalized additive models. Results: We found that almost half of the species from Europe and one-third from the Swiss Alps showed responses consistent with the predictions of the AASL hypothesis. Cold temperatures and a short growing season seemed to determine the upper-latitudinal and upper-altitudinal range limits of up to one-third of the species, while drought provided an important constraint at lower-latitudinal range limits for up to one-fifth of the species. We found a biome-dependent influence of abiotic stress and no clear support for abiotic stress as a stronger upper range-limit determinant for species with higher latitudinal and altitudinal distributions. However, the overall influence of climate as a range-limit determinant increased with latitude. Main conclusions: Our results support the AASL hypothesis for almost half of the studied species, and suggest that temperature-related stress controls the upperlatitudinal and upper-altitudinal range limits of a large proportion of these species, while other factors including drought stress may be important at the lower range limits.
41058240|Aim: Explanations of biogeographic diversity patterns have emphasized the role of large-scale processes that determine species pools, whereas explanations of local patterns have not. We address the hypothesis that local diversity patterns are also primarily dependent on the size of the available species pools, which are expected to be large when the particular habitat type has been evolutionary more abundant, or in unproductive habitats due to shorter generation time and hence higher diversification rates. Location: The Canary Islands. Methods: We determined the geographic distribution and habitat requirements of all native vascular plant species in the Canary Islands. Species pools for each habitat type on particular islands were further split into two categories according to origin: either originating due to local diversification or due to natural immigration. The dependence of historical diversification and diversification rate on habitat type, area, age, altitude and distance to the mainland was tested with general linear mixed models weighed according to the Akaike information criterion. Results: The largest portion of the local variation in plant species diversity was attributed to the historic (pre-human) habitat area, although island age was also important. The diversification rate was higher in unproductive habitats of coastal scrub and summit vegetation. Main conclusion: Our study supports the species pool hypothesis, demonstrating that natural local patterns of species diversity in different habitats mirror the abundance of those particular habitats in evolutionary history. It also supports the community-level birth rate hypothesis, claiming that stressful conditions result in higher diversification rates. We conclude that much of the observed local variation in plant diversity can be attributed to the differing sizes of species pools evolved under particular habitat conditions, and that historic parameters are far more important determinants of local diversity than suggested by ecological theory.
3697641|Aim: We tested whether variation in snapshots of butterfly species composition and species richness taken from one to six years apart could be interpreted as an ecologically meaningful trend or whether they might merely reflect stochasticity. Location: Field research was conducted in the Toquima Range and Shoshone Mountains, Lander and Nye counties, Nevada, USA. Methods: We obtained data for 49 sites in the Toquima Range from 1996 to 2002 and 39 sites in the Shoshone Mountains from 2000 to 2002. Sites spanned the gradient of local topographic and climatic conditions in those mountain ranges. Data on species composition and species richness were based on comprehensive field inventories. We calculated similarity of species composition using the Jaccard index. We conducted one-factor repeated-measures analyses of variance to test whether the distribution of similarity of species composition and the distribution of mean species richness depended on the number of years between inventories. Results: In both mountain ranges, much less of the difference in species composition was attributable to turnover of species composition within sites over time than to spatial differences among sites. Annual species richness in the Toquima Range was more variable than in the Shoshone Mountains, but again far less of the variation in species richness was attributable to year than to differences among sites. Main conclusions: Despite the fact that desert ecosystems are not expected to be highly resilient to global environmental change, there may be a time lag between deterministic environmental changes and a detectable faunal response, even in taxonomic groups that are known to be sensitive to changes in climate and vegetation. Although information on species richness and similarity of species composition are among the most practical data to collect in managed landscapes, these measures may not be highly sensitive to environmental changes over the short to moderate term.
40801854|Aim: Invasive species often exhibit a highly non-random suite of traits relative to non-invasive taxa, and these biases reflect strong selection at a series of steps along the invasion pathway. Here we investigate traits that are favoured in the first of these steps: the introduction of species outside their native geographic range. We use the global introduction of amphibians as our case study.
3182718|In many temperate and annual grasslands, above-ground net primary productivity (NPP) can be estimated by measuring peak above-ground biomass. Estimates of below-ground net primary productivity and, consequently, total net primary productivity, are more difficult. We addressed one of the three main objectives of the Global Primary Productivity Data Initiative for grassland systems to develop simple models or algorithms to estimate missing components of total system NPP. Any estimate of below-ground NPP (BNPP) requires an accounting of total root biomass, the percentage of living biomass and annual turnover of live roots. We derived a relationship using above-ground peak biomass and mean annual temperature as predictors of below-ground biomass (r
40205700|Aim: To contribute to the development of a macroevolutionary framework for riparian systems, reinforcing conceptual linkages between earth surface processes and biological and ecological processes. Location: Riparian systems. Methods: Literature review leading to an original proposition for perceiving the functioning of riparian systems in a new and different way. Results: Riparian systems provide diverse landforms, habitats and resources for animals and plants. Certain organisms, defined as 'ecosystem engineers', significantly create and modify the physical components of riparian systems. Many studies have highlighted such engineering effects by animals on riparian systems, but the identification and understanding of the effects and responses of plants within fluvial corridors have emerged only recently. The modulation of matter, resources and energy flows by engineering plants helps establish characteristic sequences of fluvial landform creation and maintenance associated with synergetic ecological successions. We relate this process to the concept of niche construction, developed mainly by evolutionary biologists. Feedbacks between adaptive responses of riparian plants to flow regime and adjusting effects on biostabilization and bioconstruction are discussed in the context of niche construction at the scale of ecological succession and the evolution of organisms. Main conclusions: Our conceptualization forges an integrated approach for understanding vegetated fluvial systems from a macroevolutionary perspective, for elucidating riparian ecosystem dynamics and potentially for establishing long-term stream conservation and restoration strategies.
30137986|Many recent studies have evaluated how global changes will affect biodiversity, and have mainly focused on how to develop conservation strategies to avoid, or at least minimize, extinctions due to shifts in suitable habitats for the species. However, these complex potential responses might be in part structured in phylogeny, because of the macroecological traits underlying them. In this comment, we review recent analytical developments in phylogenetic comparative methods that can be used to understand patterns of trait changes under environmental change. We focus on a partial regression approach that allows for partitioning the variance of traits into a fraction attributed to a pure ecological component, a fraction attributed to phylogenetically structured environmental variation (niche conservatism) and a fraction that may be attributed to phylogenetic effects only. We then develop a novel interpretation for linking these components for multiple traits with potential responses of species to global environmental change (i.e. adaptation, range shifts or extinctions). We hope that this interpretation will stimulate further research linking evolutionary components of multiple traits with broad-scale environmental changes.
3182728|An index (C
3697658|Aim: The goal of our study was to build a global model of island biogeography explaining bird species richness that combines MacArthur and Wilson's area-isolation theory with the species-energy theory. Location: Global. Methods: We assembled a global data set of 346 marine islands representing all types of climate, topography and degree of isolation on our planet, ranging in size from 10 ha to
2665379|Null models are pattern-generating models that deliberately exclude a mechanism of interest, and allow for randomization tests of ecological and biogeographic data. Although they have had a controversial history, null models are widely used as statistical tools by ecologists and biogeographers. Three active research fronts in null model analysis include biodiversity measures, species co-occurrence patterns, and macroecology. In the analysis of biodiversity, ecologists have used random sampling procedures such as rarefaction to adjust for differences in abundance and sampling effort. In the analysis of species co-occurrence and assembly rules, null models have been used to detect the signature of species interactions. However, controversy persists over the details of computer algorithms used for randomizing presence-absence matrices. Finally, in the newly emerging discipline of macroecology, null models can be used to identify constraining boundaries in bivariate scatterplots of variables such as body size, range size, and population density. Null models provide specificity and flexibility in data analysis that is often not possible with conventional statistical tests.
40928124|Aim: To evaluate the hypothesis that topographic features of high-elevation mountain environments govern spatial distribution and climate-driven dynamics of the forest. Location: Upper mountain forest stands (elevation range 1800-2600 m) in the mountains of southern Siberia. Methods: Archive maps, satellite and on-ground data from 1960 to 2002 were used. Data were normalized to avoid bias caused by uneven distribution of topographic features (elevation, azimuth and slope steepness) within the analysed area. Spatial distribution of forest stands was analysed with respect to topography based on a digital elevation model (DEM). Results: Spatial patterns in mountain forests are anisotropic with respect to azimuth, slope steepnesand elevation. At a given elevation, the majority of forests occupied slopes with greater than mean slope values. As the elevation increased, forests shifted to steeper slopes. The orientation of forest azimuth distribution changed clockwise with increase in elevation (the total shift was 120), indicating a combined effect of wind and water stress on the observed forest patterns. Warming caused changes in the forest distribution patterns during the last four decades. The area of closed forests increased 1.5 times, which was attributed to increased stand density and tree migration. The migration rate was 1.5  0.9 m year, causing a mean forest line shift of 63  37 m. Along with upward migration, downward tree migration onto hill slopes was observed. Changes in tree morphology were also noted as widespread transformation of the prostrate forms of Siberian pine and larch into erect forms. Main conclusions: The spatial pattern of upper mountain forests as well as the response of forests to warming strongly depends on topographic relief features (elevation, azimuth and slope steepness). With elevation increase (and thus a harsher environment) forests shifted to steep wind-protected slopes. A considerable increase in the stand area and increased elevation of the upper forest line was observed coincident with the climate warming that was observed. Warming promotes migration of trees to areas that are less protected from winter desiccation and snow abrasion (i.e. areas with lower values of slope steepness). Climate-induced forest response has significantly modified the spatial patterns of high-elevation forests in southern Siberia during the last four decades, as well as tree morphology.
41058238|Aim: The existence of a body size hierarchy across trophic connections is widely accepted anecdotally and is a basic assumption of many food-web models. Despite a strong theoretical basis, empirical evidence has been equivocal, and in general the relationship between trophic level and body size is often found to be weak or non-existent. Location: Global (aquatic). Methods: Using a global dataset for fishes (http://www. fishbase. org), we explored the relationship between body size and trophic position for 8361 fishes in 57 orders. Results: Across all species, trophic position was positively related to maximum length (r=0.194, b = 0.065, P<0.0001), meaning that a one-level increase in trophic level was associated with an increase in maximum length by a factor of 183. On average, fishes in orders that showed significantly positive trophic level-body size relations [mean=51.6 cm  11.8 (95% confidence interval, CI)] were 86 cm smaller than fishes in orders that showed no relation [mean=137.1 cm  50.3 (95% CI), P <0.01]. A separate slopes model ANCOVA revealed that maximum length and trophic level were positively correlated for 47% (27 of 57) of orders, with two more orders showing marginally non-significant positive relations; no significant negative correlations were observed. The full model (order x body size) explained 37% of the variation between body size and trophic position (P<0.0001). Main conclusions: Our results support recent models which suggest that trophic level and body size should be positively correlated, and indicate that morphological constraints associated with gape limitation may play a stronger role in determining body size in smaller fishes. Differences among orders suggest that the nature of the trophic level-body size relation may be contingent, in part, on evolutionary history.
3182651|A recent explanation for diversity gradients proposes a 'null model' based on how species ranges are constrained by the geometry of bounded domains. We conduct a test of this hypothesis by comparing patterns predicted by two two-dimensional geometric models against observed diversity patterns for terrestrially feeding Nearctic birds. Consistent with previous tests in two-dimensional space, we find empirical support for the hypothesis to be very weak. We also point out a fundamental conceptual flaw in the hypothesis with respect to the key assumption that ranges can exist independently of the environment in which they are embedded that undermines its theoretical basis as well. We conclude that the mid-domain effect has little empirical support and no theoretical support for its existence, and recommend that it be eliminated as a potential explanation for diversity gradients.
30137993|Aim: To describe the distribution of biodiversity and endemism of bryozoans in southern temperate and polar waters. We hypothesized that we would find: (1) no strong latitudinal richness gradient; (2) striking contrasts in richness and endemism between clades and between regions; and (3) that faunal similarity of regions would cluster geographically around each southern continent. Location: South Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans and the Southern Ocean. Methods: We constructed a data base from known literature, regional data bases and recent finds. We regionalized each southern continent, calculated levels of richness and endemism for each region and continent, and used PRIMER 5 to perform multivariate statistical analysis. Results: A third (1681) of global bryozoan species described occur south of 300 S, of which c. 87% were cheilostomes. In richness we found no latitudinal dine and change across longitude was stronger. New Zealand was richest and had the most (60%) endemic species, followed by Antarctica at 57%. There were striking contrasts in regional richness and endemism between clades but the highest levels of between region similarity were around Antarctica. The timing of past continent connectivity was reflected. Main conclusions: Bryozoans show strong hemispherical asymmetry in richness and, like molluscs and corals, decrease away from Australasia rather than with latitude. Species endemism is much lower in Antarctic bryozoans than previously thought, and as this taxon is not particularly dispersive and is now amongst the best studied regionally, maybe Antarctic endemism in general is lower and Antarctica less cut-off to species dispersal than previously thought. However, Antarctic generic endemism is double the level previously calculated and regional faunal similarities are much higher than around other continents - both reflecting long-term isolation. Bryozoans, in contrast to the paradigm of Antarctic fauna, may be fairly robust to predicted climate change. Paradoxically, they may also be one of the best taxa to monitor to sensitively detect marine benthic responses.
41239261|Aim: Despite the increasing pace of urbanization, little is known about how this process affects biodiversity globally. We investigate macroecological patterns of bird assemblages in urbanized areas relative to semi-natural ecosystems. Location: World-wide. Methods: We use a database of quantitative bird surveys to compare key assemblage structure parameters for plots in urbanized and semi-natural ecosystems controlling for spatial autocorrelation and survey methodology. We use the term 'urbanized' instead of 'urban' ecosystems as many of the plots were not located in the centre of towns but in remnant habitat patches within conurbations. Results: Some macroecological relationships were conserved in urbanized landscapes. Species-area, species-abundance and species-biomass relationships did not differ significantly between urbanized and non-urbanized environments. However, there were differences in the relationships between productivity and assemblage structure. In forests, species richness increased with productivity; in both forests and open habitats, the evenness of species abundances declined as productivity increased. Among urbanized plots, instead, both species richness and the evenness of species abundances were independent of variation in productivity. Main conclusions: Remnant habitats within urbanized areas are subject to many ecological alterations, yet key macroecological patterns differ remarkably little in urbanized versus non-urbanized plots. Our results support the need for increased conservation activities in urbanized landscapes, particularly given the additional benefits of local experiences of biodiversity for the human population. With increasing urbanization world-wide, broad-scale efforts are needed to understand and manage the effects of this driver of change on biodiversity.
4139434|Aim Our aim was to investigate how the environment, species characteristics and historical factors at the subcontinental scale affect patterns of diversity. We used the assembly of the Yellowstone biota over the past 10,000 years as a natural experiment for investigating the processes that generate a modern non-volant mammal species pool. Location The data represent species from throughout North America with special attention to the non-volant mammals of Yellowstone National Park, USA. Methods We used digitized range maps to determine biogeographical affinity for all non-volant mammals in the Rocky Mountains, Deserts and Great Plains biogeographical regions of North America. This biogeographical affinity, along with taxonomic order and body size class, was used to test whether non-random patterns exist in the assemblage of Yellowstone non-volant mammals. These characteristics were also used to investigate the strength of non-random processes, such as habitat or taxon filtering, on particular groups of species or individual species. Results Our results indicated that the Yellowstone fauna is composed of a non-random subset of mammals from specific body size classes and with particular biogeographical affinities. Analyses by taxonomic order found significantly more Carnivora from the Rocky Mountains region and significantly fewer Rodentia from the Deserts region than expected from random assembly. Analyses using body size classes revealed deviations from expectations, including several significant differences between the frequency distribution of regional body sizes and the distribution of those species found within Yellowstone. Main conclusions Our novel approach explores processes affecting species pool assembly in the Yellowstone region and elsewhere, and particularly identifies unique properties of species that may contribute to non-random assembly. Focusing on the mechanisms generating diversity, not just current diversity patterns, will assist the design of conservation strategies given future environmental change scenarios.
4139421|Aim To assess whether spatial variation in sampling effort drives positive correlations between human population density and species richness. Location British 10x10 km squares. Methods We calculated three measures of species richness from atlas data of breeding birds in Britain: total species richness, species richness standardised for sampling effort, and the number of species only recorded in supplementary casual records in a manner not standardised for survey effort. We then assessed the form of the relationship between these richness estimates and human population density, both with and without taking spatial autocorrelation into account. Results Both total and standardised species richness exhibit similar species richness-human population density relationships; species richness generally increases with human population density, but decreases at the very highest densities. Supplementary species richness is very weakly correlated with human population density. Main conclusions In this example, sampling effort only slightly influences the form of species richness-human population density relationships. The positive correlation between species richness and human population density and any resultant conservation conflicts are thus not artefactual patterns generated by confounding human density and sampling effort.
3182717|One expects greater similarity between communities that are close together in space than between communities that are widely separated. This may be due to similarity in environmental conditions, short-range dispersal, or both processes together. We examined whether these mechanisms were important in determining the invertebrate communities in a set of temporary freshwater rockpools within an area of 800 m
40801914|Aim: To assemble a data set of global crop planting and harvesting dates for 19 major crops, explore spatial relationships between planting date and climate for two of them, and compare our analysis with a review of the literature on factors that drive decisions on planting dates.
2665335|1. This paper aims to demonstrate the use of available vegetation data from the phytosociological literature in preliminary analyses to generate hypotheses regarding vegetation and climate change. 2. Data for over 3000 samples of calcareous grassland, mesotrophic grassland, heath and woodland vegetation were taken from the literature for a region in the west of Atlantic Europe and subjected to ordination by detrended correspondence analysis in order to identify the main gradients present. 3. Climate data were obtained at a resolution of 0.5<sup></sup> from an existing database. The relationship between vegetation composition and climate was investigated by the correlation of the mean scores for the first two ordination axes for each 0.5<sup></sup> cell with the climate and location variables. 4. The ordinations resulted in clear geographical gradients for calcareous grasslands, heaths and woodlands but not for mesotrophic grasslands. Significant correlations were shown between some of the vegetation gradients and the climate variables, with the strongest relationships occurring between the calcareous grassland gradients and July temperature, latitude and oceanicity. Some of the vegetation gradients were also inferred to reflect edaphic factors, management and vegetation history. 5. Those gradients that were related to temperature were hypothesized to reflect the influence of a progressively warmer climate on species composition, providing a baseline for further studies on the influence of climate change on species composition. 6. The validity of the literature data was assessed by the collection of an original set of field data for calcareous grasslands and the subsequent ordination of a dataset containing samples from both the literature and the field. The considerable overlap between the samples from the literature and the field suggest that literature data can be used, despite certain limitations. Such preliminary analyses, using readily available data, can thus achieve useful results, thereby saving lengthy and costly field visits.
40205719|Aim: We tested the hypothesis that the evolutionary fates of two sister groups (Alligatoroidea and Crocodyloidea) are differently constrained by phylogenetic and ecological (functional) factors in the face of climatic change. Location: Global. Methods: We quantified disparity in skull rostrum shape by means of geometric morphometrics. Mechanical performance of the rostrum was analyzed by applying beam theory calculations to morphological data and experimentally measured bite force. The phylogeny was expressed in the form of principal coordinates, the first ones of which were used as a set of explanatory variables. Extents of species occurrence were computed using species distribution maps. Finally, species maximum skull size were measured and considered as a proxy of maximum body size. We performed variation partitioning analyses in order to compare differential contributions of phylogenetic and ecological factors in Alligatoroidea and Crocodyloidea. Results: Alligatoroidea show higher 'pure' historical components than Crocodyloidea in explaining both rostrum shape and extent of occurrence (after controlling for body size). On the contrary, geometric variation of skull rostra of Crocodyloidea unequivocally shows a higher 'pure' functional component (linked to performance on prey capture) and a higher phylogenetically structured environmental variation than those found in Alligatoroidea. Results: obtained for body size variation are consistent with these patterns. In Alligatoroidea, body size variation contains a higher phylogenetic signal than in Crocodyloidea. Main Conclusions: Our results suggest that Crocodyloidea and Alligatoroidea may react differently when faced with significant environmental changes. We predict that global climatic changes will have a more important effect on Crocodyloidea than in Alligatoroidea by (1) promoting trait shift, adaptation to the new diet and speciation and (2) modifying the geographical range distribution of species (which may track favourable ecological conditions).
3697605|Aim: To determine the major patterns of change in avian diversity structure over space and time at a local resolution and continental extent in non-urban areas in North America. Location: The contiguous United States and southern Canada. Methods: We used 1673 North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) routes containing 547 terrestrial and aquatic species to estimate four diversity components: species richness, individual abundance, taxonomic distinctness and species evenness. We implemented three levels of analysis to examine changes in diversity structure on a yearly basis from 1968 to 2003: (1) a canonical analysis of discriminance, (2) a univariate analysis across BBS routes, and (3) a univariate analysis at individual BBS routes. We estimated changes in similarity in species composition over time between 470,730 BBS route pairs. We also estimated the level of human activity at BBS routes using three spatial anthropogenic databases. Results: BBS routes were located in non-urban areas in association with low nighttime light activity and moderately low human population densities. The analysis of diversity structure indicated the presence of two independent patterns: (1) a temporally consistent pattern defined by increasing species richness (12% increase from 1968 to 2003) associated with limited gains in taxonomic distinctness, and (2) an association between species abundance and evenness related to variability in abundance associated with the most abundant species. The similarity analysis indicated that BBS routes located closer to the Atlantic and the Pacific coasts of the United States experienced the strongest patterns of homogenization of species composition. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that avian diversity structure has changed at the local scale in non-urban areas in North America. However, there was no evidence for a consistent continent-wide pattern. Instead, the evidence pointed to the presence of regional factors influencing diversity patterns. This study provides a foundation for more detailed investigations of the spatiotemporal and taxonomic details of these general patterns.
4139444|Aim Globally, most landscape burning occurs in the tropical savanna biome, where fire is a characteristic of the annual dry season. In northern Australia there is uncertainty about how the frequency and timing of dry season fires have changed in the transition from Aboriginal to European fire management. Location In the tropical eucalypt savannas that surround the city of Darwin in the northwest of the Northern Territory of Australia. Methods Our study had three parts: (1) we developed a predictive statistical model of mean mass (
3697629|Aim: To use the method of parsimony analysis of endemism to identify areas of endemism for passerine birds in the Atlantic Forest, South America, and to compare the locations of these areas with areas previously identified for birds as well as other taxa. Location: The Atlantic Forest, eastern South America. Methods: We analysed a matrix composed of the presence (1) or absence (0) of 140 endemic species in 24 quadrats of 1 x 1 degree distributed along the Atlantic Forest to find the most parsimonious area cladogram. Results: Fourteen most parsimonious cladograms were found and then summarized in a single consensus tree. Four areas of endemism were identified: Pernambuco, Central Bahia, Coastal Bahia, and Serra do Mar. Main conclusions: Avian areas of endemism in the Atlantic Forest have significant generality, as they are highly nonrandom and congruent with those of other groups of organisms. A first hypothesis about the historical relationships among the four areas of avian endemism in the Atlantic Forest is delineated. There is a basal dichotomy among areas of endemism in the Atlantic Forest, with Pernambuco forming a northern cluster and Coastal Bahia, Central Bahia and Serra do Mar comprising a southern cluster. Within the southern cluster, Central Bahia and Serra do Mar are more closely related to each other than to Coastal Bahia.
3697660|Aim: To present a general, process-based river model for suspended particulate matter (SPM). Location: General approach based on processes; data from Europe and Israel. Methods: The model has been tested and calibrated using an empirical river model for SPM and validated (blind-tested) using data from seven European sites. This modelling gives mean monthly SPM concentrations in water for defined river sites. The model is based on processes in the entire upstream river stretch (and not for given river segments) and calculates the transport of SPM from land to water, primary production of SPM (within the upstream river stretch), resuspension, mineralization and retention of SPM in the upstream river stretch (but not bed load of friction materials, such as sand). The catchment area is differentiated into inflow (~ dry land) areas and outflow area (~ wetland areas dominated by relatively fast horizontal SPM-fluxes). The model is simple to apply in practice as all driving variables may be accessed readily from maps. The driving variables are: latitude, altitude, continentality, catchment area and mean annual precipitation. Results: Modelled values have been compared to independent empirical data from sites covering a relatively wide domain (catchment areas from
3182660|1 The origin and distribution of the species of freshwater interstitial (stygobiont) syncarids of the Iberobathynella genus (Crustacea, Parabathynellidae), endemic to the Iberian Peninsula, are considered in the context of evolutionary biogeography. 2 We established the most likely phylogenetic relationships between the 14 known species of the Iberobathynella genus on the basis of morphological characters. We assumed a common marine ancestor and estimated the possible phylogenetic ages of the 14 inland species from the number of cladogram nodes. 3 The land ages at the sites where the species are found help to tell us when the landmasses emerged definitively: most species are found in areas that have undergone one or more marine transgressions/regressions since the Triassic and which could therefore have been colonized by the common ancestors. 4 We assessed the Boutin-Coineau two-step model of colonization and evolution in an attempt to elucidate the evolutionary history of Iberobathynella and to offer a plausible palaeogeographical scenario. We looked for concordance between the possible chronology of Iberobathynella taxa colonization and their phylogenetic relationships, but found none of significance. Hence, we cannot reject the possibility that evolutionary clade divergence within the genus was independent of sea-level changes in the Senonian (88.5-65 mya) and Eocene (56.5-35.4 mya) epochs. We can therefore neither confirm nor rule out a correlation.
2997881|Ecosystem heterogeneity and lack of data on areas and deforestation rates have constrained the modelling of deforestation in tropical open woodlands. Smaller and more continuous changes in ecosystem quality attributes (e g canopy cover, tree density and biomass density) are best described as degradation, not deforestation. Suggestions are made for constructing degradation models by relaxing some assumptions of deforestation models to cope with the multiple uses of multiple vegetation layers by multiple users. Employing biomass as a dependent variable would account for biomass reductions caused by changes in woodland area, tree density and the biomass of retained trees and shrubs, and overcome the problem of how to aggregate changes in woodland area and tree density. Disaggregating models by woodland type is also recommended.
2997852|1. Mangrove species richness declines dramatically from a maximum in the Indo-West Pacific (IWP) to a minimum in the Caribbean and Western Atlantic. Explaining this `anomalous' biogeographic pattern has been a focus of discussion for most of this century 2. Two hypotheses have been put forward to explain the mangrove biodiversity anomaly The `centre-of-origin hypothesis' asserts that all mangrove taxa originated in the IWP and subsequently dispersed to other parts of the world. The `vicariance hypothesis' asserts that mangrove taxa evolved around the Tethys Sea during the Late Cretaceous, and regional species diversity resulted from in situ diversification after continental drift 3. Five lines of evidence are used to test between these two hypotheses. First, we review the mangrove fossil record Second, we compare modern and fossil distributions of mangroves and eight genera of gastropods that show high fidelity to the mangrove environment Third, we describe species-area relationships of mangroves and associated gastropods with respect to area of available habitat Fourth, we analyse patterns of nestedness of individual plant and gastropod communities in mangrove forests. Fifth, we analyse patterns of nestedness of individual plant and gastropod species 4. All five lines of evidence support the vicariance hypothesis The first occurrences in the fossil record of most mangrove genera and many genera of gastropods associated with mangrove forests appear around the Tethys Sea from the Late Cretaceous through the Early Tertiary Globally, species richness in any given mangrove forest is tightly correlated with available area Patterns of nestedness at the community and species-level both point towards three independent regions of diversification of mangrove ecosystems: South-east Asia, the Caribbean and Eastern Pacific, and the Indian Ocean region
2665385|Patterns of change in distribution (presence/absence) and abundance since the late 1960s were examined in 20 species of farmland bird in southern Britain in predominantly arable (eastern), predominantly mixed (central) and predominantly grassland (western) regions. Comparisons were made between changes in distribution and in abundance to determine whether these measures show similar relationships to environmental change. Local extinctions of selected species and reductions in species richness were significantly greater in the predominantly grassland region. Decreases in abundance were greatest in seven species in the predominantly arable region, two in the mixed region and nine in the grassland region. Changes in distribution and abundance showed consistent patterns in three species, turtle dove Streptopelia turtur L., yellow wagtail Motacilla flava L. and reed bunting Emberiza schoeniclus L. In another four species, grey part-ridge Perdix perdix L., lapwing Vanellus vanellus L., tree sparrow Passer montanus L. and corn bunting Miliaria calandra L., decreases in abundance were greatest in the arable region, yet declines in distribution were lowest. For other individual species, changes in distribution were too small to draw any conclusions in relation to farm type. We suggest that modern grassland systems are suboptimal habitats compared to arable or mixed agricultural land for many farmland species that occur at relatively low density in the more western, grass-dominated region. Declines in abundance are therefore more likely to lead to local extinction in these areas than in eastern areas where abundance is higher. However, the role of changes in grassland management on bird populations requires further research. It is suggested that conclusions drawn from changes in distribution alone, in the absence of supporting data on changes in abundance, may be misleading where the aim is to assess how large-scale spatial dynamics of populations relate to environmental change.
3697604|Aim: The geographical range size frequency distributions of animal and plant assemblages are among the most important factors affecting large-scale patterns of diversity. Nonetheless, the relationship between habitat type and the range size distributions of species forming assemblages remains poorly understood. We examined how the mean latitudinal range sizes of species in Neotropical bird species assemblages shift during forest clearance and subsequent regeneration. We tested the hypothesis that bird species assemblages in early successional habitats tend to have larger latitudinal ranges than those in more mature forests. Location: We considered breeding bird chronosequence data from six Neotropical forests. Results: Breeding bird assemblages were found to have the species with the largest average latitudinal range sizes in cleared areas, intermediate in young secondary forests and smallest in old secondary and mature forests. Similar differences were also found when we compared congeners differing in their successional preferences. Sizes of regional ranges (within the Neotropics) did not, however, differ consistently among successional stages. The larger latitudinal (but not regional) ranges of early successional species was as a result in part of the tendency of early successional species to have ranges that extend beyond the Neotropical forest biome. Conclusions: Our analysis of chronosequences suggests that as early successional habitats mature, a consistent shift from large-ranged species towards more small ranged species occurs. Even relatively old secondary forests have bird species with larger average ranges than mature forests. As a consequence, conservation of secondary forests alone will miss many of the species most at risk of extinction and most unlikely to be conserved in other locations or biomes.
2665366|1 In the colonization of an island by potentially interacting species both the severity of the competition between them and the length of the interval between their arrivals should affect the likelihood of the second species becoming established. Between-island variation in priority and the interval between colonizations will depend on the dispersal rates of the two species. 2 We predict that early colonization should be relatively deterministic, whereas later in the colonization process both the sequence of arrivals and the interval between them will be more variable. 3 Possible instances of both deterministic and stochastic stages in community development are identified in the colonization of the Krakatau islands by zoochorous forest trees and large zoochorous lianes.
41058218|Aim: To estimate whether species have shifted at equal rates at their leading edges (cool boundaries) and trailing edges (warm boundaries) in response to climate change. We provide the first such evidence for tropical insects, here examining elevation shifts for the upper and lower boundaries shifts of montane moths.Threats to species on tropical mountains are considered. Location: Mount Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysia. Methods: We surveyed Lepidoptera (Geometridae) on Mount Kinabalu in 2007, 42 years after the previous surveys in 1965. Changes in species upper and lower boundaries, elevational extents and range areas were assessed. We randomly subsampled the data to ensure comparable datasets between years. Estimated shifts were compared for endemic versus more widespread species, and for species that reached their range limits at different elevations. Results: Species that reached their upper limits at 2500-2700 m (n = 28 species, 20% of those considered) retreated at both their lower and upper boundaries, and hence showed substantial average range contractions (-300 m in elevational extent and -45 km in estimated range area). These declines may be associated with changes in cloud cover and the presence of ecological barriers (geological and vegetation transitions) which impede uphill movement. Other than this group, most species (n -109,80% of the species considered) expanded their upper boundaries upwards (by an average of 152 m) more than they retreated at their lower boundaries (77 m). Main conclusions: Without constraints, leading margins shifted uphill faster than trailing margins retreated, such that many species increased their elevational extents. However, this did not result in increases in range area because the area of land available declines with increasing elevation. Species close to a major ecological/geological transition zone on the mountain flank declined in their range areas. Extinction risk may increase long before species reach the summit, even when undisturbed habitats are available.
3697402|Aims: The aims were (1) to assess the species richness and structure of phytophagous Hemiptera communities along a latitudinal gradient, (2) to identify the importance of rare species in structuring these patterns, and (3) to hypothesize about how phytophagous Hemiptera communities may respond to future climate change. Location: East coast of Australia. Methods: Four latitudes within the 1150 km coastal distribution of Acacia falcata were selected. The insect assemblage on the host plant Acacia falcata was sampled seasonally over two years. Congeneric plant species were also sampled at the sites. Results: Ninety-eight species of phytophagous Hemiptera were collected from A. falcata. Total species richness was significantly lower at the most temperate latitude compared to the three more tropical latitudes. We classified species into four climate change response groups depending on their latitudinal range and apparent host specificity. Pairwise comparisons between groups showed that the cosmopolitan, generalist feeders and specialists had a similar community structure to each other, but the climate generalists had a significantly different structure. Fifty-seven species were identified as rare. Most of these rare species were phloem hoppers and their removal from the dataset led to changes in the proportional representation of all guilds in two groups: the specialist and generalist feeders. Main conclusions: We found no directional increase in phytophagous Hemiptera species richness. This indicates that, at least in the short term, species richness patterns of these communities may be similar to that found today. As the climate continues to change, however, we might expect some increases in species richness at the more temperate latitudes as species migrate in response to shifting climate zones. In the longer term, more substantial changes in community composition will be expected because the rare species, which comprise a large fraction of these communities, will be vulnerable to both direct climatic changes, and indirect effects via changes to their host's distribution.
2665434|The New Zealand avifauna has changed considerably since the arrival of humans approximately 1000 years ago. The extinction of native species followed by their replacement with introduced exotic species is recognized as having greatly reduced the distinctiveness of the avifauna. Using phylogenetically independent methods, I tested whether life history and ecological correlates of extinction, introduction and persistence were significant across species and within taxa. Extinct land bird species were, on average, and independent of phylogenetic relatedness, larger-bodied than extant species. Introduction success was found to be significantly associated with increasing species body size, generation time and indices of human effort. In contrast, the geographical distribution of extant land birds was correlated with traits associated with high population growth rates (i.e. small, rapidly developing species, with high fecundity). My results suggest that selection pressures have changed significantly since the arrival of human colonists in New Zealand and that these changes have favoured different types of land birds, to the general detriment of endemic species. Comparative methods that explicitly examine historical changes are necessary to elucidate the changing roles of biological and extrinsic traits in the differential success of species in any assemblage.
40205653|Aim: To assess the geographical variation in the relative importance of vertebrates, and more specifically of birds and mammals, as seed dispersal agents in forest communities, and to evaluate the influence of geographical and climatic factors on the observed trends. Location: One hundred and thirty-five forest communities in the Brazilian Atlantic forest. Methods: We collected data on dispersal modes for 2292 woody species. By combining species x site with species x trait matrices, we obtained the percentages of endozoochory, ornithochory, mastozoochory and the mean fruit diameter for the local forest communities. We used Spearman's correlation to assess bivariate relationships between variables. Subsequently, we performed paired t-tests to verify if variations in frequency of dispersal modes and mean fruit diameter were influenced by altitude or temperature. Then, we applied multiple linear regressions to evaluate the effect of geographical and climatic variables on variation in the relative frequency of dispersal modes and mean fruit diameter across communities. Results: We found no consistent latitudinal or longitudinal trend in the percentage of vertebrate-dispersed species, neither bird-nor mammal-dispersed species along the Atlantic forest. Endozoochory was affected chiefly by annual mean rainfall, increasing towards moister sites. Forest communities located at higher altitudes had a higher percentage of bird-dispersed species. Even when sites with identical values of annual mean temperature were compared, altitude had a positive effect on ornithochory. Conversely, we found a higher percentage of mammal-dispersed species in warmer forests, even when locations at the same altitudinal belts were contrasted. Fruit diameter was clearly related to altitude, decreasing towards higher elevations. Main conclusions: This is the first analysis of a large data set on dispersal syndromes in tropical forest communities. Our findings support the hypotheses that: (1)geographical variation in the relative number of fleshy fruit species is mainly driven by moisture conditions and is relatively independent of geographical location, and (2) broad-scale trends in fruit size correspond to geographical variation in the relative importance of mammals and birds as seed dispersal agents at the community level.
3697502| Aim: We present the first global synthesis of plant canopy leaf area index (LAI) measurements from more than 1000 published estimates representing ~400 unique field sites. LAI is a key variable for regional and global models of biosphere-atmosphere exchanges of energy, carbon dioxide, water vapour, and other materials. Location: The location is global, geographically distributed. Results: Biomes with LAI values well represented in the literature included croplands, forests and plantations. Biomes not well represented were deserts, shrublands, tundra and wetlands. Nearly 40% of the records in the database were published in the past 10 years (1991-2000), with a further 20% collected between 1981 and 1990. Mean ( SD) LAI, distributed between 15 biome classes, ranged from 1.3 0.9 for deserts to 8.7  4.3 for tree plantations, with temperate evergreen forests (needleleaf and broadleaf) displaying the highest average LAI (5.1-6.7) among the natural terrestrial vegetation classes. Following a statistical outlier analysis, the global mean ( SD) LAI decreased from 5.2 (4.1) to 4.5 (2.5), with a maximum LAI of 18. Biomes with the highest LAI values were plantations > temperate evergreen forests > wetlands. Those with the lowest LAI values were deserts < grasslands < tundra. Mean LAI values for all biomes did not differ statistically by the methodology employed. Direct and indirect measurement approaches produced similar LAI results. Mean LAI values for all biomes combined decreased significantly in the 1990s, a period of substantially more studies and improved methodologies. Main conclusions: Applications of the LAI database span a wide range of ecological, biogeochemical, physical, and climate research areas. The data provide input to terrestrial eco-system and land-surface models, for evaluation of global remote sensing products, for comparisons to field studies, and other applications. Example uses of the database for global plant productivity, fractional energy absorption, and remote sensing studies are highlighted. 
41239483|Aim: Species distribution modelling is commonly used to guide future conservation policies in the light of potential climate change. However, arbitrary decisions during the model-building process can affect predictions and contribute to uncertainty about where suitable climate space will exist. For many species, the key climatic factors limiting distributions are unknown. This paper assesses the uncertainty generated by using different climate predictor variable sets for modelling the impacts of climate change. Location: Europe, 10W to 50 E and 30 N to 60  N. Methods: Using 1453 presence pixels at 30 arcsec resolution for the great bustard (Otis tarda), predictions of future distribution were made based on two emissions scenarios, three general climate models and 26 sets of predictor variables. Twentysix current models were created, and 156 for both 2050 and 2080. Map comparison techniques were used to compare predictions in terms of the quantity and the location of presences (map comparison kappa, MCK) and using a range change index (RCI). Generalized linear models (GLMs) were used to partition explained deviance in MCK and RCI among sources of uncertainty. Results: The 26 different variable sets achieved high values of AUC (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve) and yet introduced substantial variation into maps of current distribution. Differences between maps were even greater when distributions were projected into the future. Some 64-78% of the variation between future maps was attributable to choice of predictor variable set alone. Choice of general climate model and emissions scenario contributed a maximum of 15% variation and their order of importance differed for MCK and RCI. Main conclusions: Generalized variable sets produce an unmanageable level of uncertainty in species distribution models which cannot be ignored. The use of sound ecological theory and statistical methods to check predictor variables can reduce this uncertainty, but our knowledge of species may be too limited to make more than arbitrary choices. When all sources of modelling uncertainty are considered together, it is doubtful whether ensemble methods offer an adequate solution.Future studies should explicitly acknowledge uncertainty due to arbitrary choices in the model-building process and develop ways to convey the results to decision-makers.
2665431|1 We expanded the island biogeography paradigm to test whether mammalian communities of the heavily fragmented temperate rain forests of the Olympic Peninsula were influenced by local environmental conditions, biogeographic factors (fragment area and isolation) and characteristics of the surrounding landscape. 2 We used live-trapping, sign surveys and infrared triggered cameras to compare distributions of non-volant mammals among fragments and between fragments and other principal landscape components (continuous old-growth, riparian corridors, second-growth forest and clearcuts). 3 Of the 24 species of non-volant mammals detected during our studies, 18 occurred in at least one fragment. 4 Species richness of old-growth mammals was not significantly correlated with fragment area or isolation, per se, but was significantly and positively correlated with the amount of old-growth fragments and old second-growth (41-159 years) in the surrounding landscape (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.95, P < 0.005). 5 Distributions of three old-growth dependent species [shrew-mole (Neurotrichus gibbsii), Douglas squirrel (Tamiasciurus douglasii) and Trowbridge shew (Sorex trowbridgii)] were significantly associated with local environmental conditions within the fragment, with geographical isolation from continuous old-growth and riparian corridors, and with the amount of old-growth and old second growth in the adjacent matrix.
40801926|Aim: Few studies have attempted to assess the overall impact of fragmentation at the landscape scale. We quantify the impacts of fragmentation on plant diversity by assessing patterns of community composition in relation to a range of fragmentation measures.
3697644| Aim: Coevolved relationships between individual species of birds and plants rarely occur in seed dispersal mutualisms. This study evaluates whether reciprocal relationships may occur between assemblages of bird and plant species. Location: Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada (4850'-N, 12522'-W). Methods: The distribution and fruiting phenologies of seven shrub species were compared to seasonal changes in habitat selection and seed dispersal by six fruit-eating bird species. Results: Shrub species inhabiting forest understorey habitat had earlier fruiting phenologies than shrub species inhabiting forest edge habitat along lake and bog margins. Birds showed a parallel pattern in habitat selection, being more abundant in the forest understorey early in the fruiting season, and more abundant in the forest edge later in the season. Rates of seed deposition covaried with avian habitat selection, in such a way that birds directed seed dispersal into habitats preferred by shrubs. Conclusions: These results depict a broad-scale pattern in the abundance of birds and fruits indicative of reciprocal interactions. Seasonal changes in seed dispersal to each habitat appear to reinforce the relationship between shrub habitat affinities and fruiting phenologies. Phenological differences between habitats may also reinforce seasonal changes in avian habitat selection. Therefore, although reciprocal interactions between pairs of bird and plant species are rare, broad-scale reciprocal relationships may occur between assemblages of bird and plant species. 
2997863|The terms biosphere, ecosphere, and Gaia are used as names for the global ecosystem. However, each has more than one meaning. Biosphere can mean the totality of living things residing on the Earth, the space occupied by living things, or life and life-support systems (atmosphere, hydrospheres, lithosphere, and pedosphere). Ecosphere is used as a synonym of biosphere and as a term for zones in the universe where life as we know it should be sustainable. Gaia is similar to biosphere (in the sense of life and life-support systems) and ecosphere (in the sense of biosphere as life and life-support systems), but, in its most extreme form, refers to the entire planet as a living entity. A case is made for avoiding the term Gaia (at least as a name for the planetary ecosystem), restricting biosphere to the totality of living things, and adopting the ecosphere as the most apt name for the global ecosystem.
2665382|A simple dynamic model relating forest area in a region, its contribution to dry season precipitation and the effect on its own establishment was developed. The model equation shows hysteresis between forest and savannas as a function of imported dry season precipitation. Regions are either dominated by forests or savannas, with each ecosystem showing stability despite changes in imported dry season precipitation. Deforestation beyond a certain threshold value, however, could cause a collapse of forest ecosystems and replacement by savannas in marginal areas. The predictions of this model corroborate pollen core analysis in the Amazon basin, where historical stability of tropical forest cover has been shown despite global climate change.
40205722|Aim: To explore potential shifts in vegetation and fire regime in some dominant forest types in the north-eastern part of the Mediterranean basin under climate change. Location: Two altitudinal gradients in the continental part of Greece. Methods: We developed a forest gap dynamics simulator that provides feedback from the stand to its water balance and flammability status. The model is used to simulate vegetation dynamics in two mountainous areas, currently found under different aridity conditions. Two climatic change scenarios (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change A1 and B2) were applied to explore differences in the response of the established forest types. In addition we explicitly accounted for the role of fire, under both current and altered climate patterns. Results: Fire was identified to play a significant role in low-altitude sites. Its significance increased with the severity of the climate change scenario. Elevational shifts of the dominant species were simulated for each site, while in some cases these changes were associated with a shorter fire cycle and a frequent resetting of processes of vegetation change. Main conclusions: Our simulations suggest a greater vulnerability of mountainous Mediterranean drier areas regarding compositional alteration and flammability trends. Changes in vegetation could take place through both a discrete and synergistic realization of changes in the drought stress and fire frequency.
2665407|It is paradoxical that exotic species invade and displace native species that are well adapted to local environments. Yet, even those exotics that eventually become abundant and widespread, often do so only after having failed to establish following multiple earlier introductions. The first pattern, while not generally discussed in this context, is usually explained by exotic species pre-adaptations for human altered environments and by a release from enemies. It can be understood further by examining the superior quality of colonists from large species-rich regions and the historical contingency of evolution. The second pattern is generally explained by invoking demographic and environmental stochasticity; however, it can be understood further by examining the role of environmental variation over space and by metapopulation dynamics. These processes provide a context in which these patterns of invasion are not paradoxical, but instead, expected.
3697575|Aims: To evaluate the role of native predators (birds) within an Australian foodweb (lerp psyllids and eucalyptus trees) reassembled in California. Location: Eucalyptus groves within Santa Cruz, California. Methods: We compared bird diversity and abundance between a eucalyptus grove infested with lerp psyllids and a grove that was uninfested, using point counts. We documented shifts in the foraging behaviour of birds between the groves using structured behavioural observations. Additionally, we judged the effect of bird foraging on lerp psyllid abundance using exclosure experiments. Results: We found a greater richness and abundance of Californian birds within a psyllid infested eucalyptus grove compared to a matched non-infested grove, and that Californian birds modify their foraging behaviour within the infested grove in order to concentrate on ingesting psyllids. This suggests that Californian birds could provide indirect top-down benefits to eucalyptus trees similar to those observed in Australia. However, using bird exclosure experiments, we found no evidence of top-down control of lerp psyllids by Californian birds. Main conclusions: We suggest that physiological and foraging differences between Californian and Australian pysllid-eating birds account for the failure to observe top-down control of psyllid populations in California. The increasing rate of non-indigenous species invasions has produced local biotas that are almost entirely composed of non-indigenous species. This example illustrates the complex nature of cosmopolitan native-exotic food webs, and the ecological insights obtainable through their study.
3697592|Aim: Questions related to abundances of organisms are central to ecological research. A priori, a scale independent estimation of abundances would be expected. However, we find estimates of numbers of bird individuals from all over the world to increase less than proportionately with increasing plot size. At the whole assemblage level, the pattern holds across biogeographical regions and habitats. The slope of the interspecific and, for the majority of species, the intraspecific individuals-area relationship is also significantly shallower than 1. The question arises as to which mechanisms cause these patterns. Location: Global. Methods: At the assemblage, interspecific and intraspecific levels, we tested three mechanisms that could be responsible for these patterns by comparing the slope of the individuals-plot area relationship for subsets of a database compiled from the literature. Spatial autocorrelation was controlled for. Results: There was no evidence for an influence of plot area choice in order to sample a constant number of individuals. Evidence for higher survey efficiency was available only with increasing number of visits at the intraspecific level. Evidence for influences of habitat heterogeneity was present at the assemblage, interspecific and intraspecific levels. This mechanism can work only if small plots are delimited non-randomly in homogeneous habitat. Main conclusions: Avian population size estimates without indication of the area over which they were obtained are of substantially less value than those coupled with that information. Ecologists planning to compare avian abundances between plots varying in some other factor of interest should minimize variations in their areas and/or account for them in data analyses. Population viability analyses, regional and global population size estimates, site prioritization and the scaling of ecosystem and species energy utilization need to address the plot area effect on assemblage and individual species abundances.
3697572| Aim: We analyse the proximate causes of the large variation in flowering periodicity among four tropical dry forests (TDF) and ask whether climatic periodicity or biotic interactions are the ultimate causes of flowering periodicity. Location: The four TDFs in Guanacaste (Costa Rica), Yucatan, Jalisco and Sonora (Mexico) are characterized by a 5-7 month long dry season and are located along a gradient of increasing latitude (10-30N). Methods: To dissect the differences in flowering periodicity observed at the community level, individual tree species were assigned to 'flowering types', i.e. groups of species with characteristic flowering periods determined by similar combinations of environmental flowering cues and vegetative phenology. Results: Large variation in the fraction of species and flowering types blooming during the dry and wet season, respectively, indicates large differences in the severity of seasonal drought among the four forests. In the dry upland forests of Jalisco, flowering of leafless trees remains suppressed during severe seasonal drought and is triggered by the first rains of the wet season. In the other forests, leaf shedding, exceptional rainfall or increasing daylength cause flowering of many deciduous species at various times during the dry season, well before the summer rains. The fraction of deciduous species leafing out during the summer rains and flowering when leafless during the dry season is largest in the Sonoran TDF. Main conclusions: In many wide-ranging species the phenotypic plasticity of flowering periodicity is large. The distinct temporal separation of spring flowering on leafless shoots and subsequent summer flushing represents a unique adaptation of tree development to climates with a relatively short rainy season and a long dry season. Seasonal variation in rainfall and soil water availability apparently constitutes not only the proximate, but also the ultimate cause of flowering periodicity, which is unlikely to have evolved in response to biotic adaptive pressures. 
3182730|The reproductive phenology of 60 understorey species was monitored at monthly intervals for 20 months in a medium elevation wet evergreen forest in the Southern Western Ghats. The life forms monitored were herbs (including terrestrial orchids), shrubs and small trees. Flowering and fruiting were non-uniform with a dry season flowering peak and wet season fruiting peak. Flowering in the understorey correlated negatively with rainfall. No significant correlation was detected for fruiting. Life forms had flowering and fruiting peaks at different times of the year.
2665420|A hypothesis is suggested for functional roles of remnant plant populations in communities and ecosystems. A remnant population is capable of persistence during extended time periods, despite a negative population growth rate, due to long-lived life stages and life-cycles, including loops that allow population persistence without completion of the whole life cycle. A list of critera is suggested to help identification of remnant plant populations. Several community and ecosystem features may result from the presence of remnant plant populations. Apart from increasing community and ecosystem resilience just by being present, remnant populations may contribute to resilience through enhancing colonization by other plant species, by providing a persistent habitat for assemblages of animals and microorganisms, and by reducing variation in nutrient cycling. It is suggested that the common ability of plants to develop remnant populations is a contributing factor to ecosystem stability. Remnant populations are important for the capacity of ecosystems to cope with the present-day impact caused by human society, and their occurrence should be recognized in surveys of threatened plant species and communities.
40405775|Aim: We aimed to describe the large-scale patterns in population density of roe deer Caprelous capreolus in Europe and to determine the factors shaping variation in their abundance. Location: Europe. Methods: We collated data on roe deer population density from 72 localities spanning 25 latitude and 48 longitude and analysed them in relation to a range of environmental factors: vegetation productivity (approximated by the fraction of photosynthetically active radiation) and forest cover as proxies for food supply, winter severity, summer drought and presence or absence of large predators (wolf, Canis lupus, and Eurasian lynx, Lynx lynx), hunter harvest and a competitor (red deer, Cervus elaphus). Results: Roe deer abundance increased with the overall productivity of vegetation cover and with lower forest cover (sparser forest cover means that a higher proportion of overall plant productivity is allocated to ground vegetation and thus is available to roe deer). The effect of large predators was relatively weak in highly productive environments and in regions with mild climate, but increased markedly in regions with low vegetation productivity and harsh winters. Other potentially limiting factors (fcunting, summer drought and competition with red deer) had no significant impact on roe deer abundance. Main conclusions: The analyses revealed the combined effect of bottom-up and top-down control on roe deer: on a biogeographical scale, population abundance of roe deer has been shaped by food-related factors and large predators, with additive effects of the two species of predators. The results have implications for management of roe deer populations in Europe. First, an increase in roe deer abundance can be expected as environmental productivity increases due to climate change. Secondly, recovery plans for large carnivores should take environmental productivity and winter severity into account when predicting their impact on prey.
3697522|The sensitivity and response of northern hemisphere altitudinal and polar treelines to environmental change are increasingly discussed in terms of climate change, often forgetting that climate is only one aspect of environmental variation. As treeline heterogeneity increases from global to regional and smaller scales, assessment of treeline sensitivity at the landscape and local scales requires a more complex approach than at the global scale. The time scale (short-, medium-, long-term) also plays an important role when considering treeline sensitivity. The sensitivity of the treeline to a changing environment varies among different types of treeline. Treelines controlled mainly by orographic influences are not very susceptible to the effects of warming climates. Greatest sensitivity can be expected in anthropogenic treelines after the cessation of human activity. However, tree invasion into former forested areas above the anthropogenic forest limit is controlled by site conditions, and in particular, by microclimates and soils. Apart from changes in tree physiognomy, the spontaneous advance of young growth of forest-forming tree species into present treeless areas within the treeline ecotone and beyond the tree limit is considered to be the best indicator of treeline sensitivity to environmental change. The sensitivity of climatic treelines to climate warming varies both in the local and regional topographical conditions. Furthermore, treeline history and its after-effects also play an important role. The sensitivity of treelines to changes in given factors (e.g. winter snow pack, soil moisture, temperature, evaporation, etc.) may vary among areas with differing climatic characteristics. In general, forest will not advance in a closed front but will follow sites that became more favourable to tree establishment under the changed climatic conditions.
3182703|In a given area, human activities usually cause the extinction of native species and the establishment of non-native species. A key conservation issue is whether non-native establishment tends to outpace native species extinction to produce a net gain in species richness. To determine this, empirical data must be accumulated at various scales. I show that, within the United States, the number of established non-native plant species per state does tend to outpace the number of extinct and threatened species per state. The net gain in plant species is strongly and positively correlated with human population density. Continuation of this trend predicts substantial gains in net plant species richness for all states in the United States as human population grows. This contrasts with freshwater fishes, where most states show a net loss of species diversity as extinct and threatened species exceed established non-native species. Changes in fish diversity do not correlate strongly with human population or non-native species but are largely driven by the decline of native fish species.
30137863|Aim To study how differences in species richness patterns of woody and herbaceous plants may be influenced by ecological and evolutionary factors. Unimodal species richness-productivity relationships (SRPRs) have been of interest to ecologists since they were first described three decades ago for British herbaceous vegetation by J. P. Grime. The decrease in richness at high productivity may be due to competitive exclusion of subordinate species, or diverse factors related to evolution and dispersal. Unimodal SRPRs are most often reported for plants, but there are exceptions. For example, unimodal SRPRs are common in the temperate zone but not in the tropics. Similarly, woody species and forest communities in the Northern Hemisphere do not tend to show unimodal SRPRs. Location Global. Methods We used data from the literature to test whether a unimodal SRPR applies to woody species and forest communities on a global scale. We explored whether the shape of SRPRs may be related to the lack of clonality in woody species (which may prevent their being competitively superior), or the legacy of evolutionary history (most temperate woody species originate from tropical lineages, and due to niche conservatism they may still demonstrate 'tropical patterns'). We used case studies that reported the names of the dominant or most abundant species for productive sites. Results Woody species were indeed less clonal than herbaceous species. Both clonality and the temperate evolutionary background of dominating species were associated with unimodality in SRPRs, with woodiness modifying the clonality effect. Main conclusions The unimodal SRPR has been common in the ecological literature because most such studies originate from temperate herbaceous communities with many clonal species. Consequently, both evolutionary and ecological factors may influence species richness patterns.
30137890|Aim: To describe the geographical pattern of mean body size of the non-volant mammals of the Nearctic and Neotropics and evaluate the influence of five environmental variables that are likely to affect body size gradients. Location: The Western Hemisphere. Methods: We calculated mean body size (average log mass) values in 110 x 110 km cells covering the continental Nearctic and Neotropics. We also generated cell averages for mean annual temperature, range in elevation, their interaction, actual evapotranspiration, and the global vegetation index and its coefficient of variation. Associations between mean body size and environmental variables were tested with simple correlations and ordinary least squares multiple regression, complemented with spatial autocorrelation analyses and split-line regression. We evaluated the relative support for each multiple-regression model using AIC. Results: Mean body size increases to the north in the Nearctic and is negatively correlated with temperature. In contrast, across the Neotropics mammals are largest in the tropical and subtropical lowlands and smaller in the Andes, generating a positive correlation with temperature. Finally, body size and temperature are nonlinearly related in both regions, and split-line linear regression found temperature thresholds marking clear shifts in these relationships (Nearctic 10.9 C; Neotropics 12.6 C). The increase in body sizes with decreasing temperature is strongest in the northern Nearctic, whereas a decrease in body size in mountains dominates the body size gradients in the warmer parts of both regions. Main conclusions: We confirm previous work finding strong broad-scale Bergmann trends in cold macroclimates but not in warmer areas. For the latter regions (i.e. the southern Nearctic and the Neotropics), our analyses also suggest that both local and broad-scale patterns of mammal body size variation are influenced in part by the strong mesoscale climatic gradients existing in mountainous areas. A likely explanation is that reduced habitat sizes in mountains limit the presence of larger-sized mammals.
41239478|Aim: To evaluate the strength of evidence for hypotheses explaining the relationship between climate and species richness in forest plots. We focused on the effect of energy availability which has been hypothesized to influence species richness: (1) via the effect of productivity on the total number of individuals (the more individuals hypothesis, MIH); (2) through the effect of temperature on metabolic rate (metabolic theory of biodiversity, MTB); or (3) by imposing climatic limits on species distributions. Location: Global. Methods: We utilized a unique ' Gentry-style' 370 forest plots data set comprising tree counts and individual stem measurements, covering tropical and temperate forests across all six forested continents. We analysed variation in plot species richness and species richness controlled for the number of individuals by using rarefaction. Ordinary least squares (OLS) regression and spatial regressions were used to explore the relative performance of different sets of environmental variables. Results: Species richness patterns do not differ whether we use raw number of species or number of species controlled for number of individuals, indicating that number of individuals is not the proximate driver of species richness. Productivityrelated variables (actual evapotranspiration, net primary productivity, normalized difference vegetation index) perform relatively poorly as correlates of tree species richness. The best predictors of species richness consistently include the minimum temperature and precipitation values together with the annual means of these variables. Main conclusion: Across the world's forests there is no evidence to support the MIH, and a very limited evidence for a prominent role of productivity as a driver of species richness patterns. The role of temperature is much more important, although this effect is more complex than originally assumed by the MTB. Variation in forest plot diversity appears to be mostly affected by variation in the minimum climatic values. This is consistent with the ' climatic tolerance hypothesis' that climatic extremes have acted as a strong constraint on species distribution and diversity.
3697460|Aim: To model long-term trends in plant species distributions in response to predicted changes in global climate. Location: Amazonia. Methods: The impacts of expected global climate change on the potential and realized distributions of a representative sample of 69 individual Angiosperm species in Amazonia were simulated from 1990 to 2095. The climate trend followed the HADCM2GSal scenario, which assumes an annual 1% increase of atmospheric CO
40405771|Aim: The use of ecological niche models (ENMs) to predict potential distributions of species is steadily increasing. A necessary assumption is that climatic niches are conservative, but recent findings of niche shifts during biological invasion indicate that this assumption is not always valid. Selection of predictor variables may be one reason for the observed shifts. In this paper we assess differences in climatic niches in the native and invaded ranges of the Mediterranean house gecko (Hemidactylus turcicus) in terms of commonly applied climate variables in ENMs. We analyse which variables are more conserved versus relaxed (i.e. subject to niche shift). Furthermore, we study the predictive power of different sets of climate variables. Location: The Mediterranean region and North America. Methods: We developed models using Maxent and various subsets of variables out of 19 bioclimatic layers including: (1) two subsets comprising almost all variables excluding only highly collinear ones; (2) two subsets with minimalistic variable sets of water availability and energy measures; (3) two subsets focused on temperature-related parameters; (4) two subsets with precipitation-related parameters; and (5) one subset comprising variables combining temperature and precipitation characteristics. Occurrence data from the native Mediterranean range were used to predict the potential introduced range in North America and vice versa. Degrees of niche similarity and conservatism were assessed using both Schoener's index and Hellinger distances. The significance of the results was tested using null models. Results: The degree of niche similarity and conservatism varied greatly among the predictors and variable sets applied. Shifts observed in some variables could be attributed to active habitat selection while others apparently reflected background effects. Main conclusions: The study was based on comprehensive occurrence data from all regions where Hemidactylus turcicus is present in Europe and North America, providing a robust foundation. Our results clearly indicate that the degree of conservatism of niches in H. turcicus largely varies among predictors and variable sets applied. Therefore, the extent of niche conservatism of variables applied should always be tested in ENMs. This has an important impact on studies of biological invasion, impacts of climate change and niche evolution.
3182678|Aim: To review the insights that palaeoecology can offer on the threat posed to Andean communities by global climate change. Location: The geographical focus is the eastern flank of the tropical Andes, with particular reference to Peru. Method: The article presents a synthetic review of the problem. Results: Species-rich communities of the eastern Andean flank are threatened both by development and climate change. If, as predicted, the cloudbase and frost line lifts 600 m elevation this century, there will be a substantial loss of cloud forest habitat. Palaeoecology provides insights on the location and nature of past ecotones, the continuity of niche availability, and estimates for rates and modes of migration. With further warming and drying of lower montane regions, upslope migration of species will be individualistic: a new equilibrium with the altered climate is unlikely to be attained. The zone of agriculture will move upslope faster than the migrating trees and so landscape conversion will negate the ability of some species to respond to the new conditions. Conservation of the lower reaches of modern cloud forest is advocated as a means to limit this foreseeable extinction event. Main Conclusions: Climate change will induce changes in plant and animal communities. Human disturbance will invade climatically marginal agricultural lands at the pace of climate change. Rapid migratory response such as that witnessed at the onset of the Holocene may not be evident as climates warm, because Holocene climatic stability has reduced outlying upslope populations that may have served as expansion nuclei. Conservation must aim to maintain plant and animal niches, rather than particular communities of species.
3877774|Although macroecology arose from geographical ecology, it has diverted from a geographical perspective. At present, most macroecological studies use a statistical approach that adopts an 'individual species focus' and relies on comparisons between species to test for broad-scale ecological patterns. Sometimes, space is included as part of the analysis, but almost always in a single dimension. In both situations, observed relationships are depicted using bivariate scatter-plots. We argue that current macroecological approaches may interfere with our perception of patterns and have important implications for their biological interpretation. We use the literature concerned with spatial variation in the range sizes of species (Rapoport's rule) to illustrate our point of view. Given the current lack of maps actually showing the patterns we are trying to explain, we contend that macroecology could benefit greatly by returning to its geographical roots, at least when data contain spatial structure.
41058249|Aim: Carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) stoichiometry is a critical indicator of biogeochemical coupling in terrestrial ecosystems. However, our current understanding of C : N stoichiometry is mainly derived from observations across space, and little is known about its dynamics through time. Location: Global secondary forests. Methods: We examined temporal variations in C : N ratios and scaling relationships between N and C for various ecosystem components (i. e. plant tissue, litter, forest floor and mineral soil) using data extracted from 39 chronosequences in forest ecosystems around the world. Results: The C : N ratio in plant tissue, litter, forest floor and mineral soil exhibited large variation across various sequences, with an average of 145.8  9.4 (mean  SE), 49.9  3.0, 38.2  3.1 and 18.5  0.9, respectively. In most sequences, the plant tissue C : N ratio increased significantly with stand age, while the C : N ratio in litter, forest floor and mineral soil remained relatively constant over the age sequence. N and C scaled isometrically (i. e. the slope of the relationship between log-transformed N and C is not significantly different from 1.0) in litter, forest floor and mineral soil both within and across sequences, but not in plant tissue either within or across sequences. The C : N ratio was larger in coniferous forests than in broadleaf forests and in temperate forests than in tropical forests. In contrast, the N-C scaling slope did not reveal significant differences either between coniferous and broadleaf forests or between temperate and tropical forests. Main conclusions: These results suggest that C and N become decoupled in plants but remain coupled in other ecosystem components during stand development.
2665399|1 This study documents patterns of rodent and bat diversity related to abiotic and biotic factors along elevational gradients in the Sierra Mazateca (640-2600 m a.s.l.) and Sierra Mixteca (700-3000 m a.s.l.) in Oaxaca, Mexico. 2 The two transects share similar faunas: 17 and 23 rodent species were captured in the sierras Mazateca and Mixteca, respectively, 14 of which occurred on both transects. Rodent species richness was similar in the wet season and the dry season along both transects. Rodent species richness peaked at 1025-1050 m in tropical semideciduous forest on both transects. Endemic species were restricted to high-elevation habitats. 3 Sixteen and 17 bat species were captured in the sierras Mazateca and Mixteca, respectively; 11 occurred on both transects. Bat species richness was higher in the wet season than in the dry season in the Sierra Mazateca. Bat species richness peaked at 1850 m in pine-oak forest in the Sierra Mazateca, and at 750 m and 1050 m in tropical semi-deciduous forest in the Sierra Mixteca, decreasing abruptly at higher elevations on both transects. 4 Patterns of trophic diversity of rodents and bats coincided with those of species richness on each transect. Species richness increased with increasing habitat diversity; increased with increasing rainfall and productivity; increased with increasing resource diversity; and increased in areas with high rates of speciation (rodents only). 5 The need for conservation action in Oaxaca is urgent and proponents should promote establishment of protected areas linking lowland habitats with high species richness to high-elevation habitats harbouring large numbers of endemic forms.
3697577|Aim: To examine which aspects of primates and carnivore biology can be used to predict attributes of species yet to be discovered. Location: Global. Methods: Multiple regressions of phylogenetically independent contrasts and nonphylogenetic species date of description, on multiple biological predictor variables, formed from previous hypotheses tested in the literature. Results: Orders differ, but both carnivore and primate species with a large geographical range tend to have been discovered earlier. When geographical range is controlled for, body mass is also significantly correlated with description date in carnivores, but remains a poor predictor in primates. No multiple-predictor model is apparent in the primates, but diurnal species are on average more likely to be described first. Carnivores not endemic to the tropics are more likely to be discovered earlier, reflecting a northern bias in description patterns. Main conclusions: Geographical range is by far the most important predictor variable. The study may have ramifications for conservation hotspot selection: species possessing a small geographical range are least likely to have been described, yet are most heavily weighted in some hotspot selection algorithms.
40928127|Aim: To assess the hypotheses that compound leaves of trees in the Amazon forest are an adaptation to drought and/or rapid growth. Location: Amazon rain forest, South America. Methods: Genera from 137 permanent forest plots spread across Amazonia were classified into those with compound leaves and those with simple leaves. Metrics of compound leaf prevalence were then calculated for each plot and regression models that accounted for spatial autocorrelation were used to identify associations between climate variables and compound leaf structure. We also tested for associations between compound leaf structure and a variety of ecological variables related to life history and growth strategies, including wood density, annual increase in diameter and maximum height. Results: One plant family, Fabaceae, accounts for 53% of compound-leaved individuals in the dataset, and has a geographical distribution strongly centred on north-east Amazonia. On exclusion of Fabaceae from the analysis we found no significant support for the seasonal drought hypothesis. However, we found evidence supporting the rapid growth hypothesis, with possession of compound leaves being associated with faster diameter growth rates and lower wood densities. Main conclusion: This study provides evidence that possession of compound leaves constitutes one of a suite of traits and life-history strategies that promote rapid growth in rain forest trees. Our findings highlight the importance of carefully considering the geographical distribution of dominant taxa and spatial clustering of data points when inferring ecological causation from environment-trait associations.
3877776|Aim: It has often been suggested that South Africa's Cape fynbos shrublands, although extremely rich in plant species, are poor in insects, thus representing a notable exception from the broad plant-insect diversity relationship. The aims of this study were to compare the diversity patterns of plant-inhabiting insects in fynbos and the vegetation of three neighbouring biomes (grassland, subtropical thicket, and Nama-karoo), and to test for a general relationship between plant diversity and insect diversity across these biomes. Location: South-western to south-eastern South Africa. Methods: We conducted seasonal plant surveys and sweep insect sampling in 10 x 10 m plots in the Baviaanskloof Conservation Area (Eastern Cape), where all four biomes occur. We also conducted once-only collections in the core area of each biome. Results: Fynbos plots had insect diversity values similar to those of grassland and subtropical thicket (a dense, evergreen and spinescent shrubland with a high abundance of succulents and climbers), and significantly higher than Nama-karoo (an open, semiarid shrubland). A remarkably strong positive relationship was found between plant and insect species richness. Main conclusions: Previous generalizations were based on a few insect groups (e.g. butterflies, under-represented in fynbos), but ignored published results on other groups (e.g. galling insects, which are in fact over-represented in this vegetation). We show that, overall, insect diversity in fynbos is comparable to that of neighbouring biomes. Fynbos vegetation does not represent a significant exception from the broad positive relationship between plant diversity and insect diversity.
40205655|Aim: To quantify the occurrence of floristic change in the vascular flora of Chile. We test whether continental areas have experienced floristic modification leading to either homogenization, differentiation or tracking. Location: Continental Chile. Methods: On the basis of the geographical distribution of native (1806 species) and naturalized plants (552 species) in continental Chile, we quantified change between two floristic stages: (1) pre-European flora, including native extant and extinct species; and (2) current flora, including native and naturalized species, but excluding extinct plants. We compared changes in compositional similarity (calculated by Jaccard's index, J) between pairs of regions, and similarity decay with respect to geographical distance. Additionally, by means of Whittaker's index, we examined species turnover, distinguishing between native and naturalized plants. Results: Between floristic stages (pre-European vs. current flora) no significant changes in floristic similarity were noted at national or regional scales. Similarity decay showed no statistical differences between pre-European and current flora. Analysing patterns of geographical turnover, we found that species turnover of naturalized plants over their geographical range is similar to that of native plants. Conclusions The composition of the continental flora of Chile does not show significant modifications in similarity patterns after considering naturalized species, thus indicating floristic tracking. The causes of this phenomenon may be related to the current geographical distribution of naturalized plants, which closely parallels that of native plants. Our results differ from those obtained in Northern Hemisphere continents, thus indicating that trends of biotic change may differ between hemispheres.
30137903|Aim: To assess evidence for geographical and environmental range expansion through polyploidy in wild potatoes (Solanum sect. Petota). There are diploids, triploids, tetraploids, pentaploids and hexaploids in this group. Location: Wild potatoes occur from the south-western USA (Utah and Colorado), throughout the tropical highlands of Mexico, Central America and the Andes, to Argentina, Chile and Uruguay. Methods: We compiled 5447 reports of ploidy determination, covering 185 of the 187 species, of which 702 determinations are presented here for the first time. We assessed the frequency of cytotypes within species, and analysed the geographical and climatic distribution of ploidy levels. Results: Thirty-six per cent of the species are entirely or partly polyploid. Multiple cytotypes exist in 21 species, mostly as diploid and triploid, but many more may await discovery. We report the first chromosome count (2n = 24) for Solanum hintonii. Diploids occupy a larger area than polyploids, but diploid and tetraploid species have similar range sizes, and the two species with by far the largest range sizes are tetraploids. The fraction of the plants that are polyploids is much higher from Mexico to Ecuador than farther south. Compared with diploids, triploids tend to occur in warmer and drier areas, whereas higher-level polyploids tend to occur in relatively cold areas. Diploids are absent from Costa Rica to southern Colombia, the wettest part of the group's range. Main conclusions: These results suggest that polyploidy played an important role in this group's environmental differentiation and range expansion.
3697433|Aims: To model differential extinction rates for island populations of tigers Panthern tigris and leopards P. pardus. Location Indonesia. Methods: We built VORTEX population models of tiger and leopard populations on an island the size of Bali (
3697503|Aim: This study tests the hypothesis that the propensity of land cover patches to change is related to their shape and geometric complexity. Location: The analysis is based on a
2665316|Increases in the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide and associated changes in climate may exert large impacts on plant physiology and the density of vegetation cover. These may in turn provide feedbacks on climate through a modification of surface-atmosphere fluxes of energy and moisture. This paper uses asynchronously coupled models of global vegetation and climate to examine the responses of potential vegetation to different aspects of a doubled-CO<sub>2</sub> environmental change, and compares the feedbacks on near-surface temperature arising from physiological and structural components of the vegetation response. Stomatal conductance reduces in response to the higher CO<sub>2</sub> concentration, but rising temperatures and a redistribution of precipitation also exert significant impacts on this property as well as leading to major changes in potential vegetation structure. Overall, physiological responses act to enhance the warming near the surface, but in many areas this is offset by increases in leaf area resulting from greater precipitation and higher temperatures. Interactions with seasonal snow cover result in a positive feedback on winter warming in the boreal forest regions.
41058225|Aim: The study aims to decipher the co-occurrence of understorey plant assemblages and, accordingly, to identify a set of species groups (diversity deconstruction) to better understand the multiple causal processes underlying post-fire succession and diversity patterns in boreal forest. Location: North-eastern Canadian boreal forest (4907'-5144'N;70 13-6515 /W). Methods: Data on understorey plant communities and habitat factors were collected from 1097 plots. Species co-occurrence was analysed using null model analysis.We derive species groups (i. e. biodiversity deconstruction) using the strength of pairwise species co-occurrences after accounting for random expectation under a null model and cluster analyses. We examine the influence of a set of spatiotemporal environmental variables (overstorey composition, time-since-fire, spatial location and topography) on richness of species groups using Bayesian model averaging, and their relative influence through hierarchical partitioning of variance. Results: Understorey plant assemblages were highly structured, with co-occurrencebased classification providing species groups that were coherently aggregated within, but variably segregated between, species groups. Group richness models indicate both common and distinct responses to factors affecting plant succession. For example, Group 2 (e. g. Rhododendron groenlandicum and Cladina rangiferina) showed concurrent contrasting responses to overstorey composition and was strongly segregated from Groups 3 (e. g. Clintonia borealis and Maianthenum canadense) and 4 (e. g. Epilobium angustifolium and Alnus rugosa). Groups 3 and 4 showed partial similarity, but they differed in their response to time-since-fire, drainage and latitude, which were more important for Group 1 (e. g. Ptilium crista-castrensis and Empetrum nigrum). A single successional model based on total richness masked crucial grouplevel relationships with factors that we examined, such as latitude. Main conclusions: By demonstrating the co-occurrence structure and linking to causal factors, the results from this study characterize both common and distinct responses of understorey plants to biophysical attributes of sites, and potential interspecific interactions, behind non-random assemblage structure during post-fire succession. A biodiversity deconstruction approach could offer a concise and explicit framework to gain a better understanding of the complex assembly of ecological communities during succession.
3697574|Aim: Our aim is to investigate the relationship between body size and geographical range in Neotropical marsupials, considering the possible effects of latitude and phylogeny. Location: Neotropical region. Methods: Phylogenetic generalized least-squares regression method (PGLS) is used to investigate the relationship between body size, geographical range, and latitude considering the phylogenetic relationship between species. Data for 22 species were compiled from the literature. Results: The scattergram of body size vs. geographical range was triangular in shape. Body size and geographical range were positively correlated throughout the phylogeny. Latitude was not important to this relationship. Conclusions: The polygonal relationship between geographical range and body size seems to be moulded by ecological and geographical constraints rather than by a common association with latitude.
41239341|Aim: To compare the evolutionary and ecological patterns of two extensively studied island biotas with differing geological histories (the Hawaiian Islands and the Greater Antilles). We evaluated the results from PACT (phylogenetic analysis for comparing trees), an innovative approach that has been proposed to reveal general patterns of biotic expansion (between regions) and in situ (within a region) diversification, as well as species-area relationships (SAR) and the taxon pulse dynamic. Location: The Hawaiian Islands and Greater Antilles. Methods: We used the PACT algorithm to construct general area cladograms and identified biotic expansion and in situ nodes. We analysed the power-law SAR and relative contribution of biotic expansion and in situ diversification events using power-law and linear regression analyses. Results: Both biotic expansion and in situ nodes were prevalent throughout the PACT general area cladograms (Greater Antilles, 55.9% biotic expansion, 44.1% in situ; Hawaiian Islands, 40.6% biotic expansion, 59.4% in situ). Of the biotic expansion events, both forward and backward events occurred in both regions (Greater Antilles, 85.1% forward, 14.9% backward; Hawaiian Islands, 65% forward, 35% backward). Additionally, there is a power-law SAR for the Greater Antilles but not for the Hawaiian Islands. However, exclusion of Hawai'i (the youngest, largest Hawaiian Island) produced a power-law SAR for the Hawaiian Islands. Main conclusions: The prevalence of in situ events as well as forward and backward biotic expansion events reveals that both Hawaiian and Greater Antillean biotas have evolved through alternating episodes of biotic expansion and in situ diversification. These patterns are characteristic of the taxon pulse dynamic, for which few data have previously been recorded on islands. Additionally, our analysis revealed that historical influences on the power-law SARs are pronounced in both assemblages: old, small islands are relatively species rich and young, large islands are relatively species poor. Thus, our PACT results are consistent with hypotheses of geological influence on the evolution of island biotas and also provide greater insight into the role of the taxon pulse dynamic in the formation of island equilibria.
40801853|Aim: Ecogeographical variation of body size in vertebrates (e. g. Bergmann's rule) has long been recognized. However, the patterns and causes of intra-specific ecogeographical variation of body size in ectotherms, and in amphibians in particular, are strongly debated. We identified the relationship between bioclimatic variables and body size predicted a priori by alternative hypotheses (heat balance, endurance, seasonality, starvation resistance, water availability, primary productivity, parental investment) proposed to explain ecogeographical patterns of body size in ectotherms, and we evaluated the relative support of these hypotheses in explaining variation in body size of the Italian crested newt, Triturus carnifex.
3697523|Aim: Our aim was to quantify climatic influences on key leaf traits and relationships at the global scale. This knowledge provides insight into how plants have adapted to different environmental pressures, and will lead to better calibration of future vegetation-climate models. Location: The data set represents vegetation from 175 sites around the world. Methods: For more than 2500 vascular plant species, we compiled data on leaf mass per area (LMA), leaf life span (LL), nitrogen concentration (N
41239413|Aim: To assess the effect of local adaptation and phenotypic plasticity on the potential distribution of species under future climate changes. Trees may be adapted to specific climatic conditions; however, species range predictions have classically been assessed by species distribution models (SDMs) that do not account for intra-specific genetic variability and phenotypic plasticity, because SDMs rely on the assumption that species respond homogeneously to climate change across their range, i.e. a species is equally adapted throughout its range, and all species are equally plastic. These assumptions could cause SDMs to exaggerate or underestimate species at risk under future climate change. Location: The Iberian Peninsula. Methods: Species distributions are predicted by integrating experimental data and modelling techniques. We incorporate plasticity and local adaptation into a SDM by calibrating models of tree survivorship with adaptive traits in provenance trials. Phenotypic plasticity was incorporated by calibrating our model with a climatic index that provides a measure of the differences between sites and provenances. Results: We present a new modelling approach that is easy to implement and makes use of existing tree provenance trials to predict species distribution models under global warming. Our results indicate that the incorporation of intrapopulation genetic diversity and phenotypic plasticity in SDMs significantly altered their outcome. In comparing species range predictions, the decrease in area occupancy under global warming conditions is smaller when considering our survivaladaptation model than that predicted by a 'classical SDM' calibrated with presenceabsence data. These differences in survivorship are due to both local adaptation and plasticity. Differences due to the use of experimental data in the model calibration are also expressed in our results: we incorporate a null model that uses survival data from all provenances together. This model always predicts less reduction in area occupancy for both species than the SDM calibrated with presence-absence. Main conclusions: We reaffirm the importance of considering adaptive traits when predicting species distributions and avoiding the use of occurrence data as a predictive variable. In light of these recommendations, we advise that existing predictions of future species distributions and their component populations must be reconsidered.
3182702| To model the effects of global climate phenomena on avian population dynamics, we must identify and quantify the spatial and temporal relationships between climate, weather and bird populations. Previous studies show that in Europe, the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) influences winter and spring weather that in turn affects resident and migratory landbird species. Similarly, in North America, the El Nio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) of the Pacific Ocean reportedly drives weather patterns that affect prey availability and population dynamics of landbird species which winter in the Caribbean. Here we show that ENSO- and NAO-induced seasonal weather conditions differentially affect neotropical- and temperate-wintering landbird species that breed in Pacific North-west forests of North America. For neotropical species wintering in western Mexico, El Nio conditions correlate with cooler, wetter conditions prior to spring migration, and with high reproductive success the following summer. For temperate wintering species, springtime NAO indices correlate strongly with levels of forest defoliation by the larvae of two moth species and also with annual reproductive success, especially among species known to prey upon those larvae. Generalized linear models incorporating NAO indices and ENSO precipitation indices explain 50-90% of the annual variation in productivity reported for 10 landbird species. These results represent an important step towards spatially explicit modelling of avian population dynamics at regional scales. 
3697504| Aim: To study the present-day olive stands and their ecology in the eastern part of the territory of the ancient city of Sagalassos, to study the variation of olive pollen production and dispersal near the olive stands, to establish a modern pollen reference model, and to compare Hellenistic-Roman pollen data from two wetlands with this modern reference model. Location: Eastern part of the territory of the ancient city of Sagalassos, western Taurus mountain range in south-west Turkey. Methods: The study is based on field survey, pollen analysis of surface samples, multivariate statistics of modern pollen data and the use of 'modern analogues' in comparison with Hellenistic-Roman pollen samples. Results: A field survey revealed the presence of 35 olive stands in the study area. These are mainly small-scale stands. The olive pollen representation in the surface samples is highly variable. Two groups of modern 'olive' pollen spectra could be distinguished: (1) a group representing mainly olive stands from lush and moist mixed orchards; and (2) a group representing mainly olive stands from open small-scale olive stands in combination with annual crop agriculture. Although no 'perfect' modern analogue was found for the Hellenistic-Roman pollen data, the fossil pollen data show similarities with modern spectra from the second group, due to the presence of relatively high pollen values for secondary anthropogenic indicators. Main conclusion: A well-organized and diverse, but time- and energy-consuming, agricultural system was maintained nearby the wetlands of anakli soils, presumably to maximize the yields in both valleys. 
41239262|Aim: To understand the ecological and historical/evolutionary processes underlying an inverse latitudinal gradient of richness (LGR) using crustacean peracarid species as a model group. Location: The Pacific coast of South America, along the Chilean coast between 18 S and 56 S. Methods: The LGR was evaluated using a dataset including 320 marine peracarid species reported for the coasts of Chile. Five ecological hypotheses invoking a relationship between species richness and present-day conditions were tested: species-energy, species-area, Rapoport rescue effect, mid-domain geometric constraint and niche breadth. Historical/evolutionary hypotheses (i.e. biogeographic conservatism, and diversification rates) were indirectly tested by analysing the latitudinal variation in the taxonomic distinctness, the taxonomic conservatism of the midpoint of the latitudinal range and the degree of nestedness at different taxonomic levels. Results: Richness increased poleward, varying approximately eightfold, following an inverse LGR coupled with an increase in bathymetrie distribution. Overall this inverse LGR seems robust to uncertainties in the completeness of the species inventory. We found support for only two of the five ecological hypotheses tested: species-area and Rapoport rescue effect. Historical/evolutionary hypotheses seemed important in structuring the richness pattern, as indicated by the higher taxonomic distinctness in the southern region, the strong taxonomic inertia in the mean range size and the high degree of nestedness of assemblages at different taxonomic levels. Conclusions: When combined, these results underscore the importance of longterm processes and historical/evolutionary explanations for the inverse LGR, conceptualized in what we term the 'out of the deep south' hypothesis that involves the effects of both biogeographic niche conservatism and evolutionary rates. We propose that the southern region may be a source of evolutionary novelties and/or exhibit higher diversification rates (i.e. higher speciation/lower extinction rates). Furthermore, phylogenetic conservatism of latitudinal range may limit the geographic expansion of these new taxa towards the depauperated northern region.
3697651|We explore the issues relevant to those types of ecosystems containing new combinations of species that arise through human action, environmental change, and the impacts of the deliberate and inadvertent introduction of species from other regions. Novel ecosystems (also termed 'emerging ecosystems') result when species occur in combinations and relative abundances that have not occurred previously within a given biome. Key characteristics are novelty, in the form of new species combinations and the potential for changes in ecosystem functioning, and human agency, in that these ecosystems are the result of deliberate or inadvertent human action. As more of the Earth becomes transformed by human actions, novel ecosystems increase in importance, but are relatively little studied. Either the degradation or invasion of native or 'wild' ecosystems or the abandonment of intensively managed systems can result in the formation of these novel systems. Important considerations are whether these new systems are persistent and what values they may have. It is likely that it may be very difficult or costly to return such systems to their previous state, and hence consideration needs to be given to developing appropriate management goals and approaches.
40928128|Aim: Alien plant invasion is prominent in the Hawaiian Islands. There are many factors involved in invader success. To date, there is a general lack of information about one of them, which we aim to study here: the terpene emission capacity of both Hawaiian native and alien plants. Location: Oahu (Hawaii). Methods: We screened 35 alien and 35 native dominant plant species on Oahu Island for monoterpene emissions. The emission rates were measured from fieldgrown plants under standardized conditions of temperature and quantum flux density in the laboratory. Results: The emission rates of total terpenes ranged from 0 g g h to 55 g g h, and altogether 15 different terpenes were emitted in detectable amounts by the overall set of species. A phylogenetic signal was observed for total terpene emissions. Total terpene emission rates were higher in aliens than in native species (12.8  2.0 vs. 7.6  1.9 g g h, respectively). Main conclusions: The greater terpene emission capacity may confer protection against multiple stresses and may partly account for the success of the invasive species, and may make invasive species more competitive in response to new global change-driven combined stresses. These results are consistent with aliens coming from very diverse ecosystems with generally higher biotic and abiotic stress pressures, and having higher nutrient concentrations. On the contrary, these results are not consistent with the 'excess carbon' hypotheses. These results indicate changes in vegetation terpene emissions brought about by alien plant invasions.
3697454|We analyse the concept of carrying capacity (CC), from populations to the biosphere, and offer a definition suitable for any level. For communities and ecosystems, the CC evokes density-dependence assumptions analogous to those of population dynamics. At the biosphere level, human CC is uncertain and dynamic, leading to apprehensive rather than practical conclusions. The term CC is widely used among ecological disciplines but remains vague and elusive. We propose the following definition: the CC is 'the limit of growth or development of each and all hierarchical levels of biological integration, beginning with the population, and shaped by processes and interdependent relationships between finite resources and the consumers of those resources'. The restrictions of the concept relate to the hierarchical approach. Emergent properties arise at each level, and environmental heterogeneity restrains the measurement and application of the CC. Because the CC entails a myriad of interrelated, ever-changing biotic and abiotic factors, it must not be assumed constant, if we are to derive more effective and realistic management schemes. At the ecosystem level, stability and resilience are dynamic components of the CC. Historical processes that help shape global biodiversity (e.g. continental drift, glaciations) are likely drivers of large-scale changes in the earth's CC. Finally, world population growth and consumption of resources by humanity will necessitate modifications to the paradigm of sustainable development, and demand a clear and fundamental understanding of how CC operates across all biological levels.
3697440|Aim: This article aims to test for and explore spatial nonstationarity in the relationship between avian species richness and a set of explanatory variables to further the understanding of species diversity variation. Location: Sub-Saharan Africa. Methods: Geographically weighted regression was used to study the relationship between species richness of the endemic avifauna of sub-Saharan Africa and a set of perceived environmental determinants, comprising the variables of temperature, precipitation and normalized difference vegetation index. Results: The relationships between species richness and the explanatory variables were found to be significantly spatially variable and scale-dependent. At local scales > 90% of the variation was explained, but this declined at coarser scales, with the greatest sensitivity to scale variation evident for narrow ranging species. The complex spatial pattern in regression model parameter estimates also gave rise to a spatial variation in scale effects. Main conclusions: Relationships between environmental variables are generally assumed to be spatially stationary and conventional, global, regression techniques are therefore used in their modelling. This assumption was not satisfied in this study, with the relationships varying significantly in space. In such circumstances the average impression provided by a global model may not accurately represent conditions locally. Spatial nonstationarity in the relationship has important implications, especially for studies of species diversity patterns and their scaling.
3877792|Aim: Maps of species richness are the basis for applied research and conservation planning as well as for theoretical research investigating patterns of richness and the processes shaping these patterns. The method used to create a richness map could influence the results of such studies, but differences between these methods have been insufficiently evaluated. We investigate how different methods of mapping species ranges can influence patterns of richness, at three spatial resolutions. Location: California, USA. Methods: We created richness maps by overlaying individual species range maps for terrestrial amphibians and reptiles. The methods we used to create ranges included: point-to-grid maps, obtained by overlaying point observations of species occurrences with a grid and determining presence or absence for each cell; expert-drawn maps; and maps obtained through species distribution modelling. We also used a hybrid method that incorporated data from all three methods. We assessed the correlation and similarity of the spatial patterns of richness maps created with each of these four methods at three different resolutions. Results: Richness maps created with different methods were more correlated at lower spatial resolutions than at higher resolutions. At all resolutions, point-to-grid richness maps estimated the lowest species richness and those derived from species distribution models the highest. Expert-drawn maps and hybrid maps showed intermediate levels of richness but had different spatial patterns of species richness from those derived with the other methods. Main conclusions: Even in relatively well-studied areas such as California, different data sources can lead to rather dissimilar maps of species richness. Evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of different methods for creating a richness map can provide guidance for selecting the approach that is most appropriate for a given application and region.
4139433|Aim Spatial autocorrelation (SAC) in data, i.e. the higher similarity of closer samples, is a common phenomenon in ecology. SAC is starting to be considered in the analysis of species distribution data, and over the last 10 years several studies have incorporated SAC into statistical models (here termed 'spatial models'). Here, I address the question of whether incorporating SAC affects estimates of model coefficients and inference from statistical models. Methods I review ecological studies that compare spatial and non-spatial models. Results In all cases coefficient estimates for environmental correlates of species distributions were affected by SAC, leading to a mis-estimation of on average c. 25%. Model fit was also improved by incorporating SAC. Main conclusions These biased estimates and incorrect model specifications have implications for predicting species occurrences under changing environmental conditions. Spatial models are therefore required to estimate correctly the effects of environmental drivers on species present distributions, for a statistically unbiased identification of the drivers of distribution, and hence for more accurate forecasts of future distributions.
3697540| Aim: To determine how species richness, abundance, biomass, energy use and mean number of individuals per species scale with environmental energy availability in wintering and breeding avian assemblages, and to contrast assemblages of (i) common and rare species and (ii) breeding residents and migrants. To assess whether such patterns are compatible with the 'more individuals hypothesis' (MIH) that high-energy areas are species-rich because they support larger populations that are buffered against extinction. Location: The North American continent (latitudinal range 23.4 -48.1 N; longitudinal range 124.2-68.7 W). Methods: Avian species richness, abundance, biomass and energy use were calculated for 295 Resident Bird Count plots. Environmental energy availability was measured using ambient temperature and the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), a close correlate of plant productivity. Analyses took plot area into account, and were conducted (with and without taking habitat type into account) using general linear models and spatial mixed models. Results: Positive species-energy relationships were exhibited by both wintering and breeding assemblages, but were stronger in the former. The structure of winter assemblages responded more strongly to temperature than NDVI, while breeding assemblages tended to respond more strongly to NDVI. Breeding residents responded to annual measures of energy availability while breeding migrants and the winter assemblage responded more strongly to seasonal measures. In the winter assemblage, rare and common species exhibited species-energy relationships of a similar strength, but common breeding species exhibited a much stronger relationship than rare breeding species. In both breeding and wintering assemblages, abundance, biomass and energy use increased with energy availability and species richness. Energy availability was a poor predictor of the mean number of individuals per species. Main conclusions: The nature of the species-energy relationship varies seasonally and with the manner in which energy availability is measured. Our data suggest that residents are less able to respond to seasonal fluxes in resource availability than long-distance migrants. Increasing species richness and energy availability is associated with increasing numbers of individuals, biomass and energy use. While these observations are compatible with the MIH our data provide only equivocal support for this hypothesis, as the rarest species do not exhibit the strongest species-energy relationships. 
40928120|Aim: As the demands for food, feed and fuel increase in coming decades, society will be pressed to increase agricultural production  whether by increasing yields on already cultivated lands or by cultivating currently natural areas  or to change current crop consumption patterns. In this analysis, we consider where yields might be increased on existing croplands, and how crop yields are constrained by biophysical (e.g. climate) versus management factors. Location: This study was conducted at the global scale. Methods: Using spatial datasets, we compare yield patterns for the 18 most dominant crops within regions of similar climate. We use this comparison to evaluate the potential yield obtainable for each crop in different climates around the world. We then compare the actual yields currently being achieved for each crop with their 'climatic potential yield' to estimate the 'yield gap'. Results: We present spatial datasets of both the climatic potential yields and yield gap patterns for 18 crops around the year 2000. These datasets depict the regions of the world that meet their climatic potential, and highlight places where yields might potentially be raised. Most often, low yield gaps are concentrated in developed countries or in regions with relatively high-input agriculture. Main conclusions: While biophysical factors like climate are key drivers of global crop yield patterns, controlling for them demonstrates that there are still considerable ranges in yields attributable to other factors, like land management practices. With conventional practices, bringing crop yields up to their climatic potential would probably require more chemical, nutrient and water inputs. These intensive land management practices can adversely affect ecosystem goods and services, and in turn human welfare. Until society develops more sustainable high-yielding cropping practices, the trade-offs between increased crop productivity and social and ecological factors need to be made explicit when future food scenarios are formulated.
30137869|Aim We present a model to account for self-assembly of the slough-ridge-tree island patterned landscape of the central Everglades in southern Florida via feedbacks among landforms, hydrology, vegetation and biogeochemistry. We test aspects of this model by analysing vegetation composition in relation to local and landscape-level drivers. Location We quantified vegetation composition and environmental characteristics in central Water Conservation Area (WCA) 3A, southern WCA-3A and southern WCA-3B in southern Florida, based on their divergence in water management and flow regimes over the past 50 years. Methods In 562 quadrats, we estimated species coverages and quantified maximum, minimum and average water depth, soil depth to bedrock, normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and proximity to the nearest tree island. We used non-metric multi-dimensional scaling (NMS) to relate compositional variation to local and landscape-level factors, and evaluated environmental differences among eight a priori vegetation types via ANOVA. Results Water depth and hydroperiod decreased from sloughs to ridges to tree islands, but regions also differed significantly in the abundance of several community types and the hydroregimes characterizing them. NMS revealed two significant axes of compositional variation, tied to local gradients of water depth and correlated factors, and to a landscape-scale gradient of proximity to tall tree islands. Sawgrass height and soil thickness increased toward higher ridges, and NDVI was greatest on tree islands. Main conclusions This study supports four components of our model: positive feedback of local substrate height on itself, woody plant invasion and subsequent P transport and concentration by top predators nesting on taller tree islands, compositional shifts in sites close to tree islands due to nutrient leakage, and flow-induced feedback against total raised area. Regional divergence in the relationship of community types to current hydroregimes appears to reflect a lag of a few years after shifts in water management; a longer lag would be expected for shifts in landscape patterning. Both local and landscape-level drivers appear to shape vegetation composition and soil thickness in the central Everglades.
40205685|Aim: Individually focused conservation management of many species is expensive and logistically impractical. Mesofilter conservation methods may facilitate the simultaneous management of multiple species. We used data on distributions of two sets of avian guilds, based on dependence on riparian vegetation and on nest location, to relate occurrence rates to environmental variables. Variables were selected by expert opinion and are likely to be affected by changes in climate and land use. Location: Data were collected from 2001-06 in four adjacent mountain ranges in the central Great Basin (Lander, Nye and Eureka counties, Nevada, USA): the Shoshone Mountains and the Toiyabe, Toquima and Monitor ranges. Methods: Data on occurrence of birds, vegetation composition and vegetation structure were obtained in the field. Geographical coordinates and the normalized difference vegetation index were derived from a digital elevation model and a satellite image. To construct a general model for guilds as a whole, while allowing flexibility for variation in the functional responses of individual species, we applied multivariate adaptive regression splines. Results: The predictive capacity of expert knowledge of relationships between birds and vegetation was inconsistent. Latitude, longitude and elevation may constrain the response of some guilds to changes in vegetation structure and composition. Guild-based models were useful for modelling species with sparse distributions, which are difficult to model individually. In essence, this method supplements models for the individual species with patterns for the guild to which they belong. Main conclusions: Guilds of birds appeared to have predictable associations with selected attributes of vegetation structure and composition. The criteria by which species are grouped into guilds may affect the success of predictions and management interventions. Our derived models offer the potential to predict effects on the avifauna of management or climate- driven change in vegetation.
30137889|Aim: Predictive species distribution modelling is a useful tool for extracting the maximum amount of information from biological collections and floristic inventories. However, in many tropical regions records are only available from a small number of sites. This can limit the application of predictive modelling, particularly in the case of rare and endangered species. We aim to address this problem by developing a methodology for defining and mapping species pools associated with climatic variables in order to investigate potential species turnover and regional species loss under climate change scenarios combined with anthropogenic disturbance. Location: The study covered an area of 6800 km in the highlands of Chiapas, southern Mexico. Methods: We derived climatically associated species pools from floristic inventory data using multivariate analysis combined with spatially explicit discriminant analysis. We then produced predictive maps of the distribution of tree species pools using data derived from 451 inventory plots. After validating the predictive power of potential distributions against an independent historical data set consisting of 3105 botanical collections, we investigated potential changes in the distribution of tree species resulting from forest disturbance and climate change. Results: Two species pools, associated with moist and cool climatic conditions, were identified as being particularly threatened by both climate change and ongoing anthropogenic disturbance. A change in climate consistent with low-emission scenarios of general circulation models was shown to be sufficient to cause major changes in equilibrium forest composition within 50 years. The same species pools were also found to be suffering the fastest current rates of deforestation and internal forest disturbance. Disturbance and deforestation, in combination with climate change, threaten the regional distributions of five tree species listed as endangered by the IUCN. These include the endemic species Magnolia sharpii Miranda and Wimmeria montana Lundell. Eleven vulnerable species and 34 species requiring late successional conditions for their regeneration could also be threatened. Main conclusions: Climatically associated species pools can be derived from floristic inventory data available for tropical regions using methods based on multivariate analysis even when data limitations prevent effective application of individual species modelling. Potential consequences of climate change and anthropogenic disturbance on the species diversity of montane tropical forests in our study region are clearly demonstrated by the method.
3697458|Aim: To determine whether rare or common species contribute most to overall patterns of spatial variation in extant species richness. Location: Mexico. Methods: Using data on the distribution of mammal species across Mexico at a quarter degree resolution, we ranked species from the most widespread to the most restricted (common-to-rare) within the study area, and from the most restricted to the most widespread (rare-to-common), and generated a sequence of patterns of species richness for increasing numbers of species. At each stage along both series of richness patterns, we correlated the species richness pattern for the subassemblage with that of the full assemblage. This allows comparison of subassemblages of the n most common with the n most rare species, in terms of how well they match the full assemblage richness pattern. Further analyses examined the effects on these patterns of correlation of the amount of raw information contained in the distributions of given numbers of rare and common species. Results: For the mammals of Mexico the more widely distributed species contribute disproportionately to patterns of species richness compared with more restricted species, particularly for non-volant species and endemic species. This is not simply a consequence of differences in the volumes of information contained in the distributions of rare and common species, with the disproportionate contribution of common species if anything being sharpened when these differences are taken into account. The pattern is most clearly demonstrated by endemic species, suggesting that the contribution of common species is clearest when the causes of rarity and commonness are limited to those genuinely resulting in narrow and widespread geographical ranges, respectively, rather than artificial (e.g. geopolitical) boundaries to the extents of study regions. Conclusions: Perhaps surprisingly, an understanding of the determinants of overall patterns of species richness may gain most from consideration of why common species occur in some areas and are absent from others, rather than consideration of the distributions of rare species.
3697400|Aim: This paper describes the development of novel indices of bird-habitat preference to examine bird species' use of habitats and their distributions relative to habitats. It assesses the implications for bird conservation regionally and the scope for biodiversity assessments generally. Location: A 200 km by 400 km area of farmland with seminatural and urban areas, covering south-eastern England. Methods: Cluster analysis was used to link birds to landscapes. Cluster centroid coordinate values were processed to derive indices of bird-habitat preference. Further developments assessed the relative values of individual habitats for birds. Results: Clustering objectively linked birds to landscapes. Maps of the clusters showed strong regional patterns associated with distinctive habitat assemblages. Derived indices related bird species directly to individual habitats and habitats to birds. Even rare species and scarce habitats showed successful linkages, often to each other. Objective corroboration strongly supported the associations of coastal, wetland, urban and woodland birds and habitats; but, it suggested that farmland birds, whose numbers have nearly halved since 1977, may prefer alternative habitats. Main conclusions: Land cover maps from remote sensing provide an effective way to link birds to habitats and vice versa. Thus, generalized habitat maps might be used to extrapolate localized or sample-based bird observations or the results of autecological studies, helping to predict and understand bird distributions in the wider countryside. The weak links between farmland birds and farmland habitats in a region dominated by farming, suggests that reasons for the decline in farmland birds may be deep seated and thus hard to reverse. The procedures described are repeatable elsewhere and applicable more generally to evaluate landscapes and biodiversity. It is suggested that remote sensing could rarely be bettered as a means of assessing habitats, comprehensively, over wide areas, in most parts of the world.
2997887|1. It is generally considered that the open woodlands of north-west Namibia are experiencing widespread degradation due to over-use of resources by local herders. 2. Data are presented regarding community floristics, diversity, density, cover and population structure for woody vegetation These are analysed in relation to abiotic factors of topography and substrate, and to settlement impacts represented indirectly by distance from settlement and directly by measures of branch cutting and browsing. 3. None of the vegetation indices upheld predicted patterns of degradation except on a small scale, confined to within settlements. Moreover, in nearly all cases, local settlement effects were within the range of variability observed at larger scales. 4. It is concluded that continuing perceptions and fears of degradation in this area relate more to ideology than evidence. In particular, it is argued that factors conferring resilience and persistence on both the environment and the regional herding economy are obscured by (1) disregard for the implications of spatial and temporal scale in interpretations of ecological data, (2) a conceptual adherence to equilibrium dynamics that stresses density-dependent impacts of people and livestock over and above the role of abiotic factors in constraining and driving primary productivity; and (3) remnants of a colonial ideology, which tends to view `traditional communal farming' practices as environmentally degrading.
3182711|Aim: We examined the effects of drought in the summer of 1995 and the subsequent year on contrasting species of plants, moths, butterflies and ground beetles. We tested whether population increases were associated with: (a) species of warm environments (b) species of dry environments (c) species with rapid reproduction (d) species with high rates of dispersal. Location: The study was conducted at Environmental Change Network (ECN) sites throughout Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Methods: Climate monitoring, recording of plant species in permanent plots, transect walking for butterflies, light trapping for moths and pitfall trapping for carabid beetles were used. Results: There was an overall increase in the number of species recorded in permanent vegetation plots between 1994 and 1996, principally among the annual and biennial vascular plants, probably as a result of gap colonization in grasslands. Most butterfly and moth species increased between 1994 and 1995. Among the butterflies, a southern distribution and high mobility were associated with species tending to increase throughout the period 1994-96, whereas declining species tended to have a northern distribution. A similar number of carabid beetle species increased as decreased in the period 1994-96; decreasing species tended to be associated with lower temperatures and wetter soils. Conclusions: Current climate change scenarios indicate that the incidence of droughts in the United Kingdom will increase. A series of dry, hot summers could lead to a rapid change in the population of some species although others, including many plants, may be more resilient. This may lead to complex changes in ecosystems and needs to be considered in planning conservation strategies.
2665351|1 Blanket mire in Northern Ireland is an ecologically threatened habitat in which land use for hand peat-cutting, forestry and agriculture has had a major influence. A recent land use change is the introduction of tractor-powered peat-harvesting. In this paper, the effect of machine peat-cutting on ombrotrophic blanket mire vegetation is assessed from a regional sample of cut and uncut plots. 2 Principal components analysis identified water-table depth and grazing intensity as major factors influencing the species composition of uncut mire. A key variable affecting the composition of machine cut mire across the drainage gradient was the number of times cut, with multiple annual cutting causing progressive decreases in acrotelm depth, catotelm bulk density and plant cover. Ericaceous species and Sphagnum spp. were particularly sensitive to cutting, with Eriophorum angustifolium and Campylopus introflexus characteristic of multiple-cut sites. 3 Redundancy analysis, with number of times cut partialled out, showed that recovery time accounted for a significant amount of variance in vegetation composition. Species that significantly increased in abundance with recovery time were Sphagnum spp., Odontoschisma sphagni, Erica tetralix and Drosera rotundifolia. 4 Sites cut frequently, or which were grazed, recovered more slowly. Recovery from cutting was partly dependent on the post-cutting structure of the mire surface and the species that survive cutting. The rate of recovery on sites cut once, then abandoned, is relatively rapid compared with multiple-cut sites where species colonization is constrained by bare compacted peat.
3697471| Aim: To investigate the relationship between chiropteran species distributions and four fundamental environmental factors - temperature, precipitation, soil and vegetation - and to construct a species richness prediction map based on the environmental factors. Location: The state of Michoacn, Mxico. Methods: Bat specimens collected during a 2-year project were combined with museum specimens to form a dataset of over 3200 entries pertaining to 71 species of bats. Coordinates of the collection localities were recorded with GPS receivers or determined from maps. ArcView GIS was used to characterize the distribution of the species relative to the four environmental factors by projecting coordinates of the collection sites onto digitized maps of those factors. Correspondence analysis (CA) was used to evaluate the relationship between species distributions and the environmental factors. Results: The CA results indicated that the order of importance of these factors is (from highest to lowest): temperature, vegetation, precipitation and soil. A predicted distribution map was constructed for each species of bat, based on the result of the CA analysis, using correspondences of each species to climate, vegetation and precipitation. Soil types were excluded from the prediction model because soil type does not appear to carry high predictive value for bat species in Michoacn. Distribution maps of the 71 bat species were then overlaid to generate a map of bat species richness for the state of Michoacn. Main conclusions: Neither family membership nor feeding guild affiliation appear to play important roles in chiropteran species distributions in Michoacn. The bat species richness prediction map will be a useful tool for conservation works in the region. 
2665401|The four major papers in this special feature present and interpret data from field studies on the distributions and diversity of small mammals in elevational gradients on mountains in the Philippines, Borneo, southern Mexico and western United States. In the introductory paper, Lomolino places these studies in the context of historical, methodological and conceptual themes in contemporary biogeography. In this final paper, I focus on some important similarities and interesting differences among the four case studies. All of the studies provide evidence for the influence of ecological factors, such as climate, productivity and habitat heterogeneity, on mammalian diversity. All also provide evidence for the influence of historical dispersal, extinction, and speciation events. Perhaps the most interesting result is the documentation of a frequent, but not universal, peak in species diversity at some elevation intermediate between the base and peak of a mountain. Efforts to understand the mechanistic basis for this pattern - and why it differs from the continuous decrease in diversity from the equator to the poles - promise to contribute to developing a general theoretical explanation for the major patterns of biodiversity on earth.
41058231|Aim: The proportion of sampled sites where a species is present is known as prevalence. Empirical studies have shown that prevalence can affect the predictive performance of species distribution models. This paper uses simulated species data to examine how prevalence and the form of species environmental dependence affect the assessment of the predictive performance of models. Methods: Simulated species data were based on various functions of simulated environmental data with differing degrees of spatial correlation. Seven model performance measures -sensitivity, specificity, class-average (CA), overall prediction success, kappa (K), normalized mutual information (NMI) and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC)  were applied to species models fitted by three regression methods. The response of the performance measures to prevalence was then assessed. Three probability threshold selection methods used to convert fitted logistic model values to presence or absence were also assessed. Results: The study shows that the extent to which prevalence affects model performance depends on the modelling technique and its degree of success in capturing dominant environmental determinants. It also depends on the statistic used to measure model performance and the probability threshold method. The response based on K generally preferred models with medium prevalence. All performance measures were least affected by prevalence when the probability threshold was chosen to maximize predictive performance or was based directly on prevalence. In these cases, the responses based on AUC, CA and NMI generally preferred models with small or large prevalence. Main conclusions: The effect of prevalence on the predictive performance of species distribution models has a methodological basis. Relevant factors include the success of the fitted distribution model in capturing the dominant environmental determinant, the model performance measure and the probability threshold selection method. The fixed probability threshold method yields a marked response of model performance to prevalence and is therefore not recommended. The study explains previous empirical results obtained with real data.
40801916|Aim: To assess the spatial patterns of forest expansion (encroachment and densification) for mountain pine (Pinus uncinata Ram.) during the last 50 years at a whole mountain range scale by the study of different topographic and socioeconomic potential drivers in the current context of global change.
40205739|Aim: To provide accurate but parsimonious quantitative descriptions of clines in cranial form of red colobus, to partition morphological variance into geographical, taxonomic and structured taxonomic components, and to visually summarize dines in multivariate shape data using a method which produces results directly comparable to both univariate studies of geographical variation and standard geometric morphometric visualization of shape differences along vectors. Location: Equatorial Africa. Methods: Sixty-four three-dimensional cranial landmarks were measured on 276 adult red colobus monkeys sampled over their entire distribution. Geometric morphometric methods were applied, and size and shape variables regressed onto geographical coordinates using linear and curvilinear models. Model selection was done using the second-order Akaike information criterion. Components of variation related to geography, taxon or their combined effect were partitioned using partial regresssion. Multivariate trends in dinal shape were summarized using principal components of predictions from regressions, plotting vector scores on maps as for univariate size, and visualizing differences along main axes of dinal shape variation using surface rendering. Results: Significant clinal variation was found in size and shape. Clines were similar in females and males. Trend surface analysis tended to be more accurate and parsimonious than alternative models in predicting morphology based on geography. Cranial form was relatively paedomorphic in East Africa and peramorphic in central Africa. Most taxonomic variation was geographically structured. However, taxonomic differences alone accounted for a larger proportion of total explained variance in shape (up to 40%) than in size (20%). Main conclusions: A strong cline explained most of the observed size variation and a significant part of the shape differences of red colobus crania. The pattern of geographical variation was largely similar to that previously reported in vervets, despite different habitat preferences (arboreal versus terrestrial) and a long period since divergence (c. 14-15 Myr). This suggests that some aspects of morphological divergence in both groups may have been influenced by similar environmental, geographical and historical factors. Cranial size is likely to be evolutionary more labile and thus better reflects the influence of recent environmental changes. Cranial shape could be more resilient to change and thus better reflects phylogenetically informative differences.
40405791|Aim Niche-based distribution models are often used to predict the spread of invasive species. These models assume niche conservation during invasion, but invasive species can have different requirements from populations in their native range for many reasons, including niche evolution. I used distribution modelling to investigate niche conservatism for the Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus Skuse) during its invasion of three continents. I also used this approach to predict areas at risk of invasion from propagules originating from invasive populations. Location Models were created for Southeast Asia, North and South America, and Europe. Methods I used maximum entropy (MAXENT) to create distribution models using occurrence data and 18 environmental datasets. One native model was created for Southeast Asia; this model was projected onto North America, South America and Europe. Three models were created independently for the non-native ranges and projected onto the native range. Niche overlap between native and non-native predictions was evaluated by comparing probability surfaces between models using real data and random models generated using a permutation approach. Results The native model failed to predict an entire region of occurrences in South America, approximately 20% of occurrences in North America and nearly all Italian occurrences of A. albopictus. Non-native models poorly predict the native range, but predict additional areas at risk for invasion globally. Niche overlap metrics indicate that non-native distributions are more similar to the native niche than a random prediction, but they are not equivalent. Multivariate analyses support modelled differences in niche characteristics among continents, and reveal important variables explaining these differences. Main conclusions The niche of A. albopictus has shifted on invaded continents relative to its native range (Southeast Asia). Statistical comparisons reveal that the niche for introduced distributions is not equivalent to the native niche. Furthermore, reciprocal models highlight the importance of controlling bi-directional dispersal between native and non-native distributions.
30137870|Aim To analyse the effects of nine species trait variables on the accuracy of bioclimatic envelope models built for 98 butterfly species. Location Finland, northern Europe. Methods Data from a national butterfly atlas monitoring scheme (NAFI) collected from 1991-2003 with a resolution of 10 x 10 km were used in the analyses. Generalized additive models (GAMs) were constructed for 98 butterfly species to predict their occurrence as a function of climatic variables. Modelling accuracy was measured as the cross-validation area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver-operating characteristic plot. Observed variation in modelling accuracy was related to species traits using multiple GAMs. The effects of phylogenetic relatedness among butterflies were accounted for by using generalized estimation equations. Results The values of the cross-validation AUC for the 98 species varied between 0.56 and 1.00 with a mean of 0.79. Five species trait variables were included in the GAM that explained 71.4% of the observed variation in modelling accuracy. Four variables remained significant after accounting for phylogenetic relatedness. Species with high mobility and a long flight period were modelled less accurately than species with low mobility and a short flight period. Large species (>50 mm in wing span) were modelled more accurately than small ones. Species inhabiting mires had especially poor models, whereas the models for species inhabiting rocky outcrops, field verges and open fells were more accurate compared with other habitats. Main conclusions These results draw attention to the importance of species traits variables for species-climate impact models. Most importantly, species traits may have a strong impact on the performance of bioclimatic envelope models, and certain trait groups can be inherently difficult to model reliably. These uncertainties should be taken into account by downweighting or excluding species with such traits in studies applying bioclimatic modelling and making assessments of the impacts of climate change.
3697526|Aim: To quantify the regional-scale spatio-temporal relationships among rainfall, vegetation and fire frequency in the Australian wet-dry tropics (AWDT). Location: Northern Australia: Cape York Peninsula, central Arnhem, central Kimberly, Einasleigh Uplands, Gulf Fall Uplands and northern Kimberley. Methods: Monthly 'fraction of photosynthetic active radiation absorbed by green vegetation' (fAPAR) was decomposed into monthly evergreen (EG) and monthly raingreen (RG) components using time-series techniques applied to monthly normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) data from Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) imagery. Fire affected areas were independently mapped at the same spatio-temporal resolution from AVHRR imagery. Weather station records were spatially interpolated to create monthly rainfall surfaces. Vegetation structural classes were derived from a digitized map of northern Australian vegetation communities (1:1,000,000). Generalized linear models were used to quantify relationships among the fAPAR, EG and RG signals, vegetation structure, rainfall and fire frequency, for the period November 1996-December 2001. Results: The fAPAR and EG signals are positively correlated with annual rainfall and canopy cover, notably: $EG_{closed forest} > EG_{open heathland} > EG_{open forest} > EG_{woodland} > EG_{open woodland} > EG_{low woodland} > EG_{low open woodland} > EG_{open grassland}$. Vegetation height and fAPAR are positively correlated, excluding the special case of open heathland. The RG signal is highest where intermediate annual rainfall and strong seasonality in rainfall coincide, and is associated with vegetation structure as follows: $RG_{open grassed} > RG_{woodland} > RG_{open forest} > RG_{open heathland} > RG_{low woodland} > RG_{open woodland} > RG_{low open woodland} > RG_{closed forest}$. Monthly RG tracks monthly rainfall. Annual proportion of area burnt (PB) is maximal where high RG coincides with low EG (open grassland, several woodland communities). PB is minimal in vegetation where both RG and EG are low (low open woodland); and in vegetation where EG is high (closed forest, open heathland). Conclusions: The RG-EG scheme successfully reflects digitally mapped tree and grass covers in relation to rainfall. RG-EG patterns are strongly associated with fire frequency patterns. PB is maximal in areas of high RG, where high biomass production during the wet season supports abundant fine fuel during the dry season. PB is minimal in areas with high EG, where relatively moist fuel limits fire ignition; and in areas with low EG and RG, where a relative short supply of fuel limits fire spread.
30134094|Aim: To describe broad-scale geographical patterns of body size for European and North American amphibian faunas and to explore possible processes underlying these patterns. Specifically, we propose a heat balance hypothesis, as both heat conservation and heat gain determine the heat balance of ectotherms, and test it along with five other hypotheses that have a possible influence on body size gradients: size dependence, migration ability, primary productivity, seasonality and water availability. Location: Western Europe and North America north of Mexico. Methods: We processed distribution maps for native amphibian species to estimate the mean body size in 110 x 110 km cells and calculated eight environmental predictors to explore the relationship between environmental gradients and the observed patterns. We used least squares regression modelling and model selection approaches based on information theory to evaluate the relative support for each hypothesis. Results: We found consistent body size gradients and similar relationships to environmental variables within each amphibian group in Europe and North America. Annual potential evapotranspiration, a measure of environmental energy, was the strongest predictor of mean body size in both regions. However, the contrasting responses to ambient energy in each group resulted in opposite geographical patterns, i.e. anurans increased in size from high-to low-energy areas in both continents and urodeles showed the opposite pattern. Main conclusions: Our results support the heat balance hypothesis, suggesting that the thermoregulatory abilities of anurans would allow them to reach larger sizes in colder climates by optimizing the trade-off between heating and cooling rates, whereas a lack of such strategies among urodele faunas would explain why these organisms tend to be smaller in cooler areas. These findings may also have implications for the role of climate warming on the global decline of amphibians.
3697464|Scale, the scale dependency of patterns and processes, and the ways that organisms scale their responses to these patterns and processes are central to island and landscape ecology. Here, we take a database of studies in island ecology and investigate how studies have changed over a 40-year period with respect to spatial scale and organisms studied. We demonstrate that there have been changes in the spatial scale of islands studied and that there is taxonomic bias in favour of vertebrates in island ecological studies when compared to scientific publications as a whole. We discuss how such taxonomic bias may have arisen and discuss the implications for ecology and biogeography.
30137820|Aim: To test the hypotheses that seamounts exhibit high rates of endemism and/or species richness compared to surrounding areas of the continental slope and oceanic ridges. Location: The south-west Pacific Ocean from 19-57 S to 143-171 E. Methods: Presence/absence museum data were compiled for seamount and nonseamount areas at depths between 100 and 1500 m for the Ophiuroidea (brittle-stars), an abundant and speciose group of benthic invertebrates. Large-scale biogeographical gradients were examined through multivariate analyses at two spatial scales, at the scale of seamounts (< 1 of latitude/longitude) and regions (5-9). The robustness of these patterns to spatially inconsistent sampling effort was tested using Monte Carlo-style simulations. Levels of local endemism and species richness over numbers of samples were compared for seamount and non-seamount areas using linear regressions. Non-seamount populations were randomly generated from areas and depth ranges that reflected the typical sampling profile of seamounts. Results: Seamount ophiuroid assemblages did not exhibit elevated levels of species richness or narrow-range endemism compared with non-seamount areas. Seamounts can exhibit high overall species richness for low numbers of samples, particularly on seamounts supporting a dense coral matrix, but this does not increase with additional sampling at the rates found in non-seamount areas. There were relatively few identifiable seamount specialists. In general, seamount faunas reflected those found at similar depths in surrounding areas, including the continental slope. Seamount and non-seamount faunas within the study area exhibited congruent latitudinal and bathymetric species turnover. Main conclusions: Seamount faunas were variable for ophiuroid faunal composition, species richness and narrow-range endemism, reflecting their environmental diversity and complex history. The continental slope was also variable, with some areas being particularly species rich. Broad geomorphological habitat categories such as 'seamounts' or 'continental slope' may be at the wrong scale to be useful for conservation planning.
40205680|Aim: The C and crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) pathways are adaptations to compensate for high rates of photorespiration and water and carbon deficiency. This is the first attempt to compare the relative abundance of C vs. C + CAM species in temperate and subtropical grasslands across a latitudinal gradient in central Argentina. We predict that under the same rainfall regime, C + CAM plants will have larger soil coverage in highly saline soils than in neighbouring non-saline ones. Location: Data were taken from three phytogeographical provinces in the Santa Fe province of Argentina: Chaquenian, Pampean and Espinal. Methods: The salinity of the soil was estimated through aqueous solution conductivity. The proportions of species belonging to C/C2084 + CAM photosynthetic pathways were compared among halophyte and non-halophyte communities with a
40405757|Aim: To map and assess the breeding distribution of emperor penguins (Aptenodytes forsten) using remote sensing. Location: Pan-Antarctic. Methods: Using Landsat ETM satellite images downloaded from the Landsat Image Mosaic of Antarctica (LIMA), we detect faecal staining of ice by emperor penguins associated with their colony locations. Emperor penguins breed on sea ice, and their colonies exist in situ between May and December each year. Faecal staining at these colony locations shows on Landsat imagery as brown patches, the only staining of this colour on sea ice. This staining can therefore be used as an analogue for colony locations. The whole continental coastline has been analysed, and each possible signal has been identified visually and checked by spectral analysis. In areas where LIMA data are unsuitable, freely available Landsat imagery has been supplemented. Results: We have identified colony locations of emperor penguins at a total of 38 sites. Of these, 10 are new locations, and six previously known colony locations have been repositioned (by over 10 km) due to poor geographical information in old records. Six colony locations, all from old or unconfirmed records, were not found or have disappeared. Main conclusions: We present a new pan-Antarctic species distribution of emperor penguins mapped from space. In one synoptic survey we locate extant emperor penguin colonies, a species previously poorly mapped due to its unique breeding habits, and provide a vital geographical resource for future studies of an iconic species believed to be vulnerable to future climate change.
40205678|Aim: Climate changes are thought to be responsible for the retreat and eventual extinction of subtropical lauroid species that covered much of Europe and North Africa during the Palaeogene and early Neogene; little is known, however, of the spatial and temporal patterns of this demise. Herein we calibrate ecological niche models to assess the climatic requirements of Laurus L. (Lauraceae), an emblematic relic from the Tethyan subtropical flora, subsequently using these models to infer how the range dynamics of Laurus were affected by Plio-Pleistocene climate changes. We also provide predictions of likely range changes resulting from future climatic scenarios. Location: The Mediterranean Basin and Macaronesian islands (Canaries, Madeira, Azores). Methods: We used a maximum-entropy algorithm (Maxent) to model the relationship between climate and Laurus distribution over time. The models were fitted both to the present and to the middle Pliocene, based on fossil records. We employed climatic reconstructions for the mid-Pliocene (3 Ma), the Last Glacial Maximum (21 ka) and a CO-doubling future scenario to project putative species distribution in each period. We validated the model projections with Laurus fossil and present occurrences. Results: Laurus preferentially occupied warm and moist areas with low seasonality, showing a marked stasis of its climatic niche. Models fitted to Pliocene conditions successfully predicted the current species distribution. Large suitable areas existed during the Pliocene, which were strongly reduced during the Pleistocene, but humid refugia within the Mediterranean Basin and Macaronesian islands enabled long-term persistence. Future climate conditions are likely to re-open areas suitable for colonization north of the current range. Main conclusions: The climatic requirements of Laurus remained virtually unchanged over the last 3 Myr. This marked niche conservatism imposed largely deterministic range dynamics driven by climate conditions. This species's relatively high drought tolerance might account for the survival of Laurus in continental Europe throughout the Quaternary whilst other Lauraceae became extinct. Climatic scenarios for the end of this century would favour an expansion of the species's range towards northern latitudes, while severely limiting southern populations due to increased water stress.
2997829|The relationship between climate and vegetation was investigated along a Mediterranean-Temperate boundary in central Italy. The study area is a transition zone between the Temperate (Eurosiberian) and Mediterranean regions and has an altitudinal range of almost 1750 m. Ordination and cluster analysis were used. The results did not show any sharp boundary but a climate-vegetation mosaic ranging from upper mountain thermotype and lower hyperhumid ombrotype with Fagus sylvatica L. woodlands at higher altitudes, to meso-Mediterranean thermotype and lower subhumid ombrotype with Mediterranean maquis and Quercus ilex L. woods on the coast. Six phytoclimatic groups are distinguished and described in terms of climatic parameters, vegetation types and morphological and chorological traits. These parameters indicate a change without sharp discontinuities between groups. The Mediterranean to Temperate transition in this Tyrrhenian sector is broad and includes most of the study area.
2665327|Quantification of forest carbon sources and sinks is an important part of national inventories of net greenhouse gas emissions. Several such forest carbon budgets have been constructed, but little effort has been made to analyse the sources of error and how these errors propagate to determine the overall uncertainty of projected carbon fluxes. We performed an error analysis for estimates of tree volume and volume change determined by repeated measurements of permanent sample plots for the South-eastern United States as a step toward assessing errors in the carbon budget constructed by the USDA Forest Service. Error components recognized were: sampling error for sample plot selection; measurement error for tree height and diameter; and regression error for tree volume. Most of the propagated error in volume and volume change estimation was due to sampling error. Error estimates depended on the size of the area examined (single state to region) and the degree to which tree growth and recruitment balanced mortality and harvesting. Approximate regional 95% confidence intervals were 3 455 073 000  39 606 000 (1.1%) m<sup>3</sup> for current growing-stock volume, and 10 616 000  4210 000 (39.7%) m<sup>3</sup> years<sup>-1</sup> for growing-stock volume change. These methods should be useful in further analysis of the sources of error and overall uncertainty in national efforts to quantify carbon fluxes associated with forests and land cover dynamics.
3697418|Aims: To determine the shape of global species-range size distributions, the influence on these of island species, threatened species and patterns of latitudinal variation in range sizes, and the fit to logit-normal distributions. Location: Global. Methods: We take the spatial distributions of the raptors and owls of the world as exemplar data sets, document the shapes of their species-range size distributions, the influence of particular groups of species and of latitudinal variation in range sizes on these shapes, and the fit of these distributions to a variety of models. Results: The global species-range size distributions of both raptors and owls are extremely right skewed on untransformed axes. They are not lognormally distributed, as has commonly been stated for species-range size distributions, nor logit-normally distributed as has been suggested might be the case. For raptors, departures from either a lognormal or a logit-normal are little mitigated by excluding groups of species that might be thought to distort the observed species-range size distribution, nor by the latitudinal gradient in geographical range size. For owls, the effects of excluding island and threatened species are more marked, with the fit of the species-range size distribution to a lognormal or a logit-normal becoming much closer. Conclusions: A simple general description of the shape of species-range size distributions remains elusive. This constitutes a significant constraint on the development of theory as to how they are determined. Whilst in principle the fit of any given mechanistic model can be tested against one or more empirical data sets, whatever their form, a simple general mathematical description of species-range size distributions would make the process of rapidly testing the appropriateness of mechanistic models more straightforward.
40801849|Aim: To understand the relative contributions of environmental factors, dispersal limitations and the presence of sperm donors in determining the distribution of the Amazon molly (Poecilia formosa), a sperm-dependent unisexual fish species of hybrid origin. To explore niche similarities and/or differences between the hybrid and parental species. To evaluate whether large-scale abiotic factors can explain a successful introduction of both P. formosa and Poecilia latipinna.
2997833|The number of primate species and genera on thirty-one south-east Asian islands west of the Wallace Line, including Sulawesi, is highly significantly related to surface area of the islands, as expected, but the z value (slope) of each relationship is low (0.21 for species). No association exists between number of taxa and distance to nearest mainland, or to nearest larger island. Excluding the non-Sunda Shelf islands only negligibly changes the relationships. A significant correlation exists between island size and median taxon's body mass, with taxa of 10 kg or more occurring on only the two largest islands. Hence, the primate community changes greatly with island size. The existence of several genera, but no congeners, on small islands, and a checkerboard distribution of the two nocturnal genera (Nycticebus and Tarsius), hints at interspecific competition as a cause of extinction. It is suggested that for comparative purposes, genera/area analyses might be more useful than species/area analyses, because genera are more taxonomically stable, perhaps more comparable across deeper taxa, and might be a better indication of degree of variability.
3877779|Aim: We analyse regional patterns of woody plant species richness collected from field data in relation to modelled gross photosynthesis, P
3697624|Aim: We assess the importance of three relevant and readily obtainable life-history traits (dispersal syndrome, stem height and growth form) and biogeographical origin (European vs. non-European) on the local and regional abundance of over 400 exotic plant species across eight Mediterranean islands. Location: The Mediterranean islands of Lesbos, Rhodes, Crete, Malta, Corsica, Sardinia, Majorca and Minorca. Methods: We adopt two abundance criteria for each exotic species: the proportion of islands in which the species occurs (regional abundance), and a qualitative estimate of species abundance within each of five islands (local abundance). Subsequently, we assess the relationship between local and regional abundance, as well as the role of key life-history traits on both regional and local abundance. These analyses were undertaken separately for the European exotics and the non-European exotics. Results: Only 10.9% of the species occur on more than four islands, and only four species are present on all eight islands. Both local and regional abundances were higher for the non-European than the European species. Local and regional abundances were positively correlated, particularly for exotics with non-European origins. Wind-dispersed species tended to have higher regional abundance than species dispersed by other means but this trend only occurred for local abundance on two islands - Corsica and Majorca. Neither a species' growth form nor its stem height explained trends in regional or local abundance. Conclusions: Although wind-dispersed exotics are more widespread in the Mediterranean, plant life-history traits appear to play a lesser role in invasion success than area of biogeographical origin. In general, exotic species of non-European origin were more abundant at both local and regional scales. Invasion patterns should be interpreted at both local and regional scales, but the stochastic nature of biological invasions may limit deterministic interpretations of invasion patterns, especially if islands are studied in isolation.
30137987|Aim: Soil resource heterogeneity is linked to several ecological processes including invasion of woody species into grasslands. Studies from the temperate zone have demonstrated greater soil heterogeneity beneath woody vegetation than beneath grasslands. Woody species have a more widespread and coarser root system than herbaceous species, and may have a competitive advantage in relatively heterogeneous soils. We tested the global generality of greater soil heterogeneity beneath woody vegetation. Location: Global. Methods: We used data from published literature for soil nitrogen and carbon heterogeneity from paired woodland and grassland sites around the world. Results: Woodland and grassland soil heterogeneities from paired observations were strongly correlated. There was, however, significant geographical variability in the relationship. Soils were more heterogeneous in woodlands than grasslands in temperate areas, but the opposite was true for tropical habitats. Grassland soils were more heterogeneous at lower than higher latitudes. Woodland soil heterogeneity did not vary with latitude. Main conclusions: The previously described high soil heterogeneity in woody vegetation compared to grasslands holds only for temperate regions. Consequently, the relationship between soil resource heterogeneity and vegetation type is dependent on the study region. Macroecological studies should test the generality of relationships between soil and vegetation at the global scale.
3697490|Aim: To evaluate the utility of island biogeography theory as a model for understanding and conserving native communities of nonvolant terrestrial vertebrates at prairie dog towns. Location: Oklahoma Panhandle, USA. Methods: We surveyed mammal, reptile and amphibian communities on 36 black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) towns during the summers and falls of 1997 to 1999. We used a Geographic Information System (GIS) to characterize the landscape within 10 km of each town. We used Principal Components Analysis (PCA), Correlation Analysis, and Linear Regression to test for patterns in species richness relative to area and isolation of towns, local habitat characteristics, and characteristics of the adjacent landscape. Results: Species richness was not significantly correlated with town size, town isolation, or local habitat characteristics. On the other hand, species richness was significantly correlated with characteristics of the landscape within 10 km of the focal town. In addition, species richness of mammals at prairie dog towns during the summer increased in a northerly direction, while richness of mammals at towns during fall increased to the west. Main conclusions: These results, albeit contrary to traditional island biogeography theory, are consistent with an emerging view that communities on relatively small islands are strongly influenced by characteristics of the adjacent landscape (or seascape). We recommend that to the extent possible, networks of reserves for prairie dogs and their associated species should include clusters of large towns (i.e. larger than those studied here), as well as large but isolated towns, and that conservation efforts should include management of the intervening matrix of anthropogenic habitats.
40602947|Aim: To investigate large-scale patterns of above-ground and below-ground biomass partitioning in grassland ecosystems and to test the isometric theory at the community level. Location: Northern China, in diverse grassland types spanning temperate grasslands in arid and semi-arid regions to alpine grasslands on the Tibetan Plateau. Methods: We investigated above-ground and below-ground biomass in China's grasslands by conducting five consecutive sampling campaigns across the northern part of the country during 2001-05. We then documented the root : shoot ratio (R/S) and its relationship with climatic factors for China's grasslands. We further explored relationships between above-ground and below-ground biomass across different grassland types. Results: Our results indicated that the overall R/S of China's grasslands was larger than the global average (6.3 vs. 3.7). The R/S for China's grasslands did not show any significant trend with either mean annual temperature or mean annual precipitation.Above-ground biomass was nearly proportional to below-ground biomass with a scaling exponent (the slope of log-log linear relationship between above-ground and below-ground biomass) of 1.02 across various grassland types.The slope did not differ significantly between temperate and alpine grasslands or between steppe and meadow. Main conclusions: Our findings support the isometric theory of above-ground and below-ground biomass partitioning, and suggest that above-ground biomass scales isometrically with below-ground biomass at the community level.
40405756|Aim: Senesced-leaf litter plays an important role in the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems. While green-leaf nutrients have been reported to be affected by climatic factors at the global scale, the global patterns of senesced-leaf nutrients are not well understood. Location: Global. Methods: Here, bringing together a global dataset of senesced-leaf N and P spanning 1253 observations and 638 plant species at 365 sites and of associated mean climatic indices, we describe the world-wide trends in senesced-leaf N and P and their stoichiometric ratios. Results: Concentration of senesced-leaf N was highest in tropical forests, intermediate in boreal, temperate, and mediterranean forests and grasslands, and lowest in tundra, whereas P concentration was highest in grasslands, lowest in tropical forests and intermediate in other ecosystems. Tropical forests had the highest N : P and C : P ratios in senesced leaves. When all data were pooled, N concentration significantly increased, but senesced-leaf P concentration decreased with increasing mean annual temperature (MAT) and mean annual precipitation (MAP). The N : P and C : P ratios also increased with MAT and MAP, but C : N ratios decreased. Plant functional type (PFT), i. e. life-form (grass, herb, shrub or tree), phylogeny (angiosperm versus gymnosperm) and leaf habit (deciduous versus evergreen), affected senesced-leaf N, P, N : P, C : N and C : P with a ranking of senesced-leaf N from high to low: forbs  shrubs trees > grasses, while the ranking of P was forbs ~ shrubs  trees < grasses. The climatic trends of senesced-leaf N and P and their stoichiometric ratios were similar between PFTs. Main conclusions: Globally, senesced-leaf N and P concentrations differed among ecosystem types, from tropical forest to tundra. Differences were significantly related to global climate variables such as MAT and MAP and also related to plant functional types. These results at the global scale suggest that nutrient feedback to soil through leaf senescence depends on both the climatic conditions and the plant composition of an ecosystem.
2665324|Consilience means that all fields of human knowledge should be internally consistent. Within the broad span of the ecological and evolutionary sciences, there are many fields that seem only remotely related conceptually. Macroecology has emerged as a research programme that focuses on statistical patterns of ecological and biogeographically relevant traits among different species within a taxon. The concepts needed to understand these patterns require the interface of disciplines as different as systematics, ecosystem ecology, palaeontology and community ecology. By building conceptual links among a wide range of disciplines, macroecology is contributing, and will continue to contribute, to the growing realization that all of biology is indeed consilient.
3697602|Aim: There is substantial residual scatter about the positive range size-body size relationship in Australian frogs. We test whether species' life history and abundance can account for this residual scatter. Location: Australia. Methods: Multiple regressions were performed using both cross-species and independent contrasts analyses to determine whether clutch size, egg size and species abundance account for variation in range size over and above the effects of body size. Results: In both cross-species and independents contrasts models with body size, clutch size and egg size as predictors, partial r
40405763|Aim: To determine whether the effect of habitat fragmentation and habitat heterogeneity on species richness at different spatial scales depends on the dispersal ability of the species assemblages and if this results in nested species assemblages. Location: Agricultural landscapes distributed over seven temperate Europe countries covering a range from France to Estonia. Methods: We sampled 16 local communities in each of 24 agricultural landscapes (16 km 2 ) that differ in the amount and heterogeneity of semi-natural habitat patches. Carabid beetles were used as model organisms as dispersal ability can easily be assessed on morphological traits. The proximity and heterogeneity of semi-natural patches within the landscape were related to average local (alpha), between local (beta) and landscape (gamma) species richness and compared among four guilds that differ in dispersal ability. Results: For species assemblages with low dispersal ability, local diversity increased as the proximity of semi-natural habitat increased, while mobile species showed an opposite trend. Beta diversity decreased equally for all dispersal classes in relation to proximity, suggesting a homogenizing effect of increased patch isolation. In contrast, habitat diversity of the semi-natural patches affected beta diversity positively only for less mobile species, probably due to the low dispersal ability of specialist species. Species with low mobility that persisted in highly fragmented landscapes were consistently present in less fragmented ones, resulting in nested assemblages for this mobility class only. Main conclusions: The incorporation of dispersal ability reveals that only local species assemblages with low dispersal ability show a decrease of richness as a result of fragmentation. This local species loss is compensated at least in part by an increase in species with high dispersal ability, which obscures the effect of fragmentation when investigated across dispersal groups. Conversely, fragmentation homogenizes the landscape fauna for all dispersal groups, which indicates the invasion of non-crop habitats by similar good dispersers across the whole landscape. Given that recolonization of low dispersers is unlikely, depletion of these species in modern agricultural landscapes appears temporally pervasive.
3697493|Aim: To explore the environmental correlates of tree species distributions in Catalonia according to the chorological status of the species. Location: The study area is the region of Catalonia, in northeastern Spain. Methods: We used presence-absence data for 24 species, sampled in random plots distributed throughout forests of Catalonia. A climate model for the Catalonia region provided environmental variables. We used classification tree analysis to explore the environmental correlates of the realized niches of tree species. The predictive accuracy of the models was assessed using the ROC curve approach. Potential distribution maps of tree species were generated for the whole Catalonia region. Results: Models were ranked from low to high accuracy for the 24 species. Differences in accuracy among species were related to the chorological status of species. Zonal species, or species at the core of their range (Mediterranean and Sub-Mediterranean species), were generally well predicted, while extrazonal species, or species at the edge of their range, were predicted only moderately well. Mediterranean species distributions showed good correlations with extreme temperatures and annual precipitation. Main conclusions: The above trends confirmed the difficulty of identifying the realized niche of species at the edges of their ranges. In contrast, Mediterranean and Sub-Mediterranean species, which were at the core of their range, were well-predicted, confirming the importance of extremes of temperature and annual precipitation as effective surrogates for variables having more direct physiological roles in limiting the ability of plants to survive and grow. Maps of potential tree distributions allowed us to define suitable habitats and to highlight areas where species have been planted outside their natural distribution.
3697404|Aim: Extrapolation of tower CO
40801860|Aim: A regional analysis was used to explore the influence of river regulation on the dominance of non-native, invasive shrubs and trees. We addressed the following questions: (1) How do large dams affect hydrological parameters that influence riparian vegetation? (2) How do flow regimes affect the dominance of non-native woody species? (3) How do changes in flow regimes affect the dominance of non-native woody species?
40405790|Aim Montane tropics are areas of high endemism, and mechanisms driving this endemism have been receiving increasing attention at a global scale. A general trend is that climatic factors do not explain the species richness of species with small to medium-sized geographic ranges, suggesting that geological and evolutionary processes must be considered. On the African continent, several hypotheses including both rfugiai and geographic uplift models have been advanced to explain avian speciation and diversity in the lowland forest and montane regions of central and eastern Africa; montane regions in particular are recognized as hotspots of vertebrate endemism. Here, we examine the possible role of these models in driving speciation in a clade of African forest robins. Location Africa. Methods We constructed the first robustly supported molecular phylogenetic hypothesis of forest robins. On this phylogeny, we reconstructed habitat-based distributions and geographic distributions relative to the Albertine Rift. We also estimated the timing of lineage divergences via a molecular clock. Results Robust estimates of phylogenetic relationships and clock-based divergences reject Miocene tectonic uplift and Pleistocene forest rfugia as primary drivers of speciation in forest robins. Instead, our data suggest that most forest robin speciation took place in the Late Pliocene, from 3.2 to 2.2 Ma. Distributional patterns are complex, with the Albertine Rift region serving as a general east-west break across the group. Montane distributions are inferred to have evolved four times. Main conclusions Phylogenetic divergence dates coincide with a single period of lowland forest retraction in the late Pliocene, suggesting that most montane speciation resulted from the rapid isolation of populations in montane areas, rather than montane areas themselves being drivers of speciation. This conclusion provides additional evidence that Pliocene climate change was a major driver of speciation in broadly distributed African animal lineages. We further show that lowland forest robins are no older than their montane relatives, suggesting that lowland areas are not museums which house 'ancient' taxa; rather, for forest robins, montane areas should be viewed as living museums of a late Pliocene diversification event. A forest rfugiai pattern is operating in Africa, but it is not constrained to the Pleistocene.
3697543| Aim: Climate variability may be an important mediating agent of ecosystem dynamics in cold, arid regions such as the central Tianshan Mountains, north-western China. Tree-ring chronologies and the age structure of a Schrenk spruce (Picea schrenkiana) forest were developed to examine treeline dynamics in recent decades in relation to climatic variability. Of particular interest was whether tree-ring growth and population recruitment patterns responded similarly to climate warming. Location: The study was conducted in eight stands that ranged from 2500 m to 2750 m a.s.l. near the treeline in the Tianchi Nature Reserve (4345'-4359' N, 8800'-8820' E) in the central Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, northwestern China. Methods: Tree-ring cores were collected and used to develop tree-ring chronologies. The age of sampled trees was determined from basal cores sampled as close as possible to the ground. Population age structure and recruitment information were obtained using an age-d.b.h. (diameter at breast height) regression from the sampled cores and the d.b.h. measured on all trees in the plots. Ring-width chronologies and tree age structure were both used to investigate the relationship between treeline dynamics and climate change. Results: Comparisons with the climatic records showed that both the radial growth of trees and tree recruitment were influenced positively by temperature and precipitation in the cold high treeline zone, but the patterns of their responses differed. The annual variation in tree rings could be explained largely by the average monthly minimum temperatures during February and August of the current year and by the monthly precipitation of the previous August and January, which had a significant and positive effect on tree radial growth. P. schrenkiana recruitment was influenced mainly by consecutive years of high minimum summer temperatures and high precipitation during spring. Over the last several decades, the treeline did not show an obvious upward shift and new recruitment was rare. Some trees had established at the treeline at least 200 years ago. Recruitment increased until the early 20th century (1910s) but then decreased with poor recruitment over the past several decades (1950-2000). Main conclusions: There were strong associations between climatic change and ring-width patterns, and with recruitments in Schrenk spruce. Average minimum temperatures in February and August, and total precipitation in the previous August and January, had a positive effect on tree-ring width, and several consecutive years of high minimum summer temperature and spring precipitation was a main factor favouring the establishment of P. schrenkiana following germination within the treeline ecotone. Both dendroclimatology and recruitment analysis were useful and compatible to understand and reconstruct treeline dynamics in the central Tianshan Mountains. 
40801847|In the conservation literature on land-use change, it is often assumed that land-use intensification drives species loss, driving a loss of functional trait diversity and ecosystem function. Modern research, however, does not support this cascade of loss for all natural systems. In this paper we explore the errors in this assumption and present a conceptual model taking a more mechanistic approach to the speciesfunctional trait association in a context of land-use change. We provide empirical support for our model's predictions demonstrating that the association of species and functional trait diversity follows various trajectories in response to land-use change. The central premise of our model is that land-use change impacts upon processes of community assembly, not species per se. From the model, it is clear that community context (i.e. type of disturbance, species pool size) will affect the response trajectory of the relationship between species and functional trait diversity in communities undergoing land-use change. The maintenance of ecosystem function and of species diversity in the face of increasing land-use change are complementary goals. The use of a more ecologically realistic model of responses of species and functional traits will improve our ability to make wise management decisions to achieve both aims in specific at-risk systems.
3697479| Aim: To document the occurrence of vertical displacements of vegetation in the high plateaus of the Venezuelan Guayana (tepuis) over the last c. 6000 years, and to discuss their significance for the origin of their flora, especially the endemism patterns observed in their flat summits. Two hypotheses have been proposed for the origin of the summit flora. One (the Lost World hypothesis) proposes a long history of evolution in isolation from the surrounding plains, while the other (the Vertical Displacement hypothesis) suggests that vertical movements of vegetation during the Pleistocene glacial-interglacial cycles would have resulted in floristic mixing within the lowlands, and genetic interchange among plateau summits. Location: This work has been conducted on the flat summit of the Chur-tepui, in the Chimant massif, at 515' Lat. N and 6201' Long. W, around 2250 m altitude. Methods: Pollen analysis and radiocarbon dating of two peat outcrops, using modern analogue technique and numerical methods for palaeoecological interpretation were used. Results: The replacement of a high-altitude plant community (a paramoid Chimantaea shrubland) by a lower elevation (< 2300 m) Stegolepis meadow, occurred about 2500 years before present (yr BP). This vegetation change is inferred to have resulted from a regional climatic shift to higher temperature and moisture. A subsequent decrease in temperature and moisture led to the establishment of present conditions after about 1450 yr BP. Main conclusions: The highland vegetation of the tepuis responded to climate shifts with vertical displacements, supporting the hypothesis of vertical mixing. However, a physiographical analysis shows that around half of the tepuis would never have been connected by lowlands. Therefore, both hypotheses are needed to explain the origins of the summit flora in the tepuis. 
2997886|The production of plant biomass on small farms and in woodland in densely populated locations in the Nigerian Sahelo-Sudan is estimated in order to test the hypothesis that conversion of land from natural vegetation to cultivation entails a loss in plant productivity. Estimates are given for reserved forest, woodland, shrubland and farmland at two sites varying in mean annual rainfall and population density. The results fail to support the hypothesis. The role of farmers in causing degradation through loss of plant productivity, and appropriate conservation strategies, may require re-evaluation.
3697438|Aim: We analysed the interdependence of avian frugivore- and fruited plant-species richness at the scale of major river basins across Europe, taking into account several environmental factors along different spatial gradients. Location: Continental Europe and the British Isles. Methods: We focused on wintering birds and autumn/winter fruiting plants, and used major river basins as geographical units and Structural Equation Modelling as the principal analytical tool. Results: The statistical influence of disperser species richness on fleshy-fruited plant species richness is roughly double that of the reverse. Broad-scale variation in frugivore richness is more dependent on environmental factors than on fruited plant richness. However, the influence of disperser richness on plant richness is four times higher than the influence of environmental factors. Environmental influences on both birds and plants are greater than purely spatial influences. Main conclusions: Our results are interpreted as indicating that biotic dispersal of fruits strongly affects broad-scale geographical trends of fleshy-fruited plant species richness, whereas richness of fruited plants moderately affects frugivore richness.
3182648|Estimation of the amount of carbon stored in forests is a key challenge for understanding the global carbon cycle, one which remote sensing is expected to help address. However, estimation of carbon storage in moderate to high biomass forests is difficult for conventional optical and radar sensors. Lidar (light detection and ranging) instruments measure the vertical structure of forests and thus hold great promise for remotely sensing the quantity and spatial organization of forest biomass. In this study, we compare the relationships between lidar-measured canopy structure and coincident field measurements of above-ground biomass at sites in the temperate deciduous, temperate coniferous, and boreal coniferous biomes. A single regression for all three sites is compared with equations derived for each site individually. The single equation explains 84% of variance in above-ground biomass (P < 0.0001) and shows no statistically significant bias in its predictions for any individual site.
41239412|Aim: The drivers of species assembly, by limiting the possible range of functional trait values, can lead to either convergent or divergent distributions of traits in realized assemblages. Here, to evaluate the strengths of these species assembly drivers, we partition trait variance across global, regional and community scales. We then test the hypothesis that, from global to community scales, the outcome of co-occurring trait convergence and divergence is highly variable across biomes and communities. Location: Global: nine biomes ranging from subarctic highland to tropical rain forest. Methods: We analysed functional trait diversity at progressively finer spatial scales using a global, balanced, hierarchically structured dataset from 9 biomes, 58 communities and 652 species. Analyses were based on two key leaf traits (foliar nitrogen content and specific leaf area) that are known to drive biogeochemical cycling. Results: While 35% of the global variance in these traits was between biomes, only 15% was between communities within biomes and as much as 50% occurred within communities. Despite this relatively high within-community variance in trait values, we found that trait convergence dominated over divergence at both global and regional scales through comparisons of functional trait diversity in regional and community assemblages against random (null) models of species assembly. Main conclusions: We demonstrate that the convergence of traits occurring from global to regional assemblages can be twice as strong as that from regional to community assemblages, and argue that large differences in the nature and strength of abiotic and biotic drivers of dominant species assembly can, at least partly, explain the variable outcome of simultaneous trait convergence and divergence across sites. Ultimately, these findings stress the urgent need to extend species assembly research to address those scales where trait variance is the highest, i.e. between biomes and within communities.
40801925|Aim: The evolutionary speed hypothesis (ESH) attempts to explain global patterns of species richness on the basis that rates of molecular evolution and speciation in warmer climates have led to a greater accumulation of taxa at lower latitudes. A substantial alternative hypothesis to the ESH is the tropical conservatism hypothesis (TCH). However, recent tests of the TCH, using amphibians as the model taxon, have relied on the assumption that rates of molecular evolution are stable across latitudes and elevations. Here, we test for the first time for systematic variation in rates of molecular evolution across latitude and elevation among amphibians.
41058241|Aim: We assessed how avian biodiversity and above-ground carbon storage were related in different forest age-classes, including mature stands (> 100 years), in a managed, mixed-species eucalypt forest. Location: Gippsland, south-eastern Australia. Methods: In 50 2-ha stands ranging in age from  5 years to mature stands > 100 years, we undertook repeated avian surveys, performed detailed habitat measurements and estimated amounts of above-ground carbon. Extensive wildfire reduced the number of sites to 28 (seven in each of four age classes) upon which analyses and inferences were made. We also analysed data on carbon storage and some bird responses from previously published studies. Results: Mature vegetation (> 100 years) had the greatest richness, abundance and biomass of birds. Key ecological resources, such as tree-hollows for nesting, generally occurred mostly in stands > 60 years. Avian richness per unit of above-ground carbon storage was relatively low for stands of 20-60 years. While above-ground carbon storage appeared to increase in a monotonic fashion as stands age and mature, there were quantum increases in all measures of avian biodiversity in mature stands (> 100 years). Main conclusions: Our results suggest that carbon is organized in a different way, with substantially greater biodiversity benefits, in very old stands. Mature vegetation simultaneously maximizes both avian biodiversity and above-ground carbon storage. These results bolster arguments for allocating highest priorities to the preservation of old-growth forest stands rather than alternative investments (e. g. reafforestation for carbon sequestration).
4139404|Aim The magnitude of predicted range shifts during climate change is likely to be different for species living in mountainous environments compared with those living in flatland environments. The southern edges of ranges in mountain species may not shift northwards during warming as populations instead migrate up available elevational gradients; overall latitudinal range appears therefore to expand. In contrast, flatland species should shift range centroids northwards but not expand or contract their latitudinal range extent. These hypotheses were tested utilizing Late Pleistocene and modern occurrence data. Location North America. Methods The location and elevation of modern and Late Pleistocene species occurrences were collected from data bases for 26 species living in mountain or flatland environments. Regressions of elevation change over latitude, and southern and northern range edges were calculated for each species for modern and fossil data sets. A combination of regressions and ANOVAS were used to test whether flatland species shift range edges and latitudinal extents more than mountain species do. Results Flatland species had significantly larger northward shifts at southern range edges than did mountain-dwelling species from the Late Pleistocene to the present. There was also a significant negative correlation between the amount of change in the latitude of the southern edge of the range and the amount of elevational shifting from the Late Pleistocene to the present. Although significant, only c. 25% of the variance could be explained by this relationship. In addition, there was a weak indication that overall range expansion was less in flatland-dwelling than in mountain-dwelling species. Main conclusions The approach used here was to examine past species' range responses to warming that occurred after the last ice ages as a means to better predict potential future responses to continued warming. The results confirm predictions of differential southern edge and overall range shifts for species occupying mountain and flatland regions in North America. The findings may be broadly applicable in other regions, thus allowing better modelling of future range and distribution related responses.
40801856|Aim: We determined whether dissimilarity in species composition between parasite communities depends on geographic distance, environmental dissimilarity or host faunal dissimilarity, for different subsets of parasite species with different levels of host specificity.
41058239|Aim: Wood properties are related to tree physiology and mechanical stability and are influenced by both phylogeny and the environment. However, it remains unclear to what extent geographical gradients in wood traits are shaped by either phylogeny or the environment. Here we aimed to disentangle the influences of phylogeny and the environment on spatial trends in wood traits. Location: China. Methods: We compiled a data set of 11 wood properties for 618 tree species from 98 sampling sites in China to assess their phylogenetic and spatial patterns, and to determine how many of the spatial patterns in wood properties are attributable to the environment after correction for phylogenetic influences. Result: All wood traits examined exhibited significant phylogenetic signal. The widest divergence in wood traits was observed between gymnosperms and angiosperms, Rosids and Asterids, Magnoiliids and Eudicots, and in Lamiales. For most wood traits, the majority of trait variation was observed at genus and species levels. The mechanical properties of wood showed correlated evolution with wood density. Most of the mechanical properties of wood exhibited significant latitudinal variation but limited or no altitudinal variation, and were positively correlated with mean annual precipitation based on both Pearson's correlation analysis and the phylogenetic comparative method. Correlations at family level between mean annual temperature and wood density, compression strength, cross-section hardness, modulus of elasticity and volumetric shrinkage coefficient became significant after correction for phylogenetic influences. Main conclusions: Phylogeny interacted with the environment in shaping the spatial patterns of wood traits of trees across China because most wood properties showed strong phylogenetic conservatism and thus affected environmental tolerances and distributions of tree species. Mean annual precipitation was a key environmental factor explaining the spatial patterns of wood traits. Our study provides valuable insights into the geographical patterns in productivity, distribution and ecological strategy of trees linking to wood traits.
3697538|Aim: Ecological factors that vary along spatial scales can greatly influence the outcome of evolution. However, often it is difficult for researchers to identify significant ecological variables that might be associated with the geographical distribution of phenotypes and genotypes in nature. In this paper, we use remote sensing image texture analyses to investigate breeding territories of the white-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis), a polymorphic passerine species that has been shown to segregate spatially according to morph. Our aim was to examine how an integrative measure of landscape feature, such as image texture, could be used to distinguish subtle differences in habitat use and, presumably, habitat selection. Location: A population of white-throated sparrows located 1.5 miles east of the Cranberry Lake Biological Station in the Adirondack Mountains of St Lawrence County, New York, was used in this study; the study site itself was approximately 1 km
40602942|Aim: We developed predictive models of coral reef fish species richness and abundance that account for both broad-scale environmental gradients and fine-scale biotic processes, such as dispersal, and we compared the importance of absolute geographical location (i.e. geographical coordinates) versus relative geographical location (i.e. distance to domain boundaries). Location: Great Barrier Reef, Australia. Methods: Four annual surveys of coral reef fishes were combined with a 0.01- resolution grid of environmental variables including depth, sea surface temperature, salinity and nutrient concentrations. A principal component-based method was developed to select candidate predictors from a large number of correlated variables. Generalized linear mixed-effects models (GLMMs) were used to gauge the respective importance of the different spatial and environmental predictors.An error covariance matrix was included in the models to account for spatial autocorrelation. Results: (1) Relative geographical descriptors, represented by distances to the coast and to the barrier reef, provided the highest-ranked single model of species richness and explained up to 36.8% of its deviance. (2) Accounting for spatial autocorrelation doubled the deviance in abundance explained to 71.9%. Sea surface temperature, salinity and nitrate concentrations were also important predictors of abundance. Spatially explicit predictions of species richness and abundance were robust to variation in the spatial scale considered during model calibration. Main conclusions: This study demonstrates that distance-to-domain boundaries (i.e. relative geographical location) can offer an ecologically relevant alternative to geographical coordinates (i.e. absolute geographical location) when predicting biodiversity patterns, providing a proxy for multivariate and complex environmental processes that are often difficult or expensive to estimate.
41239265|Aim: To analyse how important body size is for geographic variation in microscopic organisms in the marine environment and thereby determine the validity of the 'everything is everywhere' hypothesis. Location: Marine environments, globally. Methods: Studies on geographic variation in all marine eukaryotes smaller than 1 mm and all marine copepods were compiled from the literature and incorporated in multiple binomial regressions to analyse the effect of body size, lifestyle, environmental isolation and taxonomic affinity on the probability of different regions being reciprocally monophyletic. Sample size was also analysed, because a negative relationship between sample size and probability of being reciprocally monophyletic would indicate biases due to undersampling in the original studies. Separate analyses were performed for three potential types of barriers to gene flow for marine organisms (the water barrier of the middle of the oceans, the temperature barrier of the equator, and the land barrier of the continents). Results: Environmental isolation was the only variable in the best-fitting model for the probability of populations from each side of an ocean being reciprocally monophyletic. The estimated importance of body size was quite large and the lack of this variable in the best-fitting model may be a power issue due to the small sample size (n = 40). Both environmental isolation and body size were important for the probability of monophyletic populations in different hemispheres. The analysis of isolation between different oceans did not produce clear results. The relationship between sample intensity and probability of being reciprocally monophyletic was positive for the isolation between different oceans and non-existent for the two other analyses. Main conclusions: The results showed that body size was an important factor governing the potential for geographic variation but not the only important factor by far. These results clearly weaken the 'everything is everywhere' hypothesis as they showed that microscopic organisms may have geographic variation, albeit to a lesser degree than larger organisms.
41239410|Aim: To quantify general differences in reef community structure between wellenforced and poorly enforced marine protected areas (MPAs) and fished sites across the Eastern Tropical Pacific (ETP) regional seascape Location: The Pacific continental margin and oceanic islands of Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia and Ecuador, including World Heritage sites at Galapagos, Coiba, Cocos and Malpelo Methods: Densities of reef fishes, mobile and sessile invertebrates, and macroalgae were quantified using underwater visual surveys at 136 'no-take' and 54 openly fished sites associated with seven large MPAs that encompassed a range of management strategies. Spatial variation in multivariate and univariate community metrics was related to three levels of fishing pressure (high-protection MPAs, limited-protection MPAs, fishing zones) for both continental and oceanic reefs. Results: High-protection MPAs possessed a much greater biomass of higher carnivorous fishes, lower densities of asteroids and Eucidaris spp. urchins, and higher coral cover than limited-protection MPAs and fished zones. These results were generally consistent with the hypothesis that overfishing of predatory fishes within the ETP has led to increased densities of habitat-modifying macroinvertebrates, which has contributed to regional declines in coral cover. Major differences in ecological patterns were also evident between continental and oceanic biogeographic provinces. Main conclusions: Fishing down the food web, with associated trophic cascades, has occurred to a greater extent along the continental coast than off oceanic islands. Poorly enforced MPAs generate food webs more similar to those present in fished areas than in well-protected MPAs.
40205650|Aim: To present a new metric, the 'opposite and identity' (OI) index, for evaluating the correspondence between two sets of simulated time-series dynamics of an ecological variable. Innovation: The OI index is introduced and its mathematical expression is defined using vectors to denote simulated variations of an ecological variable on the basis of the vector addition rule. The value of the OI index varies from 0 to 1 with a value 0 (or 1) indicating that compared simulations are opposite (or identical). An OI index with a value near 0.5 suggests that the difference in the amplitudes of variations between compared simulations is large. The OI index can be calculated in a grid cell, for a given biome and for time-series simulations. The OI indices calculated in each grid cell can be used to map the spatial agreement between compared simulations, allowing researchers to pinpoint the extent of agreement or disagreement between two simulations. The OI indices calculated for time-series simulations allow researchers to identify the time at which one simulation differs from another. A case study demonstrates the application and reliability of the OI index for comparing two simulated time-series dynamics of terrestrial net primary productivity in Asia from 1982 to 2000. In the case study, the OI index performs better than the correlation coefficient at accurately quantifying the agreement between two simulated timeseries dynamics of terrestrial net primary productivity in Asia. Main conclusions: The OI index provides researchers with a useful tool and multiple flexible ways to compare two simulation results or to evaluate simulation results against observed spatiotemporal data. The OI index can, in some cases, quantify the agreement between compared spatiotemporal data more accurately than the correlation coefficient because of its insensitivity to influential data and outliers and the autocorrelation of simulated spatiotemporal data.
4139408|Aim Global climate change is increasingly influencing ecosystems. Long-term Effects on the species richness and composition of ecological communities have been predicted using modelling approaches but, so far, hardly demonstrated in the field. Here, we test whether changes in the composition of bird communities have been influenced by recent climate change. Location Europe. Methods We focus on the proportion of migratory and resident bird species because these groups are expected to respond differently to climatic change. We used the spatial relationship between climatic factors and bird communities in Europe to predict changes in 21 European bird communities under recent climate change. Results Observed changes corresponded significantly to predicted changes and could not be explained by the effects of spatial autocorrelation. Alternative factors such as changes in land use were tested in a first approximation as well but no effects were found. Main conclusions This study demonstrates that global climate change has already influenced the species richness and composition of European bird communities.
4139403| Aim A global meta-analysis was used to elucidate a mechanistic understanding of elevational species richness patterns of bats by examining both regional and local climatic factors, spatial constraints, sampling and interpolation. Based on these results, I propose the first climatic model for elevational gradients in species richness, and test it using preliminary bat data for two previously unexamined mountains. Location Global data set of bat species richness along elevational gradients from Old and New World mountains spanning 12.5 S to 38 N latitude. Methods Bat elevational studies were found through an extensive literature search. Use was made only of studies sampling  70% of the elevational gradient without significant sampling biases or strong anthropogenic disturbance. Undersampling and interpolation were explicitly examined with three levels of error analyses. The influence of spatial constraints was tested with a Monte Carlo simulation program, Mid-Domain Null. Preliminary bat species richness data sets for two test mountains were compiled from specimen records from 12 US museum collections. Results Equal support was found for decreasing species richness with elevation and mid-elevation peaks. Patterns were robust to substantial amounts of error, and did not appear to be a consequence of spatial constraints. Bat elevational richness patterns were related to local climatic gradients. Species richness was highest where both temperature and water availability were high, and declined as temperature and water availability decreased. Mid-elevational peaks occurred on mountains with dry, arid bases, and decreasing species richness occurred on mountains with wet, warm bases. A preliminary analysis of bat richness patterns on elevational gradients in western Peru (dry base) and the Olympic Mountains, WA (wet base), supported the predictions of the climate model. Main conclusions The relationship between species richness and combined temperature and water availability may be due to both direct (thermoregulatory constraints) and indirect (food resources) factors. Abundance was positively correlated with species richness, suggesting that bat species richness may also be related to productivity. The climatic model may be applicable to other taxonomic groups with similar ecological constraints, for instance certain bird, insect and amphibian clades. 
3697627|Aims: Extensive dieback of salt marsh dominated by the perennial grass Spartina alterniflora occurred throughout the Mississippi River deltaic plain during 2000. More than 100,000 ha were affected, with 43,000 ha severely damaged. The aim of this work was to determine if sudden dieback could have been caused by a coincident drought and to assess the significance of this event with respect to long-term changes in coastal vegetation. Location: Multiple dieback sites and reference sites were established along 150 km of shoreline in coastal Louisiana, USA. Methods: Aerial and ground surveys were conducted from June 2000 to September 2001 to assess soil conditions and plant mortality and recovery. Results: Dieback areas ranged in size from
3182693|1 Disturbances from fire, wind-throw, insects and other herbivores are, besides climate, CO
30137829|Aim: Increasing aridity over geological time-scales has driven a high degree of speciation within the Eucalyptus group in Australia. Isolation of gene pools by climatic and edaphic conditions and high rates of out-crossing have given rise to a large diversity of adaptive traits. Among these traits, adaptations of cellular biochemistry are likely to be significant in preserving cellular function during arid conditions. The aim of this study was to determine the quantitative and qualitative distribution of soluble carbohydrates and polyols in Eucalyptus. Location: Australia. Methods: We sampled 279 of the 700+ documented eucalypts (in the three genera comprising the eucalypts: Angophora Cav., Corymbia Hill & Johnson and Eucalyptus L'Hr.) and analysed leaf tissues for the occurrence of low-molecular-weight carbohydrates and polyols. Results: We have uncovered a discrete pattern in concentration of quercitol (a cyclitol) that correlates strongly with the current taxonomic classification based on both morphology and DNA sequencing. We also uncovered a further and stronger correlation between the presence of quercitol in leaf tissues and a reduced growth (mallee) form. Main conclusions: These findings, together with the chemical properties of quercitol, suggest that we have uncovered a chemical marker of structural adaptations to arid conditions, thus providing a putative, broad-scale functional link to adaptation to aridity.
40205697|Aim: To test whether the onset of spring growth in European shrublands is advanced in response to the warmer conditions projected for the next two decades by climate models, and, if there is a change, whether it differs across Europe. Location: The studied sites spanned a broad north-south European gradient with average annual temperatures (8.2-15.6 C) and precipitation (511-1427 mm). Methods: 'Bud break' was monitored in eight shrub and grass species in six European sites under control and experimentally warmer conditions generated by automatic roofs covering vegetation during the night. Results: Species responsive to increased temperatures were Vaccinium myrtillus and Empetrum nigrum in Wales, Deschampsia flexuosa in Denmark, Calluna vulgaris in Netherlands, Populus alba in Hungary and Erica multiflora in Spain. Although the acceleration of spring growth was the commonest response to warming treatments, the responses at each site were species specific and year dependent. Under experimental warming 25% of cases exhibited a significantly earlier onset of the growing season and 10% had a significantly delayed onset of vegetative growth. No geographical gradient was detected in the experimental warming effects. However, there was a trend towards a greater dominance of phenological advances with more intense the warming treatments. Above 0.8 C warming, only advancements were recorded. Main conclusions: Our results show that warmer temperatures projected for the next decades have substantial potential effects on the phenology of the spring growth of dominant species in different European shrublands, with a dominant trend towards advancements the more intense the warming is. However, our study also demonstrates the overall difficulties of applying simple predictive relationships to extrapolate the effects of global change on phenology. Various combinations of environmental factors occur concurrently at different European sites and the interactions between different drivers (e.g. water and chilling) can alter phenology significantly.
41239475|Aim: Elevated inputs of biologically reactive nitrogen (N) are considered to be one of the most substantial threats to biodiversity in terrestrial ecosystems. Several attempts have been made to scrutinize the factors driving species loss following excess N input, but generalizations across sites or vegetation types cannot yet be made. Here we focus on the relative importance of the vegetation type, the local environment (climate, soil pH, wet deposition load) and the experimentally applied (cumulative) N dose on the response of the vegetation to N addition. Location: Mainly North America and Europe. Methods: We conducted a large-scale meta-analysis of in situ N addition experiments in different vegetation types, focusing on the response of biomass and species richness. Results: Whereas the biomass of grasslands and salt marshes significantly increased with N fertilization, forest understorey vegetation, heathlands, freshwater wetlands and bogs did not show any significant response. Graminoids significantly increased in biomass following N addition, whereas bryophytes significantly lost biomass; shrubs, forbs and lichens did not significantly respond. The yearly N fertilization dose significantly influenced the biomass response of grassland and salt marshes, while for the other vegetation types none of the collected predictor variables were of significant influence. Species richness significantly decreased with N addition in grasslands and heathlands [Correction added on 23 March 2011, after first online publication: 'across all vegetation types' changed to 'in grasslands and heathlands']. The relative change in species richness following N addition was significantly driven by the cumulative N dose. Main conclusions: The decline in species richness with cumulative N input follows a negative exponential pathway. Species loss occurs faster at low levels of cumulative N input or at the beginning of the addition, followed by an increasingly slower species loss at higher cumulative N inputs. These findings lead us to stress the importance of including the cumulative effect of N additions in calculations of critical load values.
3697598| Aim: To examine the species richness of breeding birds along a local elevational gradient and to test the following assumptions of the energy limitation hypothesis: (1) the energy flux through birds is positively correlated with above-ground net primary productivity, (2) bird density is positively correlated with total energy flux, and (3) bird species richness is positively correlated with bird density. Location: An elevational gradient from 1400 to 3700 m on Mt. Yushan, the highest mountain in Taiwan (2328'30" N, 12054'00" E), with a peak of 3952 m a.s.l. Methods: We established 50 sampling stations along the elevational gradient. From March to July 1992, we estimated the density of each bird species using the variable circular-plot method. Above-ground net primary productivity was modelled using monthly averages from weather data for the years 1961-90. Results: Bird species richness had a hump-shaped relationship with elevation and with net primary productivity. Bird energy flux was positively correlated with net primary productivity and bird species richness was positively correlated with bird density. The relationship between bird density and energy flux was hump-shaped, which does not support one assumption of the energy limitation hypothesis. Main conclusions: The results supported two essential assumptions of the energy limitation hypothesis. However, when energy availability exceeded a certain level, it could decrease species richness by increasing individual energy consumption, which reduced bird density. Thus, energy availability is a primary factor influencing bird species richness at this scale, but other factors, such as body size, could also play important roles. 
3182716| Kelp rafts were surveyed during three summer traverses between Hobart and Macquarie Island (subAntarctic) to determine the potential for dispersal of kelp-associated macroinvertebrates across the latitudes of 46-53S. Rafts of Durvillaea antarctica dominated the sightings (94% of rafts) and extrapolations to the full Southern Ocean between these latitudes indicate a figure of over 70 million rafts afloat at any one time, 20 million of which support a holdfast, the habitat supporting the highest faunal diversity in attached kelp plants. In contrast, few, small rafts of Macrocystis pyrifera were observed. The potential for dispersal of fauna is presumed to be related to the species of kelp with which they are associated. Empirical studies of survival of animals while drifting at sea, and also on making land-fall, are required to allow fuller interpretation of the significance of these findings. 
40205707|Aim: Our objective was to evaluate the influence of distinct macroecological factors (space, floristics and environment) on the variation in seed dispersal strategies of shrubs and trees in the Araucaria forest biome in the southern and south-eastern Brazilian highlands. We hypothesize that history-related factors (space, floristics) are major determinants of the proportion of endo- and syn-zoochorous species in Araucaria forests, despite the current gradients in environmental conditions. Location: Araucaria forest is the main forest biome in southern Brazil, at altitudes above 500 m a.s.l. (latitude  30 S). Their northern limit in Brazil is at latitude 20 S, where forests occur at elevations above 1000 m a.s.l. Methods: We compiled information from 27 floristic checklists comprising shrub and tree species distributed along the geographical range of the Brazilian Araucaria forest biome. We classified species as zoochorous and non-zoochorous, based on morphological attributes of their diaspores. Sites were described by geographical coordinates (latitude, longitude) and five environmental variables. We evaluated separately the influence of floristic, spatial and environmental variables on zoochory using correspondence analysis and linear regressions. Further, we evaluated causal connections between these variable groups using Mantel tests and path analysis. Results: Zoochory increased with both latitude and longitude. Regression analysis showed that rainfall seasonality was the only environmental variable explaining the variation in the proportion of zoochorous species. All pairwise Mantel correlations between space, rainfall seasonality, floristics and zoochory were significant. Path analysis showed that rainfall seasonality was strongly determined by spatial distances between sites, and floristics was directly determined by rainfall seasonality. Further zoochory was mostly determined by floristics. Main conclusions: Taking into account historical factors in the interpretation of macroecological patterns improves our understanding of biodiversity gradients. Hypotheses based on long-term dynamics of distinct floristic groups provide some useful insights into patterns shown by studies elsewhere. Here we offer an analytical solution to incorporate history- related factors into macroecological analyses. While history-based hypotheses do not replace any other ideas concerning macroecological patterns, they are likely to improve our understanding on factors determining present-day ecological patterns.
3697652|The pervasive influence of island biogeography theory on forest fragmentation research has often led to a misleading conceptualization of landscapes as areas of forest/habitat and 'non-forest/non-habitat' and an overriding focus on processes within forest remnants at the expense of research in the human-modified matrix. The matrix, however, may be neither uniformly unsuitable as habitat nor serve as a fully-absorbing barrier to the dispersal of forest taxa. In this paper, we present a conceptual model that addresses how forest habitat loss and fragmentation affect biodiversity through reduction of the resource base, subdivision of populations, alterations of species interactions and disturbance regimes, modifications of microclimate and increases in the presence of invasive species and human pressures on remnants. While we acknowledge the importance of changes associated with the forest remnants themselves (e.g. decreased forest area and increased isolation of forest patches), we stress that the extent, intensity and permanence of alterations to the matrix will have an overriding influence on area and isolation effects and emphasize the potential roles of the matrix as not only a barrier but also as habitat, source and conduit. Our intention is to argue for shifting the examination of forest fragmentation effects away from a patch-based perspective focused on factors such as patch area and distance metrics to a landscape mosaic perspective that recognizes the importance of gradients in habitat conditions.
3697417|Aim: At macroecological scales, exotic species richness is frequently positively correlated with human population density. Such patterns are typically thought to arise because high human densities are associated with increased introduction effort and/or habitat modification and disturbance. Exotic and native species richness are also frequently positively correlated, although the causal mechanisms remain unclear. Energy availability frequently explains much of the variation in species richness and we test whether such species-energy relationships may influence the relationships of exotic species richness with human population density and native species richness. Location: Great Britain. Methods: We first investigate how spatial variation in the distributions of the 10 exotic bird species is related to energy availability. We then model exotic species richness using native avian species richness, human population density and energy availability as predictors. Species richness is modelled using two sets of models: one assumes independent errors and the other takes spatial correlation into account. Results: The probability of each exotic species occurring, in a 10-km quadrat, increases with energy availability. Exotic species richness is positively correlated with energy availability, human population density and native species richness in univariate tests. When taking energy availability into account, exotic species richness is negligibly influenced by human population density, but remains positively associated with native species richness. Main conclusions: We provide one of the few demonstrations that energy availability exerts a strong positive influence on exotic species richness. Within our data, the positive relationship between exotic species richness and human population density probably arises because both variables increase with energy availability, and may be independent of the influence of human density on the probability of establishment. Positive correlations between exotic and native species richness remain when controlling for the influence of energy on species richness. The relevance of such a finding to the debate on the relationship between diversity and invasibility is discussed.
3697670|Aim: Concern over the implications of climate change for biodiversity has led to the use of species-climate 'envelope' models to forecast risks of species extinctions under climate change scenarios. Recent studies have demonstrated significant variability in model projections and there remains a need to test the accuracy of models and to reduce uncertainties. Testing of models has been limited by a lack of data against which projections of future ranges can be tested. Here we provide a first test of the predictive accuracy of such models using observed species' range shifts and climate change in two periods of the recent past. Location: Britain. Methods: Observed range shifts for 116 breeding bird species in Britain between 1967 and 1972 (t
4139419| Aim We investigated geographical variation in the density of the red fox in relation to climatic variables, habitat productivity and seasonality to identify those factors that were the best predictors of fox density. Location Published data on red fox abundance were collated from 69 locations over Europe and Asia. Methods Using generalized linear models and the information-theoretic approach, we analysed the contribution of climatic measures (winter and summer temperature, mean snow depth and duration), primary productivity and seasonality indices [based on the fraction of photosynthetically active radiation (FPAR) index] to account for variation in red fox density. Results Red fox density in winter ranged from 0.001-2.8 individuals km; the average density was 0.21 individuals km. Variation in red fox density was best explained by the winter temperature and seasonality. Density decreased with declining winter and summer temperatures, increasing degree of seasonality and increasing duration of snow cover. There was no relationship with habitat productivity. Main conclusions Our results indicate that winter climatic conditions and seasonality, but not habitat productivity, may limit red fox density in Eurasia. One explanation for the limitation of the red fox population may be the fox's physiological capability to cope with abiotic conditions. Concurrently, the severity of winter may lead to reduced availability of the fox's prey. That, together with a shorter reproductive period may result in lower reproduc output as well as lower survival of adults and cubs. 
40205720|Aim: Turdus thrushes are one of the most speciose and widespread songbird genera, comprising nearly 70 species that combined have a near-global distribution. Herein, we use molecular phylogenetic, molecular clock and behavioural evidence to examine the historical biogeography of the genus. Ancestral area reconstructions in conjunction with divergence estimates and palaeoclimatogical data are used to test whether the long-standing paradigm of Beringian colonization or trans-Atlantic dispersal best explains modern distributions in the New and Old Worlds. Location: Worldwide, with emphasis on New World-Old World biotic interchange. Methods: Using a molecular phylogenetic hypothesis of Turdus thrushes, we reconstructed ancestral area relationships utilizing the five major continental or regional areas occupied by species in the genus. We also examined the evolution of behaviours on the phylogeny, and estimated the timing of major lineage divergences via a molecular clock. Results: Turdus originated in Eurasia, and following the colonization of Africa underwent a series of five trans-Atlantic sweepstake dispersals. The data reject the alternative hypothesis that connections between Old and New World Turdus species can be attributed to movement through Beringia with subsequent extinction. Divergence estimates indicate that these dispersals all occurred near the Miocene-Pliocene boundary, 5 Ma. A significant phylogenetic correlation between migratory and flocking behaviour is evident in the genus. Main conclusions: The initial divergence of Turdus in the Old World was followed by a series of trans-Atlantic sweepstake dispersal events. These dispersals are temporally correlated with a specific palaeoclimatic system, which would have facilitated transport of Turdus from the Caribbean to the Old World across the Atlantic. Uplift of the Central American Seaway 4.7 Ma effectively shut down the palaeoclimatic system, and no additional trans-Atlantic dispersals are evident in Turdus after this time. Migratory movements by ancestral lineages in flocks, rather than as single individuals, suggest an increased likelihood of successfully colonizing new areas, post-dispersal.
3697617|Aim: To examine the geographical patterns of the interception of photosynthetically active radiation by vegetation and to describe its spatial heterogeneity through the definition of ecosystem functional types (EFTs) based on the annual dynamics of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), a spectral index related to carbon gains. Location: The Iberian Peninsula. Methods: EFTs were derived from three attributes of the NDVI obtained from NOAA/AVHRR sensors: the annual integral (NDVI-I), as a surrogate of primary production, an integrative indicator of ecosystem functioning; and the intra-annual relative range (RREL) and month of maximum NDVI (MMAX), which represent key features of seasonality. Results: NDVI-I decreased south-eastwards. The highest values were observed in the Eurosiberian Region and in the highest Mediterranean ranges. Low values occurred in inner plains, river basins and in the southeast. The Eurosiberian Region and Mediterranean mountains presented the lowest RREL, while Eurosiberian peaks, river basins, inner-agricultural plains, wetlands and the southeastern part of Iberia presented the highest. Eurosiberian ecosystems showed a summer maximum of NDVI, as did high mountains, wetlands and irrigated areas in the Mediterranean Region. Mediterranean mountains had autumn-early-winter maxima, while semi-arid zones, river basins and continental plains had spring maxima. Based on the behaviour in the functional traits, 49 EFTs were defined. Main conclusions: The classification, based on only the NDVI dynamics, represents the spatial heterogeneity in ecosystem functioning by means of the interception of radiation by vegetation in the Iberian Peninsula. The patterns of the NDVI attributes may be used as a reference in evaluating the impacts of environmental changes. Iberia had a high spatial variability: except for biophysically impossible combinations (high NDVI-I and high seasonality), almost any pattern of seasonal dynamics of radiation interception was represented in the Peninsula. The approach used to define EFTs opens the possibility of monitoring and comparing ecosystem functioning through time.
2997902|1. We present a simple algorithm for reconstructing spatially explicit historical changes in croplands. We initialize our simulation with a satellite-derived characterization of present-day croplands c. 1992. This data set of croplands is then used within a simple model, along with historical cropland inventory data at the national and subnational level, to reconstruct historical crop cover. We present an annual data set of cropland areas in North America between 1850 and 1992, at a spatial resolution of 5 min ( 10 km). 2. The reconstructed changes in North American crop cover are generally consistent with qualitative descriptions of change. Crop cover is initially concentrated in the eastern portions of the continent, and subsequently migrates westward into the Midwestern United States and the Prairie Provinces of Canada. We also see cropland abandonment in the eastern portions of the continent during the 20th century. The simulation, however, fails to characterize adequately the changes in crop cover in Mexico. 3. We also estimate the extent to which the different vegetation types of North America have been cleared for cultivation We find that savannas/grasslands/steppes and forests/woodlands have undergone the most extensive conversion (1 68 and 1 40 million km
40602956|Aim: Extinction risk is non-randomly distributed across phylogeny and space and is influenced by environmental conditions. We quantified the relative contribution of these factors to extinction risk to unveil the underlying macroecological processes and derive predictive models. Location: Global. Methods: Based on the IUCN global assessments, we divided 192 carnivore species into two dichotomous classes representing different levels of extinction risk. We used spatial proximity, phylogenetic relationship and environmental variables together with phylogenetic eigenvector regression and spatial eigenvector filters to model and predict threat status. Results: Our full models explained between 57% and 96% of the variance in extinction risk. Phylogeny and spatial proximity roughly explained between 21% and 70% of the total variation in all analyses, while the explanatory power of environmental conditions was relatively weaker (up to 15%). Phylogeny and spatial proximity contributed equally to the explained variance in the lower threat level, while spatial proximity was the most important factor in the models of the higher threat level. Prediction of threat status achieved 97% correct assignments. Main conclusions: Our approach differs fundamentally from current studies of extinction risk because it does not necessarily rely on life-history information. We clearly show that instead of treating phylogenetic inertia and spatial signal as statistical nuisances, space and phylogeny should be viewed as very useful in explaining a wide range of phenomena in comparative studies.
41239348|Aim: Species specialization is often considered as a stable species characteristic over the short term. However, this assumption has hardly been tested, even though it may impair our ability to track the impoverishment of biodiversity induced by the rapid replacement of specialists by generalists. We tested whether species specialization in birds varied over a short period of time, and assessed whether variations in species specialization influence community-level metrics of biotic homogenization. Location: France. Methods: We studied the variations in specialization to habitat closure of 94 bird species over the period 2002-08, accounting for species variations in mean density, habitat preference and migratory status. We then quantified the temporal changes in a community specialization index, which measures functional homogenization. Results: Specialization decreased over time for 35 species (37%), while 46 (49%) showed non-significant negative trends and 13 (14%) had null or non-significant positive trends. The more a species was specialized at the beginning of the study, the more it generalized. We additionally found that changes in the specialization level were density dependent: 34 species (36%) became more generalist in years of higher densities while only one became more specialized. At the community level, accounting for this inter-annual variability in species specialization accentuated the trend in the functional homogenization of bird communities. Main conclusions: Habitat specialization is a labile ecological trait, which may change in the short term following habitat degradation, density dependence and source-sink dynamics. Accounting for short-term temporal variations in observed habitat specialization of species can increase our understanding of the effects of global changes on species strategies and community dynamics.
3697638|Aim: To test the prediction that deviations of species from the positive interspecific relationship between abundance and occupancy (a measure of geographical range size) are related to differences in dispersal. Location: Great Britain. Methods: Quantitative data on the abundances, occupancy and dispersal distances of British birds are compared using phylogenetic comparative methods. Results: Measures of natal and adult dispersal distance, and the intraspecific variance in these parameters, explain little variation in occupancy in addition to that accounted for by population size. Individual dispersal variables failed to explain significant variance when added individually to a model with population size as a predictor. Migrants and species using wet habitats tend to disperse further than residents and dry habitat species. Analysing these four groups separately revealed effects of dispersal only on the occupancy attained by dry habitat species. Conclusions: The only consistent predictor of occupancy in these analyses was population size.
40801923|Aim: We investigated patterns of species richness and composition of the aquatic food web found in the liquid-filled leaves of the North American purple pitcher plant, Sarracenia purpurea (Sarraceniaceae), from local to continental scales.
30137907|Aim: To analyse the fossil species assemblages of rodents and lagomorphs from the European Neogene in order to assess what factors control small mammal biogeography at a deep-time evolutionary time-scale. Location: Western Europe: 626 fossil-bearing localities located within 31 regions and distributed among 18 successive biochronological units ranging from c. 27 Ma (million years ago; Late Oligocene) to c. 3 Ma (mid Pliocene). Methods: Taxonomically homogenized pooled regional assemblages are compared using the Raup and Crick index of faunal similarity; then, the inferred similarity matrices are visualized as neighbour-joining trees and by projecting the statistically significant interregional similarities and dissimilarities onto palaeogeographical maps. The inferred biogeographical patterns are analysed and discussed in the light of known palaeogeographical and palaeoclimatic events. Results: Successive time intervals with distinct biogeographical contexts are identified. Prior to c. 18 Ma (Late Oligocene and Early Miocene), a relative faunal homogeneity (high interregional connectivity) is observed all over Europe, a time when major geographical barriers and a weak climatic gradient are known. Then, from the beginning of the Middle Miocene onwards, the biogeography is marked by a significant decrease in interregional faunal affinities which matches a drastic global climatic degradation and leads, in the Late Miocene (c. 11 Ma), to a marked latitudinal pattern of small mammal distribution. In spite of a short rehomogenization around the Miocene/Pliocene boundary (6-4 Ma), the biogeography of small mammals in the mid Pliocene (c. 3 Ma) finally closely reflects the extant situation. Main conclusions: The resulting biogeographical evolutionary scheme indicates that the extant endemic situation has deep historical roots corresponding to global tectonic and climatic events acting as primary drivers of long-term changes. The correlation of biogeographical events with climatic changes emphasizes the prevalent role of the climate over geography in generating heterogeneous biogeographical patterns at the continental scale.
3697441| Aim: Geographic variation in the species richness of birds has been shown to be strongly associated with annual water and energy levels (actual evapotranspiration, AET) at the global scale. However, the gradient in eastern North America appears to be anomalous, because richness is greatest around the Great Lakes, whereas AET is highest in the south-eastern US. Here I examine if birds may be responding to vegetation produced during the breeding season rather than to annual production. Location: North America east of longitude 98 W. Methods: The bird richness pattern was examined using climatic variables, remotely sensed estimates of annual and seasonal plant biomass, and time since areas were exposed by the retreating Laurentide ice sheet from 20,000 to 6000 yr BP. Results: Average summer GVI (Global Vegetation Index, derived from NDVI) was found to be positively linearly associated with richness, explaining 82% of the variance, whereas the relationships between richness and annual measures of both AET and GVI were curvilinear. The pattern of retreat of the Laurentide ice sheet explained an additional 6% of the variance in richness, consistent with a previous analysis of Canadian birds. Main conclusions: In eastern North America, a seasonal variable associated with plant production explains the diversity gradient rather than the annual measures, but it does not undermine a general conclusion that bird diversity is closely linked with plant biomass. Further, both contemporary and historical factors appear to influence the gradient, and an association between bird richness and the geographic pattern of glacial retreat is detectable in both climatic and plant-biomass models of bird diversity. 
3182646|Aim: To determine the empirical relationships between species richness and spatial turnover in species composition across spatial scales. These have remained little explored despite the fact that such relationships are fundamental to understanding spatial diversity patterns. Location: South-east Scotland. Methods: Defining local species richness simply as the total number of species at a finer resolution than regional species richness and spatial turnover as turnover in species identity between any two or more areas, we determined the empirical relationships between all three, and the influence of spatial scale upon them, using data on breeding bird distributions. We estimated spatial turnover using a measure independent of species richness gradients, a fundamental feature which has been neglected in theoretical studies. Results: Local species richness and spatial turnover exhibited a negative relationship, which became stronger as larger neighbourhood sizes were considered in estimating the latter. Spatial turnover and regional species richness did not show any significant relationship, suggesting that spatial species replacement occurs independently of the size of the regional species pool. Local and regional species richness only showed the expected positive relationship when the size of the local scale was relatively large in relation to the regional scale. Conclusions: Explanations for the relationships between spatial turnover and local and regional species richness can be found in the spatial patterns of species commonality, gain and loss between areas.
3697439|Aim: Theoretical work suggests that species' ecological niches should remain relatively constant over long-term ecological time periods, but empirical tests are few. We present longitudinal studies of 23 extant mammal species, modelling ecological niches and predicting geographical distributions reciprocally between the Last Glacial Maximum and present to test this evolutionary conservatism. Location: This study covered distributional shifts in mammal species across the lower 48 states of the United States. Methods: We used a machine-learning tool for modelling species' ecological niches, based on known occurrences and electronic maps summarizing ecological dimensions, to assess the ability of ecological niches as modelled in one time period to predict the geographical distribution of the species in another period, and vice versa. Results: High intertemporal predictivity between niche models and species' occurrences indicate that niche conservatism is widespread among the taxa studied, particularly when statistical power is considered as a reason for failure of reciprocal predictions. Niche projections to the present for 8 mammal taxa that became extinct at the end of the Pleistocene generally increased in area, and thus do not support the hypothesis of niche collapse as a major driving force in their extinction. Main conclusions: Ecological niches represent long-term stable constraints on the distributional potential of species; indeed, this study suggests that mammal species have tracked consistent climate profiles throughout the drastic climate change events that marked the end of the Pleistocene glaciations. Many current modelling efforts focusing on anticipating climate change effects on species' potential geographical distributions will be bolstered by this result - in essence, the first longitudinal demonstration of niche conservatism.
2665432|1 Spatial patterns of burns are described using Landsat TM images from the sub-tropical mountains of north-west Argentina, over a span of 6 degrees of latitude, and a precipitation range from 250 to 1300 mm/yr. Burns were discriminated easily from unburnt vegetation, mainly by using infrared spectral bands from images taken at the end of the fire season of 1986. 2 Nineteen sampling units were defined on the basis of geographical proximity and relatively homogeneous rainfall as inferred from topography, and they were characterized in terms of percentage of burnt area and burn size distribution during one fire season. Regression and Correspondence Analysis were used to assess the relationship between rainfall and spatial descriptors of fire regime. 3 Burnt size area was log-normally distributed with most fires in the small-size classes. Of a total of 643 burns, the five largest (more than 2000 hectares each) represented about 30% of the total burnt area. 4 Percentage of burnt area, density of burns per unit area, and skewness of the burn-size frequency distribution showed a unimodal pattern along the rainfall gradient, peaking between 700 and 900 mm/yr. Mean and maximum burn size showed a negative but weak correlation with rainfall. The first axis of a Correspondence Analysis ordination of sampling units, on the basis of different descriptors of spatial patterns of fire, was significantly correlated with the rainfall of the sampling unit. 5 The results suggest that climate is an important factor controlling fuel conditions and therefore fire regime at the spatial scale of this study, which includes different mountain ranges spanning  700 km.
40801855|Aim: Ixodes scapularis is the most important vector of human tick-borne pathogens in the United States, which include the agents of Lyme disease, human babesiosis and human anaplasmosis, among others. The density of host-seeking I. scapularis nymphs is an important component of human risk for acquiring Borrelia burgdorferiy the aetiological agent of Lyme disease. In this study we used climate and field sampling data to generate a predictive map of the density of host-seeking I. scapularis nymphs that can be used by the public, physicians and public health agencies to assist with the diagnosis and reporting of disease, and to better target disease prevention and control efforts.
40205705|Aim: We investigate the timing and factors responsible for the transformation of dosed-crown forests into lichen-spruce woodlands. Location: The study area extends between 70 and 72 W in the closed-crown forest zone from its southern limit near 47 30 N to its northern limit at the contact with the lichen-spruce woodland zone around 52 10 N.A total of 24 lichen-spruce woodlands were selected. Methods: Radiocarbon dating of charcoals at mineral soil contact and within the organic horizons allowed the principal factors causing the degradation of the closedcrown forest to be identified, i. e. light fires, successive fires and the occurrence of a spruce budworm epidemic followed by a fire. Results: Charcoals dated in the organic horizon were less than 200 years old, suggesting a recent transformation of the closed-crown forest following surface fires. Before their transformation into lichen-spruce woodlands, stands were occupied by old, dense forests that originated from fires dating back to 1000 yr BP. The radiocarbon dating of charcoals in the organic horizon indicated that several stands burned twice in less than 50 years, while others burned shortly after a spruce budworm epidemic. Light fires are frequent within the lichen-spruce woodlands according to multiple charcoal layers found within the organic matter horizon. Main conclusions: While closed-crown forests are predicted to expand under climate warming, compound disturbances diminish the natural regeneration of the closed-crown forests in the south and favour the expansion of lichen-spruce woodlands. As black spruce germinates on mineral soils, surface fires accentuate the expansion of the lichen-spruce woodlands southward. Under global warming, warmer springs will lead to earlier low-intensity fires that do not remove as much organic matter, and hence prevent conditions suitable for black spruce regeneration. Also, spruce budworm reduces seed production for a certain time. The occurrence of fire during this period is critical for regeneration of black spruce.
2665409|1 The vegetational and environmental history of the Korean Peninsula has been reconstructed by the use of both macrofossils and pollen data. These data were analysed within the time-frame between the Permian and the present day. 2 The continuous appearances of presently occurring conifers and dicotyledons since the Cretaceous indicate both the absence of catastrophic environmental changes in the past, and a degree of long-term climatic continuity. There were, however, climatic fluctuations occurring within the full time-frame considered. 3 The presence of a relatively rich flora in both the Oligocene and Miocene suggests the existence of a warm climate. The removal of the Tertiary and Quaternary conifers from the Holocene deposits and the continued survival of cryophilous conifers since the later Pleistocene may be due to climatic deterioration. 4 Overall, an analysis on the vegetational history seems to provide information for the better understanding of the present vegetation as well as providing data on environmental change in the region.
40405773|Aim: To examine the impacts of climate change on endemic birds, which are of global significance for conservation, on a continent with few such assessments. We specifically assess projected range changes in relation to the Important Bird Areas (IBAs) network and assess the possible consequences for conservation. Location: South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland. Methods: The newly emerging ensemble modelling approach is used with 50 species, four climate change models for the period 2070-2100 and eight bioclimatic niche models in the statistical package BIOMOD. Model evaluation is done using the receiver operating characteristic and the recently introduced true skill statistic. Future projections are made considering two extreme assumptions: species have full dispersal ability and species have no dispersal ability. A consensus forecast is identified using principal components analysis. This forecast is interpreted in terms of the IBA network. An irreplaceability analysis is used to highlight priority IBAs for conservation attention in terms of climate change. Results: The majority of species (62%) are predicted to lose climatically suitable space. Five species lose at least 85% of their climatically suitable space. Many IBAs lose species (41%; 47 IBAs) and show high rates of species turnover of more than 50% (77%; 95 IBAs). Highly irreplaceable regions for endemic species become highly localized under climate change, meaning that the endemic species analysed here experience similar range contractions to maintain climate niches. Main conclusions: The South African IBAs network is likely to become less effective for conserving endemic birds under climate change. The irreplaceability analysis identified key refugia for endemic species under climate change, but many of these areas are not currently IBAs. In addition, many of these high-priority areas that are IBAs fall outside the current formal protected areas network.
3697467| Aim: To describe the composition, diversity and biogeographical affinities of the foliicolous lichen mycobiota in Valdivian temperate rain forest in southern South America. Location: Seven localities in Chile (IX to XI region) and Argentina (Neuqun province). Methods: Opportunistic sampling of leaf substrates, identification of taxa, and assignment to distribution types. Results: Thirty-seven species, including three lichenicolous fungi, were found in the studied collections, increasing the number of foliicolous taxa known from Valdivian temperate rain forest to 55. New records for the area include Arthonia cyanea, Byssoloma marginatum, B. subdiscordans, Fellhanera bouteillei, F. dispersa, F. subfuscatula, Gyalectidium caucasicum, G. ciliatum, Logilvia gilva, Porina thaxteri, Strigula nitidula and the lichenicolous A. microsticta, Helicobolomyces lichenicola and Opegrapha sipmanii. Seven taxa are described as new: Enterographa falcata, Gyalectidium chilense, G. plicatum, Gyalideopsis choshuencensis, Porina fulvelloides, Strigula wandae and Trichothelium meridionale ssp. austroamericanum. Conclusions: There are unexpected floristic affinities in the foliicolous lichen mycobiota of Valdivian temperate rain forest with those of New Zealand and Tasmania. Three typically foliicolous species clearly belong to an austral element: Caprettia setifera and Badimiella pteridophila, both known previously from New Zealand and Tasmania; and Kantvilasia hians, known already from Tasmania and Valdivian temperate rain forest. Other Southern Hemisphere lichens, such as Parmeliella nigrocincta, P. thysanota and Psoroma caliginosum, are also found commonly on leaves. On the other hand, specific affinities of the foliicolous lichen mycobiota of Valdivian temperate rain forest with the Neotropics are absent: most of the species shared between the two regions belong to a cosmopolitan-tropical or a circum-pacific element. Thus far, nine taxa are endemic to Valdivia. The Valdivian temperate rain forest foliicolous lichen mycobiota is therefore regarded as one of six distinctive regions in the world. 
41058224|Aim: Geographic distributions of species are constrained by several factors acting at different scales, with climate assumed to be a major determinant at broad extents. Recent studies, however, have challenged this statement and indicated that climate may not dominate among the factors governing geographic distributions of species. Here, we argue that these results are misleading due to the lack of consideration of the geographic area that has been accessible to the species. Location: North America. Methods: We generated null distributions for 75 North American endemic and 19 non-endemic bird species. For each species, climatic envelopes of observed and null distributions were modelled using neural networks and generalized linear models, and seven climatic predictors. Values of the area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) based on models of observed distributions were compared with corresponding AUC values for the null distributions. Results: More than 82% of the endemic species showed AUC higher for the observed than for the null distributions, while 63% of the non-endemic species showed such a pattern. Main conclusions: We demonstrate a dominant climatic signal in shaping North American bird distributions. Our results attest to the importance of climate in determining species distributions and support the use of climate-envelope models for estimating potential distributional areas at the appropriate spatial scales.
2997884|In the Kalahari of Botswana, as in many other open savannas, the main ecological change following cattle-based agricultural intensification is one of grass removal and bush encroachment. Changes to vegetation communities in Kalahari rangelands have been expressed in terms of a state-and-transition model. However, there remain uncertainties as to the mechanisms and conditions for ecological change. In part, this is due to previous (inadequate) spatial and temporal scales of data collection. This paper describes the results of ongoing ecological studies in the Makoba ranches and analyses the contribution that fine-scale ground-based surveys and interpretation of Earth observation data can make to reducing uncertainties in state-and-transition models. This detailed case study provides a mechanism for evaluating the role of multi-source information for monitoring and modelling open savannas.
3182661|1 A set of 316 modern surface pollen samples, sampling all the alpine vegetation types that occur on the Tibetan Plateau, has been compiled and analysed. Between 82 and 92% of the pollen present in these samples is derived from only 28 major taxa. These 28 taxa include examples of both tree (AP) and herb (NAP) pollen types. 2 Most of the modern surface pollen samples accurately reflect the composition of the modern vegetation in the sampling region. However, airborne dust-trap pollen samples do not provide a reliable assessment of the modern vegetation. Dust-trap samples contain much higher percentages of tree pollen than non-dust-trap samples, and many of the taxa present are exotic. In the extremely windy environments of the Tibetan Plateau, contamination of dust-trap samples by long-distance transport of exotic pollen is a serious problem. 3 The most characteristic vegetation types present on the Tibetan Plateau are alpine meadows, steppe and desert. Non-arboreal pollen (NAP) therefore dominates the pollen samples in most regions. Percentages of arboreal pollen (AP) are high in samples from the southern and eastern Tibetan Plateau, where alpine forests are an important component of the vegetation. The relative importance of forest and non-forest vegetation across the Plateau clearly follows climatic gradients: forests occur on the southern and eastern margins of the Plateau, supported by the penetration of moisture-bearing airmasses associated with the Indian and Pacific summer monsoons; open, treeless vegetation is dominant in the interior and northern margins of the Plateau, far from these moisture sources. 4 The different types of non-forest vegetation are characterized by different modern pollen assemblages. Thus, alpine deserts are characterized by high percentages of Chenopodiaceae and Artemisia, with Ephedra and Nitraria. Alpine meadows are characterized by high percentages of Cyperaceae and Artemisia, with Ranunculaceae and Polygonaceae. Alpine steppe is characterized by high abundances of Artemisia, with Compositae, Cruciferae and Chenopodiaceae. Although Artemisia is a common component of all non-forest vegetation types on the Tibetan Plateau, the presence of other taxa makes it possible to discriminate between the different vegetation types. 5 The good agreement between modern vegetation and modern surface pollen samples across the Tibetan Plateau provides a measure of the reliability of using pollen data to reconstruct past vegetation patterns in non-forested areas.
40205729|Aim: To analyse the global patterns in species richness of Viperidae snakes through the deconstruction of richness into sets of species according to their distribution models, range size, body size and phylogenetic structure, and to test if environmental drivers explaining the geographical ranges of species are similar to those explaining richness patterns, something we called the extreme deconstruction principle. Location: Global. Methods: We generated a global dataset of 228 terrestrial viperid snakes, which included geographical ranges (mapped at 1 resolution, for a grid with 7331 cells world-wide), body sizes and phylogenetic relationships among species. We used logistic regression (generalized linear model; GLM) to model species geographical ranges with five environmental predictors. Sets of species richness were also generated for large and small-bodied species, for basal and derived species and for four classes of geographical range sizes. Richness patterns were also modelled against the five environmental variables through standard ordinary least squares (OLS) multiple regressions. These subsets are replications to test if environmental factors driving species geographical ranges can be directly associated with those explaining richness patterns. Results: Around 48% of the total variance in viperid richness was explained by the environmental model, but richness sets revealed different patterns across the world. The similarity between OLS coefficients and the primacy of variables across species geographical range GLMs was equal to 0.645 when analysing all viperid snakes. Thus, in general, when an environmental predictor it is important to model species geographical ranges, this predictor is also important when modelling richness, so that the extreme deconstruction principle holds. However, replicating this correlation using subsets of species within different categories in body size, range size and phylogenetic structure gave more variable results, with correlations between GLM and OLS coefficients varying from -0.46 up to 0.83. Despite this, there is a relatively high correspondence (r=0.73) between the similarity of GLM-OLS coefficients and R values of richness models, indicating that when richness is well explained by the environment, the relative importance of environmental drivers is similar in the richness OLS and its corresponding set of GLMs. Main conclusions: The deconstruction of species richness based on macroecological traits revealed that, at least for range size and phylogenetic level, the causes underlying patterns in viperid richness differ for the various sets of species. On the other hand, our analyses of extreme deconstruction using GLM for species geographical range support the idea that, if environmental drivers determine the geographical distribution of species by establishing niche boundaries, it is expected, at least in theory, that the overlap among ranges (i.e. richness) will reveal similar effects of these environmental drivers. Richness patterns may be indeed viewed as macroecological consequences of population-level processes acting on species geographical ranges.
30134097|Aim: This research aims to understand the factors that shape elevational diversity gradients and how those factors vary with spatial grain. Specifically, we test the predictions of the species-productivity hypothesis, species-temperature hypothesis, the metabolic theory of ecology and the mid-domain effects null model. We also examine how the effects of productivity and temperature on richness depend on spatial grain. Location: Deciduous forests along an elevational gradient in Great Smoky Mountains National Park, USA. Methods: We sampled 22 leaf litter ant assemblages at three spatial grains, from 1-m2 quadrats to 50 x 50 m plots using Winkler samplers. Results: Across spatial grains, warmer sites had more species than did cooler sites, and primary productivity did not predict ant species richness. We found some support for the predictions of the metabolic theory of ecology, but no support for the mid-domain effects null model. Thus, our data are best explained by some version of a species-temperature hypothesis. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that temperature indirectly affects ant species diversity across spatial grains, perhaps by limiting access to resources. Warmer sites support more species because they support more individuals, thereby reducing the probability of local extinction. Many of our results from this elevational gradient agree with studies at more global scales, suggesting that some mechanisms shaping ant diversity gradients are common across scales.
3697555|Aim: To investigate the inter-relationships between energy availability, species richness and human population density, particularly whether human population density influences the manner in which species richness responds to energy availability. Location: British 10-km grid cells. Methods: Using regressions, we investigate how human population density varies with energy availability and the nature of relationships between the numbers of species, classified by abundance and threat categories, and human population density. We then assess whether the relationships between these species richness measures and energy availability are altered when accounting for human population density. We conduct analyses using both independent error models and ones that control for spatial autocorrelation. Results: Human population density was strongly and positively correlated with energy availability. Total species richness, and that of unthreatened, threatened, common and moderately common species, increases in a positive decelerating manner with human density. When human population density was taken into account, these species groups exhibited similar species-energy relationships, but the slopes of these relationships were significantly reduced in independent error models and, in the case of total richness, in spatial models. Main conclusions: Positive correlations between human density and species richness probably arise as both increase with energy availability. Our data are compatible with the suggestion that high human population densities reduce the rate at which species richness increases with energy availability, but additional research is required before causality can be confirmed.
3697674|Aim: We explored the effects of prevalence, latitudinal range and spatial autocorrelation of species distribution patterns on the accuracy of bioclimate envelope models of butterflies. Location: Finland, northern Europe. Methods: The data of a national butterfly atlas survey (NAFI) carried out in 1991-2003 with a resolution of 10 x 10 km were used in the analyses. Generalized additive models (GAM) were constructed, for each of 98 species, to estimate the probability of occurrence as a function of climate variables. Model performance was measured using the area under the curve (AUC) of a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) plot. Observed differences in modelling accuracy among species were related to the species' geographical attributes using multivariate GAM. Results: Accuracies of the climate-butterfly models varied from low to very high (AUC values 0.59-0.99), with a mean of 0.79. The modelling performance was related negatively to the latitudinal range and prevalence, and positively to the spatial autocorrelation of the species distribution. These three factors accounted for 75.2% of the variation in the modelling accuracy. Species at the margin of their range or with low prevalence were better predicted than widespread species, and species with clumped distributions better than scattered dispersed species. Main conclusions: The results from this study indicate that species' geographical attributes highly influence the behaviour and uncertainty of species-climate models, which should be taken into account in biogeographical modelling studies and assessments of climate change impacts.
30137867|Aim We examine how two categories of non-native species (archaeophyte and neophyte, introduced before and after AD 1500, respectively) have had different impacts on  diversity across European urban floras. Our goal is to use the unique biological perspective provided by urban areas, and the contrasting historical and geographical perspectives provided by archaeophytes and neophytes, to infer how non-native species will impact upon  diversity in the future. Location Twenty-two urban areas located in seven European countries. Methods We used the -sim dissimilarity index to estimate the level of  diversity for 231 unique pair-wise combinations of 22 urban floras. We examined bivariate plots of dissimilarity by geographical separation of city centres to evaluate distance decay of similarity for native species, archaeophytes and neophytes. Results Based on average percentages, 52.8% (SD = 8.2%) of species in the urban floras were identified as non-native with 28.3% (SD = 6.9%) classified as neophytes and 24.5% (SD = 4.9%) as archaeophytes. Relative to native species, across urban floras, archaeophytes were associated with higher compositional similarity and weaker distance decay patterns, whereas neophytes were associated with lower compositional similarity and stronger distance decay patterns. Main conclusions Across European urban floras, archaeophytes and neophytes occurred in similar numbers but archaeophytes were consistently associated with lower  diversity and neophytes with higher  diversity. Thus, the impact of non-native species on  diversity can be determined, at least in part, through their historical and geographical associations with anthropogenic activities. If archaeophytes represent the long-term biogeographical outcome for human commensal species, neophytes could develop similar patterns. The consequences, however, are likely to be more substantial ecologically and geographically due to the increasing numbers of neophytes and their global anthropogenic associations. Nevertheless, at present, our findings suggest that, based on occurrence information, neophytes have not achieved this state with European urban floras retaining regionally distinct assemblages of neophytes.
40602940|Aim: We evaluate characteristics of species ranges (i.e. coherence, species turnover and range boundary clumping) to determine the structure of bat metacommunities and metaensembles from Caribbean islands. We evaluate the effects of endemic species on that structure, and quantify associations between island characteristics and latent environmental gradients that structure these metacommunities and metaensembles. Location: Sixty-five Caribbean islands throughout the Bahamas, Greater Antilles and Lesser Antilles. Methods: Metacommunity structure is an emergent property of a set of ecological communities at different sites defined by species distributions across geographic or environmental gradients. We analysed elements of metacommunity structure (coherence, range turnover and range boundary clumping) to determine the bestfit pattern for metacommunities from all Caribbean islands, as well as from the Bahamas, the Greater Antilles and the Lesser Antilles separately. For each island group, analyses were conducted for all bats and for each of two broadly defined guilds (i.e. carnivores and herbivores). In addition, analyses were conducted for all species and for a subset in which endemic species were removed from the fauna.Spearman rank correlations identified island characteristics (area, elevation, latitude, longitude) that were associated significantly with island scores for ordination axes based on reciprocal averaging. Results: Metacommunity structure for all bats and for carnivores was similar for each island group, with Clementsian distributions (i.e. discrete communities with groups of species replacing other groups of species along the gradient) for all islands, the Bahamas and the Lesser Antilles, but with nested distributions for the Greater Antilles. Herbivore distributions were random for the Bahamas, but were Clementsian for all other island groups. Removal of endemic species affected the best-fit model of metacommunity structure in only 3 of 12 cases. In general, ordination scores for islands were correlated with longitude or latitude, but not with island area or elevation. Main conclusions: Characteristics of bat species ranges and associated metacommunity structure were primarily dependent on the number and geographic arrangement of primary sources of colonization, and not on interspecific interactions, species-specific levels of environmental tolerance, or the physical characteristics of islands. Endemic species did not greatly affect metacommunity structure in Caribbean bats.
3697481|Aim: We investigated the patterns of body-size changes of the north-western Mediterranean Plio-Pleistocene large mammal faunas (excluding rodents, bats, lagomorphs and insectivores) in order to identify the tempo and mode of the major shifts in body size distribution, and to put them in the context of Plio-Pleistocene environmental changes and the development of the Mediterranean climate. Location: We analysed fossil faunas of Spain, France and Italy. A set of recent regional faunas from several macroclimatic regions was selected to serve as elements for comparison of the size distribution of past faunas, consisting of: Spain, France and Italy together, Florida, California, Central Chile, Indochina, India, Korea-Manchuria, Malawi, The Cape, North Africa, Turkey and Australia. Methods: Mammal species were grouped into five body size categories for carnivores and four categories for noncarnivore species. The number of species in each size category was computed and the resulting matrix of body weight classes x regions and time intervals was used as an input matrix in a Correspondence Analysis. Results: Recent and fossil faunas strongly differ in body size structure. The distribution of recent faunas within the CA seems to reflect both ecological and historic factors, intertwined in a complex fashion. No clear relationship has been observed between body size structure and environmental factors. During the late Pliocene to early Pleistocene there were only minor changes in the pattern of size distribution, although plant communities were in a transition process from subtropical forests to Mediterranean woodlands and steppes. The major change in body size structure of the north-western Mediterranean fauna occurred at the Galerian, around 1 Ma ago. This marked the beginning of the modern fauna, and a general trend towards a larger body size, reduction in the number of medium sized herbivores, and an increase of large herbivores and megaherbivores. Main conclusions: The Plio-Pleistocene faunas lack modern analogues. The body size structure of mammalian regional faunas appears to be strongly dependent on historical factors. The only major shift in body size distribution occurred during the Plio-Pleistocene, in the late Villafranchian-Galerian transition, coincident with the onset of the Pleistocene high intensity glacial cycles.
40405782|Aim We wanted to test whether urbanization has similar effects on biodiversity in different locations, comparing the responses of ground beetle (Coleoptera, Carabidae) assemblages with an urbanization gradient. We also wanted to see if urbanization had a homogenizing effect on ground beetle assemblages. Locations Nine forested temperate locations in Europe, Canada and Japan. Methods Published results of the Globenet Project were used. At all locations, three stages were identified: (1) a forested (rural) area, (2) a suburban area where the original forest was fragmented and isolated, and (3) remnants of the original forest in urban parks. These habitats formed an urbanization series. Study arrangements (number and operation of traps) and methods (pitfall trapping) were identical, conforming to the Globenet protocol. Assemblage composition and diversity patterns were evaluated. Diversity relationships were analysed by the Rnyi diversity ordering method considering all ground beetles and - separately - the forest specialist species. Taxonomic homogenization was examined by multivariate methods using assemblage similarities.Results Overall biodiversity (compared by species richness and diversity ordering)showed nconsistent trends by either urbanization intensity or by geographic position. However, when only forest species were compared, diversity was higher in the original rural (forested) areas than in urban forest fragments. Within-country similarities of carabid assemblages were always higher than within-urbanization stage similarities. Main conclusions Urbanization does not appear to cause a decrease in ground beetle diversity per se. Forest species decline as urbanization intensifies but this trend is masked by an influx of non-forest species. The rural faunas were more similar to the urban ones within the same location than similar urbanization stages were to each other, indicating that urbanization did not homogenize the taxonomic composition of ground beetle faunas across the studied locations.
41239481|Aim: The causes of geographical variation in species richness in clades that do not follow the latitudinal diversity gradient have rarely been investigated. Here, we examine spatial asymmetries of diversity in Gladiolus (Iridaceae), a large genus (> 260 species) that is present in two mediterranean climate biomes: the Cape of southern Africa (106 species) and the Mediterranean Basin (7 species). Despite convergence of climatic conditions between the two regions, the species density of Gladiolus is over one order of magnitude higher in the Cape than in the Mediterranean Basin. We investigate whether the diversity disparities observed in the genus are better explained by recent colonization of species-poor areas (temporal hypothesis) or by differential rates of diversification (evolutionary hypothesis). Location: Africa, Madagascar and Eurasia Methods: We employ a recently developed Bayesian method for the estimation of diversification rates and a biogeographical optimization approach within a phylogenetic framework. Results: In Gladiolus, the ' diversity anomaly' between the two Mediterranean climate regions cannot be explained solely by the time available for speciation in the Cape, but is also due to locally reduced rates of diversification in the Mediterranean Basin. Furthermore, high overall diversity in southern Africa stems from an ancient origin in the Cape allied with high rates of diversification in the summer-rainfall region of the subcontinent. Main conclusions: Both evolutionary and temporal hypotheses must be taken into account in order to explain the diversity anomaly between the Mediterranean Basin and the Cape. Our results suggest that regions at comparable latitudes and/or with similar climate may not converge in diversity levels due to heterogeneity of diversification rates and contrasting biogeographical histories.
3697527|Aims: For the crustacean class Branchiopoda, we estimated global species richness, assessed the reliability of relative diversity estimates among higher taxa and made predictions about the kinds of species remaining to be described. Location: Global. Methods: We calculated correction factors to account for three different sources of diversity underestimation, analysed taxonomic patterns of species descriptions over time and tested possible correlates of description date. Results: Our work suggests that there are c. 2.1 times more branchiopod species in nature than the c. 1180 currently described. The largest correction factor was at the scale of single biogeographical regions, mainly attributed to poor knowledge of species diversity within described morphospecies. Relative diversity estimates among major taxonomic groups are apparently quite reliable, with diversity differences greater than 1.5-fold robust to the heterogeneity of the taxonomic process. Current knowledge of branchiopod diversity is biased towards species with large geographical ranges, whereas body size and higher taxonomic group were only weak predictors of description date. Main conclusions: A proper understanding of species boundaries in nature, which is greatly aided by molecular studies, is key in accurately estimating species richness for invertebrate groups. However, we suggest that while many species remain to be described, numbers of presently described species are still useful for macroevolutionary studies of diversification when interpreted with caution.
30137891|Aim: Spatial floristic and faunistic data bases promote the investigation of biogeographical gradients in relation to environmental determinants on regional to continental scales. Our aim was to extract major gradients in the distribution of vascular plant species from a grid-based inventory (the German FLORKART data base) and relate them to long-term precipitation and temperature records as well as soil conditions. We present an ordination technique capable of coping with this complex data array. The goal was also to sort out the influence of spatial autocorrelation, assuming floristic autocorrelation is anisotropic. Location: Germany, at a spatial resolution of 6' x 10'. Methods: Isometric feature mapping (Isomap) was applied as a nonlinear ordination method. Isomap was coupled to 'eigenvector-based filters' for generating spatial reference models representing spatial autocorrelation. What is novel here is that the derived filters are not based on the assumption of equidirectional autocorrelation. Instead, the so-called 'principal coordinates of anisotropic neighbour matrices' build filters to test the influence of geographical vicinity in directions of high similarity among observations. Results: The Isomap ordination of floristic data explained more than 95% of the data variance in six dimensions. The leading two dimensions (representing about 80% of the FLORKART data variance) revealed clear spatial gradients that could be related to independent effects of temperature, precipitation and soil observations. By contrast, the third and higher FLORKART dimensions were dominated by an antagonism of anisotropic spatial autocorrelation and soil conditions. A subsequent cluster analysis of the floristic Isomap coordinates educed the spatial organization of the floristic survey, indicating a considerable sampling bias. Conclusions: We showed that Isomap provides a consistent methodical framework for both ordination and derived spatial filters. The technique is useful for tracing the often nonlinear features of species occurrence data to environmental drivers, taking into account anisotropic spatial autocorrelation. We also showed that sampling biases are a conspicuous source of variance in a frequently used floristic data base.
3697672|Aim: To produce a statistical stratification of the European environment, suitable for stratified random sampling of ecological resources, the selection of sites for representative studies across the continent, and to provide strata for modelling exercises and reporting. Location: A 'Greater European Window' with the following boundaries:
4139424|Aim To examine how parameters of the species-area curve and factors determining bird species richness are affected by seasonality. Location One hundred and thirty urban parks of the city of Valencia (Spain) ranging between 0.03 and 18.6 ha. Methods Bird censuses were conducted monthly during 1998 and 2004. For each park, 27 variables were recorded as measures of size, structure and isolation. Linear regression was used to test for patterns in species richness relative to independent variables. The results of each season were compared. Results Curves corresponding to the breeding period (spring-summer) had significantly higher intercepts, but slopes did not change across seasons. Turnover rates of resident species were dependent on patch size and isolation considering spring, but not autumn, from different years. Additionally, turnover rates in spring were lower in parks in close proximity to others than in isolated ones. In all seasons, the number of bird species showed a strong relationship with park area, which explained c. 60% of the variation in species numbers. Habitat variables and park isolation explained a small amount of the variation in species numbers. The data did not give support to the random placement hypothesis. Main conclusions The overall conclusions of this study give little support to the possible influence of seasonality on species-area relationship or on the three main hypotheses explaining it. This lack of influence of seasonality could be explained by the seasonal stability of the bird populations of the parks within the study area as a consequence of different factors, mainly the characteristics of the species pool, similarity in the features of the parks irrespective of their size, and stability of resources and conditions across seasons. The question of whether this lack of influence of seasonality on the species-area relationship occurs in those ecological systems that have a larger seasonal variation than the urban parks of the study area remains unresolved. Closer examination of the seasonal patterns reported in this study is likely to be useful in increasing our understanding of the species-area relationship.
3697494|Aim: To explore the variation in species richness along a subtropical elevation gradient, and evaluate how climatic variables explain the richness of the different life forms such as trees, shrubs, climbers, herbs and ferns. Location: The study was made in a subtropical to warm temperate region in the south-eastern part of Nepal, between 100 and 1500 m above sea level (a.s.l.). Methods: The number of species was counted in six plots (50 x 20 m) in each of the 15 100 m elevation bands covering the main physiognomic structures along an imaginary transect. Each species recorded was assigned to a life form. Potential evapotranspiration (PET, i.e. energy), mean annual rainfall (MAR), and their ratio (MI = moisture index) were evaluated as explanatory variables by means of generalized linear models (GLM). Each variable was tested individually, and in addition MAR and PET were used to test the water-energy dynamics model for each life form. Results: The richness of herbaceous species, including herbaceous climbers, was unrelated to any of the climate variables. PET was strongly negatively correlated with elevation, and the following relationships were found between increasing PET and richness: (i) shrubs, trees and total species (sum of all life forms) showed unimodal responses (ii) ferns decreased monotonically, and (iii) woody climbers increased monotonically. Richness of all woody groups increased monotonically with MAR and MI. The water-energy dynamics model explained 63% of the variation in shrubs, 67% for trees and 70% for woody species combined. Main conclusions: For the various herbaceous life forms (forbs, grasses, and herbaceous climbers) we found no significant statistical trends, whereas for woody life forms (trees, shrubs, and woody climbers) significant relationships were found with climate. E.M. O'Brien's macro-scale model based on water-energy dynamics was found to explain woody species richness at a finer scale along this elevational-climatic gradient.
40405789|Aims Tests of the energy hypothesis for the large-scale distribution of species richness have largely been concerned with the influence of two alternative forms of environmental energy, temperature and energy from primary productivity, both of which (at least in terrestrial systems) peak within the tropics. Taxa showing extratropical diversity peaks present a potential challenge to the generality of speciesenergy theory. One such group are pelagic seabirds of the order Procellariiformes that show not only an extra-tropical diversity peak but one confined to the Southern Ocean, hence a highly asymmetric one. They are distinct in being exceptionally adapted to take advantage of wind energy, which they may rely on for long-distance ocean foraging for the patchy resources needed to meet their energetic needs. Wind represents a readily available source of kinetic energy, shows a strong latitudinal gradient, and has been largely omitted from species-energy theory. Moreover, maximal benefits of wind are likely to be afforded in areas of greatest available contiguous ocean extent. We compare the relative importance of wind speed, ocean productivity (chlorophyll concentration), air temperature and available ocean extent (distance) in explaining large-scale global distribution of procellariiform species richness across the world's oceans. Location Global, oceanic. Methods Hierarchical partitioning, model selection, ordinary least squares (OLS) and spatial generalized least squares (GLS) regression. Results Hierarchical partitioning of non-spatial regression models indicates that ocean distance is the most important predictor of procellariiform species richness followed by wind speed and then temperature. In contrast, that of spatial regression models indicates the roughly equal importance of ocean distance and temperature, followed by wind speed. Although contributing additional model fit, ocean productivity is consistently the weakest predictor. Best-fit models include all four predictors and explain 67% of observed variation. The species-productivity relationship is negative overall, while the species-temperature relationship is humpshaped. In contrast, ocean distance and wind speed are positively associated with species richness. Conclusions Large-scale procellariiform species richness distribution may represent a trade-off in the use of different energy forms, being highest in Southern Ocean areas where productive energy and temperature are relatively low, but where available ocean foraging extent and wind energy required to utilize it are near-maximal.
41239407|Aim: To identify connectivity patterns among coral reefs of the Indo-West Pacific. Projecting connectivity forward in time provides a framework for studying longterm source-sink dynamics in the region, and makes it possible to evaluate the manner in which migration shapes population genetic structure at regional scales. This information is essential for addressing critical gaps in knowledge for conservation planning efforts in one of the most biologically diverse regions on earth. Location: Coral reefs of the Indo-West Pacific, ranging from 15 S to 30 N and 95 E to 140 E. Methods: Individual-based biophysical dispersal models were used in conjunction with matrix projection to identify the expected patterns of exchange between coral reefs over time. Results: Present-day oceanographie conditions lead to the transport of larvae from the South China Sea into the Coral Triangle region via the Sulu Sea, and from northern Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands via Halmahera. The directionality of the system leads to the expected accumulation of organisms from outlying areas into the Coral Triangle region over time, particularly in the vicinity of the Maluku Islands and eastern Sulawesi. Coral reefs in Papua New Guinea, the Sulu Archipelago and areas within the Philippines are expected to be areas of high diversity as well. Main conclusions: Biophysical dispersal models, used in conjunction with matrix projection, provide an effective means of simulating connectivity structure across the Indo-West Pacific and thereby evaluating the directionality of genetic diversity. Migration appears to have a significant influence on population genetic structure in the region. Based on present-day ocean currents, coral reefs in the South China Sea, northern Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands are contributing to high levels of diversity in the Coral Triangle.
3697654|Aim: Predictive models of species occurrence have potential for prioritizing areas for competing land uses. Before widespread application, however, it is necessary to evaluate performance using independent data and effective accuracy measures. The objectives of this study were to (1) compare the effects of species occurrence rate on model accuracy, (2) assess the effects of spatial and temporal variation in occurrence rate on model accuracy, and (3) determine if the number of predictor variables affected model accuracy. Location: We predicted the distributions of breeding birds in three adjacent mountain ranges in the Great Basin (Nevada, USA). Methods: For each of 18 species, we developed separate models using five different data sets - one set for each of 2 years (to address the effects of temporal variation), and one set for each of three possible pairs of mountain ranges (to address the effects of spatial variation). We evaluated each model with an independent data set using four accuracy measures: discrimination ability [area under a receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC)], correct classification rate (CCR), proportion of presences correctly classified (sensitivity), and proportion of absences correctly classified (specificity). Results: Discrimination ability was not affected by occurrence rate, whereas the other three accuracy measures were significantly affected. CCR, sensitivity and specificity were affected by species occurrence rate in the evaluation data sets to a greater extent than in the model-building data sets. Discrimination ability was the only accuracy measure affected by the number of variables in a model. Main conclusions: Temporal variation in species occurrence appeared to have a greater impact than did spatial variation. When temporal variation in species distributions is great, the relative costs of omission and commission errors should be assessed and long-term census data should be examined before using predictive models of occurrence in a management setting.
4139441| Aim The biodiversity of geometrid moths (Lepidoptera) along a complete tropical elevational gradient was studied for the first time. The patterns are described, and the role of geometric constraints and environmental factors is explored. Location The study was carried out along the Barva Transect (10 N, 84 W), a complete elevational gradient ranging from 40 to 2730 m a.s.l. in Braulio Carrillo National Park, Costa Rica, and adjacent areas. Methods Moths were sampled manually in 2003 and 2004 at 12 rain forest sites using light 'towers', each with two 15 W ultraviolet fluorescent tubes. We used abundance-based rarefaction, statistical estimation of true richness (Chao 1), geographically interpolated observed richness and Fisher's alpha as measures of local diversity. Results A total of 13,765 specimens representing 739 species were analysed. All four measures showed a hump-shaped pattern with maxima between 500 and 2100 m elevation. The two subfamilies showed richness and diversity maxima at either lower (Ennominae) or higher (Larentiinae) elevation than Geometridae as a whole. Among the four environmental factors tested, relative humidity yielded the highest correlation over the transect with the rarefaction-based richness estimates as well as with estimated true species richness of Geometridae as a whole and of Larentiinae, while rainfall explained the greatest variation of Ennominae richness. The elevational pattern of moth richness was discordant with both temperature and with tree species richness. A combination of all environmental factors in a stepwise multiple regression produced high values of r in Geometridae. The potential effects of geometric constraints (mid-domain effect, MDE) were investigated by comparing them with observed, interpolated richness. Overall, models fitted very well for Geometridae as a whole and for Ennominae, but less well for Larentiinae. Small-ranged species showed stronger deviations from model predictions than large-ranged species, and differed strikingly between the two subfamilies, suggesting that environmental factors play a more pronounced role for small-ranged species. We hypothesize that small-ranged species (at least of the Ennominae) may tend to be host specialists, whereas large-ranged species tend to be polyphagous. Based on interpolated ranges, mean elevational range for these moths was larger with increasing elevation, in accordance with Rapoport's elevational rule, although sampling effects may have exaggerated this pattern. The underlying mechanism remains unknown because Rapoport's 'rescue' hypothesis could not explain the observed pattern. Conclusions The results clearly show that moth diversity shows a hump-shaped pattern. However, remarkable variation exists with regard to taxon and range size. Both environmental and geometric factors are likely to contribute to the observed patterns. 
3697645| Aim: Waterbirds may play an important role in the maintenance of aquatic ecosystem biodiversity by transporting plants and invertebrate propagules between different wetlands. The aim of this study is to provide the first quantitative analysis of the transport of plant and animal propagules by a community of waterbirds. Location: Doana marshes in south-west Spain. Methods: We quantified the number of intact seeds and invertebrate eggs in 386 faecal samples from 11 migratory waterfowl species (10 ducks and coot), collected from 3 November to 3 December 1998 (when birds were arriving from further north), and 22-25 February 1999 (when birds were leaving Doana). Results: Intact seeds of at least 7 plant genera, and invertebrate eggs (ephippia of at least 2 Crustacea, statoblasts of at least 2 bryozoans and eggs of Corixidae) occurred in 65.6% of the faecal samples in early winter and 67.8% in late winter. Main conclusions: The abundance of different propagule types varied between waterfowl species in a seasonal and species specific manner, probably owing to differences in foraging strategies, bill and gut morphology, and seasonal shifts in propagule availability or distribution. Lamellar density was positively correlated with the abundance of intact propagules. Our results confirm that waterfowl play an important role in the dispersal of organisms in aquatic environments by internal transport. Wherever there is a propagule bank accessible to waterbirds, transport can occur even when propagule production and waterfowl movements do not overlap in time. 
40205737|Aim: Climate change may cause loss of genetic diversity. Here we explore how a multidisciplinary approach can be used to infer effects of past climate change on species distribution and genetic diversity and also to predict loss of diversity due to future climate change. We use the arctic-alpine plant Salix herbacea L. as a model. Location: Europe, Greenland and eastern North America. Methods: We analysed 399 samples from 41 populations for amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) to identify current patterns of genetic structure and diversity and likely historical dispersal routes. Macrofossil records were compiled to infer past distribution, and species distribution models were used to predict the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) and future distribution of climatically suitable areas. Results: We found strong genetic differentiation between the populations from Europe/East Greenland and those from Canada/West Greenland, indicating a split probably predating the LGM. Much less differentiation was observed among the four genetic groups identified in Europe, and diversity was high in the Scandinavian as well as in southern alpine populations. Continuous distribution in Central Europe during the last glaciation was inferred based on the fossil records and distribution modelling. A46-57% reduction in suitable areas was predicted in 2080 compared to present. However, mainly southern alpine populations may go extinct, causing a loss of about 5% of the genetic diversity in the species. Main conclusions: From a continuous range in Central Europe during the last glaciation, northward colonization probably occurred as a broad front maintaining diversity as the climate warmed. This explains why potential extinction of southern populations by 2080 will cause a comparatively low loss of the genetic diversity in S. herbacea. For other species with different glacial histories, however, the expected climate-change induced regional extinction may cause a more severe loss of genetic diversity. We conclude that our multidisciplinary approach may be a useful tool for assessing impact of climate change on loss of genetic diversity.
3697561| Aim: To locate glacial refugia of thermophilous plant species in Spain. Location: Two south-eastern Spanish Neanderthal man sites in Murcia; namely, the inland Cueva Negra del Estrecho del Ro Qupar and the coastal Sima de las Palomas del Cabezo Gordo. Methods: We use pollen found in cave sediments as a source of palaeobotanical and palaeoecological information. The findings are discussed with regard both to animal remains from both sites, and also to other refugia in south-eastern Spain and elsewhere in the Iberian Peninsula. Results: Both sequences show persistence of abundant mesothermophilous trees during the last glacial stage, suggesting both localities were reservoirs of phytodiversity and woodland species. At both sites, deciduous and evergreen oaks are the most abundant components, followed by a wide variety of deciduous trees and sclerophyllous shrubs, including Ibero-North African xerothermic scrub near the coast. Conclusions: Incomplete information underlies a common misapprehension that Iberian glacial refugia were confined to southernmost parts of the peninsula. A rather different picture of Quaternary refugia emerges from consideration of pollen sequences from caves (and other inputs such as macroscopic charcoal, spatial genetic structure of present-day populations, faunal remains, and present-day distribution of thermophilous species). This picture offers a view of numerous viable areas for woodland species in southern Spain, in addition to others in the mountain ranges, both in continental central Spain and those of northern Spain: these stretch from the Mediterranean coast of Catalonia to the westernmost extent of the Bay of Biscay. 
3697586|Aim: For a large set of forest herbs we tested: (1) whether there is a positive relationship between local abundance and geographical range size; (2) whether abundance or range size are affected by the niche breadths of species or niche availability; and (3) whether these are affected by the species life-history traits. Location: Northwestern Germany. Methods: We measured abundance as mean density in 22 base-rich deciduous forests and recorded range size as area of occupancy on four different spatial scales (local to national). Niche breadth was expressed in terms of habitat specificity (specialists, generalists) and of the ability to grow across a broad range of soil pH. The species' pH niche position was used as a measure of the importance of habitat availability. As life-history traits we used diaspore mass and number, plant height, seed longevity, lifespan/clonality, pollination mode, dispersal capability and flowering time. Results: There were mainly no positive relationships between the abundance of species and their range size, as tested across species and across phylogenetically independent contrasts. Forest specialists were generally distributed less widely than generalists, but habitat specificity was not related to local abundance. Species with a broader pH niche breadth were more common, but the positive relationships between niche breadth and abundance or range size disappeared when accounting for sample size effects. Clonal species with few and heavy diaspores were most abundant, as well as early-flowering species and those lacking dispersal structures. Local and regional range size were determined largely by habitat availability, while national range was positively affected by plant height and diaspore mass. Main conclusions: Different processes determine the local density of species and their range size. Abundance within habitat patches appears to be related mainly to the species life histories, especially to their capacity for extensive clonal reproduction, whereas range size appears to be determined strongly by the availability of suitable habitat.
3697587|Aim: Most deciduous species of dry monsoon forests in Thailand and India form new leaves 1-2 months before the first monsoon rains, during the hottest and driest part of the year around the spring equinox. Here we identify the proximate causes of this characteristic and counterintuitive 'spring-flushing' of monsoon forest trees. Location: Trees of 20 species were observed in semi-deciduous dry monsoon forests of northern Thailand with a 5-6-month-long severe dry season and annual rainfall of 800-1500 mm. They were growing on dry ridges (dipterocarp-oak forest) or in moist gullies (mixed deciduous-evergreen forest) at 680-750 m altitude near Chiang Mai and in a dry lowland stand of Shorea siamensis in Uthai Thani province. Methods: Two novel methods were developed to analyse temporal and spatial variation in vegetative dry-season phenology indicative of differences in root access to subsoil water reserves. Results: Evergreen and leaf exchanging species at cool, moist sites leafed soon after partial leaf shedding in January-February. Drought-resistant dipterocarp species were evergreen at moist sites, deciduous at dry sites, and trees leafed soon after leaf shedding whenever subsoil water was available. Synchronous spring flushing of deciduous species around the spring equinox, as induced by increasing daylength, was common in Thailand's dipterocarp-oak forest and appears to be prevalent in Indian dry monsoon forests of the Deccan peninsula with its deep, water-storing soils. Main conclusions: In all observed species leafing during the dry season relied on subsoil water reserves, which buffer trees against prolonged climatic drought. Implicitly, rainfall periodicity, i.e. climate, is not the principal determinant of vegetative tree phenology. The establishment of new foliage before the summer rains is likely to optimize photosynthetic gain in dry monsoon forests with a relatively short, wet growing season.
3182647|Aim: This study makes quantitative global estimates of land suitability for cultivation based on climate and soil constraints. It evaluates further the sensitivity of croplands to any possible changes in climate and atmospheric CO
3877782|Aim: Elevation and climate ranges across latitude experienced by 21 wide-ranging mammal species in western North America were summarized to examine two questions: (1) do populations in the northern and southern portions of a species' range experience different climates or are environments selected to remain similar to climates at the core of ranges; and (2) how do species' elevational ranges, experienced temperature seasonality and temperature ranges change across latitude? Given the larger effects of climate oscillations in the north vs. the south, a predicted outcome is for species to conserve climate niches across latitude and to show reduced climate and elevation ranges in the north. An alternative outcome is latitudinal niche diversification and increased climate variation in the north. Location: Western North America. Methods: The questions above were examined using a combination of species occurrence data bases, climate data bases, simple summaries of means and standard deviations and by testing summaries against random distributions across latitude for 21 mammal species from a variety of orders. Results: The results showed that: (i) most species conserve their niche strongly or weakly given overall temperature gradients from north to south; (ii) seasonality experienced by species is relatively static until the highest latitudes despite directional trends across the region; and (iii) the elevation range and temperature variation that species experience decreases from south to north. Main conclusions: Populations at range edges appear to partition environments to remain closer to temperature values similar to those at the core of the range. In addition, seasonality is not a likely explanatory factor of genetic diversity in latitudinal gradients. The data are instead more consistent with predictions that a combination of higher gene-flow, increasing environmental instability and decreasing elevation gradients in the north compared to the south may lead to negative correlations between latitude and species' climate variation. The results corroborate risks faced by northern mammal populations to global climate changes.
41239480|Aim: Elevational gradients offer an outstanding opportunity to assess factors determining patterns of species richness, but along single transects potential explanatory factors often covary, making it difficult to distinguish between competing hypotheses. Many previous studies on plants have interpreted their results as supporting the mid-domain effect (MDE) as a major determinant of species richness, even when climatic factors showed similarly high explanatory power. We compared fern species richness along 20 elevational transects to quantify the relative contribution of climate and MDE as drivers of elevational richness patterns. Location: Twenty transects world-wide. Methods: Ferns were sampled in 1039 plots of 400-2500 m each. Mean annual precipitation and temperature, epiphytic bryophyte cover (as a proxy for air humidity) and MDE predictions were included as independent variables. For each transect, we calculated multiple linear models and partitioned the variance to assess the relative contribution of the independent variables, selecting the most parsimonious models based on Akaike weights and multi-model inference. Results: Along most individual gradients, nearly all variance of fern species richness that could be attributed to either space or MDEs was collinear with climatic factors. Yet, the comparison across transects showed that elevational richness patterns are most parsimoniously accounted for by climatic conditions, especially by low water availability at low elevations and in dry regions in general, and by low temperatures at high elevations and in extra-tropical regions. Main conclusions: Fern species richness is most closely related to climatic factors, and while MDE, surface area and metapopulation processes may somewhat modify the patterns, their importance has been overstated in the past. Future research challenges include determining whether the richness-climate relationship reflects: (1) a direct relationship through the physiological tolerance of the plants, (2) an indirect influence of climate on ecosystem productivity, or (3) an evolutionary legacy of longer or faster diversification processes under certain climatic conditions.
30137906|Aim: The latitudinal diversity gradient, in which taxonomic richness is greatest at low latitudes and declines towards the poles, is a pervasive feature of the biota through geological time. This study utilizes fossil data to examine how the latitudinal diversity gradient and associated spatial patterns covaried through the major climate shifts at the onset and end of the late Palaeozoic ice age. Location: Data were acquired from fossil localities from around the world. Methods: Latitudinal patterns of diversity, mean geographical range size and macroevolutionary rates were constructed from a literature-derived data base of occurrences of fossil brachiopod genera in space and time. The literature search resulted in a total of 18,596 occurrences for 991 genera from 2320 localities. Results: Climate changes associated with the onset of the late Palaeozoic ice age (c. 327 Ma) altered the biogeographical structure of the brachiopod fauna by the preferential elimination of narrowly distributed, largely tropical genera when glaciation began. Because the oceans were left populated primarily with widespread genera, the slope of the diversity gradient became gentle at this time, and the gradient of average latitudinal range size weakened. In addition, because narrowly distributed genera had intrinsically high rates of origination and extinction, the gradients of both of these macroevolutionary rates were also reduced. These patterns were reversed when the ice age climate abated in early Permian time (c. 290 Ma): narrowly distributed genera rediversified at low latitudes, restoring steep gradients of diversity, average latitudinal range size and macroevolutionary rates. Main conclusions: During late Palaeozoic time, these latitudinal gradients for brachiopods may have been linked by the increased magnitude of seasonality during the late Palaeozoic ice age. Pronounced seasonality would have prevented the existence of genera with narrow latitudinal ranges. These results for the late Palaeozoic ice age suggest a climatic basis for the present-day latitudinal diversity gradient.
40205654|Aim: To determine how well variation in median body size of avian assemblages is predicted by (1) the environmental models usually employed in analyses of Bergmann's rule and (2) random sampling from the regional body size frequency distribution. If body size frequency distributions of local assemblages represent a random sample of a regional frequency distribution, then geographical variation in body sizes of assemblages might be a consequence of the determinants of spatial variation in species richness rather than direct influences on body size per se. Location: Southern Africa. Methods: Median body masses (as a measure of body size) of avian assemblages were calculated for quarter-degree grid cells across South Africa and Lesotho. The relationship between median body mass and four environmental variables (minimum and maximum monthly temperatures, precipitation and seasonally in the normalized difference vegetation index, as a measure of seasonality in productivity) was examined using general linear models first without taking spatial autocorrelation into account, and then accounting for it by fitting an exponential spatial covariance structure. Model fit was assessed using the Akaike information criterion and Akaike weights. At each species richness value, random assemblages were sampled by either drawing species randomly from the regional body mass frequency distribution, or drawing species from the regional body mass frequency distribution with a probability proportional to their geographical distribution in the area. The ability of randomizations to predict actual body masses was examined using two-tailed Fisher exact tests. Results: Seasonality in productivity was the only environmental variable that remained a significant predictor of body mass variation in spatially explicit models, though the positive relationship was weak. When species richness was included in the models it remained the only significant predictor of size variation. Randomizations predicted median body mass poorly at low species richness, but well at high richness. Main conclusions: Environmental models that have previously been proposed explain little of the variation in body mass across avian assemblages in South Africa. However, much of the variation in the median mass of assemblages could be predicted by randomly drawing species from the regional body mass frequency distribution, particularly using randomizations in which all species were drawn from the regional body mass frequency distribution with equal probability and at high species richness values. This outcome emphasizes the need to consider null expectations in investigations of the geographical variation in body size together with the probable environmental mechanisms underlying spatial variation in average size. Moreover, it suggests that in the South African avifauna, spatial variation in the body sizes of assemblages may be determined indirectly by the factors that influence geographical variation in species richness.
41239257|Aim: The relationship between the proportion of species with an entire leaf margin (pE) and mean annual temperature (MAT) is one of the most powerful tools for estimating palaeotemperatures. However, phylogenetic and phytogeographic constraints on this relationship have remained unexplored. Here we investigate the pE-MAT relationship for modern floristic assemblages from southern South American forests, assess its conformity to other models and test for the existence of historical constraints on pE-MAT models. Location: South America. Methods: We used samples from 30 sites located in Chile between 32 and 44 S to test for a pE-MAT relationship and compared it with four regional models. We assessed the reliability of these models for predicting MAT from instrumental records in eight modern temperate-forest localities in Chile. Additionally, palaeotemperatures for Cenozoic fossil floras were estimated. To assess historical constraints in pE, we measured the phylogenetic signal in leaf margin type and the association between leaf margin and phytogeographic affiliation, defined by the distribution of genera. Results: We found a significant pE-MAT relationship for Chilean forest species that differed from Australia and Northern Hemisphere models, but not from tropical South America (TSA). Temperatures for southern South American localities predicted from the new regional model - combining Chilean and TSA datasets - were more accurate than those from previous models. We also showed that leaf margin type has a strong phylogenetic signal, which was further confirmed by the highly significant effect of phytogeographic element on leaf margin type. Main conclusions: Differences between the Chilean and other regional models are explained by historical legacy, as Chilean leaf margin types are strongly affected by phylogenetic closeness and phytogeographic elements. We highlight that leaf margin analyses should be conducted within the context of a flora with a shared history. Thus, we propose a new model for South America to estimate palaeotemperatures for regional fossil floras.
3697673| Aim: Climate change has the potential to have an impact on the distribution of ticks and tick-borne diseases. This paper identifies the changes in climate suitability for the tick Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus in the Americas by analysing climate data for the period 1950-99. Location: The model was applied to the American continent. Methods: A model based on Environmental Niche Modelling was used on a gridded (0.5) long-term (1950-99) climate data set. A map of the core range of the species was constructed, and areas where habitat suitability (HS) changes suddenly over short time periods were identified as regions of high sensitivity. Tendency of climate in the continent was evaluated and scenarios constructed for 2025 and 2050. Results: Regions of high sensitivity included the southern USA, Mexico and western and central Argentina. Analysis of climate variables in these regions identified water vapour pressure deficit and evaporation as underlying the high sensitivity of habitat suitability in the USA and Mexico, and showed that episodes of high variability are linked to the El Nio Southern Oscillation. Projections of the tendency of HS as observed for the 1950-99 period point to an increase in this value in parts of the southern USA and in central Argentina, a finding that can be attributed to the progressive increase in minimum and yearly averaged temperatures. Conclusions: Short-term changes in climate may drive the system into unstable situations with sudden changes in habitat suitability for the target tick in specific zones of the Americas. Results suggest an increased abiotic (climate) suitability for R. microplus in areas whose habitat is currently unsuitable for this species. 
30137881|Aim: To evaluate geostatistical approaches, namely kriging, co-kriging and geostatistical simulation, and to develop an optimal sampling design for mapping the spatial patterns of bird diversity, estimating their spatial autocorrelations and selecting additional samples of bird diversity in a 2450 km basin. Location: Taiwan. Methods: Kriging, co-kriging and simulated annealing are applied to estimate and simulate the spatial patterns of bird diversity. In addition, kriging and co-kriging with a genetic algorithm are used to optimally select further samples to improve the kriging and co-kriging estimations. The association between bird diversity and elevation, and bird diversity and land cover, is analysed with estimated and simulated maps. Results: The Simpson index correlates spatially with the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) within the micro-scale and the macro-scale in the study basin, but the Shannon diversity index only correlates spatially with NDVI within the micro-scale. Co-kriging and simulated annealing simulation accurately simulate the statistical and spatial patterns of bird diversity. The mean estimated diversity and the simulated diversity increase with elevation and decrease with increasing urbanization. The proposed optimal sampling approach selects 43 additional sampling sites with a high spatial estimation variance in bird diversity. Main conclusions: Small-scale variations dominate the total spatial variation of the observed diversity due to a lack of spatial information and insufficient sampling. However, simulations of bird diversity consistently capture the sampling statistics and spatial patterns of the observed bird diversity. The data thus accumulated can be used to understand the spatial patterns of bird diversity associated with different types of land cover and elevation, and to optimize sample selection. Co-kriging combined with a genetic algorithm yields additional optimal sampling sites, which can be used to augment existing sampling points in future studies of bird diversity.
3697515|Aim: Applying water-energy dynamics and heterogeneity theory to explain species richness via remote sensing could allow for the regional characterization and monitoring of vegetation community assemblages and their environment. We assess the relationship of multi-temporal normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) to plant species richness in vegetation communities. Location: California, USA. Methods: Sub-regions containing species inventories for chaparral, coastal sage scrub, foothill woodland, and yellow pine forest communities were intersected with a vegetation community map and an AVHRR NDVI time series for 1990,1991,1992, 1995 and 1996. Principal components analysis reduced the AVHRR data to three variables representing the sum and temporal trajectories of NDVI within each community. A fourth variable representing heterogeneity was tested using the standard deviation of the first component. Quadratic forms of these variables were also tested. Species richness was analysed by stepwise regression. Results: Chaparral, coastal sage scrub, and yellow pine forest had the best relationships between species richness and NDVI. Richness of chaparral was related to NDVI heterogeneity and spring greenness (r
2665384|Aside from deforestation and selective logging, mature tropical rain forests appear to be in a state of near-term flux. At plot scales over a 20-year period, forest inventory data (representing areas < 750 ha) have shown stands to be accumulating above-ground biomass pantropically while displaying signs of increasing turnover. To assess whether or not such disequilibrium is manifest at broader spatial scales (i.e. coarser grain sizes and larger extents), we performed a change detection analysis of landscape texture (i.e. the organization of reflective properties), in satellite images of closed-canopy tropical rain forests considered to be anthropically undisturbed. Here we show that fractal properties of pixel spectral values depicting low and high levels of photosynthetic activity underwent significant shifts from the 1970s to the 1980s. Following expectations for aggrading forests, canopy texture became more random throughout the tropics. Although subject to periodic disturbance events such as natural exogenic perturbations and/or synchronous die-off, which should produce no consistent trend, these forested landscapes across the globe exhibited similar dynamics at fine temporal (decadal) intervals. Such biophysical changes (representing areas > 1000 000 ha) directly affect atmospheric boundary layer conditions and could have implications with respect to biodiversity and carbon cycling in these systems.
3697529| Aim: Recent work indicates that desert assemblages have elevated beta () diversity (between-locality turnover of species composition). This study compares  diversities between the Great Basin and the Great Plains of the western USA over the last 17 Myr. Today, the Great Basin is a topographically diverse desert scrubland to woodland and the Great Plains are low-relief temperate grassland, but 17 Ma they were more similar in topography, climate and land cover. A georeferenced database of mammal occurrences, complied from several sources, is used to test two hypotheses for the elevation of Great Basin  diversity: (1) that tectonic change of the topography has driven increased habitat packing in high- and low-elevation habitats, and (2) that climatic cycling in the Pleistocene has driven faunas from neighbouring provinces to overlap in the region. Location: The Great Basin of the USA, centred on Nevada, and the central Great Plains of the USA, centred on Nebraska. Methods: Mammalian faunal lists compiled from published records and the records of many museums, available online, were partitioned into time-slices ranging from the recent to 17 Myr old. Beta diversity was calculated for each time-slice in two ways: multiplicative  diversity using first-order jackknife richness, and additive beta diversity using Simpson's evenness. Results: Beta diversity is elevated in Nevada relative to Nebraska today. Beta diversity has been higher in the Great Basin since the Pleistocene and possibly since the late Early Hemphillian (c. 7 Ma). Beta diversity in the Late Barstovian (c. 13.5 Ma) of the Great Plains was higher even than  diversity in the Great Basin of today. Main conclusions: The elevated  diversity in the Hemphillian supports the tectonic change hypothesis. The patterns of  diversity in the Recent, Pleistocene and Hemphillian all suggest that local-scale processes are important. The  diversity of the Late Barstovian Great Plains supports other studies indicating increased primary productivity or species packing. 
41058244|Aim: An emerging consensus in invasion ecology is that faster-growing alien plant species tend to be more invasive than slower-growing species. However, phylogenetic non-independence and the precision of growth-rate measures often remain unaccounted for in comparative studies. We tested whether global invasiveness was related to mean and maximum relative growth rate of 105 plant species (101 native and 4 introduced) commonly occurring in the UK. Location: Global. Methods: We combined a unique experimental dataset of relative growth rates (RGR) measured under standardized experimental conditions for plant species that occur widely in the UK with our global measures of invasiveness, which were the number of references in the Global Compendium of Weeds (GCW) and the number of world regions invaded. We weighted mean RGR measures per species by including variances of RGR in our analyses, and we also conducted analyses with and without phylogenetic structure, to account for potential phylogenetic nonindependence in RGR. Results: We found a positive association between global invasiveness and maximum RGR. In addition, this association was not confounded by phylogenetic correlation, or by species seed mass. Main conclusions: The results from this study suggest that faster-growing species are more widespread at a global scale, adding support to other studies that suggest faster-growing alien plant species tend to be more invasive in the introduced range.
40801850|Aim: Most predictions of species ranges are based on correlating current species localities to environmental conditions. These correlative models do not explicitly include a species' biology. In contrast, some mechanistic models link traits to energetics and population dynamics to predict species distributions. These models enable one to ask whether considering a species' biology is important for predicting its range. I implement mechanistic models to investigate how a species' morphology, physiology and life history influence its range.
3697480| Aim: To assess the correspondence between current avian distributions in the lowlands of northern South America with respect to the hypothesized importance of sea level rise and other events over the past 15 million years on speciation. Location: Tropical lowlands of north-western South America. Methods: To establish which bird taxa may have originated in each area of endemism, I examined the ranges of all bird species occurring in the Pacific and the Caribbean lowlands. To determine land and sea distribution during a sea level rise of 100 m in north-western South America and eastern Central America, I traced the 100 m contour line from the Geoatlas of Georama and the Global 30-Arc-Second Elevation Data (GTOPO30) produced by the US Geological Survey. Results: During a sea level rise of-100 m, marine incursions would have occurred from the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. Several areas of tropical forest and dry/arid vegetation would have been isolated, currently known as the Darin, Choc, Nech, Catatumbo, Tumbesian and Guajiran areas of animal and plant endemism. Main conclusions: A large part of the high diversity of forest and nonforest birds and other animals and plants in the Pacific rain forest and the Caribbean woodland likely arose as the result of sea level rises, dispersal and other geological and climatic events. 
41239479|Aim: The species-area relationship has been applied in the conservation context to predict monotonic species richness declines as natural area is converted to humandominated land covers. However, some conversion of natural cover could introduce new habitat types and allow new open habitat species to occur. Moreover, decelerating richness-area relationships suggest that, as natural area is converted to human-dominated covers, more species will be added to the rare habitat than are lost from the common one. Area effects and increased habitat diversity could each lead to a peaked relationship between species richness and the relative amount of natural area. The purpose of this study is to quantify the effect on avian species richness of conversion of natural area to human-dominated land cover. Location: Ontario, Canada. Methods: We evaluated the responses of total avian richness, forest bird richness and open habitat bird richness to remaining natural area within 993 quadrats, each of 100 km . We quantified the amount of natural land cover and land-cover heterogeneity using remote sensing data. We used structural equation modelling (SEM) to disentangle the relationships among avian richness, natural area and land-cover heterogeneity. Results: Spatial variation in avian richness was a peaked function of remaining natural area, such that losses of up to 44% of the natural area increased avian richness. This partly reflects increased variety of land cover; however, SEM suggests that much of the increase in richness is due to pure area effects. Richness of forest species declined by two species over this range of natural cover loss while open habitat bird richness increased by approximately 20 species. The effect of natural area on species richness is consistent with the sum of species-area curves for natural habitat species and human-dominated habitat species. Main conclusions: At least in northern temperate forests, almost half of the natural land cover can be converted to human-dominated forms before avian richness declines. Conversion of < 50% of regional natural area to humandominated land cover can benefit open-area species richness with relatively few losses of forest obligate species. However, with > 50% natural area conversion, species begin to drop out of regional assemblages.
40405792|Aim Beta diversity (variation of the species composition of assemblages) may reflect two different phenomena, spatial species turnover and nestedness of assemblages, which result from two antithetic processes, namely species replacement and species loss, respectively. The aim of this paper is to provide a unified framework for the assessment of beta diversity, disentangling the contribution of spatial turnover and nestedness to beta-diversity patterns. Innovation I derive an additive partitioning of beta diversity that provides the two separate components of spatial turnover and nestedness underlying the total amount of beta diversity. I propose two families of measures of beta diversity for pairwise and multiple-site situations. Each family comprises one measure accounting for all aspects of beta diversity, which is additively decomposed into two measures accounting for the pure spatial turnover and nestedness components, respectively. Finally, I provide a case study using European longhorn beetles to exemplify the relevance of disentangling spatial turnover and nestedness patterns. Main conclusion Assigning the different beta-diversity patterns to their respective biological phenomena is essential for analysing the causality of the processes underlying biodiversity. Thus, the differentiation of the spatial turnover and nestedness components of beta diversity is crucial for our understanding of central biogeographic, ecological and conservation issues.
40405765|Aim: Substantial overlap in the climate characteristics of the United States and China results in similar land-cover types and weather conditions, especially in the eastern half of the two countries. These parallels suggest similarities in fire regimes as well, yet relatively little is known about the historical role of fire in Chinese ecosystems. Consequently, we aimed to infer fire regime characteristics for China based on our understanding of climate-fire relationships in the United States. Location: The conterminous United States and the People's Republic of China. Methods: We used generalized additive models to quantify the relationship between reference fire regime classes adopted by the LANDFIRE initiative in the United States, and a global climate data set. With the models, we determined which climate variables best described the distribution of fire regimes in the United States then used these models to predict the spatial distribution of fire regimes in China. The fitted models were validated quantitatively using receiver operating characteristic area under the curve (AUC). We validated the predicted fire regimes in China by comparison with palaeoecological fire data and satellite-derived estimates of current fire activity. Results: Quantitative validation using the AUC indicated good discrimination of the distribution of fire regimes by models for the United States. Overall, fire regimes with more frequent return intervals were more likely in the east than in the west. The resolution of available historical and prehistorical fire data for China, including sediment cores, allowed only coarse, qualitative validation, but provided supporting evidence that fire has long been a part of ecosystem function in eastern China. MODIS satellite data illustrated that fire frequency within the last decade supported the classification of much of western China as relatively fire-free; however, much of south-eastern China experiences more fire activity than predicted with our models, probably as a function of the extensive use of fire by people. Conclusions: While acknowledging there are many cultural, environmental and historical differences between the United States and China, our fire regime models based on climate data demonstrate potential historical fire regimes for China, and propose that large areas of China share historical fire-vegetation-climate complexes with the United States.
30137871|Aim We evaluated the bathymetric gradient of benthic polychaete species richness from the Chilean coast, as well as its possible underlying causes. We tested three possible hypotheses to explain the richness gradient: (1) Rapoport's effect; (2) the mid-domain effect (MDE); and (c) the source-sink hypothesis. Location South-eastern Pacific coast of Chile. Methods The bathymetric gradient in richness was evaluated using the reported ranges of bathymetric distribution of 498 polychaete species, from the intertidal to abyssal zone (c. 4700 m). Rapoport's effect was evaluated by examining the relationship between bathymetric mid-point and bathymetric range extent, and species richness and depth. The MDE was tested using the Monte Carlo simulation program. The source-sink hypothesis was tested through nestedness analysis. Results Species richness shows significant exponential decay across the bathymetric gradient. The pattern is characterized by a high presence of short-ranged species on the continental shelf area; while only a few species reach abyssal depths, and they tend to show extremely wide bathymetric ranges. Our simulation analyses showed that, in general, the pattern is robust to sampling artefacts. This pattern cannot be reproduced by the MDE, which predicts a parabolic richness gradient. Rather, results agree with the predictions of Rapoport's effect. Additionally, the data set is significantly nested at species, genus and family levels, supporting the source-sink hypothesis. Main conclusions The sharp exponential decay in benthic polychaete richness across the bathymetric gradient supports the general idea that abyssal environments should harbour fewer species than shallower zones. This pattern may be the result of colonization-extinction dynamics, characterized by abyssal assemblages acting as 'sinks' maintained mainly by shallower 'sources'. The source-sink hypothesis provides a conceptual and methodological framework that may shed light on the search for general patterns of diversity across large spatial scales.
2665350|1 We propose a quantitative zonation of Switzerland based on the distribution of breeding birds. We use a combined dataset from two nationwide bird censuses 20 years apart to account for distribution changes between the censuses. This approach approximates the `potential' distribution of species more closely than a dataset from one period only. 2 A numerical approach with correspondence analysis and non-hierarchical clustering resulted in five avifaunal regions, consisting of two lowland regions north of the alpine arch, two alpine regions and one region of southern alpine valleys. 3 We identified characteristic species for each region using the indicator value analysis of Dufrene & Legendre (1997) and determined environmental conditions separating the regions with discriminant analysis. 4 Our zonation partly corresponds with previous subdivisions of Switzerland, but has the advantage of being based on a numerical approach instead of expert knowledge. 5 We discuss avifaunal and ecological differences between the regions and relate our zonation to the classical biogeographic regions of Europe. Finally, we evaluate the importance of the zonation for bird conservation.
2665438|This study focuses on the relationships between plant dispersal syndromes and plant distributions at the community scale. Species composition and cover are reported from 29 10 x 20-m vegetation plots along five topographic cross-sections in the riparian zone of the Hassayampa River Preserve, Arizona. We find that spatial patterns of dispersal guilds vary within the flood plain of this semiarid region river. Our main results are: (1) wind-dispersed species are fairly evenly distributed at all elevations and distances from the river, whereas cover of animal-dispersed species increases with elevation above, and at greater distances from, the river; (2) wind-dispersed species are proportionally more abundant in the pioneer Populus-Salix community, whereas plants in the late-seral Prosopis community are predominantly animal-dispersed: (3) most of the species classified as obligate-wetland and facultative-wetland are wind-dispersed, whereas facultative-upland and obligate-upland species are mostly animal-dispersed; and (4) there are significantly fewer wind-dispersed species in areas of high total vegetation cover. These results may reflect successional patterns resulting from periodic flooding. Low areas close to the river flood more frequently and with greater intensity than areas farther from the river. Many pioneer species that establish in disturbed areas are wind-dispersed. Over successional time, pioneer species cede to more drought tolerant species that are predominantly animal-dispersed.
3697544|Aim: To test whether satellite-derived NDVI values obtained during the growing season as delimited by the onset of phenological phases can be used to map bioclimatically a large region such as Fennoscandia. Location: Fennoscandia north of about
3697535|Because most macroecological and biodiversity data are spatially autocorrelated, special tools for describing spatial structures and dealing with hypothesis testing are usually required. Unfortunately, most of these methods have not been available in a single statistical package. Consequently, using these tools is still a challenge for most ecologists and biogeographers. In this paper, we present SAM (Spatial Analysis in Macroecology), a new, easy-to-use, freeware package for spatial analysis in macroecology and biogeography. Through an intuitive, fully graphical interface, this package allows the user to describe spatial patterns in variables and provides an explicit spatial framework for standard techniques of regression and correlation. Moran's I autocorrelation coefficient can be calculated based on a range of matrices describing spatial relationships, for original variables as well as for residuals of regression models, which can also include filtering components (obtained by standard trend surface analysis or by principal coordinates of neighbour matrices). SAM also offers tools for correcting the number of degrees of freedom when calculating the significance of correlation coefficients. Explicit spatial modelling using several forms of autoregression and generalized least-squares models are also available. We believe this new tool will provide researchers with the basic statistical tools to resolve autocorrelation problems and, simultaneously, to explore spatial components in macroecological and biogeographical data. Although the program was designed primarily for the applications in macroecology and biogeography, most of SAM's statistical tools will be useful for all kinds of surface pattern spatial analysis. The program is freely available at www.ecoevol.ufg.br/sam (permanent URL at http://purl.oclc.org/sam/).
3877796|Aim: To investigate how the magnitude of conservation conflicts arising from positive relationships between human population size and species richness is altered during a period of marked human population growth
40602943|Aim: Ecosystem engineering polychaetes in the genus Diopatra are undergoing range shifts in western Europe. Here we: (1 ) assess the species diversity underlying these shifts; (2) link biogeographic patterns to sea surface temperature patterns; and (3) predict possible ecosystem-level outcomes of Diopatra's northward expansion. Location: Western Europe. Methods: We use molecular phylogenetic and morphological evidence to assess species diversity and biogeographic ranges. Using regression tree analyses, we assess thermal limits for two Diopatra species. We compare biogeographic patterns with historical sea surface temperature patterns to draw links between range shifts and climate change. Finally, we review published data to predict potential ecological changes as Diopatra invades new habitats. Results: The native Diopatra neapolitana range has contracted 130 km to the south. A cryptogenic species, Diopatra sp. A, has extended the northern limit of the genus 350 km to the southern Brittany Peninsula. Both shifts can be explained by historical sea surface temperature anomalies. The Diopatra sp. A expansion is predicted to continue into the English Channel and the North Sea, introducing large tube structures to sheltered sedimentary habitats that currently lack such structures. Main conclusions: As climate change intensifies, the sediment-stabilizing Diopatra sp. A will invade habitats dominated by the bioturbating lugworm Arenicola marina. The resulting interaction between functionally different ecosystem engineers will probably cause ecological changes in northern European coastal waters.Existing data for Diopatra species and arenicolids suggest that the diversity and biomass of macroalgae, vascular plants, infauna and epibenthic fauna may increase, while microbial activity may decrease. Net changes in productivity will depend on the relative rates of these changes.
41058233|Despite the great interest it generates, the definition of Bergmann's Rule is vague and often contested. Debate focuses on whether the rule should be described in terms of pattern or process, what taxa it should apply to and what taxonomic level it should be associated with. Here I review the historical development of studies of Bergmann's Rule. I suggest that Bergmann thought that his rule should be strongest at the intra-specific level, rather than between closely related species as is usually thought. I argue that the rule is a pattern that can be studied regardless of mechanism in any taxon and at any taxonomic level.
2997889|Urban demand for woodfuels in Sudanian and Sahelian West Africa has long been assumed to contribute to permanent deforestation in dryland forests and wooded savannas. Deforestation has also long been assumed to be progressing such that these woodlands will no longer be able to provide the region's cities with fuel. Available studies of regeneration do not support the first assumption. Further, woodfuel shortages projected in the 1980s to arrive in the 1990s or early 2000s are nowhere near, while more recent projections predict supply shortages another 25 years hence. While there is deforestation from many causes, the data do not support crisis scenarios concerning woodfuels. Nonetheless, crisis scenarios and policies persist. While there may yet be deforestation due to urban woodfuel extraction, and shortages may be lurking on the horizon, the article explores some possible alternative origins of these woodfuel related deforestation and shortage fears.
3697468|Aim: The majority of studies concerning positive interspecific abundance-occupancy relationships have used broad-scale and microcosm data to test the occurrence and correlates of the relationship to determine which of the proposed mechanisms give rise to it. It has been argued recently that studying the residual variation about abundance-occupancy relationships is a more logical analysis and may yield faster progress in identifying the relative roles of the mechanisms. However, to date this approach has been largely unsuccessful. Here we test if fundamental species traits such as the status (native and introduced), habitat and trophic group of mammal and bird species may explain any of the residual variation about their respective abundance-occupancy relationships. Location: The study used British mammal and bird species. Methods: We tested if species traits explained any of the variation about abundance-occupancy relationships using linear regression techniques both treating species as independent data points for analysis and controlling for phylogenetic association. Results: None of the species traits could explain any residual variation about the positive interspecific abundance-occupancy relationships of British mammals and birds. This applied both when treating species as independent data points and after controlling for phylogenetic association. Conclusions: Given the lack of explanatory power of the species traits here and in other studies using this approach it seems that the variation about positive interspecific abundance-occupancy relationships is not explicable in a simple fashion. Predicting the likely influence of traits that are independent of phylogeny is also problematic. Therefore, the general utility of this approach and its future role in understanding the mechanisms causing positive interspecific abundance-occupancy relationships is doubtful.
40405764|Aim: It is increasingly accepted that the mean wood density of trees within a forest is tightly coupled to above-ground forest biomass. It is unknown, however, if a positive relationship between forest biomass and mean community wood density is a general phenomenon across forests. Understanding spatial variation in biomass as a function of wood density both within and among forests is important for predicting changes in stored carbon in response to global change, and here we evaluated the generality of a positive biomass-wood density relationship within and among six tropical forests. Location: Costa Rica, Panama, Puerto Rico and Ecuador. Methods: Individual stem data, including diameter at breast height and spatial position, for six forest dynamics plots were merged with an extensive wood density database. Individual stem biomass values were calculated from these data using published statistical models. Total above ground biomass, total basal area and mean community wood density were also quantified across a range of subcommunity plot sizes within each forest. Results: Among forests, biomass did not vary with mean community wood density. The relationship between subcommunity biomass and mean wood density within a forest varied from negative to null to positive depending on the size of subcommunities and forest identity. The direction of correlation was determined by the associated total basal area-mean wood density correlation, the slope of which increased strongly with whole forest mean wood density. Main conclusions: There is no general relationship between forest biomass and wood density, and in some forests, stored carbon is highest where wood density is lowest. Our results suggest that declining wood density, due to global change, will result in decreased or increased stored carbon in forests with high or low mean wood density, respectively.
3697501|Aim: To describe patterns of hydrothermal vent community diversity and dispersion at the intersegment scale (> 100 km). Location: The area discussed is an approximately 170 km portion of the Juan de Fuca Ridge, a mid-ocean ridge in the north-east Pacific Ocean. Methods: Samples of benthic invertebrates from hydrothermal vents on three segments of the Juan de Fuca are examined for community characteristics such as diversity, abundance and distribution. Results: Species richness (55 species) and evenness are low. If the macrofauna only are considered, species richness is about 30% lower than when meiofauna are also considered. The geometric series describes the species-abundance distribution. The relationship between vent species' distribution and abundance is significantly positive (
2665367|1 For over three decades the equilibrium theory of island biogeography has galvanized studies in ecological biogeography. Studies of oceanic islands and of natural habitat islands share some similarities to continental studies, particularly in developed regions where habitat fragmentation results from many land uses. Increasingly, remnant habitat is in the form of isolates created by the clearing and destruction of natural areas. Future evolution of a theory to predict patterns of species abundance may well come from the application of island biogeography to habitat fragments or isolates. 2 In this paper we consider four factors other than area and isolation that influence the number and type of mammal species coexisting in one place: habitat diversity, habitat disturbance, species interactions and guild assembly rules. In all examples our data derive from mainland habitat, fragmented to differing degrees, with different levels of isolation. 3 Habitat diversity is seen to be a good predictor of species richness. Increased levels of disturbance produce a relatively greater decrease in species richness on smaller than on larger isolates. Species interactions in the recolonization of highly disturbed sites, such as regenerating mined sites, is analogous to island colonization. Species replacement sequences in secondary successions indicate not just how many, but which species are included. Lastly, the complement of species established on islands, or in insular habitats, may be governed by guild assembly rules. These contributions may assist in taking a renewed theory into the new millennium.
40928133|Aim: Despite the importance of the niche concept in ecological and evolutionary theory, there are still many discussions about its definition and operational evaluation, especially when dealing with niche divergence and conservatism in an explicit phylogenetic context. Here we evaluate patterns of niche evolution in 67 New World Carnivora species, measured using Hellinger distances based on MAXENT models of species distribution. We show how inferences on niche conservatism or divergence depend on the way phylogenetic patterns are analysed using matrix comparison techniques. Innovation: Initially we used the simplest approach of Mantel tests to compare Hellinger distances (N) derived from MAXENT and phylogenetic distances (P) among species. Then we extended the Mantel test to generate a multivariate correlogram, in which phylogenetic patterns are analysed at multiple levels in the phylogeny and can reveal nonlinearity in the relationship between divergence and time. Finally, we proposed a new approach to generate c locaP (or 'specific') leverages of components for Mantel correlation, evaluating the non-stationarity in the relationship between N and P for each species. This new approach was used to show if some lineages are more prone to niche shift or conservatism than others. Main conclusions: Standard Mantel tests indicated a poor correspondence between N and P matrices, discarding the idea of niche conservatism for Carnivora, but the correlogram supports that closely related species tend to be more similar than expected by chance. Moreover, the variance among Hellinger distances between pairs of closely phylogenetically related species is much larger than for the entire clade. Phylogenetic non-stationarity analysis shows that in some Carnivora families the niche tends to divergence (Mustelidae and Canidae), whereas in others it tends to conservatism (Procyonidae and Mustelidae) at short phylogenetic distances. Our analyses clearly show that misleading results may appear if niche divergence is analysed only by simple matrix correlations not taking into account complex patterns of phylogenetic nonlinearity and non-stationarity.
3697459|Aim: To document patterns in diversity, altitudinal range and body size of freshwater fishes along an elevational gradient in the Yangtze River basin. Location: The Yangtze River basin, China. Methods: We used published data to compile the distribution, altitudinal range and body size of freshwater fishes. Correlation, regression, clustering and graphical analyses were used to explore patterns in diversity, altitudinal range and body size of freshwater fishes in 100-m elevation zones from 0 to 5200 m. Results: Species richness patterns across the elevational gradient for total, nonendemic and endemic fishes were different. The ratio of endemics to total richness peaked at mid elevation. Land area on a 500-m interval scale explained a significant amount of the variation in species richness. Species density displayed two peaks at mid-elevation zones. The cluster analysis revealed five distinct assemblages across the elevation gradient. The relationship between elevational range size and the midpoint of the elevational range revealed a triangular distribution. The frequency distribution of log maximum standard length data displayed an atypical right-skewed pattern. Intermediate body sizes occurred across the greatest range of elevation while small and large body sizes possessed only small elevational amplitudes. The size-elevation relationship between the two major families revealed a very strong pattern of body size constraint among the Cobitidae with no corresponding elevational constraint and a lot of body size and elevational diversification among the Cyprinidae. Main conclusion: The data failed to support either Rapoport's rule or Bergmann's rule.
30137818|Aim: The island rule, small animal gigantism and large animal dwarfism on islands, is a topic of much recent debate. While size evolution of insular lizards has been widely studied, whether or not they follow the island rule has never been investigated. I examined whether lizards show patterns consistent with the island rule. Location: Islands worldwide. Methods: I used literature data on the sizes of island-mainland population pairs in 59 species of lizards, spanning the entire size range of the group, and tested whether small insular lizards are larger than their mainland conspecifics and large insular lizards are smaller. I examined the influence of island area, island isolation, and dietary preferences on lizard size evolution. Results: Using mean snout-vent length as an index of body size, I found that small lizards on islands become smaller than their mainland conspecifics, while large ones become larger still, opposite to predictions of the island rule. This was especially strong in carnivorous lizards; omnivorous and herbivorous species showed a pattern consistent with the island rule but this result was not statistically significant. No trends consistent with the island rule were found when maximum snout-vent length was used. Island area had, at best, a weak effect on body size. Using maximum snoutvent length as an index of body size resulted in most lizard populations appearing to be dwarfed on islands, but no such pattern was revealed when mean snout-vent length was used as a size index. Main conclusions: I suggest that lizard body size is mostly influenced by resource availability, with large size allowing some lizard populations to exploit resources that are unavailable on the mainland. Lizards do not follow the island rule. Maximum snout-vent length may be biased by sampling effort, which should be taken into account when one uses this size index.
40205669|Aim: Propagule size and output are critical for the ability of a plant species to colonize new environments. If invasive species have a greater reproductive output than native species (via more and/or larger seeds), then they will have a greater dispersal and establishment ability. Previous comparisons within plant genera, families or environments have conflicted over the differences in reproductive traits between native and invasive species. We went beyond a genus-, family- or habitat-specific approach and analysed data for plant reproductive traits from the global literature, to investigate whether: (1) seed mass and production differ between the original and introduced ranges of invasive species; (2) seed mass and production differ between invasives and natives; and (3) invasives produce more seeds per unit seed mass than natives. Location: Global. Methods: We combined an existing data set of native plant reproductive data with a new data compilation for invasive species. We used t-tests to compare original and introduced range populations, two-way ANOVAs to compare natives and invasives, and an ANCOVA to examine the relationship between seed mass and production for natives and invasives. The ANCOVA was performed again incorporating phylogenetically independent contrasts to overcome any phylogenetic bias in the data sets. Results: Neither seed mass nor seed production of invasive species differed between their introduced and original ranges. We found no significant difference in seed mass between invasives and natives after growth form had been accounted for. Seed production was greater for invasive species overall and within herb and woody growth forms. For a given seed mass, invasive species produced 6.7-fold (all species), 6.9-fold (herbs only) and 26.1-fold (woody species only) more seeds per individual per year than native species. The phylogenetic ANCOVA verified that this trend did not appear to be influenced by phylogenetic bias within either data set. Main conclusions: This study provides the first global examination of both seed mass and production traits in native and invasive species. Invasive species express a strategy of greater seed production both overall and per unit seed mass compared with natives. The consequent increased likelihood of establishment from longdistance seed dispersal may significantly contribute to the invasiveness of many exotic species.
3697612|Aim: General patterns of biodiversity, such as latitudinal gradients and species-area relationships, are found consistently in a wide range of organisms, but recent results for protist diversity suggest that organisms shorter than 2 mm do not display such patterns. We tested this prediction in bdelloid rotifers, pluricellular metazoans smaller than 2 mm, but with size and ecology comparable to protists. Location: A single valley in northern Italy was surveyed in detail and compared to all available faunistic data on bdelloids worldwide. Methods: We analysed 171 local assemblages of bdelloid rotifers living in 5 systems of dry mosses and submerged mosses in running water and in lakes. We compared patterns of alpha, beta, and gamma diversity, and nestedness of metacommunities, with those known from protists and larger organisms. Results: Bdelloid rotifers showed low local species richness (alpha diversity), with strong habitat selection, as observed in larger organisms. The number of species differed among systems, with a higher number of species in dry than in aquatic mosses. There was no hierarchical structure or exclusion of species in the metacommunity pattern within each system. Local diversity for the entire valley was surprisingly high compared with worldwide bdelloid diversity, similar to observed patterns in protists. Main Conclusions: Bdelloid rotifers have some of the peculiarities of protist biodiversity, although at slightly different spatial scales, thus confirming the idea of a major change in biodiversity patterns among organisms shorter than 2 mm. However, bdelloids show stronger habitat selection than protists. We suggest two possible explanations for the observed patterns: (1) dispersal is very rare, and not all bdelloid clones are arriving everywhere; and (2) dispersal is effective in displacing propagules, but environmental heterogeneity is very high and prevents many species from colonizing a given patch of moss.
3877781|Aim: In response to recent climate warming, numerous studies have reported an earlier onset of spring and, to a lesser degree, a later onset of autumn, both determined from phenological observations. Here, we examine whether these reported changes have affected the synchronization of events on a regional level by examining temporal and spatial variability in phenology. In particular, we study whether years with earlier springs are associated with an altered spatial variability in phenology. Location: Germany and the United Kingdom. Methods: Plant phenological observations of 35 different phases (events such as flowering and leafing) collected by the German Weather Service (1951-2002) and butterfly phenological records of 29 species collected by the UK Butterfly Monitoring Scheme (1976-2003) are used. In these long-term records, we examine the temporal (year-to-year) variability and the spatial (geographic or between site) variability with particular emphasis on how they vary with time of the year and with earliness or lateness of the phase. Results: Early phenological events (i.e. spring) are more variable than later events, both in time and in space, although the pattern is clearer for plants than for butterflies. Confirming previous results, we find a clear relationship between the mean date of spring and summer phases and the degree to which they have become earlier. The spatial variability of spring events is greater in warmer years that have faster plant development. However, late spring and summer events do not show a consistent relationship. Autumn events are somewhat more spatially variable in years characterized by later seasons. Main conclusions: This is the first examination of spatial variability of plant and animal phenological events at a multinational scale. Earlier spring events are likely to be associated with increased spatial variability in plants, although this is unlikely to also be true for summer events. If species experience differential changes in geographic variation this may disrupt interactions among them, e.g. in food webs. On the other hand, these may offer advantages for mobile species. Further research on linked species is recommended.
41239343|Aim: Two of the oldest observations in plant geography are the increase in plant diversity from the poles towards the tropics and the global geographic distribution of vegetation physiognomy (biomes). The objective of this paper is to use a process-based vegetation model to evaluate the relationship between modelled and observed global patterns of plant diversity and the geographic distribution of biomes. Location: The global terrestrial biosphere. Methods: We implemented and tested a novel vegetation model aimed at identifying strategies that enable plants to grow and reproduce within particular climatic conditions across the globe. Our model simulates plant survival according to the fundamental ecophysiological processes of water uptake, photosynthesis, reproduction and phenology. We evaluated the survival of an ensemble of 10,000 plant growth strategies across the range of global climatic conditions. For the simulated regional plant assemblages we quantified functional richness, functional diversity and functional identity. Results: A strong relationship was found (correlation coefficient of 0.75) between the modelled and the observed plant diversity. Our approach demonstrates that plant functional dissimilarity increases and then saturates with increasing plant diversity. Six of the major Earth biomes were reproduced by clustering grid cells according to their functional identity (mean functional traits of a regional plant assemblage). These biome clusters were in fair agreement with two other global vegetation schemes: a satellite image classification and a biogeography model (kappa statistics around 0.4). Main conclusions: Our model reproduces the observed global patterns of plant diversity and vegetation physiognomy from the number and identity of simulated plant growth strategies. These plant growth strategies emerge from the first principles of climatic constraints and plant functional trade-offs. Our study makes important contributions to furthering the understanding of how climate affects patterns of plant diversity and vegetation physiognomy from a process-based rather than a phenomenological perspective.
3697401|Aim: To assess the hypothesis that free-living prokaryotes show a pattern of 'no biogeography' by examining the scaling of soil prokaryotic diversity and by comparing it with other groups' biogeographical patterns. Location: Two sites in the tropical deciduous forest of Chamela, Jalisco, on the western coast of Mexico. Methods: We examined the diversity and distribution of soil prokaryotes in two 8 x 8 m quadrats divided in such manner that we could sample at four spatial scales. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms of 16S rRNA genes were used to define operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that we used in lieu of species to assess diversity. Results: We found highly structured species assemblages that allowed us to reject multiple predictions of the hypothesis that soil bacteria show 'no biogeography'. The frequency distribution of range size (measured as the occupancy of quadrats) of OTUs followed a hollow curve similar to that of vertebrates on continents. Assemblages showed high levels of beta diversity and a non-random nested pattern of diversity. OTU diversity scaled with area followed a power function with slopes z = 0.42 and 0.47. Main conclusions: We demonstrate a non-ubiquitous dispersal for soil prokaryotes, which suggests a complex biogeography similar to that found for terrestrial vertebrates.
3182698|Aim: Species richness and endemic richness vary along elevation gradients, but not necessarily in the same way. This study tests if the maxima in gamma diversity for flowering plants and the endemic subset of these plants are coherent or not. Location: The study was conducted in Nepal, between 1000 and 5000 m a.s.l. Methods: We used published data on distribution and elevational ranges of the Nepalese flora to interpolate presence between maximum and minimum elevations. Correlation, regression and graphical analyses were used to evaluate the diversity pattern between 1000 and 5000 m a.s.l. Results: The interval of maximum species endemic to Nepal or the Himalayas (3800-4200 m) is above the interval of maximum richness (1500-2500 m). The exact location of maximum species density is uncertain and its accuracy depends on ecologically sound estimates of area in the elevation zones. There is no positive statistically significant correlation between log-area and richness (total or endemic). Total richness is positively correlated with log-area-adjusted, i.e. estimated area adjusted for the degree of topographic heterogeneity. The proportion of endemic species increases steadily from low to high elevations. The peak in endemism (c. 4000 m) corresponds to the start of a rapid decrease in species richness above 4000 m. This may relate to the last glacial maximum (equilibrium line at c. 4000 m) that penetrated down to 2500-3000 m. This dynamic hard boundary may have caused an increase in the extinction rate above 4000 m, and enhanced the probability of isolation and facilitated speciation of neoendemics, especially among genera with a high proportion of polyploids. Main conclusions: The results reject the idea of corresponding maxima in endemic species and species richness in the lowlands tentatively deduced from Stevens' elevational Rapoport effect. They confirm predictions based on hard boundary theory, but hard-boundaries should be viewed as dynamic rather than static when broad-scale biogeographical patterns with a historical component are being interpreted.
3697639|Aim: This paper tests firstly for the existence of a general relationship between body size of terrestrial animals and their incidence across habitat patches of increasing size, and secondly for differences in this relationship between insects and vertebrates. Location: The analysis was based on the occupancy pattern of 50 species from 15 different landscapes in a variety of ecosystems ranging from Central European grassland to Asian tropical forest. Methods: The area-occupancy relationship was described by incidence functions that were calculated using logistic regression. A correlation analysis between body size of the species and the patch area referring to the two given points of the incidence function was performed. In order to test for an effect of taxon (insects vs. vertebrates), an analysis of covariance was conducted. Results: In all species, the incidence was found to increase with increasing patch area. The macroecological analysis showed a significant relationship between the incidence in habitat patches and the body size of terrestrial animals. The area requirement was found to increase linearly with increasing body size on a log-log scale. This relationship did not differ significantly between insects and vertebrates. Conclusions: The approach highlighted in this paper is to associate incidence functions with body size. The results suggest that body size is a general but rather rough predictor for the area requirements of animals. The relationship seems valid for a wide range of body sizes of terrestrial animals. However, further studies including isolation of habitats as well as additional species traits into the macroecological analysis of incidence functions are needed.
40205735|Aim: To examine how the employment of both community- and population-level approaches can provide a wider view of the importance of contemporary and historical factors on current species distribution. We posit that community ecology should provide more information about contemporary factors, whereas population genetics should provide better information about historical factors. Location: Rivers of the western Mediterranean Basin, including four subregions differing in geological history: the Iberian Plate, Transitional, Betic and Rif. Methods: For a community-level approach, Trichoptera richness and community composition were compared between subregions using species accumulation curves and a correspondence analysis. For a population-level approach, the mtDNA cytochrome C oxidase subunit I (COI) gene of specimens of the Trichoptera midstream-lowland species Chimarra marginata (L.) was sequenced and analysed using phylogeographical methods. Results: The community approach revealed that historical events had more influence on headwater communities than contemporary ecological factors, whereas historical events had negligible influence on midstream-lowland communities. In midstream-lowland sites, however, the population approach showed that the genetic structure of C. marginata differed significantly between subregions and revealed patterns of historical gene migration. In terms of species richness, the Rif subregion had the lowest value per basin due to local climatic features and isolation. Main conclusions: Both community- and population-level approaches yielded information about the effects of historical factors on species distribution. However, the importance of historical events on current Trichoptera communities depends on the river zonation. Unlike headwater sites, midstream-lowland sites showed signs of historical events at the population level but not at the community level at the scale used, indicating that both approaches should be employed together in biogeographical studies. Lack of detection of historical events at the community level does not necessarily mean that they are negligible. Most likely, the organizational level used is not appropriate. We also stress the importance of implementing conservation measures for rivers in the western Mediterranean, especially under future scenarios of climate change and human disturbances in the Mediterranean Basin.
4139438|Aim We searched for signs of the 'bottom-up' diversity effect in the association between fleas (Siphonaptera) and their small mammalian hosts (Rodentia, Insectivora and Lagomorpha). We asked (1) whether a strong dependence of flea species richness on host species richness is characteristic for both Palaeoarctic and Nearctic realms; (2) if yes, whether the ratio of host species per flea species along the host diversity gradient is similar between the Palaeoarctic and Nearctic; and (3) whether factors other than host species richness (i.e. geographical position, climate and landscape) might better explain variation in flea species richness than host species richness. Location The study used previously published data on species richness of fleas and their small mammalian hosts from 26 Palaeoarctic and 19 Nearctic regions. Methods We regressed the number of flea species on the number of small mammal species across regions, separately for Palaeoarctic and Nearctic realms, using both non-transformed data as well as data corrected for the confounding effects of host sampling effort and sampling area. To test whether flea species richness is determined by external factors unrelated to the host, we used stepwise multiple regressions of flea species richness against host species richness and parameters describing the geographical position, climate and relief of a region. Results When non-transformed data were analysed, flea species richness was positively correlated with host species richness in both the Palaeoarctic and Nearctic, although the slopes of the two regressions differed significantly. After removal of the confounding effects of host sampling effort and sampling area, Palaeoarctic flea species richness remained strongly positively correlated with host species richness, whereas in the Nearctic, flea species richness appeared to be completely independent of host species richness. Results of the multiple regressions using corrected data demonstrated that in the Palaeoarctic, flea species richness was correlated with both the number of host species and the mean altitude of the region, whereas in the Nearctic, flea species richness only tended to be weakly correlated with latitude (however, this correlation turned out to be non-significant after Bonferroni correction). Main conclusions We found evidence of bottom-up control of flea diversity in the Palaeoarctic regions only, and not in the Nearctic. We explore several potential explanations for the different patterns observed in the two biogeographical realms, including differences in (1) levels of host specialization, (2) history of host-parasite associations and (3) landscape effects on flea diversification. We conclude that these factors combine to create different macroecological patterns in different biogeographical realms, and that diversity is not governed by the same forces everywhere.
41239256|Aim: We tested whether the distribution and cover of alien plant species in Europe was related to human disturbance and microclimate. Location: Surveys were conducted at 13 sites across Europe, each containing a pair of landscapes with different land-use intensities. Methods: Sampling locations were chosen based on land use and microclimate at two scales: land use was characterized at the patch and landscape scale; climate was expressed as regional and local temperature. The slope of each sample location was derived from a digital elevation model. Cover of plant species was measured using point counts and analysed using mixed effect models. Species were classified as native, archaeophytes and neophytes (pre-versus post-AD 1500 immigrants). Due to the zero inflation observed in the alien groups, their cover was analysed conditional on their presence. Results: Anthropogenic disturbance was a significant explanatory variable, increasing the presence and cover of alien species and decreasing the cover of native species. Alien presence was increased in sites under agricultural management, while their cover responded to land use at both local and landscape scales (and to their interaction), such that only natural habitats in semi-natural landscapes had low alien cover. Microclimate was important for neophytes, with presence concentrated around mesic conditions. Slope was relevant for archaeophytes and native species, suppressing the former group and promoting the latter one. Main conclusions: We found that, at the European scale, the distribution of alien plants is related to anthropogenic disturbance more than to microclimatic differences. The presence of neophytes, however, was influenced by climate at local and regional scales, with the highest incidence under mesic conditions. The different patterns observed for the presence and cover of alien species suggest different mechanisms acting during their establishment and spread. They also suggest that to counteract the expansion of alien species natural habitats may need to be maintained at landscape scales.
3182650|This paper assesses the latitudinal extent of terrestrial breeding birds in Nicaragua. In particular, associations among latitudinal midpoint, body mass, and latitudinal extent are examined; significant differences between natural history characteristics (trophic guild, forest dependence, number of forest types) and latitudinal extent are identified; and a test is undertaken of Rapoport's rule for birds at the edge of their northern or southern range in Nicaragua. Birds in Nicaragua were classified into four categories based on latitudinal extent: birds generally restricted to Central America (20%); birds near the edge of their range within Nicaragua (34%); Neotropical birds (42%); and Pan-American birds (4%). Latitudinal midpoint had a significant negative correlation with latitudinal extent over different taxonomic scales. Natural history characteristics of trophic guild, forest dependence and number of forest types can account for significant differences in species latitudinal extent. Carnivores had greater latitudinal extents than most other trophic guilds, non-forest birds had greater latitudinal extents than birds that require patchy forest, and birds that occur in four or more forest types had greater latitudinal extents than birds restricted to one or two forest types. Contrary to Rapoport's rule, birds with a northern affinity or latitudinal midpoint north of Nicaragua had significantly smaller latitudinal extents than birds with a southern affinity or latitudinal midpoint south of Nicaragua. A comparison of natural history characteristics of birds with northern and southern affinities found no difference between trophic guild or forest dependence but a significant difference among the number of forest types used by forest birds. Birds with a southern affinity were restricted to fewer forest types than birds with a northern affinity.
3697399|Aim: A better understanding of the processes driving local species richness and of the scales at which they operate is crucial for conserving biodiversity in cultivated landscapes. Local species richness may be controlled by ecological processes acting at larger spatial scales. Very little is known about the effect of landscape variables on soil biota. The aim of our study was to partly fill this gap by relating the local variation of surface-dwelling macroarthropod species richness to factors operating at the habitat scale (i.e. land use and habitat characteristics) and the landscape scale (i.e. composition of the surrounding matrix). Location: An agricultural landscape with a low-input farming system in Central Hesse, Germany. Methods: We focused on five taxa significantly differing in mobility and ecological requirements: ants, ground beetles, rove beetles, woodlice, and millipedes. Animals were caught with pitfall traps in fields of different land use (arable land, grassland, fallow land) and different habitat conditions (insolation, soil humidity). Composition of the surrounding landscape was analysed within a radius of 250 m around the fields. Results: Factors from both scales together explained a large amount of the local variation in species richness, but the explanatory strength of the factors differed significantly among taxa. Land use particularly affected ground beetles and woodlice, whereas ants and rove beetles were more strongly affected by habitat characteristics, namely by insolation and soil characteristics. Local species richness of diplopods depended almost entirely on the surrounding landscape. In general, the composition of the neighbouring landscape had a lower impact on the species richness of most soil macroarthropod taxa than did land use and habitat characteristics. Main conclusions: We conclude that agri-environment schemes for the conservation of biodiversity in cultivated landscapes have to secure management for both habitat quality and heterogeneous landscape mosaics.
41058229|Aim: The biogeography of microbes is poorly understood and there is an open debate regarding if and how microbial biodiversity is structured. At the beginning of the 20th century, Baas Becking laid the foundations for the biogeography of microbes by stating that Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects (the EisE hypothesis). This hypothesis remained dogma for almost a century. However, the recognition that microbial species are often assemblages of reproductively isolated lineages challenged the EisE hypothesis, leading to the now common assumption that microbial communities possess cryptic biogeographic structures. We tested the presence of a cryptic biogeographical structure for a well-characterized fungal species complex (the Phialocephala fortinii s.l-Acephala applanata species complex, PAC) using precise molecular species resolution. In addition, we analysed factors that could govern PAC community assembling. Locations: Forty-four study sites in temperate and boreal forests across the Northern Hemisphere were included. Methods: (1) The distance-decay relationship among PAC communities was calculated and a resampling procedure was applied to analyse the effect of sampling intensity and geographic distances among PAC communities. (2) Factors shaping PAC communities (e.g. climatic factors and tree species composition) were studied. (3) We tested PAC communities for random composition. Results: We found that the similarity of species assemblages did not decrease with increasing geographical distance. Moreover, species diversity did not increase by expanding the area sampled. Instead, species diversity increased by increasing the sampling effort. Community composition correlated neither with tree species composition nor climate, and no association among species was observed. Main conclusions: We could not discover any cryptic biogeographic structure even after applying refined species assignment but we demonstrate the importance of sampling effort for understanding the biogeography of microorganisms. Moreover, we show that primarily stochastic effects are responsible for the species composition of PAC communities.
41239409|Aim: To quantify how mammal community structure relates to heterogeneity of vegetation for palaeoecological reconstructions, and to test whether historical or environmental factors are more important in structuring communities. Location: Sixty-three natural protected areas in Asia, Africa and South and Central America. Methods: We defined faunal communities by allocating species to ecological guilds and calculating proportional representation within each guild. Vegetation heterogeneity for each natural protected area was calculated from satellite images. The relationship between these ecospaces was calculated using canonical correlations analysis, redundancy analysis and principal components analysis. We expected that large, herbivorous mammals would be most strongly correlated with open areas. Convergence was tested by independently eliminating the effects of geography and vegetation heterogeneity on the structure of the mammal communities. We expected that vegetation would more strongly structure communities than geographical position. Results: We show that the guild structure of communities across habitats is significantly correlated with vegetation heterogeneity. The highest correlation was between small, scansorial-arboreal secondary consumers and heavy tree cover. The first convergence analysis shows American communities distinguished from Asian and African communities; these latter communities show a remarkable convergence in structure. Historical factors only affected the continent whose mammals had experienced a long period of isolation. The second convergence analysis shows that almost all biomes have the same or very similar community structure regardless of continent. Main conclusions: Communities from the same environments in different continents showed remarkable convergence. Communities from the same continents only converged when those continents shared a recent geological and biological history. These results suggest that historical and environmental factors are operating over different timescales. This study confirms that environmental reconstructions made on the basis of whole communities will accurately reflect the environment that the community lived in. However, reconstructions made for fossil sites in deep time need to take historical factors into consideration. Small, arboreal and scansorial secondary consumers show the strongest correlation with vegetation, correlating with continuous tree canopy cover. This relationship allows simple reconstructions of the amount of tree cover occurring in a landscape from the proportion of species from the community falling in this ecological guild.
40205712|Aim: To assess how habitat affinities in the native distribution range influence the invasion success of 282 central European neophytes (alien plants introduced after AD 1500). Location: Czech Republic. Methods: Classification trees were used to determine which native habitats donate the most alien species, the correspondence between habitats occupied by species in their native and invaded distribution ranges, and invasion success of species originating from different habitats. Results: The species most likely to naturalize in Central Europe are those associated with thermophile woodland fringes in their native range (81%), cultivated areas of gardens and parks (75%) and broad-leaved deciduous woodlands (72%). The largest proportions of invasive species recruit from those that occur on riverine terraces and eroded slopes, or grow in both deciduous woodland and riverine scrub. When the relative role of habitats in the native range is assessed as a determinant of the probability that a species will become invasive in concert with other factors (the species' residence time, life history, region of origin), the direct effect of habitat is negligible. However, the effect of native habitats on patterns of invasions observed in central Europe is manifested by large differences in the numbers of species they supply to the invaded region. More than 50 neophytes were recruited from each of the following habitats: dry grasslands, ruderal habitats, deciduous woodland, inland cliffs, rock pavements and outcrops, and tall-herb fringes and meadows. Main conclusions: Casual species recruit from a wider range of habitats in their native range than they occupy in the invaded range; naturalized but not invasive species inhabit a comparable spectrum of habitats in both ranges, and successful invaders occupy a wider range of habitats in the invaded than in the native range. This supports the idea that the invasive phase of the process is associated with changes in biological features that allow for extension of the spectrum of habitats invaded.
40801913|Aim: To map and characterize anthropogenic transformation of the terrestrial biosphere before and during the Industrial Revolution, from 1700 to 2000.
40205738|Aim: Global warming and other anthropogenic changes to the environment affect many aspects of biology and have often been invoked as causing body size changes in vertebrates. Here we examine a diverse set of carnivore populations in search of patterns in body size change that could reflect global warming (in accord with Bergmanris rule). Location: Global. Methods: We used > 4400 specimens representing 22 carnivore species in 52 populations collected over the last few decades to examine whether size changed with collection date when geography and sex are accounted for. We then examined several factors related to global warming, body mass, diet, and the attributes of the different datasets, to see whether they affect the standardized slope () of the size versus time regression. Results: Six of 52 populations we examined show a significant effect of year of collection on body size at the 0.05 probability level. The response of size to global warming does not reflect spatial patterns of size variation, nor do diet or body mass affect tendency of populations to change in body size. Size changes are no more pronounced in populations that have been sampled more recently. However, change, where it occurs, is rapid. Main conclusions: There may be a tendency in the literature to report only cases where recent changes are prevalent. Although in our data only a minority of populations show body size changes, we may see changes accelerating in the future in response to more drastic climatic changes and other anthropogenic changes.
4139406|Aim We explored the importance of climate and land cover in bird species distribution models on multiple spatial scales. In particular, we tested whether the integration of land cover data improves the performance of pure bioclimatic models. Location Finland, northern Europe. Methods The data of the bird atlas survey carried out in 1986-89 using a 10 x 10 km uniform grid system in Finland were employed in the analyses. Land cover and climatic variables were compiled using the same grid system. The dependent and explanatory variables were resampled to 20-km, 40-km and 80-km resolutions. Generalized additive models (GAM) were constructed for each of the 88 land bird species studied in order to estimate the probability of occurrence as a function of (1) climate and (2) climate and land cover variables. Model accuracy was measured by a cross-validation approach using the area under the curve (AUC) of a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) plot. Results In general, the accuracies of the 88 bird-climate models were good at all studied resolutions. However, the inclusion of land cover increased the performance of 79 and 78 of the 88 bioclimatic models at 10-km and 20-km resolutions, respectively. There was no significant improvement at the 40-km resolution. In contrast to the finer resolutions, the inclusion of land cover variables decreased the modelling accuracy at 80km resolution. Main conclusions Our results suggest that the determinants of bird species distributions are hierarchically structured: climatic variables are large-scale determinants, followed by land cover at finer resolutions. The majority of the land bird species in Finland are rather clearly correlated with climate, and bioclimate envelope models can provide useful tools for identifying the relationships between these species and the environment at resolutions ranging from 10 km to 80 km. However, the notable contribution of land cover to the accuracy of bioclimatic models at 10-20-km resolutions indicates that the integration of climate and land cover information can improve our understanding and model predictions of biogeographical patterns under global change.
40205657|Aim: We analysed the variation of species richness in the European freshwater fauna across latitude. In particular, we compared latitudinal patterns in species richness and -diversity among species adapted to different habitat types. Location: Europe. Methods: We compiled data on occurrence for 14,020 animal species across 25 pre-defined biogeographical regions of European freshwaters from the Limnofauna Europaea. Furthermore, we extracted information on the habitat preferences of species. We assigned species to three habitat types: species adapted to groundwater, lotic (running water) and lentic (standing water) habitats. We analysed latitudinal patterns of species richness, the proportion of lentic species and -diversity. Results: Only lentic species showed a significant species-area relationship. We found a monotonic decline of species richness with latitude for groundwater and lotic habitats, but a hump-shaped relationship for lentic habitats. The proportion of lentic species increased from southern to northern latitudes. -Diversity declined from groundwater to lentic habitats and from southern to northern latitudes. Main conclusions: The differences in the latitudinal variation of species richness among species adapted to different habitat types are in part due to differences in the propensity for dispersal. Since lentic habitats are less persistent than lotic or groundwater habitats, lentic species evolved more efficient strategies for dispersal. The dispersal propensity of lentic species facilitated the recolonization of central Europe after the last glaciation. Overall, we stress the importance of considering the history of regions and lineages as well as the ecological traits of species for understanding patterns of biodiversity.
40205677|The relationship between biodiversity and habitat productivity has been a fundamental topic in ecology. Although the relationship between these parameters may exhibit different shapes, the unimodal shape has been frequently encountered. The decrease in diversity at high productivity has usually been attributed to competitive exclusion. We suggest that evolutionary history and dispersal limitation may be even more important in shaping the diversity-productivity relationship. On a global scale, unimodal diversity-productivity relationships dominate in temperate regions, whereas positive relationships are more common in the tropics. This difference can be accounted for by contrasting evolutionary history. Temperate regions have smaller species pools for productive habitats since these habitats have been scarce historically for speciation, while the opposite is true for the tropics. In addition, dispersal within a region may limit diversity either due to the lack of dispersal syndromes at low productivity or the low number of diaspores at high productivity. Thereafter, biotic interactions (competition and facilitation) can shape the relationship. All these processes can act independently or concurrently. We recommend that the common approach to examining empirical diversity-environmental relationships should start with the role of large-scale processes such as evolutionary history and dispersal limitation, followed by influences associated with ecological interactions.
40205670|Aim: The proportion of alien plant species in floras is increasingly being used to indicate the threat of invasions to native species and/or the homogenization of biodiversity. However, this indicator is only valuable if it is independent of the spatial extent and grain of observation. This study tested the equivalence of native and alien species-area relationships (SARs) in order to assess the support for scale invariance in the proportion of alien species in floras. Location: England, UK. Methods: Nested SARs were generated by assessing the richness of native and alien plant species drawn from the New atlas of the British and Irish flora for six areas comprising 100, 400, 900, 1600, 2500 and 3600 km with each larger area containing all smaller areas. Five replicate sets of nested areas encompassing northern, southern, eastern, western and central regions were chosen. For each set of nested areas, the log-transformed species richness was regressed on log-transformed area to fit a power function to the SAR. Results: Native and alien plant SARs reveal consistent differences in slope, highlighting that the proportion of alien species is a function of spatial grain. Aliens are more rare than natives and have higher spatial turnover leading to faster accumulation of species as area increases. However, equivalent samples drawn from a larger spatial extent reveal similar alien and native SARs. Main conclusions: The significant differential scale dependence in native and alien species richness observed in this study reflects dissimilar influences of regional drivers such as habitat, but potentially also propagule pressure and introduction history, that leads to the relative rarity and high spatial turnover of alien species. Maps of invasion hotspots that identify areas where the proportion of the alien flora is particularly high should therefore be treated with considerable caution since patterns across most grains used for species monitoring will be scale dependent.
3697500|In the literature, the terms species richness and species diversity are sometimes used interchangeably. We suggest that at the very least, authors should define what they mean by either term. Of the many species diversity indices used in the literature, the Shannon Index is perhaps most commonly used. On some occasions it is called the Shannon-Wiener Index and on other occasions it is called the Shannon-Weaver Index. We suggest an explanation for this dual use of terms and in so doing we offer a tribute to the late Claude Shannon (who passed away on 24 February 2001).
2997903|The depth of the root system controls the maximum amount of soil water that can be transpired by the vegetation into the atmosphere during dry periods. Water uptake from deep soil layers has been found to contribute significantly to the dry season transpiration at some sites in Amazonia and it has been estimated that large parts of the evergreen forests in Amazonia depend on deep roots to survive the dry season. Thus, the presence of deep roots might provide a significant source of atmospheric moisture during the dry season, and one which would be affected by deforestation. We investigate the role of deep-rooted vegetation and its removal in the context of Amazonian deforestation using an atmospheric General Circulation Model (GCM). A distribution of deep roots is obtained by a numerical optimization approach. The simulated climate with the use of the calculated deep roots substantially improves the seasonal characteristics of the GCM. Three additional simulations are then conducted in order to isolate the effect of rooting depth reduction from other parameter changes associated with large-scale deforestation. Most of the climatic effects occur during the dry season and are attributed to the reduction of rooting depth. Dry periods are found to last longer, being more intense with drier and warmer air, while the wet season remains fairly unchanged. The implications of these climatic effects for the re-establishment of the natural evergreen forest are discussed.
3697606|Aim: The objective of this paper is to obtain a net primary production (NPP) regression model based on the geographically weighted regression (GWR) method, which includes spatial non-stationarity in the parameters estimated for forest ecosystems in China. Location: We used data across China. Methods: We examine the relationships between NPP of Chinese forest ecosystems and environmental variables, specifically altitude, temperature, precipitation and time-integrated normalized difference vegetation index (TINDVI) based on the ordinary least squares (OLS) regression, the spatial lag model and GWR methods. Results: The GWR method made significantly better predictions of NPP in simulations than did OLS, as indicated both by corrected Akaike Information Criterion (AIC
30137989|Aim: Species can respond to global climate change by range shifts or by phenotypic adaptation. At the community level, range shifts lead to a turnover of species, i.e. community reassembly. In contrast, phenotypic adaptation allows species to persist in situ, conserving community composition. So far, community reassembly and adaptation have mostly been studied separately. In nature, however, both processes take place simultaneously. In migratory birds, climate change has been shown to result in both exchange of species and adaptation of migratory behaviour. The aim of our study is to predict the impact of global climate change on migratory bird communities and to assess the extent to which reassembly and adaptation may contribute to alterations. Location: Europe. Methods: We analysed the relationship between current climate and the proportion of migratory species across bird assemblages in Europe. The magnitude of community reassembly was measured using spatial variation in the proportion of potentially migratory species. Adaptation was inferred from spatial variation in the proportion of potentially migratory species that actually migrate at a specific site. These spatial relationships were used to make temporal predictions of changes in migratory species under global climate change. Results: According to our models, increasing winter temperature is expected to lead to declines in the proportion of migratory species, whereas increasing spring temperature and decreasing spring precipitation may lead to increases. Changes in winter and spring temperature are expected to cause mainly adaptation in migratory activity, while changes in spring precipitation may result in both changes in the proportion of potentially migratory species and adaptation of migratory activity. Main conclusions: Under current climate change forecasts, changes in the proportion of migratory species will be modest and the communities of migratory birds in Europe are projected to be altered through adaptation of migratory activity rather than through exchange of species.
3697398|Aim: Stratification of major differences in the biophysical features of landscapes at the continental scale is necessary to collectively assess local observations of landscape response to management actions for consistency and difference. Such a stratification is an important step in the development of generalizations concerning how landscapes respond to different management regimes. As part of the development of a comparative framework for this purpose, we propose a climate classification adapted from an existing broad scale global agro-climatic classification, which is closely aligned with natural vegetation formations and common land uses across Australia. Location: The project considered landscapes across the continent of Australia. Methods: The global agro-climatic classification was adapted by using elevation-dependent thin plate smoothing splines to clarify the spatial extents of the 18 global classes found in Australia. The clarified class boundaries were interpolated from known classes at 822 points across Australia. These classes were then aligned with the existing bioregional classification, Interim Biogeographic Regionalization for Australia IBRA 5.1. Results: The aligned climate classes reflect major patterns in plant growth temperature and moisture indices and seasonality. These in turn reflect broad differences in cropping and other land use characteristics. Fifty-two of the 85 bioregions were classified entirely into one of the 18 agro-climatic classes. The remaining bioregions were classified according to sub-bioregional boundaries. A small number of these sub-bioregions were split to better reflect agro-climatic boundaries. Main conclusions: The agro-climatic classification provided an explicit global context for the analysis. The topographic dependence of the revised climate class boundaries clarified the spatial extents of poorly sampled highland classes and facilitated the alignment of these classes with the bioregional classification. This also made the classification amenable to explicit application. The bioregional and subregional boundaries reflect discontinuities in biophysical features. These permit the integrated classification to reflect major potential differences in landscape function and response to management. The refined agro-climatic classification and its integration with the IBRA bioregions are both available for general use and assessment.
2665315|1 Areas burned annually in the United States between 1700 and 1990 were derived from published estimates of pre-European burning rates and from wildfire statistics of the US Forest Service. Changes in live and dead vegetation following fire and fire exclusion were determined for 18 types of biomes and added to a book-keeping model to calculate the long-term effect of fire and fire management on carbon storage. 2 Over the 290-year period, burning declined by an estimated 98%, first, because wildlands were converted to agricultural lands, essentially eliminating fire from 236 x 10<sup>6</sup> ha and, secondly, because wildfires were excluded and suppressed in the remaining forests and non-forests. 3 Adding fire and fire management to an analysis of land-use change (companion paper) reduced the emissions of carbon over the period 1700-1990 by 25% (8 PgC). Less carbon was released because fire reduced the average biomass of forests cleared and burned, and because fire exclusion led to an increase in carbon storage in forests. 4 The wildfire statistics of the USDA were insufficient for addressing two kinds of change: fire exclusion before 1926 and changes in the burning of non-forest ecosystems. We estimate here that as much as 4 and 12 PgC, respectively, may have accumulated in vegetation as a result of these changes, but the estimates are uncertain and likely to be upper limits. 5 The maximum rate of carbon accumulation attributable to all changes in land use, including fire management, was 300-400 TgC/year and occurred around 1980. Less than half of this uptake was in forests. Uptake by forests was constrained by the fact that most forests were already accumulating carbon in response to earlier harvests. Fire exclusion added little to this uptake.
30137864|Aim To understand cross-taxon spatial congruence patterns of bird and woody plant species richness. In particular, to test the relative roles of functional relationships between birds and woody plants, and the direct and indirect environmental effects on broad-scale species richness of both groups. Location Kenya. Methods Based on comprehensive range maps of all birds and woody plants (native species > 2.5 m in height) in Kenya, we mapped species richness of both groups. We distinguished species richness of four different avian frugivore guilds (obligate, partial, opportunistic and non-frugivores) and fleshy-fruited and nonfleshy-fruited woody plants. We used structural equation modelling and spatial regressions to test for effects of functional relationships (resource-consumer interactions and vegetation structural complexity) and environment (climate and habitat heterogeneity) on the richness patterns. Results Path analyses suggested that bird and woody plant species richness are linked via functional relationships, probably driven by vegetation structural complexity rather than trophic interactions. Bird species richness was determined in our models by both environmental variables and the functional relationships with woody plants. Direct environmental effects on woody plant richness differed from those on bird richness, and different avian consumer guilds showed distinct responses to climatic factors when woody plant species richness was included in path models. Main conclusions Our results imply that bird and woody plant diversity are linked at this scale via vegetation structural complexity, and that environmental factors differ in their direct effects on plants and avian trophic guilds. We conclude that climatic factors influence broad-scale tropical bird species richness in large part indirectly, via effects on plants, rather than only directly as often assumed. This could have important implications for future predictions of animal species richness in response to climate change.
40928126|Aims: Clarifying the spatiotemporal variations in precipitation-use efficiency (PUE), the ratio of vegetation above-ground productivity to annual precipitation, will advance our understanding of how ecosystems' carbon and water cycles respond to climate change. Our goal is to investigate the variations in PUE at both regional and site scales along a 4500-km climate-related grassland transect. Location: The Inner Mongolian Plateau in northern China and the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Methods: We collected data on 580 sites from four data sources. The data were acquired through field surveys and long-term in situ observations. We investigated the relationships between precipitation and PUE at both regional and site scales, and we evaluated the effects of the main biotic and climatic factors on PUE at both spatial scales. Results: PUE decreased with decreasing mean annual precipitation (MAP), except for a slight rise toward the dry end of the gradient. The maximum PUE showed large site-to-site variation along the transect. Vegetation cover significantly affected the spatial variations in PUE, and this probably accounts for the positive relationship between PUE and MAP. However, there was no significant relationship between inter-annual variations in precipitation or vegetation cover and PUE within given ecosystems along the transect. Conclusions: The findings of this research contradict the prevailing view that a convergent maximum PUE exists among diverse ecosystems, as presented in previous reports. Our findings also suggest the action of distinct mechanisms in controlling PUE at different spatial scales. We propose the use of a conceptual model for predicting vegetation productivity at continental and global scales with a sigmoid function, which illustrates an increasing PUE with MAP in arid regions. Our approach may represent an improvement over use of the popular Miami model.
3697512|A criticism of macroecological studies has been their extensive use of secondary data sources. In this note we evaluate how different data sources affect macroecological patterns for the parrots of South America. We mapped extents of parrot occurrence based on four sources of range maps. We compared basic statistics for geographical range size distribution (mean, variance and skew) and calculated correlations between geographical range size estimates and grid cell species richness estimates. Finally, results from multiple regression analyses of species richness against six environmental variables were also compared. We found that patterns were very robust to the data source, with only relatively slight quantitative differences. Our results reinforce the notion that patterns emerging from macroecological analyses are robust to variations in data sources and cannot be merely artefacts resulting from low data quality, notably poorly defined mapping and conflicting taxonomy.
30137874|Aim Distribution maps of species based on a grid are useful for investigating relationships between scale and the number or area of occupied grid cells. A species is scaled up simply by merging occupied grid cells on the observation grid to successively coarser cells. Scale-occupancy relationships (SORs) obtained in this way can be used to extrapolate species down, in other words to compute occupancies at finer scales than the observation scale. In this paper we demonstrate that the SOR is not unique but depends on where one positions the origin of the grid map. Innovation The effect of grid origin on SORs was explored with the aid of the Dutch national data base FLORBASE, which contains the observation records of all 1410 wild vascular plants in the Netherlands on a 1-km square basis. For each species, we generated 2500 unique SORs by scaling up from 1 km, in steps of 1 km, to squares of 50 km. We computed the sensitivity of the SOR to the grid origin for each species, and subsequently analysed the factors that determined this sensitivity. The effect of grid origin on downscaling was demonstrated by means of a simple power function that we used to extrapolate down from both a 2-km and a 5-km grid, to the original 1-km grid. It appeared that the position of grid origin could have a substantial effect on SORs. The sensitivity of SORs to the position of the grid origin depended on three characteristics of a species' spatial distribution: rarity, degree of spatial clustering and the position of the distribution relative to the border of the investigated area. Rare species with a clustered distribution near the border were particularly highly sensitive. The dependence of SOR on grid origin caused unpredictable and non-random errors in downscaled occupancies. Main conclusions In future, the whole bandwidth of scaled occupancies should be considered when testing and interpreting mathematical relationships between scale and occupancy. Moreover, downscaled occupancies should be interpreted cautiously.
3697656|Aim: To address the relative role of adjacent land use, distance to forest edge, forest size and their interactions on understorey plant species richness and composition in perimetropolitan forests. Location: The metropolitan area of Barcelona, north-eastern Spain. Methods: Twenty sampling sites were distributed in two forest size-categories: small forest patches (8-90 ha) and large forest areas (> 18,000 ha). For each forest-size category, five sites were placed adjacent to crops and five sites adjacent to urban areas. Vascular plant species were recorded and human frequentation was scored visually in 210 10 x 10 m plots placed at 10, 50 and 100 m from the forest edge, and additionally at 500 m in large forest areas. Plant species were grouped according to their ecology and rarity categories. A nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS) ordination was carried out to detect patterns of variation in species assemblage, and to explore the relationships between these patterns and the richness of the species groups and the studied factors. Factorial ANOVAs were used to test the significance of the studied factors on the richness of species groups. Relationships between human frequentation and the studied variables were assessed through contingency tables. Results: Forest-size category was the main factor affecting synanthropic species (i.e. those thriving in man-made or man-disturbed habitats). Synanthropic species richness decreased with increasing distance from the forest edge and, when forests were adjacent to crops, it was higher in small forest patches than in large forest areas. Richness of rare forest species was lower in small forest patches than in large forest areas when forests were adjacent to urban areas. Richness of common forest species and of all forest species together were higher close to the forest edge than far from it when forests were adjacent to urban areas. Forests adjacent to urban areas were more likely to experience high human frequentation, particularly in those plots nearest to the forest edge. Main conclusions: Forest-size category and adjacent land use were the most important factors determining species richness and composition. The preservation of large forests adjacent to crops in peri-urban areas is recommended, because they are less frequented by humans, are better buffered against the percolation of nonforest species and could favour the persistence of rare forest species.
30137995|Aim: Animal monitoring programmes have allowed analyses of population trends, most of which now comment on the possible effect of global climate change. However, the relationship between the interspecific variation in population trends and species traits, such as habitat preferences, niche breadth or distribution patterns, has received little attention, in spite of its usefulness in the construction of ecological generalizations. The objectives of this study were: (1) to determine whether there are characteristics shared among species with upwards or downwards trends, and (2) to assess whether population changes agree with what could be expected under global warming (a decrease in species typical of cooler environments). Location: The Spanish part of the Iberian Peninsula (c. 500,000 km) in the southwestern part of the Mediterranean Basin. Methods: We modelled recent breeding population changes (1996-2004), in areas without apparent land use changes, for 57 common passerine birds with speciesspecific ecological and distributional patterns as explanatory variables. Results: One-half of these species have shown a generalized pattern towards the increase of their populations, while only one-tenth showed a significant decrease. One half (54%) of the interspecific variability in yearly population trends is explained considering species-specific traits. Species showing more marked increases preferred wooded habitats, were habitat generalists and occupied warmer and wetter areas, while moderate decreases were found for open country habitats in drier areas. Main conclusions: The coherent pattern in population trends we found disagrees with the proposed detrimental effect of global warming on bird populations of western Europe, which is expected to be more intense in bird species inhabiting cooler areas and habitats. Such a pattern suggests that factors other than the increase in temperature may be brought to discussions on global change as relevant components to explain recent changes in biodiversity.
30137819|Aim: To consider the role of local colonization and extinction rates in explaining the generation and maintenance of species richness gradients at the regional scale. Location: A Mediterranean biome (oak forests, deciduous forests, shrublands, pinewoods, firwoods, alpine heathlands, crops) in Catalonia, Spain. Methods: We analysed the relative importance of direct and indirect effects of community size in explaining species richness gradients. Direct sampling effects of community size on species richness are predicted by Hubbell's neutral theory of biodiversity and biogeography. The greater the number of individuals in a locality, the greater the number of species expected by random direct sampling effects. Indirect effects are predicted by the abundance-extinction hypothesis, which states that in more productive sites increased population densities and reduced extinction rates may lead to high species richness. The study system was an altitudinal gradient of forest bird species richness. Results: We found significant support for the existence of both direct and indirect effects of community size in species richness. Thus, both the neutral and the abundance-extinction hypotheses were supported for the altitudinal species richness gradient of forest birds in Catalonia. However, these mechanisms seem to drive variation in species richness only in low-productivity areas; in high-productivity areas, species richness was uncorrelated with community size and productivity measures. Main conclusions: Our results support the existence of a geographical mosaic of community-based processes behind species richness gradients, with contrasting abundance-extinction dynamics and sampling effects in areas of low and high productivity.
3697428|Aim: Broad-scale spatial patterns of species richness are very strongly correlated with climatic variables. If there is a causal link, i.e. if climate directly or indirectly determines patterns of richness, then when the climatic variables change, richness should change in the manner that spatial correlations between richness and climate would predict. The present study tests this prediction using seasonal changes in climatic variables and bird richness. Location: We used a grid of equal area quadrats (
3697489|In international nature conservation policy, value-arguments based on science and economic rationalism increasingly overshadow the aesthetic and ethical arguments that originally inspired the conservation movement. We argue that this trend risks removing conservation from the public realm, in part because it facilitates the adoption by nongovernment conservation bodies of corporate values and/or their integration with government bureaucracies. By contrast, the explicit recognition of aesthetic and ethical values would complement arguments based on science and economic utility. We subscribe to a reformist view of globalization that accepts the inevitability of a globalizing world but argues that the process needs humanizing by incorporating quality of life values in the policy process. We argue that re-emphasis of aesthetic and ethical arguments in international conservation policy would contribute to this goal by reasserting links between conservation bodies and the public, thereby leading to more effective action on the ground.
40205687|Aim: Anthropogenic fires are a major component of the ecology of rangelands throughout the world. To assess the effects of these fires on the diversity patterns of herbivores, we related gradients in fire occurrence, climate and soil fertility to patterns in alpha and beta diversity of African ungulates. Location: West Africa. Methods: We used a survey-based approach for ungulates in 37 protected areas in desert, savanna and rain forest habitats throughout West Africa, combined with satellite images of fire occurrence and digital maps of actual evapotranspiration and soil fertility. Alpha diversity was related to the environmental variables using conventional and spatial regression models. We investigated beta diversity using partial Mantel tests and ordination techniques, and by partitioning the variance in assemblage composition into environmental and spatial components. Results: The species richness of grazers showed a quadratic relationship with actual evapotranspiration, whereas that of browsers and frugivores showed a linear relationship. However, in the multiple regression models fire occurrence was the only variable that significantly correlated with the species richness of grazers. Soil fertility was weakly related to overall beta diversity and the species richness of browsers, but was non-significant in the multiple regression models. Fire occurrence was the most important variable explaining species composition of the overall species set and of grazers, whereas the assemblage composition of browsers and frugivores was explained mostly by actual evapotranspiration. Main conclusions: In contrast to previous studies, our analyses show that moisture and nutrients alone fail to adequately predict the diversity patterns of grazing ungulates. Rather, the species richness and assemblage composition of grazers are largely governed by anthropogenic fires that modify the quality and structure of the grass sward. Diversity patterns of browsers and frugivores are markedly different from grazers and depend mainly on the availability of moisture, which is positively correlated with the availability of foliage and fruits. Our study highlights the importance of incorporating major human-induced disturbances or habitat alterations into analyses of diversity patterns.
4139405|Aim The use of species distribution models (SDMs) to predict biological invasions is a rapidly developing area of ecology. However, most studies investigating SDMs typically ignore prediction errors and instead focus on regions where native distributions correctly predict invaded ranges. We investigated the ecological significance of prediction errors using reciprocal comparisons between the predicted invaded and native range of the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta) (hereafter called the fire ant). We questioned whether fire ants occupy similar environments in their native and introduced range, how the environments that fire ants occupy in their introduced range changed through time relative to their native range, and where fire ant propagules are likely to have originated. Location We developed models for South America and the conterminous United States (US) of America. Methods We developed models using the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction (GARP) and 12 environmental layers. Occurrence data from the native range in South America were used to predict the introduced range in the US and vice versa. Further, time-series data recording the invasion of fire ants in the US were used to predict the native range. Results Native range occurrences under-predicted the invasive potential of fire ants, whereas occurrence data from the US over-predicted the southern boundary of the native range. Secondly, introduced fire ants initially established in environments similar to those in their native range, but subsequently invaded harsher environments. Time-series data suggest that fire ant propagules originated near the southern limit of their native range. Conclusions Our findings suggest that fire ants from a peripheral native population established in an environment similar to their native environment, and then ultimately expanded into environments in which they are not found in their native range. We argue that reciprocal comparisons between predicted native and invaded ranges will facilitate a better understanding of the biogeography of invasive and native species and of the role of SDMs in predicting future distributions.
2665423|1 The El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is an important driver of inter-annual variations in climate and ecosystem productivity in tropical regions. Most previous studies have analysed ENSO-induced changes in climate based on a single variable, such as rainfall. Also, it is generally assumed that the ENSO impact in East Africa is geographically uniform. 2 The objective of this study is to improve understanding of the impact of ENSO on East African ecosystems, by measuring teleconnections between an ENSO index and a number of ecosystem variables in a spatially explicit way and for different time lags. We analysed the spatial patterns of teleconnections in the region by combining time series of climate variables measured for meteorological stations with time series of a vegetation index and surface temperature data measured by remote sensing. 3 Our results confirm the ENSO impact on the climatic and ecological variability in East Africa. However, the pattern of teleconnections is much more complex than generally assumed, both in terms of spatial distribution and impact on different ecosystem variables. Not all climate and land surface variables are teleconnected to ENSO in the same way, which leads to a complex impact of ENSO on the ecosystem. Moreover, the ENSO impact is highly differentiated in space, as the direction, magnitude and timing of this impact are controlled by the local climate system, the presence of large lakes, proximity to the coast and, possibly, local topography and land cover.
30137825|Aim: Species richness in itself is not always sufficient to evaluate land management strategies for nature conservation. The exchange of species between local communities may be affected by landscape structure and land-use intensity. Thus, species turnover, and its inverse, community similarity, may be useful measures of landscape integrity from a diversity perspective. Location: A European transect from France to Estonia. Methods: We measured the similarity of plant, bird, wild bee, true bug, carabid beetle, hoverfly and spider communities sampled along gradients in landscape composition (e.g. total availability of semi-natural habitat), landscape configuration (e.g. fragmentation) and land-use intensity (e.g. pesticide loads). Results: Total availability of semi-natural habitats had little effect on community similarity, except for bird communities, which were more homogeneous in more natural landscapes. Bee communities, in contrast, were less similar in landscapes with higher percentages of semi-natural habitats. Increased landscape fragmentation decreased similarity of true bug communities, while plant communities showed a nonlinear, U-shaped response. More intense land use, specifically increased pesticide burden, led to a homogenization of bee, bug and spider communities within sites. In these cases, habitat fragmentation interacted with pesticide load. Hoverfly and carabid beetle community similarity was differentially affected by higher pesticide levels: for carabid beetles similarity decreased, while for hoverflies we observed a U-shaped relationship. Main conclusions: Our study demonstrates the effects of landscape composition, configuration and land-use intensity on the similarity of communities. It indicates reduced exchange of species between communities in landscapes dominated by agricultural activities. Taxonomic groups differed in their responses to environmental drivers and using but one group as an indicator for 'biodiversity' as such would thus not be advisable.
41239344|Aim: Treelines occur globally within a narrow range of mean growing season temperatures, suggesting that low-temperature growth limitation determines the position of the treeline. However, treelines also exhibit features that indicate that other mechanisms, such as biomass loss not resulting in mortality (dieback) and mortality, determine treeline position and dynamics. Debate regarding the mechanisms controlling treeline position and dynamics may be resolved by identifying the mechanisms controlling prominent treeline spatial patterns (or 'form') such as the spatial structure of the transition from closed forest to the tree limit. Recent treeline studies world-wide have confirmed a close link between form and dynamics. Location: The concepts presented refer to alpine treelines globally. Methods: In this review, we describe how varying dominance of three general ' first-level' mechanisms (tree performance: growth limitation, seedling mortality and dieback) result in different treeline forms, what 'second-level' mechanisms (stresses, e. g. freezing damage, photoinhibition) may underlie these general mechanisms, and how they are modulated by interactions with neighbours ('third-level' mechanisms). This hierarchy of mechanisms should facilitate discussions about treeline formation and dynamics. Results: We distinguish four primary treeline forms: diffuse, abrupt, island and krummholz. Growth limitation is dominant only at the diffuse treeline, which is the form that has most frequently responded as expected to growing-season warming, whereas the other forms are controlled by dieback and seedling mortality and are relatively unresponsive. Main conclusions: Treeline form provides a means for explaining the current variability in treeline position and dynamics and for exploring the general mechanisms controlling the responses of treelines to climatic change. Form indicates the relative dependence of tree performance on various aspects of the external climate (especially summer warmth versus winter Stressors) and on internal feedbacks, thus allowing inferences on the type as well as strength of climate-change responses.
30137826|Aim: Bergmann's rule, the tendency of body size within species in bird and mammal populations to be positively correlated with latitude, is among the best known biogeographical generalizations. The factors behind such clines, however, are not well understood. Here we use a large data base of 79 mammalian carnivore species to examine the factors affecting latitudinal size clines. Location: Worldwide. Methods: We measured the skulls and teeth of carnivores in natural history museums, and calculated the amount of variation in size explained by latitude, supplementing our measurements with published data. We examined the effects of a number of variables on the tendency to show latitudinal dines. Results: We found that geographical range and latitudinal extent are strongly related to size clines. Minimum temperatures across the range, net primary productivity and habitat diversity also have some, albeit much less, influence. Main conclusions: We suggest that species with large geographical ranges are likely to encounter significant heterogeneity in those factors that influence body size, and are thus likely to exhibit size clines. However, the key factors that determine body size may not always operate along a latitudinal (or other geographical) dine, but be spatially linked to patches in the species range. One such important factor is likely to be food availability, which we show is a strong predictor of size in the brown bear (Ursus arctos) but is not associated with a latitudinal dcline. We argue that the spatial distribution of key resources within the species range constitutes a significant predictor of carnivore body size.
30134096|Aim: We addressed the following questions: (1) Does tephritid body size tend to increase in species found at higher elevations, as predicted by Bergmann's rule? (2) Do tephritids conform to Rapoport's rule, so that species found at higher elevations tend to have broader altitudinal ranges? (3) More generally, how do body size and host range jointly affect the patterns of altitudinal distribution among Neotropical tephritid flies? Location: The Mantiqueira mountain range, south-eastern Brazil, at sites ranging from c. 700 to 2500 m a.s.l. Methods: At each site we collected flower heads of all Asteraceae species to rear out endophagous immatures (from January to June in 1998 and 1999). We used structural equation models (SEM) to evaluate jointly the relationships between body size, host range and altitudinal distribution (range and mid-point). Results: Neotropical tephritid body size showed a negative relationship with altitudinal distribution. SE modelling showed no significant direct effect of body size on altitudinal range; however, it had significant indirect negative effects through host range and altitudinal mid-point. The SE model was a good predictor of observed correlations and accounted for 84% of the variation in tephritid altitudinal range. Main conclusions: The altitudinal range of flower-head-feeding tephritids is related to host range and is indirectly affected by body size via host range and altitudinal mid-point. As predicted by Rapoport's rule, tephritids that occur at higher elevations also present wider altitudinal ranges. Bergmann's rule does not apply to Neotropical tephritids along a tropical elevational gradient, but rather its converse was found. Body size may determine host range by imposing a restriction upon large individuals using small flower heads. Host species turnover along the altitudinal gradient may be the main factor explaining the strong relationship between host range and insect elevational distribution.
3697419|Aim: The aim of this work was to estimate C sequestration rates in the organic matter layer in Swedish forests. Location: The region encompassed the forested area (
3182725| Aim: Predictive models of species' distributions use occurrence records and environmental data to produce a model of the species' requirements and a map of its potential distribution. To determine regions of suitable environmental conditions and assess biogeographical questions regarding their ranges, we modelled the potential geographical distributions of two spiny pocket mice (Rodentia: Heteromyidae) in north-western South America. Location: North-western South America. Methods: We used the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-Set Prediction (GARP), environmental data from GIS maps and georeferenced collection localities from a recent systematic review of Heteromys australis and H. anomalus to produce the models. Results: GARP models indicate the potential presence of H. australis throughout mesic montane regions of north-western South America, as well as in some lowland regions of moderately high precipitation. In contrast, H. anomalus is predicted to occur primarily in drier areas of the Caribbean coast and rain-shadowed valleys of the Andes. Conclusions: The models support the disjunct status of the population of H. australis in the Cordillera de Mrida, but predict a continuous distribution between known populations of H. anomalus in the upper Magdalena Valley and the Caribbean coast. Regions of suitable environmental conditions exist disjunct from known distributional areas for both species, suggesting possible historical restrictions to their ranges. This technique holds wide application to other study systems. 
41239408|Aim: To measure and quantify community phylogenetic structure to evaluate how evolutionary, ecological and biogeographic processes have shaped the distributions and assemblage of tropical and subtropical rain forest tree species across local, regional and continental scales. Location: Australia. Methods: We used 596 assemblage-level samples and 1137 woody species in rain forest vegetation sampled across two latitude regions (tropics and sub-tropics) and five distinct areas. Based on this dataset, we obtained and analysed species-level trait values (for leaf size, seed size, wood density and maximum height at maturity), measures of community phylogenetic structure and species turnover across space (beta) and evolutionary time (phylobeta). Results: Phylobeta values showed that at continental scales (i.e. across the latitude regions combined) species replacement, as turnover in assemblages through time, was by more phylogenetically distant (i.e. less closely related) taxa. Within latitude regions replacement was by more closely related taxa. Assemblages of species were more phylogenetically clustered across the whole phylogeny (net relatedness index) and with respect to more recent divergences (nearest related taxon index) where the effects of historic disturbance (climatic oscillations) had been greater, and less clustered in long-term stable (refugiai) locations. Local species composition in the stable wet tropics showed significant phylogenetic evenness, but there was no corresponding evenness in distributions of the ecological traits measured. Main conclusions: Despite a shared evolutionary and biogeographic history, the two regions diverged from each other before the development of internal divergences. Phylogenetic evenness is more evident in long-term stable habitats (refugia) where species interact in conserved niches. Phylogenetic clustering is more evident where recolonization of more highly disturbed areas from historically reduced species pools reflects filtering of species into phylogenetically preferred habitats.
4139442|Aim Spatial patterns of phylogenetic diversity (PD) aid our ability to discern diversification rate mechanisms underlying hypotheses for the large-scale distribution of biodiversity. We develop a predictive framework for the way in which spatial patterns of PD vary with those of species richness, depending on the balance between speciation and extinction rates. Within this framework, diversification processes thought to underlie the productive energy, ambient energy, topographic variability and habitat variety hypotheses predict that gradients of increase in species richness will be associated with: (1) decreasing extinction rates where driven by productive energy, hence increasing relative PD (i.e. PD controlling for species richness, or
3697613|Aim: The degree to which ecosystem properties (niche availability) and interspecific competition limit local species richness continues to be debated. We present a new method that takes advantage of special biogeographical conditions where habitat islands are embedded in a moderately dissimilar matrix. Small, isolated islands lack habitat specialists to varying degrees, allowing matrix species to occupy island habitat. We examined the relative influence of local vs. biogeographical factors on bird richness of habitat islands by evaluating three predictions each for three hypotheses (competitive exclusion, mass effect, species-area effects). Location: Five naturally isolated dry forest islands and eight extensive dry forest sites in Bolivia. Methods: Linear and multiple regressions were calculated between standardized species richness, the number of typical dry forest, humid forest and habitat generalist species vs. canopy height, elevation, precipitation, habitat area and distance from evergreen forest. The same analyses were performed at the guild level. Results: Our data are consistent with one prediction under each hypothesis, thus partly supporting and partly rejecting all three hypotheses. Bird richness of dry forest islands was primarily determined by local ecosystem properties (vegetation complexity, productivity), with a minor effect of habitat area (inverse) and distance to evergreen forest. The number of dry forest specialists was influenced by habitat area and isolation from source habitats, with elevation and precipitation adding moderate explanatory power. The number of humid forest specialists was determined by precipitation, habitat area (inversely) and canopy height. These patterns were also evident at the guild level, demonstrating that the loss of dry forest species in a given guild was correlated with a gain of humid forest species in the same guild, rather than random species turnover. Main conclusions: Total local species richness of semi-isolated habitat islands is determined primarily by local (niche availability) but also by regional (biogeographical) factors, exemplifying MacArthur's paradox. Small dry forest islands historically lost part of their habitat specialists. Vacant niches were filled by species from adjacent humid forest that are competitively excluded by habitat specialists from large dry forest areas, ideally until the community is saturated, although this pattern is to some degree modified by biogeographical factors. This 'semipermeable island' approach can be applied to other taxa and regions and is a promising, widely applicable tool for gaining new insights into the regulation of diversity.
40928129|Aim: We investigate the relationship between local and regional richness in marine fouling assemblages using an expanded and globally replicated approach by incorporating two dimensions of diversity (taxonomic and functional) and different successional stages. Location: Global. Methods: In eight different biogeographic regions (Australia, Brazil, Chile, England, Italy, Japan, Portugal and Sweden) 68 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) panels (15150.3 cm) were deployed for colonization. Communities colonizing panels were analysed by measuring percentage cover at each of four different successional ages: 2, 4, 6 and 8 months. Local richness was assessed as the average number of species and functional groups (FGs) per panel and regional richness was evaluated as the estimated (Jack2) asymptote of the sample-accumulation curves for species and FG on experimental panels. Results: We found that the shape of the relationship between local and regional richness depended on successional stage and the type of richness considered, i.e. taxonomic or functional richness. Hardly any relationship was detectable between local taxonomic richness and regional taxonomic richness at any successional stage. In contrast, the relation between local functional and regional functional richness shows a unimodal pattern of change during succession, passing through the stages 'independent', 'unsaturated rising', 'saturated rising' and once again 'independent'. Main conclusions: The relationship between local and regional richness, whether taxonomic or functional, frequently displays independence of the two scales, particularly in early and late phases of the successional process.
40602954|Aim: Human activities have led to the spread and establishment of increasing numbers of non-native species. Here we assess whether non-native plant and vertebrate species have affected species compositions within and across Europe and North America. We also assess the effects of intra-continental species exchange using the example of vertebrates. Location: European countries and North America (states in the contiguous United States and provinces of Canada). Methods: We measured compositional dissimilarity of native and non-native assemblages of vascular plants and vertebrates and related these patterns to climatic dissimilarity and geographical distance. We considered three categories of nonnative species (introduced after AD 1500), namely: those (1) originating outside of both continents, (2) native to one continent and non-native to the other, and (3) native in a particular region of a continent but non-native in another region. Results: The presence of non-native plants and vertebrates led to more homogeneous species compositions between continents and to less homogeneous species composition within Europe compared with the native assemblages. In North America, the presence of non-native plants led to more homogeneous species compositions and the presence of non-native vertebrates had no effect. Species compositions being more homogeneous than the native composition were found for the three categories of non-native vertebrate species for both continents. Between continents, climate was a better predictor of compositional dissimilarity for non-native plants, whereas for vertebrates the explanatory power of climate and geographical distance were comparable. By contrast, within continents, climate was a better predictor of compositional dissimilarity of both plants and vertebrates. Conclusions: We found clear evidence for biotic homogenization as a consequence of species displacement. However, in relation to overall species richness this effect was rather small, indicating that floras and faunas are still quite distinct. Therefore, claiming that we already face homogeneous biotas might be premature, although clear indications are visible which should raise a note of caution, especially in the light of increasing globalization.
3877775|Aim: The aim of this study is to determine the patterns of nitrogen (N) concentrations in leaf litter of forest trees as functions of climatic factors, annual average temperature (Temp,  C) and annual precipitation (Precip, dm) and of forest type (coniferous vs. broadleaf, deciduous vs. evergreen, Pinus, etc.). Location: The review was conducted using data from studies across the Eurasian continent. Methods: Leaf litter N concentration was compiled from 204 sets of published data (81 sets from coniferous and 123 from broadleaf forests in Eurasia). We explored the relationships between leaf litter N concentration and Temp and Precip by means of regression analysis. Leaf litter data from N
40602946|Aim: The controls of gross radiation use efficiency (RUE), the ratio between gross primary productivity (GPP) and the radiation intercepted by terrestrial vegetation, and its spatial and temporal variation are not yet fully understood. Our objectives were to analyse and synthesize the spatial variability of GPP and the spatial and temporal variability of RUE and its climatic controls for a wide range of vegetation types. Location: A global range of sites from tundra to rain forest. Methods: We analysed a global dataset on photosynthetic uptake and climatic variables from 35 eddy covariance (EC) flux sites spanning between 100 and 2200 mm mean annual rainfall and between -13 and 26C mean annual temperature.RUE was calculated from the data provided by EC flux sites and remote sensing (MODIS). Results: Rainfall and actual evapotranspiration (AET) positively influenced the spatial variation of annual GPP, whereas temperature only influenced the GPP of forests. Annual and maximum RUE were also positively controlled primarily by annual rainfall. The main control parameters of the growth season variation of gross RUE varied for each ecosystem type. Overall, the ratio between actual and potential evapotranspiration and a surrogate for the energy balance explained a greater proportion of the seasonal variation of RUE than the vapour pressure deficit (VPD), AET and precipitation. Temperature was important for determining the intra-annual variability of the RUE at the coldest energy-limited sites. Main conclusions: Our analysis supports the idea that the annual functioning of vegetation that is adapted to its local environment is more constrained by water availability than by temperature. The spatial variability of annual and maximum RUE can be largely explained by annual precipitation, more than by vegetation type. The intra-annual variation of RUE was mainly linked to the energy balance and water availability along the climatic gradient. Furthermore, we showed that intra-annual variation of gross RUE is only weakly influenced by VPD and temperature, contrary to what is frequently assumed. Our results provide a better understanding of the spatial and temporal controls of the RUE and thus could lead to a better estimation of ecosystem carbon fixation and better modelling.
41239482|Aim: To test how far can macroecological hypotheses relating diversity to environmental factors be extrapolated to functional and phylogenetic diversities, i. e. to the extent to which functional traits and evolutionary backgrounds vary among species in a community or region. We use a spatial partitioning of diversity where regional or -diversity is calculated by aggregating information on local communities, local or -diversity corresponds to diversity in one locality, and turnover or -diversity corresponds to the average turnover between localities and the region. Location: France. Methods: We used the Rao quadratic entropy decomposition of diversity to calculate local, regional and turnover diversity for each of three diversity facets (taxonomic, phylogenetic and functional) in breeding bird communities of France.Spatial autoregressive models and partial regression analyses were used to analyse the relationships between each diversity facet and environmental gradients (climate and land use). Results: Changes in -diversity are driven by changes in both -and -diversity. Low levels of human impact generally favour all three facets of regional diversity and heterogeneous landscapes usually harbour higher -diversity in the three facets of diversity, although functional and phylogenetic turnover show some relationships in the opposite direction. Spatial and environmental factors explain a large percentage of the variation in the three diversity facets (> 60%), and this is especially true for phylogenetic diversity. In all cases, spatial structure plays a preponderant role in explaining diversity gradients, suggesting an important role for dispersal limitations in structuring diversity at different spatial scales. Main conclusions: Our results generally support the idea that hypotheses that have previously been applied to taxonomic diversity, both at local and regional scales, can be extended to phylogenetic and functional diversity. Specifically, changes in regional diversity are the result of changes in both local and turnover diversity, some environmental conditions such as human development have a great impact on diversity levels, and heterogeneous landscapes tend to have higher diversity levels. Interestingly, differences between diversity facets could potentially provide further insights into how large-and small-scale ecological processes interact at the onset of macroecological patterns.
30137882|Aim: To compare the geographical distributions of two tick-borne pathogens vectored by different tick species, to examine the relative importance of climate, land cover and host density in structuring these distributions, and to assess the spatial variability of these environmental constraints across the species ranges. Location: South-central and south-eastern North America. Methods: Presence/absence data for two tick-borne pathogens, Ehrlichia chaffeensis and Anaplasma phagocytophilum, were obtained for 567 counties from a regional data base based on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) serology. Environmental variables describing climate, land cover and deer density were calculated for these counties. Global logistic regression analysis was used to screen the environmental variables and select a parsimonious subset of predictors. Local analysis was carried out using geographically weighted regression (GWR) to explore spatial variability in the parameters of the regression models. Cluster analysis was applied to the GWR output to identify zones with distinctive species-habitat relationships. Results: Global habitat models for E. chaffeensis and A. phagocytophilum included temperature, humidity, precipitation and forest cover as explanatory variables. The E. chaffeensis model also included forest fragmentation, whereas the A. phagocytophilum model included deer density. Local analyses revealed that climate was the primary correlate of pathogen presence in the eastern portion of the study area, whereas forest cover and fragmentation constrained the western range boundaries. Habitat relationships for all variables were weak in and around the Mississippi Delta. Main conclusions: Efforts to model pathogen and disease ranges, and to predict shifts in response to global change should consider future scenarios of land-cover change as well as climate change, and should address the possibility of spatial heterogeneity in species-habitat relationships. The methods presented here outline an approach for objectively delineating geographical zones with similar species-environment relationships, which can then be used to stratify landscapes for the purposes of further explanatory and predictive modelling.
40405768|Aim: To investigate the effect of temperature, latitude and local environment on the reproductive traits of widespread perennial focest herbs to better understand the potential impacts of rising temperatures on their population dynamics and colonization capacities. Location: Six regions along a latitudinal gradient from France to Sweden. Methods: Within each region, we collected data from three to five populations of up to six species. For each species, several variables were recorded in each region (temperature, latitude) and population (local abiotic and biotic environmental variables), and seed production and germination were estimated. Resource investment in reproduction (RIR) was quantified as seed number x seed mass, while germinable seed output (GSO) was expressed as seed number x germination percentage. We performed linear regression and mixed effect models to investigate the effects of temperature (growing degree hours), latitude and local abiotic and biotic environment on RIR and GSO. Results: Temperature and latitude explained most of the variation in RIR and GSO for early flowering species with a northerly distribution range edge (Anemone nemorosa, Paris quadrifolia and Oxalis acetosella). Reproduction of the more southerly distributed species (Brachypodium sylvaticum, Circaea lutetiana and Primula elatior), in contrast, was independent of temperature/latitude. In the late summer species, B. sylvaticum and C. lutetiana, variation in RIR and GSO was best explained by local environmental variables, while none of the investigated variables appeared to be related to reproduction in P. elatior. Main conclusions: We showed that reproduction of only two early flowering, northerly distributed species was related to temperature. This suggests that the potential reproductive response of forest herbs to climate warming partly depends on their phenology and distribution, but also that the response is to some extent species dependent. These findings should be taken into account when predictions about future shifts in distribution range are made.
3182682|Aim: The aim of this study is to test whether Bergmann's rule, a general intraspecific tendency towards larger body size in cooler areas and at higher latitudes, holds for birds throughout the world. Location: This study includes information on species of birds from throughout the world. Methods: I gathered data on body size variation from the literature and used two general meta-analytical procedures to test the validity of Bergmann's rule in birds: a modified vote-counting approach and calculation of overall effect sizes. Related species may show similar body size trends, thus I performed all analyses using nonphylogenetic and phylogenetic methods. I used tests of phylogenetic signal for each data set to decide which type of statistical analysis (nonphylogenetic or phylogenetic) was more appropriate. Results: The majority of species of birds (76 of 100 species) are larger at higher latitudes, and in cooler areas (20 of 22 species). Birds show a grand mean correlation coefficient of +0.32 for body size and latitude, and -0.81 for body size and temperature, both significant trends. Sedentary species show stronger body size trends in some, but not all, analyses. Neither males nor females consistently have stronger body size trends. Additionally, the strength of body size trends does not vary with latitude or body mass. Conclusions: Bergmann's rule holds for birds throughout the world, regardless of whether temperature or latitude (as a proxy) is used. Previous studies have suggested that Bergmann's rule is stronger for sedentary than migratory species, males than females and temperate than tropical taxa. I did not find strong support for any of these as general themes for birds, although few studies of tropical taxa have been conducted. The processes responsible for Bergmann's rule remain somewhat of a black box; however, fasting endurance is probably a more important factor than the traditional hypothesis of heat conservation.
3697675|Aim: While physical constraints influence terrestrial primary productivity, the extent to which geographical variation in productivity is influenced by physiological adaptations and changes in vegetation structure is unclear. Further, quantifying the effect of variability in species traits on ecosystems remains a critical research challenge. Here, we take a macroecological approach and ask if variation in the stoichiometric traits (C: N: P ratios) of plants and primary productivity across global-scale temperature gradients is consistent with a scaling model that integrates recent insights from the theories of metabolic scaling and ecological stoichiometry. Location: This study is global in scope, encompassing a wide variety of terrestrial plant communities. Methods: We first develop a scaling model that incorporates potentially adaptive variation in leaf and whole-plant nutrient content, kinetic aspects of photosynthesis and plant respiration, and the allometry of biomass partitioning and allocation. We then examine extensive data sets concerning the stoichiometry and productivity of diverse plant communities in light of the model. Results: Across diverse ecosystems, both foliar stoichiometry (N : P) and 'nitrogen productivity' (which depends on both community size structure and plant nutrient content) vary systematically across global scale temperature gradients. Primary productivity shows no relationship to temperature. Main conclusions: The model predicts that the observed patterns of variation in plant stoichiometry and nutrient productivity may offset the temperature dependence of primary production expected from the kinetics of photosynthesis alone. Our approach provides a quantitative framework for treating potentially adaptive functional variation across communities as a continuum and may thus inform studies of global change. More generally, our approach represents one of the first explicit combinations of ecological stoichiometry and metabolic scaling theories in the analysis of macroecological patterns.
40405787|Aim The size structure of a forest canopy is an important descriptor of the forest environment that may yield information on forest biomass and ecology. However, its variability at regional scales is poorly described or understood because of the still prohibitive cost of very high-resolution imagery as well as the lack of an appropriate methodology. We here employ a novel approach to describe and map the canopy structure of tropical forests. Location Amazonia. Methods We apply Fourier transform textural ordination (FOTO) techniques to subsamples of very high-resolution satellite imagery freely available through virtual globe software (e.g. Google Earth  ) to determine two key structural variables: apparent mean crown size and heterogeneity in crown size. A similar approach is used with artificial forest canopy images generated by the light interaction model (discrete anisotropic radiative transfer, DART) using three-dimensional stand models. The effects of sun and viewing angles are explored on both model and real data. Results It is shown that in the case of canopies dominated by a modal size class our approach can predict mean canopy size to an accuracy of 5%. In Amazonia, we could evidence a clear macrostructure, despite considerable local variability. Apparent crown size indeed consistently increases from about 14 m in wet north-west Amazonia to more than 17 m for areas of intermediate dry season length (1-3 months) in south and east Amazonia, before decreasing again towards the ecotone with the Cerrado savanna biome. This general trend reflects the known variation of other forest physiognomic properties (height) reported for South America and Africa. Some regions show significantly greater canopy heterogeneity, a feature that may be related to substratum, perturbation rate and/or forest turnover rate. Main conclusions Our results demonstrate the feasibility and interest of largescale assessment of rain forest canopy structure.
4139436|Aim Numerous studies have examined the climatic factors that influence the abundance of C
40205721|Aim: Species distribution models (SDMs) or, more specifically, ecological niche models (ENMs) are a useful and rapidly proliferating tool in ecology and global change biology. ENMs attempt to capture associations between a species and its environment and are often used to draw biological inferences, to predict potential occurrences in unoccupied regions and to forecast future distributions under environmental change. The accuracy of ENMs, however, hinges critically on the quality of occurrence data. ENMs often use haphazardly collected data rather than data collected across the full spectrum of existing environmental conditions. Moreover, it remains unclear how processes affecting ENM predictions operate at different spatial scales. The scale (i.e. grain size) of analysis may be dictated more by the sampling regime than by biologically meaningful processes. The aim of our study is to jointly quantify how issues relating to region and scale affect ENM predictions using an economically important and ecologically damaging invasive species, the Argentine ant (Linepithema humile). Location: California, USA. Methods: We analysed the relationship between sampling sufficiency, regional differences in environmental parameter space and cell size of analysis and resampling environmental layers using two independently collected sets of presence/absence data. Differences in variable importance were determined using model averaging and logistic regression. Model accuracy was measured with area under the curve (AUC) and Cohen's kappa. Results: We first demonstrate that insufficient sampling of environmental parameter space can cause large errors in predicted distributions and biological interpretation. Models performed best when they were parametrized with data that sufficiently sampled environmental parameter space. Second, we show that altering the spatial grain of analysis changes the relative importance of different environmental variables. These changes apparently result from how environmental constraints and the sampling distributions of environmental variables change with spatial grain. Conclusions These findings have clear relevance for biological inference. Taken together, our results illustrate potentially general limitations for ENMs, especially when such models are used to predict species occurrences in novel environments. We offer basic methodological and conceptual guidelines for appropriate sampling and scale matching.
2997870|In order to estimate the effect of historical land cover change (deforestation) on climate, we perform a set of experiments with a climate system model of intermediate complexity-CLIMBER-2. We focus on the biophysical effect of the land cover change on climate and do not explicitly account for the biogeochemical effect. A dynamic scenario of deforestation during the last millennium is formulated based on the rates of land conversion to agriculture. The deforestation scenario causes a global cooling of 0.35
3697573|Aim: To identify the effect of climate change on selected plant species representative of the main vegetation types in the Faroe Islands. Due to a possible weakening of the North Atlantic Current, it is difficult to predict whether the climate in the Faroe Islands will be warmer or colder as a result of global warming. Therefore, two scenarios are proposed. The first scenario assumes an increase in summer and winter temperature of 2  C and the second a decrease in summer and winter temperature of 2  C. Location: Temperate, low alpine and alpine areas in the northern and central part of the Faroe Islands. Methods: The responses of 12 different plant species in the Faroe Islands were tested against measured soil temperature, expressed as T
30134090|Aim: Temporal variability of annual area burned in Canada (AAB-Can) from AD 1781 to 1982 is inferred from tree-ring width data. Next, correlation analysis is applied between the AAB-Can estimates and Northern Hemisphere (NH) warm season land temperatures to link recent interannual to decadal changes in area burned with large-scale climate variations. The rationale in this use of tree rings is that annual radial increments produced by trees can approximate area burned through sensing climate variations that promote fire activity. Location: The statistical reconstruction of area burned is at the scale of Canada. Methods: The data base of total area burned per year in Canada is used as the predictand. A set of 53 multicentury tree-ring width chronologies distributed across Canada is used as predictors. A linear model relating the predictand to the tree-ring predictors is fitted over the period 1920-82. The regression coefficients estimated for the calibration period are applied to the tree-ring predictors for as far back as 1781 to produce a series of AAB-Can estimates. Results: The AAB-Can estimates account for 44.1% of the variance in the observed data recorded from 1920 to 1982 (92.2% after decadal smoothing) and were verified using a split sample calibration-verification scheme. The statistical reconstruction indicates that the positive trend in AAB-Can from c. 1970-82 was preceded by three decades during which area burned was at its lowest during the past 180 years. Correlation analysis with NH warm season land temperatures from the late 18th century to the present revealed a positive statistical association with these estimates. Main conclusions: As with previous studies, it is demonstrated that the upward trend in AAB-Can is unlikely to be an artefact from changing fire reporting practices and may have been driven by large-scale climate variations.
41239406|Aim: To demonstrate how the interrelations of individual movements form largescale population-level movement patterns and how these patterns are associated with the underlying landscape dynamics by comparing ungulate movements across species. Locations: Arctic tundra in Alaska and Canada, temperate forests in Massachusetts, Patagonian Steppes in Argentina, Eastern Steppes in Mongolia. Methods: We used relocation data from four ungulate species (barren-ground caribou, Mongolian gazelle, guanaco and moose) to examine individual movements and the interrelation of movements among individuals. We applied and developed a suite of spatial metrics that measure variation in movement among individuals as population dispersion, movement coordination and realized mobility. Taken together, these metrics allowed us to quantify and distinguish among different large-scale population-level movement patterns such as migration, range residency and nomadism. We then related the population-level movement patterns to the underlying landscape vegetation dynamics via long-term remote sensing measurements of the temporal variability, spatial variability and unpredictability of vegetation productivity. Results: Moose, which remained in sedentary home ranges, and guanacos, which were partially migratory, exhibited relatively short annual movements associated with landscapes having very little broad-scale variability in vegetation. Caribou and gazelle performed extreme long-distance movements that were associated with broad-scale variability in vegetation productivity during the peak of the growing season. Caribou exhibited regular seasonal migration in which individuals were clustered for most of the year and exhibited coordinated movements. In contrast, gazelle were nomadic, as individuals were independently distributed and moved in an uncoordinated manner that relates to the comparatively unpredictable (yet broad-scale) vegetation dynamics of their landscape. Main conclusions: We show how broad-scale landscape unpredictability may lead to nomadism, an understudied type of long-distance movement. In contrast to classical migration where landscapes may vary at broad scales but in a predictable manner, long-distance movements of nomadic individuals are uncoordinated and independent from other such individuals. Landscapes with little broad-scale variability in vegetation productivity feature smaller-scale movements and allow for range residency. Nomadism requires distinct integrative conservation strategies that facilitate long-distance movements across the entire landscape and are not limited to certain migration corridors.
40205713|Aim: In this continental study, species richness at local (LSR) and regional (RSR) scales was correlated and examined as a function of stream (local) and watershed (regional) environment in an effort to elucidate what factors control diatom biodiversity across scales. Location: Conterminous United States. Methods: Data on diatom richness, stream conditions and watershed properties were generated by the US Geological Survey. In the present investigation, RSR was estimated as the total diatom richness in a hydrologic study unit and, together with stream and watershed characteristics, was included in stepwise multiple regressions of LSR. The unique and shared contributions of RSR, stream and watershed environment to the explained variance in LSR were determined by variance partitioning. RSR was regressed against stream and basin features averaged per study unit. Results: LSR responded most strongly to variability in stream manganese concentration and RSR. Other predictors included stream discharge and iron concentration, soil organic matter content and fertilization, and proportions of open water, barren land and forest in the watershed. Variance partitioning revealed that RSR had the lowest independent contribution to explained variance in LSR. Multiple regressions identified average stream iron concentration as the most important predictor of RSR. Main conclusions: Local micronutrient concentration was the major predictor of LSR, followed by RSR. Since average micronutrient supply in the region was the chief determinant of RSR, it is proposed that micronutrients had both a direct effect on LSR and an indirect effect through RSR. The same argument is extended to watershed features with an impact on stream trophic status, because of their substantial contributions to the explained variance in both LSR and RSR. Considering that the major proportion of LSR variance explained by RSR originated from the covariance of RSR with stream and watershed properties, it is concluded that the LSR-RSR relationship was mediated by the local and regional environment.
30134093|Aim: We present a continental-scale analysis that explores the processes controlling woody community structure in tropical savannas. We analyse how biotic and abiotic factors interact to promote and modify tree cover, examine alternative ecological hypotheses and quantify disturbance effects using satellite estimates of tree cover. Location: African savannas. Methods: Tree cover is represented as a resource-driven potential cover related to rainfall and soil characteristics perturbed by natural and human factors such as fire, cattle grazing, human population and cultivation. Within this framework our approach combines semi-empirical modelling and information theory to identify the best models. Results: Woody community structure across African savannas is best represented by a sigmoidal response of tree cover to mean annual precipitation (MAP), with a dependency on soil texture, which is modified by the separate effects of fire, domestic livestock, human population density and cultivation intensity. This model explains c. 66% of the variance in tree cover and appears consistent across the savanna regions of Africa. Main conclusions: The analysis provides a new understanding of the importance and interaction of environmental and disturbance factors that create the broad spatial patterns of tree cover observed in African savannas. Woody cover increases with rainfall, but is modified by disturbances. These 'perturbation' effects depend on MAP regimes: in arid savannas (MAP &lt; 400 mm) they are generally small (&lt; 1% decrease in cover), while in semi-arid and mesic savannas (400-1600 mm), perturbations result in an average 2% (400 mm) to 23% (1600 mm) decrease in cover; fire frequency and human population have more influence than cattle, and cultivation appears, on average, to lead to small increases in woody cover. Wet savannas (1600-2200 mm) are controlled by perturbations that inhibit canopy closure and reduce tree cover by, on average, 24-34%. Full understanding of the processes determining savanna structure requires consideration of resource limitation and disturbance dynamics.
3697591|Aim: To test the 'more individuals hypothesis' as a mechanism for the positive association between energy availability and species richness. This hypothesis predicts that total density and energy use in communities is linearly related to energy availability, and that species richness is a positive function of increased density. We also evaluate whether similar energy-density patterns apply to different migratory groups (residents, short-distance migrants and tropical migrants) separately. Location: European and North American forest bird communities. Methods: We collected published breeding bird census data from Europe and North America (n = 187). From each census data we calculated bird density (pairs
40205732|Aim: Species richness patterns along elevational gradients have been documented extensively. Yet, the implications of differences in how the data are compiled are seldom explored. We investigate the effect of grain size on the richness-elevation relationship. Grain size varies among the principal methods used to collect or aggregate species occurrences: localized sites, elevational 'bins' and interpolation of species ranges. Assumptions of sampling and species distributions also vary among these methods. Methodology can influence the pattern that is perceived and comparability of results. We compare patterns from all three methods explicitly using the same suite of observations, based on museum records and field surveys of non-flying small mammals. Our assessment is enhanced by comparing patterns resulting from each method for each of six adjacent mountain ranges. Location: Utah, North America. Methods: We document elevational species richness patterns using generalized linear models (GLMs), comparing the general shape of the trend as well as curvature, location and magnitude of peak richness across methods, both within and among gradients. We also introduce a new procedure to test for richness peaks using site-based occurrences. Results: We find a general congruence of the richness-elevation relationship, depicting a hump-shaped pattern with a second-order polynomial GLM showing a significant fit to nearly all gradient-methodology combinations. However, underlying characteristics of the trend may vary with grain size. As grain size coarsens, maximum species richness increases and elevation of the mode slightly decreases. Results: for curvature vary, but degree of curvature tends to increase as grain size coarsens. The richness-elevation patterns are independent of sampling effects. Main conclusions: The perceived elevational diversity pattern for small mammals along these mountain ranges is not scale-dependent. Differences in how the data are compiled are not reflected in major differences in patterns, even when local samples are neither uniformly spaced nor sampled with the same intensity. This result lends confidence to the assertion that patterns documented in similar studies with different methodologies and for which sampling is sufficiently comprehensive are good indicators of diversity. However, consistency of results from more than one compilation method may help to address issues of scale-dependence, more so when these comparisons are made explicit.
3697626|Aim: We studied the temporal and spatial patterns in deforestation and community structure of mammals in a fragmented old-growth, temperate rain forest to test the hypothesis that anthropogenic habitat conversion advances in a nonrandom manner across native landscapes, and that its effects on ecological communities are both persistent and predictable. Location: The location is the Hood Canal district of Olympic National Forest, Washington, USA. Results: Deforestation followed the apparently general pattern observed for deforestation of tropical rain forests and other native landscapes, advancing first along low and relatively level valleys, then to areas at higher elevations and along steeper slopes, and eventually to sites more distant from those of initial land conversion and transportation centres. Mammal surveys within this area indicated that this nonrandom advance of deforestation has created relatively steep geographical and topographic gradients in both local and landscape-level factors and, ultimately, in the structure of mammalian communities. Conclusion: The close and likely causal relationship between anthropogenic habitat loss and the ecological dynamics of mammalian communities and dependent species (e.g. spotted owls) indicates that our abilities to understand and eventually reduce the current extinction crisis may rely heavily on our understanding of, and abilities to modify, the manner in which we expand across and transform native landscapes.
2665337|Riddle & Hafner (1999) suggest that genetically differentiated lineages should be formally recognized as evolutionary significant units (ESUs) and that ESUs should replace currently recognized species as units in quantitative ecological and biogeographic analyses. Riddle & Hafner imply that if comparisons of desert rodent communities across many localities in south-western North America by Brown & Kurzius (1987) and Kelt et al. (1996) had used ESUs rather than species, substantially different results and conclusions would have been obtained. Here we defend our use of species in these studies, and question the wisdom of formalizing the concept of ESU and applying it in most biogeographic, ecological and behavioural studies. Studies of genetic variation and description of ESUs are uneven across taxa of mammals and geographical regions, and those ESUs that have been described are often difficult or impossible to identify on the basis of the morphological traits used to distinguish currently recognized species. Consequently, most of the specimens in museum drawers, nearly all of the fossil remains, and most of the animals studied in the field or laboratory by ecologists, behaviourists and other biologists cannot be assigned to ESUs. The currently recognized species, usually described originally on the basis of morphological and biological species concepts, provide the only relatively consistent, operational taxonomic units. Results of our studies on the biogeography of desert small mammals are not seriously altered by recent subdivisions of some species into multiple ESUs.
2665436|Data for five closely related species of gammarid crustaceans are used to examine interspecific relationships between the breadth of fundamental tolerance or capacity and geographical range size Gammarus duebeni is, almost without exception, the most tolerant species and that with the best physiological performance. Although there is some limited variation, the remaining species can be ranked broadly in the sequence G. zaddachi > G. salinus > G. oceanicus > G. locusta. The wide tolerance and high performance of G. duebeni is associated with the occupation of a wider range of environmental `types' than any other of the species. In terms of geographical range size, the species can be ranked from most to least widespread in the sequence G. oceanicus > G. duebeni > G. zaddachi > G. salinus > G. locusta. This provides little support for Brown's hypothesis, or the argument that the more widely distributed species within a taxonomic assemblage also tend to have the widest fundamental niches. However, if marine (G. oceanicus and G. locusta) and estuarine (G. duebeni, G. zaddachi, G. salinus) species are considered separately, then in each case the species with the largest geographical range is also the most tolerant/best performer. In this sense, the jack-of-alltrades is the master-of-all, rather than the master-of-none.
3182738|The aim of the study was to assess the impact of a pastoral management chosen to limit the recent expansion of woodland on a Mediterranean mountain on land snail diversity. An additional aim was to acquire quantitative data that could be used to identify pasture environments from Holocene molluscan assemblages. The work was undertaken at the Luberon mountain, Provence, south of France. We used a stratified quantitative sampling scheme according to altitude and vegetation structure. A total of 80 sites were studied. Large species were collected within a 5 x 5-m plot. Small species were extracted from litter and surface soil. A standard procedure for site description was used based on 35 environmental variables. Grazing pressure was estimated according to the impact of grazing on the herb layer. Correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis were performed using CANOCO 4.0 software. The distribution of land snails is related to altitude and grazing intensity. Large patches of grazed grassland harbour open country and mountain snail species. Thermophilic open ground species are located in grazed grasslands at lower altitude. Shade-loving species are present in ungrazed scrublands or in small clearings on the upper slopes. The lowest species richness, diversity and equitability are associated with large patches of grazed grassland, the presence of a continuous cover of short grass reinforcing this negative impact on snail diversity. Our study is consistent with similar works on land snails or other invertebrates but discordant with vegetation studies. A homogeneous grazed herb layer significantly reduces snail diversity and abundance. Heterogeneity seems to favour snail diversity both at the local and landscape scales. However, sheep grazing contributes to the expansion of suitable habitats for rare snail species.
40205699|Aim: To test two hypotheses: (i) the Rapoport effect is valid for a river continuum, particularly regarding the altitudinal distribution of mayflies over the large-scale continuum from alpine stream to medium-sized lowland river, and (ii) the observed Rapoport effect is based on high nestedness of the meta-assemblage, implying the presence of a common species pool and species-thinned nested subsets. Location: Geometric centre of Eurasia, south-western Siberia, Russia. Methods: Regression analysis of breadth and midpoints of species altitudinal ranges, species richness and altitude. Comparison of the observed patterns with the null model predicted by the mid-domain effect and conventional null hypothesis. Nestedness analysis. Results: The Rapoport effect was explicitly demonstrated: species altitudinal ranges expanded with increase in the ranges' midpoints and average per-altitude ranges increased with increase in altitude and concurrent decrease in species richness. The significance of each trend was confirmed with respect to both the null models applied. Nestedness analysis has revealed that the observed Rapoport effect is based on nested organization of the meta-assemblage over the river altitudinal/longitudinal gradient: a common species pool at low (but not the lowest) altitudes and nested subsets of this pool at higher altitudes. Main conclusions: This study for the first time credibly shows the altitudinal Rapoport effect in freshwaters. This finding demonstrates cross-habitat-type consistency of the Rapoport effect, but does not suggest that the Rapoport effect is an obligatory attribute of river systems or lotic organisms. High nestedness underlying the observed Rapoport effect together with some previous studies indicate that the Rapoport effect in altitudinal and bathymetric gradients in general may be based on nested organization. The study highlights a deficiency of cross-habitat-type analyses of macroecological patterns (i.e. over terrestrial, freshwater and marine habitats).
40205708|Aim: To test the hypothesis that plant species with a higher dispersal ability have a lower beta diversity. Location: North America north of Mexico. Method Propagules of pteridophytes (ferns and their allies) are more vagile than propagules of spermatophytes (gymnosperms and angiosperms), and thus pteridophytes have a higher dispersal ability than do spermatophytes. The study area was divided into 71 geographical units distributed in five latitudinal zones. Species lists of pteridophytes and spermatophytes were compiled for each geographical unit. Three measures of beta diversity were used:
40602939|Aim: Variation partitioning based on canonical analysis is the most commonly used analysis to investigate community patterns according to environmental and spatial predictors. Ecologists use this method in order to understand the pure contribution of the environment independent of space, and vice versa, as well as to control for inflated type I error in assessing the environmental component under spatial autocorrelation. Our goal is to use numerical simulations to compare how different spatial predictors and model selection procedures perform in assessing the importance of the spatial component and in controlling for type I error while testing environmental predictors. Innovation: We determine for the first time how the ability of commonly used (polynomial regressors) and novel methods based on eigenvector maps compare in the realm of spatial variation partitioning. We introduce a novel forward selection procedure to select spatial regressors for community analysis. Finally, we point out a number of issues that have not been previously considered about the joint explained variation between environment and space, which should be taken into account when reporting and testing the unique contributions of environment and space in patterning ecological communities. Main conclusions: In tests of species-environment relationships, spatial autocorrelation is known to inflate the level of type I error and make the tests of significance invalid. First, one must determine if the spatial component is significant using all spatial predictors (Moran's eigenvector maps). If it is, consider a model selection for the set of spatial predictors (an individual-species forward selection procedure is to be preferred) and use the environmental and selected spatial predictors in a partial regression or partial canonical analysis scheme. This is an effective way of controlling for type I error in such tests. Polynomial regressors do not provide tests with a correct level of type I error.
40205695|Aim: To test whether the distribution of alien bird impacts varies across bird families and regions of origin, and to investigate whether species traits associated with successful introductions can predict which species will have negative impacts in the new area of introduction. Location: Europe and the Mediterranean Basin. Methods: Combining historical information and published literature about negative economic, biological and human health impacts, we compared the distribution of impacts among bird families and native origins of bird species for three major types of impact (economic, biodiversity and human health). We examined the relationships between ecological, biological and reproductive characteristics of species and the severity of the impacts. Results: The majority of alien species with reported impacts originated from the Afrotropical, Indo-Malayan and Palaearctic biogeographical regions. The distribution of alien bird species in Europe with reported impacts shows a taxonomic bias and largely mirrors patterns of establishment. While most species had primarily either economic or biodiversity impacts, several species in the Anatidae, Corvidae, Passeridae, Phasianidae and Sturnidae families were associated with moderate to serious negative impacts on both economic resources and native biodiversity. After controlling for taxonomic effects, species with the greatest overall impacts were habitat generalists and multi-brooded, while species with smaller bodies and the tendency to form large feeding or roosting flocks were linked with greater impacts on native biodiversity. Main conclusions: This study presents the first synthesis of published impact data for alien birds and provides a broad-scale perspective on factors that contribute to their impacts. The results show that accounting for both species traits and taxonomy improves our ability to predict the impacts of alien bird species. Because several species are currently in the early stages of establishment in Europe, there may be an opportunity to limit negative impacts with efforts that promote proactive strategies against species and families possessing the above characteristics.
2665412|Measurements of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration, and its stable carbon isotope composition, from gas samples trapped in ice at Taylor Dome, Antarctica, indicate that the global carbon cycle has not been in steady state during the Holocene epoch. Inverse carbon cycle modelling has led to the hypothesized cumulative release from the terrestrial biosphere of 195 Gt C between 7 and 1 kyr before present (BP). Here, three independent lines of evidence testing this hypothesis are critically examined: global reconstructions of terrestrial carbon reservoirs, vegetation-climate modelling, and high latitude subfossil plant stable carbon isotope records. Despite inherent uncertainties associated with each approach, it emerges that none strongly upholds the suggestion that terrestrial ecosystems released large amounts of carbon between 7 and 1 kyr BP. Consequently, our understanding of the processes involved in the exchange of CO<sub>2</sub> between the atmosphere, oceans and land biota continues to remain incomplete and to require further investigation.
3182722|Aim: To identify the factors determining the range size of pteridophytes (ferns and allied plants) in an Andean region. Location: Humid eastern Andean slope in Carrasco National Park, Bolivia. Methods: I used a macroecological approach to search for correlations of range size to elevation, habitat type, life form, reproductive strategy, the species' elevational range, and its frequency, among the 473 pteridophyte species recorded in the park. Results: Range sizes were smallest at 1800-3500 m elevation and in localized habitats with little disturbance (ravines, ridges), while regularly disturbed habitats (pastures, roadsides) supported widespread species. Families and genera differed with respect to the range sizes of their species, but this pattern was not correlated to any other studied factor and could not be explained. Species with restricted ranges tended to be more frequent in the study area than widespread species. Widespread species tended to have large elevational ranges, implying that they are ecologically more adaptable than localized species. There was no relationship of range size to life form or to the studied reproductive aspects (sexual vs. asexual reproduction, chlorophyllous vs. achlorophyllous spores). Conclusions: The above trends were mostly uncorrelated and explained a rather small portion of the observed range size variance. Thus, it is not yet possible to draw a cohesive picture of the factors determining pteridophyte range size. Intriguing questions for future research include the relationship of range size to dispersal, competitive ability, and taxonomic affinity.
3697552|Aim: To describe the spatial variation in pteridophyte species richness; evaluate the importance of macroclimate, topography and within-grid cell range variables; assess the influence of spatial autocorrelation on the significance of the variables; and to test the prediction of the mid-domain effect. Location: The Iberian Peninsula. Methods: We estimated pteridophyte richness on a grid map with c. 2500 km
40205679|Aim: To identify temperatures at which cell division and differentiation are active in order to verify the existence of a common critical temperature determining growth in conifers of cold climates. Location: Ten European and Canadian sites at different latitudes and altitudes. Methods: The periods of cambial activity and cell differentiation were assessed on a weekly time-scale on histological sections of cambium and wood tissue collected over 2 to 5 years per site from 1998 to 2005 from the stems of seven conifer species. All data were compared with daily air temperatures recorded from weather stations located close to the sites. Logistic regressions were used to calculate the probability of xylogenesis and of cambium being active at a given temperature. Results: Xylogenesis lasted from May to October, with a growing period varying from 3 to 5 months depending on location and elevation. Despite the wide geographical range of the monitored sites, temperatures for onset and ending of xylogenesis converged towards narrow ranges with average values around 4-5, 8-9 and 13-14 C for daily minimum, mean and maximum temperature, respectively. On the contrary, cell division in the cambium stopped in July-August, when temperatures were still high. Main conclusions: Wood formation in conifers occurred when specific critical temperatures were reached. Although the timing and duration of xylogenesis varied among species, sites and years, the estimated temperatures were stable for all trees studied. These results provide biologically based evidence that temperature is a critical factor limiting production and differentiation of xylem cells in cold climates. Although daily temperatures below 4-5 C are still favourable for photosynthesis, thermal conditions below these values could inhibit the allocation of assimilated carbon to structural investment, i.e. xylem growth.
3697541|Aim: To document the patterns of fish species richness and their possible causes in China's lakes at regional and national scales. Location: Lakes across China. Methods: We compiled data of fish species richness, limnological characteristics and climatic variables for 109 lakes across five regions of China: East region, Northeast region, Southwest region, North-Northwest region, and the Tibetan Plateau. Correlation analyses, regression models and a general linear model were used to explore the patterns of fish species richness. Results: At the national scale, lake altitude, energy availability (potential evapotranspiration, PET) and lake area explained 79.6% of the total variation of the lake fish species richness. The determinants of the fish richness pattern varied among physiographic regions. Lake area was the strongest predictor of fish species richness in the East and Southwest lakes, accounting for 22.2% and 82.9% of the variation, respectively. Annual PET explained 68.7% of the variation of fish richness in the Northeast lakes. Maximum depth, mineralization degree, and lake area explained 45.5% of the fish variation in the lakes of the North-Northwest region. On the Tibetan Plateau, lake altitude was the first predictor variable, interpreting 32.2% of the variation. Main conclusions: Lake altitude was the most important factor explaining the variation of fish species richness across China's lakes, and accounted for 74.5% of the variation. This may stem in part from the fact that the lakes investigated in our study span the largest altitudinal range anywhere in the world. The effects of the lake altitude on fish species richness can be separated into direct and indirect aspects due to its collinearity with PET. We also found that the fish diversity and its determinants were scale-dependent. Fish species richness was probably energy-determined in the cold region, while it was best predicted by the lake area in the relatively geologically old region. The independent variables we used only explained a small fraction of the variations in the lake fish species richness in East China and the Tibetan Plateau, which may be due to the effects of human activity and historical events, respectively.
40801852|Aim: Optimal body size theories predict that large clades have a single, optimal, body size that serves as an evolutionary attractor, with the full body size spectrum of a clade resulting from interspecific competition. Because interspecific competition is believed to be reduced on islands, such theories predict that insular animals should be closer to the optimal size than mainland animals. We test the resulting prediction that insular clade members should therefore have narrower body size ranges than their mainland relatives.
40602959|Aims: (1) To map the species richness of Australian lizards and describe patterns of range size and species turnover that underlie them. (2) To assess the congruence in the species richness of lizards and other vertebrate groups. (3) To search for commonalities in the drivers of species richness in Australian vertebrates. Location: Australia. Methods: We digitized lizard distribution data to generate gridded maps of species richness and -diversity. Using similar maps for amphibians, mammals and birds, we explored the relationship between species richness and temperature, actual evapotranspiration, elevation and local elevation range. We used spatial eigenvector filtering and geographically weighted regression to explore geographical patterns and take spatial autocorrelation into account. We explored congruence between the species richness of vertebrate groups whilst controlling for environmental effects. Results: Lizard richness peaks in the central deserts (where -diversity is low) and tropical north-east (where -diversity is high). The intervening lowlands have low species richness and -diversity. Generally, lizard richness is uncorrelated with that of other vertebrates but this low congruence is strongly spatially structured. Environmental models for all groups also show strong spatial heterogeneity. Lizard richness is predicted by different environmental factors from other vertebrates, being highest in dry and hot regions. Accounting for environmental drivers, lizard richness is weakly positively related to richness of other vertebrates, both at global and local scales. Main conclusions: Lizard species richness differs from that of other vertebrates. This difference is probably caused by differential responses to environmental gradients and different centres of diversification; there is little evidence for inter-taxon competition limiting lizard richness. Local variation in habitat diversity or evolutionary radiations may explain weak associations between taxa, after controlling for environmental variables. We strongly recommend that studies of variation in species richness examine and account for non-stationarity.
3697477|Aim: To determine the geographical variation in serotiny in a common New Zealand shrub as a contemporary indicator of past fire regimes. The distribution of serotiny could then be used to explore factors limiting the spread of fire-dependent vegetation. Location: South Island, New Zealand. Methods: Serotiny was assessed as the proportion of closed capsules on a shoot of standard stem diameter for 5-35 plants in 45 widely scattered populations of Leptospermum scoparium. Site characteristics, including locality, altitude, rainfall, habitat type and minimum burnable area were recorded at sampling sites. Results: Serotiny was distributed bimodally within and among populations with capsules either mostly closed or mostly open. There was considerable geographical variation in capsule behaviour, most of which we attribute to variation in fire history. In wetlands and other sites unsuitable for forest growth, populations were all serotinous above a minimum area of
3697482|Aim: This study aims to explain the patterns of species richness and nestedness of a terrestrial bird community in a poorly studied region. Location: Twenty-six islands in the Dahlak Archipelago, Southern Red Sea, Eritrea. Methods: The islands and five mainland areas were censused in summer 1999 and winter 2001. To study the importance of island size, isolation from the mainland and inter-island distance, I used constrained null models for the nestedness temperature calculator and a cluster analysis. Results: Species richness depended on island area and isolation from the mainland. Nestedness was detected, even when passive sampling was accounted for. The nested rank of islands was correlated with area and species richness, but not with isolation. Idiosyncrasies appeared among species-poor and species-rich islands, and among common and rare species. Cluster analysis showed differences among species-rich islands, close similarity among species-poor and idiosyncratic islands, and that the compositional similarity among islands decreased with increasing inter-island distance. Thus, faunas of species-poor, smaller islands were more likely to be subsets of faunas of species-rich, larger islands if the distance between the islands was short. Main conclusions: Species richness and nestedness were related to island area, and nestedness also to inter-island distances but not to isolation from the mainland. Thus, nestedness and species richness are not affected in the same way by area and distance. Moreover, idiosyncrasies may have been the outcome of species distributions among islands being influenced also by non-nested distributions of habitats, inter-specific interactions, and differences in species distributions across the mainland. Idiosyncrasies in nested patterns may be as important as the nested pattern itself for conservation - and conservation strategies based on nestedness and strong area effects (e.g. protection of only larger islands) may fail to preserve idiosyncratic species/habitats.
2665354|Fire histories were compared between the south-western United States and northern Patagonia, Argentina using both documentary records (1914-87 and 1938-96, respectively) and tree-ring reconstructions over the past several centuries. The two regions share similar fire-climate relation-ships and similar relationships of climatic anomalies to the El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO). In both regions, El Nino events coincide with above-average cool season precipitation and increased moisture availability to plants during the growing season. Conversely, La Nina events correspond with drought conditions. Monthly patterns of ENSO indicators (southern oscillation indices and tropical Pacific sea surface temperatures) preceding years of exceptionally widespread fires are highly similar in both regions during the 20th century. Major fire years tend to follow the switching from El Nino to La Nina conditions. El Nino conditions enhance the production of fine fuels, which when desiccated by La Nina conditions create conditions for widespread wildfires. Decadal-scale patterns of fire occurrence since the mid-17th century are highly similar in both regions. A period of decreased fire occurrence in both regions from c. 1780-1830 coincides with decreased amplitude and/or frequency of ENSO events. The interhemispheric synchrony of fire regimes in these two distant regions is tentatively interpreted to be a response to decadal-scale changes in ENSO activity. The ENSO-fire relationships of the south-western USA and northern Patagonia document the importance of high-frequency climatic variation to fire hazard. Thus, in addition to long-term trends in mean climatic conditions, multi-decadal scale changes in year-to-year variability need to be considered in assessments of the potential influence of climatic change on fire regimes.
3697506|Aim: Climate-driven changes affecting ecosystem primary production have been well documented for many vegetation types, while the effects of climate on plant populations remains unclear. Herein, we address the relationships between climatic variables and shoot density, reproductive allocation and shoot biomass in Leymus chinensis on a large-scale climatic gradient in 2000. Location: Nine sites experiencing similar light regimes, but differing in longitude, precipitation and altitude were selected on the North-east China Transect (NECT) from
41239484|Aim: Studies of environmental niche shift/niche conservatism that are based on species distribution modelling require a quantification of niche purity and potential overlap. Although various metrics have been proposed for this task, no comparisons of their performance are available yet that express the linearity of range shifts and error-proneness. Herein, we assess the performance of six niche overlap metrics using three sister pairs of plethodontid salamanders as well as artificial species to test for linearity of overlap curves, impacts of varying potential distribution sizes and study area sizes. Location: North America, artificial environments. Methods: Species distribution models for the salamanders were performed with Maxent, and artificial species were created in the R environment. Potential distributions of species with varying range sizes and extents of the study area were compared using the Bray-Curtis distance BC, Schoener's D, two different modifications of the Hellinger distance I mod, I cor, Pianka's O and Horn's R. Niche overlaps in ecological space were compared using linear discriminant analyses based on principal components. Results: Simulations of niche overlaps revealed strong variations in the performance of the niche overlap metrics. In artificial species, BC and D performed best, followed by O, R and I cor , but the modified Hellinger distance I mod showed a nonlinear slope and a truncated range. Furthermore, the simulations suggest that, in proportionally small potential distributions on large grids, an inclusion of a high proportion of grid cells with low occurrence probabilities representing background noise may bias assessments of niche overlaps. Main conclusions: Both the salamander examples and simulations suggest that Schoener's D and the Bray-Curtis distance BC are best suited to compute niche overlaps from potential distributions derived from species distribution models. However, like all analysed metrics, both D and BC are seriously affected by the inclusion of high numbers of grid cells where the species are probably absent, i. e. with low occurrence probabilities. Therefore, pre-processing to eliminate background noise in the potential distribution grids is highly recommended.
3697518| Aim: The response of L. salicaria and P. australis plants originating from a broad latitudinal gradient to mineral nutrient and water supply was studied. We suggest implications for mechanisms possibly underlying the invasiveness of these two plant species. Location: A common garden tub experiment was carried out at Tebo, Czech Republic (49 N 1447' E, altitude 433 m). Methods: Plants of 30 L. salicaria and 6 P. australis populations originating from a wide geographical area in Europe and in Israel (60-32 N latitude, 6 W-20 E longitude) were cultivated for one growing season at two water levels and three (L. salicaria) or two (P. australis) nutrient doses, respectively. At the end of cultivation, basic morphological and growth characteristics were recorded. Results: The latitude of the original geographical location was the most significant factor, affecting both the phenology and most of the plant morphological and growth characteristics measured in both plant species, with the characteristics related to plant size being negatively correlated with latitude. The effect of nutrient dose was very strong in both species, while the effect of water level was more pronounced in P. australis than in L. salicaria. Main conclusions: The results confirmed the existence of a large phenotypic variability in both plant species within their native ranges of occurrence. In both plant species, the latitudinal variation in plant morphological and growth characteristics most probably indicates the differentiation of genotypes adapted to local geographical conditions. The plants of both species originating from all geographical locations tested responded to the respective nutrient treatments in a similar manner. Exceptions were found in growth characteristics related to reproduction in L. salicaria, indicating that better nutrient supply could enhance the reproductive ability of certain genotypes. Based on the results obtained, we suggest implications for mechanisms possibly underlying the invasiveness of the plant species studied. 
40405762|Aim: We examine the relative importance of seed dispersal mode in determining the range size and range placement in 524 species from six focal plant families (Agavaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Malvacaeae, Sapindaceae, Proteaceae and Fabaceae (Acacia)). Location: Western Australia. Methods: Taxa were categorized by dispersal mode and life-form and their distributions modelled using MAXENT. Geographical range size was compared amongst dispersal mode, life-form and biome using phylogenetically independent contrasts. Geographical range placement was considered in a similar manner. Results: Range size did not vary with dispersal mode (ant versus wind and vertebrate dispersal) or life-form, and instead varied primarily as a function of the biogeographical region in which a species was found. Range placement, however, did vary among dispersal modes, with the consequence that diversity of wind-and ant-dispersed plants increased with latitude while the diversity of vertebratedispersed plants was more evenly distributed. Main conclusions: For the taxa studied, range sizes were a function of the biogeographical region in which species were found. Although differences in range size may exist among species differing in dispersal modes, they are likely to be far smaller than differences among species from different biogeographical regions. The trait most likely to affect species geographical range size, and hence rarity and risks associated with other threats, may simply be the geographical region in which that species has evolved.
4139443|Aim This study uses a high-resolution simulation of the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) climate to assess: (1) whether LGM climate still affects the geographical species richness patterns in the European tree flora and (2) the relative importance of modern and LGM climate as controls of tree species richness in Europe. Location The parts of Europe that were unglaciated during the LGM. Methods Atlas data on the distributions of 55 tree species were linked with data on modern and LGM climate and climatic heterogeneity in a geographical information system with a 60-km grid. Four measures of species richness were computed: total richness, and richness of the 18 most restricted species, 19 species of medium incidence (intermediate species) and 18 most widespread species. We used ordinary least-squares regression and spatial autoregressive modelling to test and estimate the richness-climate relationships. Results LGM climate constituted the best single set of explanatory variables for richness of restricted species, while modern climate and climatic heterogeneity was best for total and widespread species richness and richness of intermediate species, respectively. The autoregressive model with all climatic predictors was supported for all richness measures using an information-theoretic approach, albeit only weakly so for total species richness. Among the strongest relationships were increases in total and intermediate richness with climatic heterogeneity and in restricted richness with LGM growing-degree-days. Partial regression showed that climatic heterogeneity accounted for the largest unique variation fraction for intermediate richness, while LGM climate was particularly important for restricted richness. Main conclusions LGM climate appears to still affect geographical patterns of tree species richness in Europe, albeit the relative importance of modern and LGM climate depends on range size. Notably, LGM climate is a strong richness control for species with a restricted range, which appear to still be associated with their glacial refugia.
3877789|Aims: Different aspects of soaring-bird migration are influenced by weather. However, the relationship between weather and the onset of soaring-bird migration, particularly in autumn, is not clear. Although long-term migration counts are often unavailable near the breeding areas of many soaring birds in the western Palaearctic, soaring-bird migration has been systematically monitored in Israel, a region where populations from large geographical areas converge. This study tests several fundamental hypotheses regarding the onset of migration and explores the connection between weather, migration onset and arrival at a distant site. Location: Globally gridded meteorological data from the breeding areas in north-eastern Europe were used as predictive variables in relation to the arrival of soaring migrants in Israel. Methods: Inverse modelling was used to study the temporal and spatial influence of weather on initiation of migration based on autumn soaring-bird migration counts in Israel. Numerous combinations of migration duration and temporal influence of meteorological variables (temperature, sea-level pressure and precipitable water) were tested with different models for meteorological sensitivity. Results: The day of arrival in Israel of white storks, honey buzzards, Levant sparrowhawks and lesser spotted eagles was significantly and strongly related to meteorological conditions in the breeding area days or even weeks before arrival in Israel. The cumulative number of days or cumulative value above or below a meteorological threshold performed significantly better than other models tested. Models provided reliable estimates of migration duration for each species. Main conclusions: The meteorological triggers of migration at the breeding grounds differed between species and were related to deteriorating living conditions and deteriorating migratory flight conditions. Soaring birds are sensitive to meteorological triggers at the same period every year and their temporal response to weather appears to be constrained by their annual routine.
41058222|Aim: To undertake a quantitative review of the Quaternary fossil record of European water beetles to evaluate their geographical and temporal coverage, and to characterize the extent and typology of the shifts in their geographical ranges. Location: Europe. Methods: We compiled Quaternary water beetle records from public databases and published references. We included in the analyses species of 10 families of aquatic Coleoptera, and recorded range shifts through the comparison of the location of fossil remains with the current distribution of the species. We explored the ecological representativeness of the fossil record, as well as the relationship between range shifts and the habitat type of the species. Results: Our final data set included over 9000 records for 259 water beetle species. Fossil remains of aquatic beetles have been documented exclusively north of 42  N, with most of the records from the British Isles and virtually none from southern Europe or the Mediterranean Basin. Over 80% of the records were from the Late Glacial and the Holocene periods (the last 15 kyr), and overall approximately 20% of the species have been recorded outside their present range (23% excluding Holocene records). Most range shifts were southern or western extensions of currently widespread, northern species, with 10 species displaying major range shifts through the Palaearctic. Lentic species were significantly more likely to have experienced major range shifts, even accounting for the general ecological bias of the fossil record towards lentic habitats. Main conclusions: Our results show that the Quaternary record of aquatic Coleoptera is geographically, temporally and ecologically skewed, necessitating caution when extrapolating general conclusions about range changes and ecological stability to other areas or periods on the basis of such scattered evidence. Most central and northern European species for which there are fossil records seem to have conserved their ranges through the Late Pleistocene, with geographical shifts mostly restricted to species with current widespread north Palaearctic or Holarctic distributions. Major range shifts through the Palaearctic are taxonomically uneven, suggesting either an idiosyncratic behaviour of taxa depending on ecological or phylogenetic factors, or a sampling artefact produced by the limited availability of taxonomic expertise.
3697589| Aim: To understand the impact of glacial refugia and migration pathways on the modern genetic diversity of Pinus sylvestris. Location: The study was carried out throughout Europe. Methods: An extended set of data of pollen and macrofossil remains was used to locate the glacial refugia and reconstruct the migrating routes of P. sylvestris throughout Europe. A vegetation model was used to simulate the extent of the potential refugia during the last glacial period. At the same time a genetic survey was carried out on this species. Results: The simulated distribution of P. sylvestris during the last glacial period is coherent with the observed fossil data, which showed a patchy distribution of the refugia between c. 40 N and 50 N. Several migrational fronts were detected within the Iberian and the Italian peninsulas, and outside the Hungarian plain and around the Alps. The modern mitochondrial DNA depicted three different haplotypes for P sylvestris. Two distinct haplotypes were restricted to northern Spain and Italy, and the third haplotype dominated most of the present-day remaining distribution range of P. sylvestris in Europe. Main conclusions: During the last glacial period P. sylvestris was constrained under severe climatic conditions to survive in scattered and restricted refugial areas. Combining palaeoenvironmental data, vegetation modelling and the genetic data, we have shown that the long-term isolation in the glacial refugia and the migrational process during the Holocene have played a major role in shaping the modern genetic diversity of P. sylvestris in Europe. 
3697427|Aim: Small mammal species richness and relative abundance vary along elevational gradients, but there are different patterns that exist. This study reports the patterns of distribution and abundance of small mammals along the broader elevational gradient of Mt. Qilian range. Location: The study was conducted in the Mt. Qilian range, north-western China, from June to August 2001. Methods: Removal trapping was conducted using a standardized technique at 7 sites ranging between 1600 and 3900 m elevation within three transects. Correlation, regression and graphical analyses were used to evaluate the diversity patterns along this elevational gradient. Results: In total, 586 individuals representing 18 nonvolant small mammal species were collected during 20 160 trap nights. Species composition was different among the three transects with 6 (33%) of the species found only within one transect. Elevational distribution and relative abundance of small rodents showed substantial spatial variation, with only 2 species showing nonsignificant capture frequencies across elevations. Despite these variations, some general patterns of elevational distribution emerged: humped-shape relationships between species diversity and elevation were noted in all three transects with diversity peaks at middle elevations. In addition, relative abundance was negatively correlated with elevation. Conclusions: Results indicate that maximum richness and diversity of nonvolant small mammals occurred at mid-elevations where several types of plants reached their maximum diversity and primary productivity, and where rainfall and humidity reached a maximum. It is demonstrated that the mid-elevation bulge is a general feature of at least a large portion of the biota on the Mt. Qilian range.
30134099|Aim: Studies exploring the determinants of geographical gradients in the occurrence of species or their traits obtain data by: (1) overlaying species range maps; (2) mapping survey-based species counts; or (3) superimposing models of individual species' distributions. These data types have different spatial characteristics. We investigated whether these differences influence conclusions regarding postulated determinants of species richness patterns. Location: Our study examined terrestrial bird diversity patterns in 13 nations of southern and eastern Africa, spanning temperate to tropical climates. Methods: Four species richness maps were compiled based on range maps, field-derived bird atlas data, logistic and autologistic distribution models. Ordinary and spatial regression models served to examine how well each of five hypotheses predicted patterns in each map. These hypotheses propose productivity, temperature, the heat-water balance, habitat heterogeneity and climatic stability as the predominant determinants of species richness. Results: The four richness maps portrayed broadly similar geographical patterns but, due to the nature of underlying data types, exhibited marked differences in spatial autocorrelation structure. These differences in spatial structure emerged as important in determining which hypothesis appeared most capable of explaining each map's patterns. This was true even when regressions accounted for spurious effects of spatial autocorrelation. Each richness map, therefore, identified a different hypothesis as the most likely cause of broad-scale gradients in species diversity. Main conclusions: Because the 'true' spatial structure of species richness patterns remains elusive, firm conclusions regarding their underlying environmental drivers remain difficult. More broadly, our findings suggest that care should be taken to interpret putative determinants of large-scale ecological gradients in light of the type and spatial characteristics of the underlying data. Indeed, closer scrutiny of these underlying data-here the distributions of individual species-and their environmental associations may offer important insights into the ultimate causes of observed broad-scale patterns.
40602958|Aim: Dry season deciduousness affects intra-and inter-annual patterns of carbon, water and energy balance in seasonal tropical forests. Because it is affected by rainfall, temperature and solar radiation, deciduousness may be an indicator of the response of vegetation to climate change. Better understanding of how spatial patterns of deciduousness are affected by climate and other environmental gradients will improve the ability to predict responses to climate change. This study develops remote sensing methods for quantifying tropical forest deciduousness and examines the relationship between deciduousness and environmental factors in semi-deciduous tropical forest. Location: Central Panama. Methods: I applied spectral mixture analysis (SMA) and the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) to Landsat images to predict deciduousness which was ground-truthed with field observations of the percentage of overstorey deciduous trees. Using predicted deciduousness from SMA, patterns of deciduousness at three spatial scales were analysed. I determined how deciduousness varied spatially with rainfall and geological substrate. Results: Both SMA and NDVI had strong correlations (r > 0.9) with field observations of deciduousness. On a landscape scale, deciduousness increased as rainfall decreased, but geological substrate altered this relationship. On some geological substrates, deciduousness was much greater than expected for a given rainfall total or showed a slight but significant increase with rainfall. At an intermediate spatial scale, there were highly deciduous patches from 3 to 250 ha in size embedded in non-deciduous forest, which may have resulted from topography, soil variation or past land use. Main conclusions: Dry season deciduousness can be accurately quantified using satellite images indicating that remote sensing can be a valuable tool for detecting change and understanding ecosystem processes in tropical forests from landscape to regional scales.
41239345|Aim: The goals of this study are: (1) to determine whether increasing atmospheric CO concentrations and changing climate increased intrinsic water use efficiency (iWUE, as detected by changes in C) over the last four decades; and if it did increase iWUE, whether it led to increased tree growth (as measured by tree-ring growth); (2) to assess whether CO responses are biome dependent due to different environmental conditions, including availability of nutrients and water; and (3) to discuss how the findings of this study can better inform assumptions of CO fertilization and climate change effects in biospheric and climate models. Location: A global range of sites covering all major forest biome types. Methods: The analysis encompassed 47 study sites including boreal, wet temperate, mediterranean, semi-arid and tropical biomes for which measurements of tree ring C and growth are available over multiple decades. Results: The iWUE inferred from the C analyses of comparable mature trees increased 20.5% over the last 40 years with no significant differences between biomes. This increase in iWUE did not translate into a significant overall increase in tree growth. Half of the sites showed a positive trend in growth while the other half had a negative or no trend. There were no significant trends within biomes or among biomes. Main conclusions: These results show that despite an increase in atmospheric CO concentrations of over 50 p.p.m. and a 20.5% increase in iWUE during the last 40 years, tree growth has not increased as expected, suggesting that other factors have overridden the potential growth benefits of a CO-rich world in many sites. Such factors could include climate change (particularly drought), nutrient limitation and/or physiological long-term acclimation to elevated CO. Hence, the rate of biomass carbon sequestration in tropical, arid, mediterranean, wet temperate and boreal ecosystems may not increase with increasing atmospheric CO concentrations as is often implied by biospheric models and short-term elevated CO experiments.
40205683|Aim: To deconstruct the biodiversity pattern of the 152 waterbird species breeding in Europe to better understand its multiple causal processes. Location: Continental Europe, Iceland and the British Isles. Methods: We considered the orders that are typically comprised by swimming, diving or wading birds, which inhabit marshes, fens, peatlands and fresh, brackish or salt waters, including coastal waters. We used the 55 main river basins of Europe as geographical units, and searched for either chorotypes (groups of similar species distributions) or gradual replacement of species throughout the river basins. Chorotypes were recognized by applying a probabilistic classification method to the distributions. Then we used GLM to characterize the extent and the species richness of each chorotype according to energy availability (higher levels of environmental energy favouring the presence of species), climatic stress due to an excess of energy, availability of water, productivity, seasonality and surface area. Results: One hundred and forty species significantly aggregate into nine chorotypes. The other 12 species, most of them marine, are centred on Great Britain, dropping away progressively on coasts further away from there. Differences in either the availability of energy or climatic stress significantly characterized the distribution of seven chorotypes comprising 90.8% of the species. Main conclusions: Chorotypes are meaningful and useful to deconstruct biodiversity patterns. Our results suggest that energy is the main factor related to the biogeographical patterns of breeding waterbirds in Europe, and provide an insight into regional trends of species richness previously analysed with a habitat-scale perspective.
30134098|Aim: Habitat and climate heterogeneity may affect patterns of species diversity from the relatively local scale of communities to the broad biogeographical scale of continents. However, the effects of heterogeneity on species diversity have not been studied as widely at intermediate scales although differences among landscapes in local climate and habitat should maintain beta-diversity. Location: Bailey ecoregions in the USA. Methods: Using a geographically extensive dataset on bird distribution and abundance in 35 ecoregions, we tested for the effects of habitat and climate heterogeneity on beta-diversity at two discrete spatial scales: among sample points within landscapes, and among landscapes within ecoregions. Results: Landscape-level beta-diversity typically accounted for 50% or more of gamma-diversity and was significantly and positively related to habitat heterogeneity (elevational range within an ecoregion) and climate heterogeneity (variation in potential evapotranspiration). Contrary to predictions, point-level beta-diversity was negatively related to habitat and climate heterogeneity, perhaps because heterogeneity constrains alpha-diversity at the landscape level. The geographical spatial separation of landscapes within an ecoregion did not significantly affect beta-diversity at either scale. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that habitat selection and adaptation to local climate may be the primary processes structuring bird diversity among landscapes within ecoregions, and that dispersal limitation has a lesser role in influencing beta-diversity among landscapes.
3182658|Aim and location: In Central European lowlands certain plant species grow mainly or exclusively in the corridors of large rivers. In German-speaking plant geography, they are known as 'Stromtalpflanzen'. The aim of this paper is to review the literature about definitions, explanations and species characteristics and to suggest future directions in research concerning this species group. Results: A preliminary list contains 129 ecologically heterogeneous plant species. The mechanisms generating the peculiar distribution pattern may include hydrochory along river corridors, high levels of disturbance by water, variable water availability including inundation and summer drought, warm summers and high nutrient supply on alluvial soils. There is evidence from observational studies for all above mechanisms. However, none of them has been tested experimentally. Demographic data of river corridor plants are limited to very few species, including mainly invasive annuals (Artemisia annua, Bidens frondosa, Cuscuta campestris, Xanthium albinum) and annual (hemi)parasites (Cuscuta campestris, Melampyrum cristatum). Meta-population studies do not exist to date for European species. Apart from their habitat requirements, river corridor plants were grouped according to their similarities in overall distribution pattern or their distribution within particular river corridors. Main conclusions: River corridor plants include a high proportion of threatened plant species. In order to preserve them, and in order to understand the mechanisms generating the peculiar distribution pattern, much more has to be known about their population biology and metapopulation dynamics.
3697570| Aims: 1. To characterize ecosystem functioning by focusing on above-ground net primary production (ANPP), and 2. to relate the spatial heterogeneity of both functional and structural attributes of vegetation to environmental factors and landscape structure. We discuss the relationship between vegetation structure and functioning found in Patagonia in terms of the capabilities of remote sensing techniques to monitor and assess desertification. Location: Western portion of the Patagonian steppes in Argentina (3930' S to 4527' S). Methods: We used remotely-sensed data from Landsat TM and AVHRR/NOAA sensors to characterize vegetation structure (physiognomic units) and ecosystem functioning (ANPP and its seasonal and interannual variation). We combined the satellite information with floristic relevs and field estimates of ANPP. We built an empirical relationship between the Landsat TM-derived normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and field ANPP. Using stepwise regressions we explored the relationship between ANPP and both environmental variables (precipitation and temperature surrogates) and structural attributes of the landscape (proportion and diversity of different physiognomic classes (PCs)). Results: PCs were quite heterogeneous in floristic terms, probably reflecting degradation processes. Regional estimates of ANPP showed differences of one order of magnitude among physiognomic classes. Fifty percent of the spatial variance in ANPP was accounted for by longitude, reflecting the dependency of ANPP on precipitation. The proportion of prairies and semideserts, latitude and, to a lesser extent, the number of PCs within an 8 x 8 km cell accounted for an additional 33% of the ANPP variability. ANPP spatial heterogeneity (calculated from Landsat TM data) within an 8x8 km cell was positively associated with the mean AVHRR/ NOAA NDVI and with the diversity of physiognomic classes. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that the spatial and temporal patterns of ecosystem functioning described from ANPP result not only from water availability and thermal conditions but also from landscape structure (proportion and diversity of different PCs). The structural classification performed using remotely-sensed data captured the spatial variability in physiognomy. Such capability will allow the use of spectral classifications to monitor desertification. 
30137880|Aim: Our aims were: (1) to characterize the linear relationship between the proportion of woody dicotyledonous species with entire-margined leaves (E) and mean annual temperature (MAT) from a southern temperate flora that still harbours many lineages that originated under warmer climates; (2) to compare this relationship with those developed from floras of different regions of the world; and (3) to contrast temperature predictions based on leaf margins of the native southern flora versus the naturalized alien flora, mostly of boreal origin. Location: The temperate forest of southern South America (TFSA). Methods: At each 1 latitudinal band, we estimated E based on species latitudinal ranges and MAT from both an isotherm map and a global temperature grid. We also calculated E from five local floras located between 40 and 43 S, and from the naturalized alien flora of Nahuel Huapi National Park in southern Argentina. Results: We found a close relationship between E and MAT for the TFSA. Equations developed from floras of the Northern Hemisphere overestimated extant temperatures of this biome by 6-10 C at both geographical and local spatial scales. On the other hand, MAT predictions from leaf margins of the alien flora were similar to the actual MAT. A published regression between E and MAT from tropical South America was remarkably similar to the one we estimated from the TFSA. This tropical equation predicted accurately the temperatures observed for this temperate biome based on leaf margins of the native flora. Main conclusions: Despite massive plant extinction due to environmental cooling and biogeographical isolation during the Tertiary, leaf-margin analysis reveals that the flora of the TFSA still reflects its original development under the warmer conditions of western Gondwana and its past connections with low-latitude forest floras of tropical South America.
3182689|The vegetated landscape of Europe has been strongly impacted by human management to produce a heterogeneous patchwork of semi-natural and agricultural vegetation varying over a wide range of spatial scales. A model is described for averaging vegetation fluxes from a landscape of forest and grassland into the planetary boundary layer (PBL). At a scale of 1 km, model simulations indicate that vegetation heterogeneity exerts little effect on the PBL and regional fluxes will be simple areal averages of the different vegetation types. Above 5 km the model simulates significant effects of different vegetation types on the whole PBL. Averaging fluxes to the regional scale will therefore need to consider explicitly the nature, extent and behaviour of different vegetation types.
40205692|Aim: Species richness has been observed to increase with productivity at large spatial scales, though the strength of this relationship varies among functional groups. In forests, canopy trees shade understorey plants, and for this reason we hypothesize that species richness of canopy trees will depend on macroclimate, while species richness of shorter growth forms will additionally be affected by shading from the canopy. In this study we test for differences in species richness-productivity relationships (SRPRs) among growth forms (canopy trees, shrubs, herbaceous species) in small forest plots. Location: We analysed 231 plots ranging from 34.0 to 48.3 N latitude and from 75.0 to 124.2 W longitude in the United States. Methods: We analysed data collected by the USDA Forest Inventory and Analysis program for plant species richness partitioned into different growth forms, in small plots. We used actual evapotranspiration as a macroclimatic estimate of regional productivity and calculated the area of light-blocking tissue in the immediate area surrounding plots for an estimate of the intensity of local shading. We estimated and compared SRPRs for different partitions of the species richness dataset using generalized linear models and we incorporated the possible indirect effects of shading using a structural equation model. Results: Canopy tree species richness increased strongly with regional productivity, while local shading primarily explained the variation in herbaceous plant richness. Shrub species richness was related to both regional productivity and local shading. Main conclusions: The relationship between total forest plant species richness and productivity at large scales belies strong effects of local interactions. Counter to the pattern for overall richness, we found that understorey herbaceous plant species richness does not respond to regional productivity gradients, and instead is strongly influenced by canopy density, while shrub species richness is under multivariate control.
40405786|Aim One of the few general laws in ecology is that species richness is a positive function of area. However, it has been proposed that area would merely be a proxy for energy. Additionally, habitat heterogeneity has been found to be an important factor determining species richness. Yet the relative importance of those relationships is little known, and it is still unclear how they are brought about. We aimed to dissect which factors drive the species richness of boreal forest birds, and to identify the most probable mechanisms. Location Forested protected areas in Finland. Methods Using bird line census data collected in 104 protected areas, we ran simultaneous autoregressive models to explain the species richness of forest birds. We explored the value of forest area, tree volume, tree growth, mean degree days and habitat heterogeneity as explanatory variables and used the species richness within different species groups, based on the predictions of hypothesized mechanisms, as a response variable. Results Energy, rather than area or habitat heterogeneity, seems to be the main driver of species richness in boreal forest birds. More specifically, productive energy was a better predictor of total species richness than solar energy. Among the tested hypothetical mechanisms, the sampling hypothesis received strong support. After accounting for sampling, solar energy had an effect on species richness. Main conclusions As productive energy, such as tree volume, is associated with species richness, high-energy areas should be prioritized in forest conservation planning. Reductions in productive energy may first lead to the disappearance of the rarest species due to the random sampling process. Climate change may result in increased species richness due to increasing amount of productive and solar energy in forests. However, the range shifts of bird species may not be fast enough to keep up with the temperature increases.
2665365|MacArthur and Wilson's equilibrium theory of island biogeography quickly became the paradigm of the field in the 1960s and has strongly influenced this and other disciplines of ecology and conservation biology for the past three decades. Recently, however, a growing number of ecologists have begun to question whether the theory remains a useful paradigm for modern ecology. We now have a much better appreciation for the complexity of nature and we study patterns that span a very broad range in spatial, temporal and ecological scales. At such scales, assumptions that communities are in equilibrium, that species, islands and intervening landscapes or seascapes are equivalent or homogeneous with respect to factors influencing immigration and extinction, and that in situ speciation can be overlooked become very tenuous. With this in mind, this and other papers of this special feature discuss the principal, conceptual shortcomings of the equilibrium theory and offer some modifications or alternatives to the theory that we hope will eventually lead to a more comprehensive understanding of the forces structuring insular communities.
3697539| Aim: We studied pteridophyte species richness between 100 m and 3400 m along a Neotropical elevational gradient and tested competing hypotheses for patterns of species richness. Location: Elevational transects were situated at Volcn Barva in the Braulio Carrillo National Park and La Selva Biological Station (100-2800 m) and Cerro de la Muerte (2700-3400 m), both on the Atlantic slope of Costa Rica, Central America. Method: We analysed species richness on 156 plots of 20 x 20 m and measured temperature and humidity at four elevations (40, 650, 1800 and 2800 m). Species richness patterns were regressed against climatic variables (temperature, humidity, precipitation and actual evapotranspiration), regional species pool, area and predicted species number of a geometric null model (the mid-domain effect, MDE). Results: The species richness of the 484 recorded species showed a hump-shaped pattern with elevation with a richness peak at mid-elevations (c. 1700 m). The MDE was the single most powerful explanatory variable in linear regression models, but species richness was also associated strongly with climatic variables, especially humidity and temperature. Area and species pool were associated less strongly with observed richness patterns. Main conclusions: Geometric models and climatic models exclusive of geometric constraints explained comparable amounts of the elevational variation in species richness. Discrimination between these two factor complexes is not possible based on model fits. While overall fits of geometric models were high, large- and small-ranged species were explained by geometric models to different extents. Species with narrow elevational ranges clustered at both ends of the gradient to a greater extent than predicted by the MDE null models used here. While geometric models explained much of the pattern in species richness, we cannot rule out the role of climatic factors (or vice versa) because the predicted peak in richness from geometric models, the empirical peak in richness and the overlap in favourable environmental conditions all coincide at middle elevations. Mid-elevations offer highest humidity and moderate temperatures, whereas at high elevations richness is reduced due to low temperatures, and at low elevations by reduced water availability due to high temperatures. 
2665398|1 Diversity patterns of small mammals were studied along an elevational transect on Mount Kinabalu, the highest mountain in South-east Asia, utilizing data from previously existing sources and a new field study. A mark-and-release study (conducted during wet and dry seasons between November 1994 and April 1995) resulted in captures of 12 small mammal species, including two species of squirrels, two tree shrews, seven murid rodents and one gymnure. 2 Based on data compiled from this survey, museum specimens, and published and unpublished literature (analysed by locally weighted sums of squares and quadratic polynomial regressions), species richness of small mammals formed a middle elevation bulge, highest at about 1200-1400 m and declining at lower and higher elevations. Trapping during two seasons did not change the assessment of the pattern. 3 A cluster analysis of these data indicated that there are two elevationally associated faunas, one in the highlands and another in the lowlands. The transition between these two assemblages is at 1700-1800 m elevation. The lowland faunal assemblage has the highest number of species, with maximum species richness at about 1300 m for total small mammal species, about 1200 m for arboreal species and about 1400 m for terrestrial species. 4 The areas where much overlapping of species occurs are the elevations where climate and vegetation change rapidly from lowland to montane types. Tree species, gymnosperms, orchids and ferns showed a similar curvilinear pattern along the same elevational gradient, with maximum species richness at about 1400-1500 m. Temperature declined progressively with increasing elevation, but rainfall and humidity reached their highest levels at about 1700 m. 5 Maximum diversity of small mammals thus occurred at the elevation where a highland and a lowland assemblage overlapped, where several types of plants reached their maximum diversity, and where rainfall and humidity reached their maxima. Similar patterns have been documented for small mammals, plants, and climate at sites scattered in Indo-Australia from Taiwan to New Guinea.
2665313|We compared the fauna of small mammals (less than 500 g body weight) among five major South American drylands (Atacama, Altiplano, Monte, Patagonia and Caatinga) and found considerable heterogeneity and distinctiveness in species richness and composition between these biomes. From a total of 89 recorded species, 76 of them are restricted to only one of these drylands. The highland desert, or Altiplano, is the biome with the highest number of species. Despite the marked differences in the composition of the mammalian fauna, the trophic structure shows a rather consistent pattern: herbivores are the most important trophic group in all drylands. This consistency seems to be more the result of phylogenetic inertia than of similar ecological processes. Our results are compared with recent studies on desert small mammals across continents.
4139414|Aim This paper aims to examine the relationship between versatility as measured by geographic range, bathymetric range and morphological variability (species and subspecies richness and the occurrence of morphologically highly variable populations), and the geologic longevities of trachyleberidid ostracode species and genera, while accounting for sampling biases and other confounding factors. Location Global. Methods A large database of occurrence records of species of the family Trachyleberididae s.l. was analysed. The relationships between genus and species longevity and the above mentioned variables were examined singly and in concert. Re-analyses of subsets of data and rarefaction techniques were employed-to account for sampling biases, while randomization was used to account for autocorrelation of variables. Results The mean number of occurrence records, and latitudinal and longitudinal ranges, were strongly and positively correlated with genus and species longevities. The number of bathymetric zones occupied by genera had no consistent bearing on their longevities, but species data subsets tended to indicate significant positive relationships between bathymetric range and longevities. Species richness was significantly and positively correlated with genus longevities. Species and genera with subspecies and species with high morphological variability all had significantly greater longevities. Genus-level characteristics can be explained largely by species-level characteristics, including longevity, latitudinal ranges and bathymetric ranges to a lesser degree. However, genus longevity was best explained by species richness and genus age, even for extinct genera, while species longevity was best explained by species latitudinal range. Main conclusions In spite of the incompleteness of the fossil record, we can control for biasing factors and still confidently draw the conclusion that both ecological and evolutionary versatility contribute to lineage longevity, beyond the shorter temporal observation windows available to most ecological studies.
3697517|Aim: Predictions of vegetation change with global warming require models that accurately reflect physiological processes underlying growth limitations and species distributions. However, information about environmental controls on physiology and consequent effects on species boundaries and ecosystem functions such as production is limited, especially for forested wetlands that are potentially important carbon sinks. Location: The bald cypress (Taxodium distichum) region of the south-eastern United States was studied to examine how production of an important forested wetland varies with latitude and temperature as well as local hydrology. Methods: We used published data to analyse litter production across a latitudinal gradient from
40205693|Aim: To determine whether the diversity of resident and transient coral-dwelling fish responds differentially to gradients in regional species richness. Location: Three regions in the Indo-Pacific (Red Sea, western Indian Ocean, Great Barrier Reef) which contain increasingly larger regional diversities of reef fish. Methods: I surveyed fish residing within branching coral species. Fish species were a priori categorized as resident or transient based on the degree of affiliation between the fish and live coral. To compare among regions that differ in coral diversity I used a modified species-volume relationship (SVR). Each point in the SVR represents the total number of fish species, resident or transient, found within the cumulative volume of a specific coral species. Empirical SVRs were further compared with random-placement null models. Results: For transient species, I found that the observed SVRs did not differ consistently from those expected from random samples drawn from the corresponding regional species pools. In addition, for a given volume of coral, more fish species were found in richer regions, indicating strong regional influences on local diversity. In contrast, resident richness was lower than that expected from random samples of the species pool, and richness in rich regions was reduced comparably more than in poor regions. The SVRs of resident species were similar among regions with different regional diversities. Main conclusion These results suggest that, within coral species, transient fish richness is mostly influenced by stochastic allocation of species from the regional pool. Conversely, richness of resident species within a coral species is limited, making it independent of regional diversity. Since higher regional diversity of resident fish was not accompanied by higher richness per coral species or by decreased niche breadth, higher regional diversity of resident fish species must be rooted in higher coral richness. Consequently, ecological interactions between functional groups (coral and fish) can be powerful drivers of regional biodiversity.
40801924|Aim: (1) To resolve theoretical debates regarding the role of environment versus dispersal limitation, the conservatism of niches across distances and the prevalence of environmental specialists in diatom communities. (2) To provide guidance on the use of diatom communities and other microbial analogues to analyse ecological response to environmental change.
3697491|Aim: To test whether, in an urban area, small forest fragments are more important than large ones, the present study aimed at firstly exploring the relationship between plant functional groups or individual species and urban woodlot characteristics such as patch area and isolation, and secondly investigating whether equal-sized combinations of islands tend to differ in species richness. Location: The city of Brussels. Methods: We considered the relationship between size, species richness and plant functional groups among one very large (1666 ha) and 11 rather small (2-123 ha) woodlots.: Results: The largest woodlot harboured species missing in the smaller ones. The species-area relationship plotted for these wooded patches fitted the semilog model very well. Twenty-three species had a significantly higher frequency in the main forest. Only six species had a significantly higher frequency in smaller woodlots. The occurrence of species groups with high conservation value (e.g. ancient forest species, rare species) was higher in large patches. However, a SLOSS analysis showed that habitat subdivision appeared to be associated with increased species counts. A marginally nonsignificant effect of distance to the main forest became significant when matrix species were removed from the patch samples. Conclusions: Although overall the data showed a higher conservation value for large woods, some plant functional groups (e.g. woodland species vs. ancient forest species) responded differently to fragmentation. This illustrates that, for conservation strategies, studies considering the biotic characteristics of remnants should focus on the species number of particular plant functional groups, especially those with high conservation value. Furthermore, matrix species should be removed from the analysis in order not to mask underlying patch size and distance effects.
3877788|Macroecology sits at the junction of, and can contribute to, the fields of ecology, biogeography, palaeontology and macroevolution, using a broad range of approaches to tackle a diverse set of questions. Here, we argue that there is more to macroecology than mapping, and that while they are potentially useful, maps are insufficient to assess macroecological pattern and process. The true nature of pattern can only be assessed, and competing hypotheses about process can only be disentangled, by adopting a statistical approach, and it is this that has been key to the development of macroecology as a respected and rigorous scientific discipline.
41058220|Aim: South-eastern Australia is a climate change hotspot with well-documented recent changes in its physical marine environment. The impact on and temporal responses of the biota to change are less well understood, but appear to be due to influences of climate, as well as the non-climate related past and continuing human impacts. We attempt to resolve the agents of change by examining major temporal and distributional shifts in the fish fauna and making a tentative attribution of causal factors. Location: Temperate seas of south-eastern Australia. Methods: Mixed data sources synthesized from published accounts, scientific surveys, spearfishing and angling competitions, commercial catches and underwater photographic records, from the 'late 1800s' to the ' present', were examined to determine shifts in coastal fish distributions. Results: Forty-five species, representing 27 families (about 30% of the inshore fish families occurring in the region), exhibited major distributional shifts thought to be climate related. These are distributed across the following categories: species previously rare or unlisted (12), with expanded ranges (23) and/or abundance increases (30), expanded populations in south-eastern Tasmania (16) and extralimital vagrants (4). Another 9 species, representing 7 families, experienced longerterm changes (since the 1800s) probably due to anthropogenic factors, such as habitat alteration and fishing pressure: species now extinct locally (3), recovering (3), threatened (2) or with remnant populations (1). One species is a temporary resident periodically recruited from New Zealand. Of fishes exhibiting an obvious poleward movement, most are reef dwellers from three Australian biogeographic categories: widespread southern, western warm temperate (Flindersian) or eastern warm temperate (Peronian) species. Main conclusions: Some of the region's largest predatory reef fishes have become extinct in Tasmanian seas since the ' late 1800s', most likely as a result of poor fishing practices. In more recent times, there have been major changes in the distribution patterns of Tasmanian fishes that correspond to dramatic warming observed in the local marine environment.
40405769|Aim: We tested whether the species-energy and species-human relationships vary between native and both naturalized and casual alien species richness when other environmental variables had been taken into account. Location: Trento Province, a region (c. 6200 km) on the southern border of the European Alps (Italy), subdivided into 156 contiguous (c. 37.5 km) cells and ranging in elevation from 66 to 3769 m. Methods: Data were separated into three subsets, representing richness of natives, naturalized aliens and casual aliens and separately related to temperature, human population and various environmental correlates of plant species diversity. We applied ordinary least squares and simultaneous autoregressive regressions to identify potential contrasting responses of the three plant status subsets and hierarchical partitioning to evaluate the relative importance of the predictor variables. Results: Variation in alien plant species richness along the region was almost entirely explained by temperature and human population density. The relationships were positive but strongly curvilinear. Native species richness was less strongly related to either factor but was positively related to the presence of calcareous bedrock. Native species richness had a decelerating positive relationship with temperature (R = 55%), whereas naturalized and casual aliens had a positive accelerating relationship explaining 86% and 62% of the variation in richness, respectively. Native species richness had a positive decelerating relationship with population density (R = 42%), whilst both alien subsets had a positive accelerating relationship. Main conclusions: Alien species richness was higher in areas with the most rich and diverse assemblages of native species. Areas at high altitudes are not especially prone to alien invasion due to energy constraints, low propagule pressure and disturbance, even considering a potential increased in temperature. Thus, if we consider future environmental change, we should expect a stronger response of aliens than natives in the currently warm, urbanized, low-altitude areas than in cold, high-altitude areas where human population density is low.
2665410|Using field data from previous studies we built matrix models for two populations of giant rosettes, Espeletia timotensis Cuatrec, and E. spicata Sch. Bip. Wedd., from the Andes Cordillera in Merida, Venezuela. We analysed the models and calculated population growth rate (), sensitivities, elasticities and the sensitivity of the elasticities to changes in the vital rates. The analysis showed that the two species behave alike in general demographic terms. In both models, population growth rate is positive and sensitivities of  to changes in vital rates decrease markedly in this order: plant establishment, progression of juvenile-adult, germination and survival. The relative contributions of vital rates to  (elasticities) are very similar to those of other woody plant species: a higher contribution of survival and a very low contribution of fecundity. Transition from seedling to juvenile is most important and the younger established stages (juveniles and young adults) play a predominant demographic role in both populations. Seed banks and older adults are playing a relatively minor role in the dynamics of both populations. However, they may be important in relation to unpredictable, favourable or detrimental events. Perturbation analysis of elasticities showed that increasing the rate of plant establishment will decrease the relative importance of stasis. We conclude that both species are demographically very close, and similar to other long-lived woody plant species. However, the two species differ in the role of the seed bank, which seems more important in the demography of E. spicata than in E. timotensis.
2997853|The landward transgression of mangroves into saltmarsh environments in the estuaries of south-east Australia over the last five decades is established as a widespread trend through a review of a number of independent studies. This process is occurring in a range of geomorphic settings, and in some cases reversing the direction of longer-term vegetation change Several hypotheses are advanced to explain this occurrence, including increases in rainfall, revegetation of areas cleared for agriculture, altered tidal regimes or estuary water levels, and increases in nutrient levels and sedimentation
3182736| Aim: The distribution of neotropical butterflies of the tribe Pronophilini (Lepidoptera, Satyridae) was analysed with the aim of determining (i) the elevational ranges of distribution of each species (ii) the elevational gradient in diversity, and (iii) the existence of parapatric distributions of some closely related species pairs. Location: The field study was carried out in the middle and upper section of the valley of the Ro Albarregas, a tributary of the Ro Chama on the southern slopes of the Serrana de la Culata, in the central part of the Cordillera de Mrida, Venezuela. Methods: The material was collected along an elevational transect set on a trail leading from Merida to the Pramo de Los Conejos in the area known as Monte Zerpa. It consisted of a series of 32 collection sites set at every 25 m of altitude and covered an elevation from 2250 m to 3025 m. Results: The ranges of Lymanopoda obsoleta, L. albocincta, L. zapatoza, Corades chelonis, C. pannonia, C. medeba, Mygona irmina, Pedaliodes epidipnis, P. japhleta, P. montagna and P. panyasis were all restricted to the lower half of the cloud forest zone and L. diezti, C. pax, P. polla, P. ornata and P. ferratilis were all restricted to the upper part. Two species, Erethris porphyria and Steroma bega, crossed the entire elevational range of the cloud forest zone. The biodiversity, as measured by Shannon's index, attained a maximum at 2700 m, beyond which it gradually decreased. A parapatric distribution was confirmed for three pairs of closely related species: L. obsoleta and L. diezti, C. chelonis and C. pax and P. montagna and P. ferratilis. Main conclusions: The peak in diversity at middle elevations seems to result from the overlapping ranges of species distributed over lower and upper parts of the cloud forest. Correlation of species composition at particular transect sites with elevation showed that increase in elevation was associated with an increase in species composition difference. Post-mating isolation was suggested as a primary factor responsible for maintaining the parapatric distributions of species occupying the upper and lower zones and preventing their respective distributions from expanding. 
40205690|Aim: Because of their broad distribution in geographical and ecological dimensions, seaweeds (marine macroalgae) offer great potential as models for marine biogeographical inquiry and exploration of the interface between macroecology and macroevolution. This study aims to characterize evolutionary niche dynamics in the common green seaweed genus Halimeda, use the observed insights to gain understanding of the biogeographical history of the genus and predict habitats that can be targeted for the discovery of species of special biogeographical interest. Location: Tropical and subtropical coastal waters. Methods: The evolutionary history of the genus is characterized using molecular phylogenetics and relaxed molecular clock analysis. Niche modelling is carried out with maximum entropy techniques and uses macroecological data derived from global satellite imagery. Evolutionary niche dynamics are inferred through application of ancestral character state estimation. Results: A nearly comprehensive molecular phylogeny of the genus was inferred from a six-locus dataset. Macroecological niche models showed that species distribution ranges are considerably smaller than their potential ranges. We show strong phylogenetic signal in various macroecological niche features. Main conclusions: The evolution of Halimeda is characterized by conservatism for tropical, nutrient-depleted habitats, yet one section of the genus managed to invade colder habitats multiple times independently. Niche models indicate that the restricted geographical ranges of Halimeda species are not due to habitat unsuitability, strengthening the case for dispersal limitation. Niche models identified hotspots of habitat suitability of Caribbean species in the eastern Pacific Ocean. We propose that these hotspots be targeted for discovery of new species separated from their Caribbean siblings since the Pliocene rise of the Central American Isthmus.
3697642|Aim: To assess whether altitude changes in the distribution of butterflies during the second half of the 20th century are consistent with climate warming scenarios. Location: The Czech Republic. Methods: Distributional data were taken from a recent butterfly distribution atlas, which maps all Czech butterflies using a grid of 10' longitude to 6' latitude, equivalent to about 11.1 x 12 km. Cell altitude was used as an independent variable, and altitudinal ranges of individual species (less migrants, extinct species, recent arrivals and extremely rare species) in 1950-80 vs. 1995-2001 and in 1950-80, 1981-94, 1995-2001 were compared using U-tests and linear regressions. Results: Of 117 (U-tests) and 119 (regressions) species, we found significant uphill increases in 15 and 12 species, respectively. The two groups were nested; none (U-test) and one (regression) species showed a significant altitudinal decrease. Binomial tests of frequencies of signs of the U-tests and regression coefficients, including nonsignificant ones, also showed that the increases prevailed. The mean and median of the significant shifts were 60 and 90 m, respectively, and the maximum shift per species was 148 m. The recording effort in individual time periods was not biased with respect to altitude. Main conclusion: Altitude shifts in the distribution of Czech butterflies are already detectable on the coarse scales of standard distribution maps. The increasing species do not show any consistent pattern in habitat affiliations, conservation status and mountain vs. nonmountain distribution, which renders climatic explanation as the most likely cause of the distributional shifts.
41058228|Aim: Our scientific understanding of the extent and distribution of mangrove forests of the world is inadequate. The available global mangrove databases, compiled using disparate geospatial data sources and national statistics, need to be improved. Here, we mapped the status and distributions of global mangroves using recently available Global Land Survey (GLS) data and the Landsat archive. Methods: We interpreted approximately 1000 Landsat scenes using hybrid supervised and unsupervised digital image classification techniques. Each image was normalized for variation in solar angle and earth-sun distance by converting the digital number values to the top-of-the-atmosphere reflectance. Ground truth data and existing maps and databases were used to select training samples and also for iterative labelling. Results were validated using existing GIS data and the published literature to map ' true mangroves'. Results: The total area of mangroves in the year 2000 was 137,760 km in 118 countries and territories in the tropical and subtropical regions of the world. Approximately 75% of world's mangroves are found in just 15 countries, and only 6.9% are protected under the existing protected areas network (IUCN I-IV). Our study confirms earlier findings that the biogeographic distribution of mangroves is generally confined to the tropical and subtropical regions and the largest percentage of mangroves is found between 5 N and 5 S latitude. Main conclusions: We report that the remaining area of mangrove forest in the world is less than previously thought. Our estimate is 12.3% smaller than the most recent estimate by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. We present the most comprehensive, globally consistent and highest resolution (30 m) global mangrove database ever created. We developed and used better mapping techniques and data sources and mapped mangroves with better spatial and thematic details than previous studies.
2665325|We examine whether rain forest dung beetle species found in plantations in Sabah, northern Borneo, tend to be endemic or geographically widespread. In addition, linear regressions of abundance vs. distance from a major river in primary rain forest are calculated to see if species found in plantation forest show affinity to one specific biotope (riverine vs. interior forest) in their natural habitat. Results show that 14 of the 40 species recorded from plantations are endemic to Borneo. Only edge-specialist endemic species are found in plantation forest, with no interior-forest specialists recorded. Data suggest that endemic species that are adapted to more exposed conditions in primary rain forest, such as riverine species, can in some instances tolerate man-made habitats. Twenty-nine species (SE 4.0) per transect are recorded from plantation transects, whereas 44.2 (1.7 SE) are recorded in primary rain forest. As species richness is much lower in plantations than natural forest, implying loss of biodiversity, we conclude that measures of biogeographic distinctiveness, whereby endemic species confer higher values, may be misleading unless they take into account edge-affinity. Local- as well as regional-distributional data may therefore be needed to interpret correctly patterns of species assemblages in derived forest ecosystems.
3182712|Aim: Recent research has shown that much of the variability in leaf gas exchange and leaf longevity can be related to variations in the surface : volume ratio of leaves. The aim of this paper was to develop a theoretical framework and a practical method to extend that result to the vegetation at the continental scale. Location: The study was conducted in Australia. Methods: We propose that vegetation is composed of a mixture of three basic leaf types, 'turgor' (T), 'mesic' (M) and 'sclerophyll' (S) leaves. Changes in the relative proportions of T, M and S leaves within a vegetation type are visualized using a ternary diagram and differences in vegetation structure are shown to be easily mapped onto the ternary diagram. We estimate the proportions of T, M and S leaves using readily available data. The total amount of PAR absorbed by the vegetation (fPAR) is estimated using continental-scale satellite observations. The total fPAR is then decomposed into that absorbed by T, M and S leaves. The relative absorption of PAR by T leaves is estimated from the temporal dynamics in the satellite signal, while the relative proportions of M and S leaves are estimated using climatic (solar radiation, rainfall) data. Results: When the availability of light, nutrients and water were near-optimal, the vegetation was composed of predominantly M leaves. In low nutrient environments S leaves predominated. T leaves were dominant in disturbed environments. Conclusions: The theoretical framework is used to predict that elevated atmospheric CO
41058232|Aim: To investigate the influence of choice of the measure of mean abundance on the abundance-occupancy relationship, and to examine the implications for identifying causal mechanisms. Innovation: Simulations were performed to generate stochastic abundanceoccupancy data sets covering a wide range of scenarios representative of empirical abundance-occupancy data. Two common measures of mean abundance were used: local mean abundance (mean abundance calculated using only data from occupied sites) and global mean abundance (mean abundance calculated using all sites or samples). I found that the choice of mean abundance measure had a strong effect on the correlation between abundance and occupancy. Local mean abundance was associated with a high proportion of negative correlations (mean percentage of negative correlations across 24 simulations = 44.39), while global mean abundance was strongly associated with positive correlations (mean percentage of negative correlations across 24 simulations = 0.02). Main conclusions: The choice of abundance measure influences the correlation between abundance and occupancy. Negative correlations between local mean abundance and occupancy are an inherent and unavoidable consequence of using this measure of abundance. Efforts to identify causal mechanisms that give rise to the abundance-occupancy relationship have attempted to explain occasional negative correlations when the expectation was for positive correlations. This study shows that negative correlations arise from the choice of mean abundance measure and that this artefact confounds efforts to identify ecological causal mechanisms.
4139426|Aim We tested various species-level traits for their potential to explain species' range sizes and dispersal abilities. Location Southeast Asia and Malay Archipelago. Methods We used published maps of geographical distribution estimates for sphingid moths to calculate range areas and classify species according to their dispersion across (present or historical) water straits in the Malay Archipelago. We tested forewing length (FWL), wing load (thorax width/FWL), presence or absence of a functional proboscis (i.e. adult feeding), larval diet breadth and larval diet composition for univariate correlations with range size and inter-island dispersion. We used multivariate, phylogenetically controlled models to test for independent effects of parameters. Results Range size correlated strongly with larval diet breadth, a result that was also confirmed in the multivariate model. Adult feeding had a significant impact on range sizes only within the multivariate model, but not in the univariate correlation. Dispersal class also correlated with larval diet breadth, but was additionally influenced by forewing length, wing load and larval diet composition. A univariate effect of adult feeding became non-significant in the multivariate, phylogenetically controlled model. Main conclusions Larval diet breadth is the best predictor of range size as well as inter-island dispersion, confirming the importance of niche breadth on the geographic ranges of species. A number of other factors are shown to have additional impact on predictions of range size or inter-island dispersal ability. Our analyses cannot determine the causal mechanisms of these correlations, but may stimulate further research on the adaptive significance of traits affecting range size and dispersal in this system.
40205696|Aims: Alpine tree line ecotones are harsh environments where low temperatures constrain tree regeneration and growth. However, the expected upward shift of tree line ecotones in response to climate warming has not been ubiquitous. The lack of coupling between tree line dynamics and climate warming might be explained by factors other than climate variation that determine seedling recruitment in these ecotones. We want to assess how the availability of suitable habitat for establishment and the effects of facilitation on seedling survival and growth affect tree recruitment within tree line ecotones and modulate their responses to climate. Location: We evaluate the relevance of these factors for Pinus uncinata tree line ecotones in the Catalan Pyrenees (north-east Spain) and Andorra. Methods: We analysed the microhabitat of naturally established seedlings in rectangular plots at the tree line ecotone, assessing the habitat type and the proximity to potentially protective elements that may improve microsite conditions. We tested whether krummholz individuals influence regeneration at the tree line by performing a transplantation field experiment to evaluate the extent of facilitation on seedling survival and growth in height. A total of 820 seedlings were transplanted at different distances and orientations (resulting in 12 positions) from krummholz mats and monitored over 2 years. Results: Safe sites for P. uncinata recruits consisted of sparse vegetation covering bare soil, gravel or litter, and close to protective elements that may ameliorate microsite conditions. The field experiment showed that directional positive interactions enhance seedling survival and growth, altering the spatial patterns of recruit survivorship, especially during harsh winter conditions (shallow and irregular snowpack). Main conclusions: Our results suggest that scarce availability of safe sites and uneven facilitation by krummholz control seedling recruitment patterns within alpine tree line ecotones. Such constraints may distort or counter the response of tree line ecotones to climate warming at local and regional scales.
3697475|Switzerland's governmental 'Biodiversity Monitoring' program is designed to produce factual information on the dynamics of biodiversity within the country for governmental agencies, politicians, and the general public. Monitoring a complex issue like biodiversity in order to give relevant and accurate messages to the general public and politicians within a politically relevant timescale and at moderate cost means focusing on few elements. Because relevant human impacts on biodiversity operate differently at different spatial scales, we need at least three different indicators to observe changes over time in local ('within-habitat'), landscape ('habitat-mosaic'), and macro-scale ('regional') diversity. To keep things as simple as possible, we use species richness as an indicator for all three levels of diversity, just defining three different spatial scales (10 m
2665340|1. We explored whether the independent evolutionary history of extratropical forests in the southern and northern hemispheres affects the temperature-elevation relationship of mountain forest lines. We compiled 115 forest line descriptions from the literature, covering the major extratropical mountain ranges of the world. We related forest line elevation to thermal regimes using mean annual temperature adjusted to sea level (MAT) and seasonal thermal amplitude (STA, mean of the warmest month minus the mean of the coldest) obtained from a global climate database. 2. Thermal variables explained 79% of the global variability of forest line elevation, which increased approximately 130 m for every 1 K of MAT and for every 2 K of STA. After considering STA, there was no significant effect of `hemisphere' on forest line elevation. MAT-elevation relationships for sites with STA < 15 K were the same between hemispheres. 3. Sites dominated by different tree life forms had similar mean temperatures for the warmest month (differences < 3 K), but contrasting mean temperatures for the coldest (differences > 30 K). Along a gradient of increasing STA and decreasing winter temperatures, forest lines were first dominated by evergreen broadleaf trees, followed by deciduous broadleaf species, evergreen conifers, and finally deciduous conifers. 4. Our results suggest that temperatures during the warm part of the year are the main control of forest line elevation in extratropical regions while temperatures during the cold part of the year affect the dominant life form of trees. There is a high degree of convergence in adaptation to mountain climates between trees species of both hemispheres. This convergence suggests that there is not a wide vacant altitudinal belt for introduced forest line species of the northern hemisphere into the southern hemisphere.
2665433|1 This paper evaluates the role of soil drainage in tree seedling performance at a site being restored from Calluna vulgaris moorland to Pinus sylvestris woodland, in Glen Affric, Scotland. The investigation focuses on the relationships between height of planted seedlings, type of ground vegetation and drainage conditions. 2 Slope, aspect, and soil depth were assessed as potential surrogates for direct measures of soil drainage, all of which were derived from digital terrain data. 3 Six variables related to drainage were recorded at 58 seedling locations and used in a factor analysis to understand links between soil moisture conditions, topographic variables and soil depth characteristics. 4 Factor analysis generated two factors that accounted for 70.5% of the variance in the correlation matrix of these variables: Factor 1 correlated strongly with variables that controlled peat accumulation and Factor 2 correlated strongly with topographic controls upon drainage patterns. 5 These two factors explained a significant amount of the variance in height of the Pinus seedlings planted at these locations. Significant differences were found between the factor scores associated with different types of ground vegetation, as well as between the seedling heights observed at locations with different vegetation types. 6 Multiple regressions were developed that indicated that slope, aspect, and soil depth were significant as independent variables in models where soil moisture content and aerobic soil depth were the dependent variables.
41239342|Aim: To assess the degree of fine-scale environmental determinism in fern community composition in a diverse, mid-montane tropical forest, and to test whether species local microhabitat distributions are linked to their elevational ranges regionally. Location: Tunquini biological station, eastern Bolivian Andes. Methods: We recorded fern species composition and environmental descriptors in two montane forest transects on opposite valley slopes at c. 1650 m elevation. Redundancy analysis and variation partitioning were run to examine how much floristic variation was explained by spatial and environmental (soil, forest structural, topoclimatic) variables. We then linked species local environmental distributions, as evidenced in these analyses, to their elevational ranges in Bolivia using herbarium data. Results: There was a striking floristic difference between the transects, attributable to differences in exposure, temperature and humidity. Environmental and floristic variation were also strongly linked within transects, with soil variation being most important. The overlap between spatially and environmentally explained variation was high, but there was congruence in the main environmental predictors selected in both transects, suggesting considerable spatial structure arose from species responses to a patchy environment. Species local microclimatic distributions were significantly linked to their regional elevational ranges. Species associated with the drier north-easterly transect had average range mid-points and maxima significantly higher (by 211 m and 402 m, respectively) than those associated with the more humid south-westerly transect. Within transects, species associated with more acidic soils and warmer microsites had higher average range minima, midpoints or maxima (by > 200 m in all cases) than those associated with less acidic and cooler microsites. Main conclusions: Strong environmental determinism of community composition was apparent in relation to both local topoclimatic and soil gradients. Moreover, our results suggest that fine-scale variation in environmental conditions enhances the mixing of lowland and highland floras in mid-montane forests, thereby contributing to mid-elevation diversity.
3697524|Aim: To determine the main factors that control the distribution of palm species richness across the Americas, to understand the relative importance of climatic and other environmental factors vs. spatial variables (as substitutes for nonenvironmental factors such as history), and to evaluate how robust the patterns found are to changes in spatial scale. Location: Tropical and subtropical America (
4139429|Aim To test the hypothesis that anthropogenic alteration of stream-flow regimes is a key driver of compositional shifts from native to introduced riparian plant species. Location The arid south-western United States; 24 river reaches in the Gila and Lower Colorado drainage basins of Arizona. Methods We compared the abundance of three dominant woody riparian taxa (native Populus fremontii and Salix gooddingii, and introduced Tamarix) between river reaches that varied in stream-flow permanence (perennial vs. intermittent), presence or absence of an upstream flow-regulating dam, and presence or absence of municipal effluent as a stream water source. Results Populus and Salix were the dominant pioneer trees along the reaches with perennial flow and a natural flood regime. In contrast, Tamarix had high abundance (patch area and basal area) along reaches with intermittent stream flows (caused by natural and cultural factors), as well as those with dam-regulated flows. Main conclusions Stream-flow regimes are strong determinants of riparian vegetation structure, and hydrological alterations can drive dominance shifts to introduced species that have an adaptive suite of traits. Deep alluvial groundwater on intermittent rivers favours the deep-rooted, stress-adapted Tamarix over the shallower-rooted and more competitive Populus and Salix. On flow-regulated rivers, shifts in flood timing favour the reproductively opportunistic Tamarix over Populus and Salix, both of which have narrow germination windows. The prevailing hydrological conditions thus favour a new dominant pioneer species in the riparian corridors of the American Southwest. These results reaffirm the importance of reinstating stream-flow regimes (inclusive of groundwater flows) for re-establishing the native pioneer trees as the dominant forest type.
40801861|Aim: In any region affected, fires exhibit a strong seasonal cycle driven by the dynamic of fuel moisture and ignition sources throughout the year. In this paper we investigate the global patterns of fire seasonality, which we relate to climatic, anthropogenic, land-cover and land-use variables.
40801919|Aim: To document long-term rates of immigration, extinction and turnover in insular floras and evaluate the relative impacts of recent hurricane activity and climate change.
30137896|Aim: To analyse quantitatively the extent to which several methodological, geographical and taxonomic variables affect the magnitude of the tendency for the latitudinal ranges of species to increase with latitude (the Rapoport effect). Location: Global. Methods: A meta-analysis of 49 published studies was used to evaluate the effect of several methodological and biological moderator variables on the magnitude of the pattern. Results: The method used to depict the latitudinal variation in range sizes is a strong moderator variable that accounts for differences in the magnitude of the pattern. In contrast, the extent of the study or the use of areal or linear estimations of range sizes does not affect the magnitude of the pattern. The effect of geography is more consistent than the effect of taxonomy in accounting for differences in the magnitude of the pattern. The Rapoport effect is indeed strong in Eurasia and North America. Weaker or non-significant latitudinal trends are found at the global scale, and in Australia, South America and the New World. There are no significant differences in the magnitude of the pattern between different habitats, however, the overall pattern is weaker in oceans than in terrestrial regions of the world. Main conclusions: The Rapoport effect is indeed strong in continental landmasses of the Northern Hemisphere. The magnitude of the effect is primarily affected by methodological and biogeographical factors. Ecological and spatial scale effects seem to be less important. We suggest that not all methodological approaches may be equally useful for analysing the pattern.
41058216|Aim: Many macroecological analyses are based on analyses of climatological data, within which evapotranspiration estimates are of central importance. In this paper we evaluate and review the use of evapotranspiration models and data in studies of geographical ecology to test the likely sensitivity of the analyses to variation in the performance of different metrics of potential evapotranspiration. Location: Analyses are based on: (1) a latitudinal transect of sites (FLUXNET) for 11 different land-cover types; and (2) globally gridded data. Methods: First, we review the fundamental concepts of evapotranspiration, outline basic evapotranspiration models and describe methods with which to measure evapotranspiration. Next, we compare three different types of potential evapotranspiration models - a temperature-based (Thornthwaite type), a radiation-based (Priestley-Taylor) and a combination (Penman-Monteith) model - for 11 different land-cover types. Finally, we compare these models at continental and global scales. Results: At some sites the models differ by less than 7%, but generally the difference was greater than 25% across most sites. The temperature-based model estimated 20-30% less than the radiation-based and combination models averaged across all sites. The combination model often gave the highest estimates (22% higher than the radiation-based model averaged across all sites). For continental and global averages, the potential evapotranspiration was very similar across all models. However, the difference in individual pixels was often larger than 150 mm year between models. Main conclusions: The choice of evapotranspiration model and input data is likely to have a bearing on model fits and predictions when used in analyses of species richness and related phenomena at geographical scales of analysis. To assist those undertaking such analyses, we provide a guide to selecting an appropriate evapotranspiration model.
3697562|Aim: The aim of this study was to explore the environmental factors that determine the spatial distribution of oro-mediterranean and alti-mediterranean plant communities in Crete. Location: The paper provides a quantitative analysis of vegetation-environment relationships for two study areas within the Lefka Ori massif Crete, a proposed Natura 2000 site. Methods: Eleven environmental variables were recorded: altitude, slope, aspect, percentage of bare rock, percentage of unvegetated ground, soil depth, pH, organic matter content and percentages of sand, silt and clay content. Classification of the vegetation was based on TWINSPAN, while detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were used to identify environmental gradients linked to community distribution. Results: One hundred and twenty-five species were recorded from 120 plots located within the two study areas. Forty-seven of the recorded species are endemic, belonging to 35 families. Hemicryptophytes and chamaephytes were the most frequent, suggesting a typical oro-mediterranean life form spectrum. The samples were classified into five main community types and one transitional. The main gradients, identified by CCA, were altitude and surface cover type in the North-west site, while in the Central site the gradients were soil formation-development and surface cover type. Main conclusions: The use of classification in combination with ordination techniques resulted in a good discrimination between plant communities and a greater understanding of controlling environmental factors. The methodology adopted can be employed for improving baseline information on plant community ecology and distribution in Mediterranean mountain zones.
3697584|Biogeographical studies frequently reveal positive correlations between species richness and estimates of environmental water and/or energy. A popular interpretation of this relationship relates the supply of water and energy to productivity, and then, in turn, to richness. Productivity-diversity theories are now legion, yet none has proved sufficiently intuitive to gain broad acceptance. Like productivity, heterogeneity is known to influence diversity at fine spatial scales, yet the possibility that richness might relate to water-energy dynamics at coarse spatial scales via a heterogeneity-generating mechanism has received little attention. In this paper we outline such a conceptual model for plants that is internally consistent and testable. We believe it may help to explain the capacity of environments receiving different inputs of water and energy to support variable numbers of species at a range of spatial scales, the pervasive correlation between productivity and richness, some exceptions to the productivity-diversity relationship, the form of productivity-diversity curves and the link between richness and environmental 'harshness'. The model may also provide an answer to one of the most venerable puzzles in the field of diversity studies: why high inputs of water and energy correspond to more species rather than simply more individuals.
2665314|1 Changes in the areas of croplands and pastures, and rates of wood harvest in seven regions of the United States, including Alaska, were derived from historical statistics for the period 1700-1990. These rates of land-use change were used in a cohort model, together with equations defining the changes in live vegetation, slash, wood products and soil that follow a change in land use, to calculate the annual flux of carbon to the atmosphere from changes in land use. 2 The calculated flux increased from less than 10 TgC/yr in 1700 to a maximum of about 400 TgC/yr around 1880 and then decreased to approximately zero by 1950. The total flux for the 290-year period was a release of 32.6 PgC. The area of forests and woodlands declined by 42% (160 x 10<sup>6</sup> ha), releasing 29 PgC, or 90% of the total flux. Cultivation of soils accounted for about 25% of the carbon loss. Between 1950 and 1990 the annual flux of carbon was approximately zero, although eastern forests were accumulating carbon. 3 When the effects of fire and fire exclusion (reported in a companion paper) were added to this analysis of land-use change, the uptake of carbon calculated for forests was similar in magnitude to the uptake measured in forest inventories, suggesting that past harvests account for a significant fraction of the observed carbon sink in forests. 4 Changes in the management of croplands between 1965 and 1990 may have led to an additional accumulation of carbon, not included in the 32.6 PgC release, but even with this additional non-forest sink, the calculated accumulation of carbon in the United States was an order of magnitude smaller than the North American carbon sink inferred recently from atmospheric data and models.
3697655|Aim: To test whether congeneric species are significantly associated with one another in space, either positively or negatively. Also, to provide a framework for a causal investigation of co-occurrence patterns by a parallel comparison of interactions in geographical and ecological data matrices. Location: For the analysis of congeneric species' co-occurrences we used 30 matrices covering a wide range of taxa and geographical areas, while for the causal investigation we used the distribution of 50 terrestrial isopod species on 20 islands and 264 sampling stations in the central Aegean archipelago, as well as a number of ecological variables for each sampling station. Methods: We developed a software program (cooc) that incorporates the species-by-species approach to co-occurrence analysis using EcoSim's output of prior null model analysis of co-occurrence. We describe this program in detail, and use it to investigate one of the most common assembly rules, namely, the decreased levels of co-occurrence among congeneric species pairs. For the causal analysis, we proceed likewise, cross-checking the results from the geographical and the ecological matrices. There is only one possible combination of results that can support claims for direct competition among species. Results: We do not get any strong evidence for widespread competition among congeneric species, while most communities investigated do not show significant patterns of species associations. The causal analysis suggests that the principal factors behind terrestrial isopod species associations are of historical nature. Some exceptional cases are also discussed. Main conclusions: Presence/absence data for a variety of taxa do not support the assembly rule that congeneric species are under more intense competition compared to less related species. Also, these same data do not suggest strong interactions among species pairs, regardless of taxonomic status. When significant species associations can be seen in such matrices, they mainly reflect the effects of history or of habitat requirements.
4139440| Aim Species richness depends on climate and land use. Maintaining locations with favourable climate and land-use patterns is critical for protecting biodiversity because the loss of either can reduce the species richness that an area supports. Currently, the Guiana Shield (GS) receives abundant precipitation and has relatively light land use. For species richness this constitutes a good-good combination of climate and land use, respectively. In contrast, much of eastern Brazil receives low levels of precipitation and has heavy land use, which is a bad-bad combination for species richness. Thus, the current distribution of precipitation and land use in northern South America is relatively favourable for biodiversity. Palaeoclimate and model studies suggest, however, that the precipitation patterns for the two regions have switched before and could switch in response to greenhouse gas emissions. This paper examines the potential consequences of reconfiguring climate with respect to existing land-use patterns using South America as an example. Location South America north of 20 S and east of the Andes. Methods Ecosystem structure and function are modelled under (1) historical climate and (2) altered precipitation following a shift in the location of the Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ). The distribution of precipitation, biomes, net primary productivity (NPP) and land use are then used to predict levels of species richness under the two climate scenarios. Results Climate changes could shift the distribution of vegetation and NPP such that conditions favourable for species richness in the GS region disappear. If land-use patterns were not prohibitive in eastern Brazil, the improved climate conditions there could compensate for the GS loss (assuming migratory barriers are overcome). Instead, existing land-use patterns cause the combined species richness projected for the two regions to plummet. Main conclusions Human activities will alter current configurations of land use and climate throughout the world. For species richness, new configurations are likely to include both positive and negative combinations of climate and land use. However, the irreversibility of past extinctions due to land-use patterns loads the dice against species richness. 
30137823|Aim: The role of biotic interactions in influencing species distributions at macroscales remains poorly understood. Here we test whether predictions of distributions for four boreal owl species at two macro-scales (10 x 10 km and 40 x 40 km grid resolutions) are improved by incorporating interactions with woodpeckers into climate envelope models. Location: Finland, northern Europe. Methods: Distribution data for four owl and six woodpecker species, along with data for six land cover and three climatic variables, were collated from 2861 10 x 10 km grid cells. Generalized additive models were calibrated using a 50% random sample of the species data from western Finland, and by repeating this procedure 20 times for each of the four owl species. Models were fitted using three sets of explanatory variables: (1) climate only; (2) climate and land cover; and (3) climate, land cover and two woodpecker interaction variables. Models were evaluated using three approaches: (1) examination of explained deviance; (2) four-fold cross-validation using the model calibration data; and (3) comparison of predicted and observed values for independent grid cells in eastern Finland. The model accuracy for approaches (2) and (3) was measured using the area under the curve of a receiver operating characteristic plot. Results: At 10-km resolution, inclusion of the distribution of woodpeckers as a predictor variable significantly improved the explanatory power, cross-validation statistics and the predictive accuracy of the models. Inclusion of land cover led to similar improvements at 10-km resolution, although these improvements were less apparent at 40-km resolution for both land cover and biotic interactions. Main conclusions: Predictions of species distributions at macro-scales may be significantly improved by incorporating biotic interactions and land cover variables into models. Our results are important for models used to predict the impacts of climate change, and emphasize the need for comprehensive evaluation of the reliability of species-climate impact models.
2997864|Species and their geographical distributions, tabulated either from regional faunal and floral monographs or directly from natural history collections, often are used as the basic units of analysis by ecologists and biogeographers. It has been argued that in order for species to be operationally useful units for evolutionary and ecological studies, they need to be recognizable and identifiable as distinct entities. A growing body of molecular phylogeographic studies demonstrates that currently recognized species often are unreliable in their approximation of fundamental evolutionary and geographical units, leading, for example, to proposed usage of molecular-based evolutionarily significant units in lieu of species in conservation biology. We argue that ecologists and biogeographers should likewise employ evolutionarily significant units as basic units of analysis when evidence clearly indicates that a formally recognized species either fails to convey important evolutionary and geographical information (i.e. includes multiple geographically distinct evolutionary lineages) or fails to delineate a natural entity (i.e. does not represent a monophyletic set of populations). We demonstrate the limitations of current species as evolutionary, geographical, and conservation units within the ecologically well-studied North American desert rodent assemblage. We suggest that biotic surveys should be designed to allow the efficient assembly and dissemination of molecular phylogeographic data from ecologically and biogeographically representative systems.
2997867|1. A Dynamic Global Vegetation Model (DGVM) has been developed as a new feature of the NASA-CASA (Carnegie Ames Stanford Approach) ecosystem production and trace gas model. This DGVM includes seasonal phenology algorithms calibrated using historical interannual data sets derived from the Advanced Very High Resolution (AVHRR) satellite 'greenness' index. 2. The coupled CASA-DGVM design is based conceptually on two main elements of Tilman's resource-ratio hypothesis of vegetation change, namely: 1) plant competition for resources (water and light) over relatively short time periods of months and seasons; and 2) the long-term pattern in the supply of growth-limiting resources such as water and nutrients, i.e. the resource-supply trajectory. This simulation model generates global gridded estimates of primary production, above and below ground biomass, leaf area index (LAI), and trace gas fluxes from soil.3. Eight distributed test locations for the DGVM were evaluated initially to represent a variety of climate conditions ranging from Arctic (64
40205711|Aims: We examine the role of species-area relationships (SARs), climatic parameters and phylogeny in shaping the altitudinal species richness patterns of moths. With respect to SARs, we investigate whether habitat heterogeneity is a probable mechanism for mediating area effects. We investigate the consistency of patterns by comparing several discrete regions. Location: Nine mountainous regions in tropical Asia and the Malay Archipelago. Methods: Presence-only records for 292 species of the Lepidopteran family Sphingidae were used to measure interpolated species richness in 200-m altitudinal bands. Species richness was correlated with area measures, which were calculated from both two-dimensional map projections and three-dimensional digital elevation models (DEMs). We used data simulations of homogeneous communities to test for effects of sample (i. e. habitat) heterogeneity as a mechanism causing SARs. Species richness patterns were compared among regions and between the two major sphingid clades, and were related to regional climatic characteristics. Results: The area of altitudinal bands was a strong (statistical) explanation of species richness, particularly if area was calculated from three-dimensional DEMs, but SARs often over-predict species richness in lowland areas. There was no evidence for habitat heterogeneity as a mechanism of altitudinal SARs (tested for Borneo only). Species richness patterns varied considerably between the nine regions, which may, as an alternative to SARs, be explained by climatic differences such as (temperature) seasonality. Phylogenetic clades differed in species richness patterns exhibited. Main conclusion SARs provide strong empirical explanations for (regional) altitudinal patterns of species richness, but lack of evidence for the most likely mechanism cautions against a priori 'corrections' of species richness data for area. Furthermore, SARs are often not a sufficient explanation for the drop in species richness towards lowlands. Climate, or other collinear variables, may offer alternative explanations for altitudinal SARs. More research is needed to understand the mechanisms for SARs in an altitudinal context in order to evaluate their importance in the face of parameter collinearity.
2665383|The biomass and biomass dynamics of forests are major uncertainties in our understanding of tropical environments. Remote sensing is often the only practical means of acquiring information on forest biomass but has not always been used successfully. Here the conventional approaches to the estimation of forest biomass from remotely sensed data were evaluated relative to techniques based on the application of artificial neural networks. Together these approaches were used to estimate and map the biomass of tropical forests in north-eastern Borneo from Landsat TM data. The neural networks were found to be particularly suited to the application. A basic multilayer perceptron network, for example, provided estimates of biomass that were strongly correlated with those measured in the field (r = 0.80). Moreover, these estimates were more strongly correlated with biomass than those derived from 230 conventional vegetation indices, including the widely used normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI).
30134101|Aim: Relationships between range size and species richness are contentious, yet they are key to testing the various hypotheses that attempt to explain latitudinal diversity gradients. Our goal is to utilize the largest data set yet compiled for New World woody plant biogeography to describe and assess these relationships between species richness and range size. Location: North and South America. Methods: We estimated the latitudinal extent of 12,980 species of woody plants (trees, shrubs, lianas). From these estimates we quantified latitudinal patterns of species richness and range size. We compared our observations with expectations derived from two null models. Results: Peak richness and the smallest-and largest-ranged species are generally found close to the equator. In contrast to prominent diversity hypotheses: (1) mean latitudinal extent of tropical species is greater than expected; (2) latitudinal extent appears to be decoupled from species richness across New World latitudes, with abrupt transitions across subtropical latitudes; and (3) mean latitudinal extents show equatorial and north temperate peaks and subtropical minima. Our results suggest that patterns of range size and richness appear to be influenced by three broadly overlapping biotic domains (biotic provinces) for New World woody plants. Main conclusions: Hypotheses that assume a direct relationship between range size and species richness may explain richness patterns within these domains, but cannot explain gradients in richness across the New World.
40602961|Aim: Quantifying and predicting change in large ecosystems is an important research objective for applied ecologists as human disturbance effects become increasingly evident at regional and global scales. However, studies used to make inferences about large-scale change are frequently of uneven quality and few in number, having been undertaken to study local, rather than global, change. Our aim is to improve the quality of inferences that can be made in meta-analyses of large-scale disturbance by integrating studies of varying quality in a unified modelling framework that is informative for both local and regional management. Innovation: Here we improve conventionally structured meta-analysis methods by including imputation of unknown study variances and the use of Bayesian factor potentials. The approach is a coherent framework for integrating data of varying quality across multiple studies while facilitating belief statements about the uncertainty in parameter estimates and the probable outcome of future events. The approach is applied to a regional meta-analysis of the effects of loss of coral cover on species richness and the abundance of coral-dependent fishes in the western Indian Ocean (WIO) before and after a mass bleaching event in 1998. Main conclusions: Our Bayesian approach to meta-analysis provided greater precision of parameter estimates than conventional weighted linear regression meta-analytical techniques, allowing us to integrate all available data from 66 available study locations in the WIO across multiple scales. The approach thereby: (1) estimated uncertainty in site-level estimates of change, (2) provided a regional estimate for future change at any given site in the WIO, and (3) provided a probabilistic belief framework for future management of reef resources at both local and regional scales.
2997869|In this paper we test a method to estimate the tree and grass vegetation cover over Australia from satellite-derived normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) time series (monthly 1981-91,  5 km pixels) observations. The evergreen cover is assumed to track along the base of the NDVI time series, which is assumed to be equivalent to the woody vegetation cover. The base of the NDVI time series is estimated using modifications to a classical econometric model (i.e. time series is the sum of trend, seasonal and random components). Estimates of the average evergreen component during 1982-85 and 1986-89 were generally consistent with known vegetation distributions. Changes in evergreen cover were largely restricted to the south-west and southeast of Australia. Those changes were largely the result of differences in rainfall between the two periods. The proposed method for estimating woody vegetation cover is found to be generally robust. However, there are some regions where the grass (or pasture) is mostly evergreen. Some possible refinements are proposed to handle such cases.
3697465|A positive correlation between human population density and species richness has been recorded across the tropics. Here I investigate whether this correlation holds true for Europe. Analyses reveal a positive correlation between human population density and plant (rho = 0.505), mammal (rho = 0.471) and reptile and amphibian (rho = 0.556) species richness. The results are largely concordant with those obtained in similar studies for Africa. However, contrary to previous analyses, the correlation found between people and breeding bird species richness (rho = 0.186) was weak. Of three measures of endemism used, only combined European endemic species richness correlated with human density (rho = 0.437). Richness among combined restricted-range European endemics was not correlated (rho = 0.095) with human density, while richness among all combined restricted-range species was only weakly correlated with human density (rho = 0.167). The results partially support the idea of a correlation between people and biodiversity, although there are some important exceptions. Discussion of possible mechanisms underling the observed patterns is undertaken.
2665406|Global vegetation changes at the time-scale of the Earth's orbital variations (10<sup>4</sup>-10<sup>5</sup> years) have been interpreted as a direct effect of consequential climatic changes, especially temperature. At mid- and high latitudes, the evidence from fossil data and general circulation models (GCMs) supporting this hypothesis is strong, but at low latitudes there is a major discrepancy. GCMs predict temperature changes that are less than those inferred from palaeoclimatic data, including the plant fossil record. However, changes in atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations can account for a high proportion of the low-latitude vegetation change hitherto attributed to temperature change, and may thus explain the discrepancy. The implications of this finding are considerable for understanding patterns of macroevolution and ecosystem development throughout the geological record.
41058243|Aim: An increase in multivoltinism in ectothermic animals has been proposed by several authors as a possible outcome of climate warming, especially in high latitudes. We tested this prediction with large-scale empirical monitoring data for boreal moth communities. Location: Finland, northern Europe. Methods: Our data set comprised observations of multivoltine species made in the Finnish moth monitoring scheme ' Nocturna' trap sites during the period 1993 2006 along an exceptionally long latitudinal gradient of 1000 km. To compare recent changes in moth multivoltinism with a longer time period, we gathered older time series of moth observations from five locations. We used generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs) to detect possible temporal and geographical trends in the annual occurrence of multivoltinism. We also identified areas where the recent changes in multivoltinism have been greatest. Monthly average temperatures of spring and summer periods and annual sum of growing degree days above 5 C (GDD5) were used as explanatory variables to distinguish the main climatic correlates of moth multivoltinism. Results: We observed a clear increase in the occurrence of moth multivoltinism during the period 1993-2006. The incidence as well as the recent increase in multivoltinism were highest in southernmost Finland and decreased towards the north. We also detected a weaker, although significantly positive, trend of moth multivoltinism in southern Finland during the period 1963-92, suggesting that this increasing trend might already have begun earlier. The most important climatic correlates for the annual occurrence of moth multivoltinism were the mean summer temperature (periods May-July and June-August) and GDD5, but all the tested climatic variables showed a significant univariate relationship with the occurrence of moth multivoltinism. All climatic variables showed an increasing trend during the period 1993-2006. Main conclusions: The occurrence of multivoltinism has increased in northern European moth communities during recent decades, apparently as a response to increasing temperatures during the spring and summer seasons. The increase in multivoltinism was greatest in the southernmost parts of Finland, whereas in the northern landscapes recent warming has triggered multivoltinism in only relatively few moth species.
3697553|Aim: We studied the relationships between the numbers of species and numbers of higher taxa (genera, tribes, subfamilies and families) in flea assemblages of small mammalian hosts with the aims of: (a) comparing these relationships across different regions, and (b) testing the hypothesis that flea assemblages in warmer regions diversify mainly via intrahost speciation, whereas those in colder regions diversify mainly via host switching. Location: The study used previously published data on flea assemblages on small mammalian hosts from 25 different regions of the Holarctic. Methods: The number of flea genera, tribes, subfamilies or families in an assemblage (host species) was plotted against the number of flea species in this assemblage for each region separately, and a power function was fitted to the resulting relationships. Then, the values of the exponent of the power function for a region were regressed against the mean annual temperature in this region, across all regions. Results: The relationships between the number of flea species and the numbers of flea genera, tribes, subfamilies or families on a host species in each region were found to be well described by simple power functions. The exponent of the power function of the relationship between the number of flea species and the number of flea genera per host tended to decrease with increasing local mean annual temperature. When two apparent outliers from the trend (corresponding to regions where sampling was not performed as in other regions) were omitted from the analysis, the negative relationship between temperature and the exponent of the power function between the number of flea species and number of flea genera per host became highly significant. No relationship was found between the values of the exponents of the power functions between the number of flea species and the number of flea tribes, subfamilies or families per host, and the mean local annual temperature. Main conclusions: The results suggest that the diversification of flea assemblages is associated with climatic variables. In warm regions, the greater number of congeneric species per flea assemblage, reflected by the lower exponent of the power function, may well be the outcome of intrahost speciation. This indicates that, as regional temperature increases, intrahost speciation becomes a relatively more important mode of diversification than acquisition of fleas via host switching.
30137816|Recent compilations of large-scale data bases on the geographical distributions and body sizes of animals, coupled with developments in spatial statistics, have led to renewed interest in the geographical distribution of animal body sizes and the interspecific version of Bergmann's rule. Standard practice seems to be an examination of mean body sizes within higher taxa on gridded maps, with little regard to species richness or phylogeny. However, because the frequency distribution of body sizes is typically highly skewed, average size within grid cells may differ significantly between species-rich and species-poor cells even when the median and modal sizes remain constant. Species richness influences body size patterns because species are not added to communities at random in relation to their size: areas of low diversity are characterized by a higher range of body sizes than is expected by chance. Finally, a consideration of phylogenetic structure within taxa is necessary to elucidate whether patterns in the geography of size result from turnover between or within intermediate taxonomic levels. We suggest that the highest and lowest quantiles of body size distribution be mapped in order to expose possible physiological or ecological limitations on body size.
40405760|Aim: We explored whether the anuran amphibian faunas differed among landscapes that are relatively intact (largely covered in forests and woodlands) and others that are completely converted to agriculture. We also used historical data sets to assess the current condition of the anuran fauna in a region predicted to experience, and experiencing, severe drying and warming. Location: Five pairs of landscapes (each of c. 20 km 2 ) -one in each pair being almost completely wooded and the other cleared for agriculture -across a 30,000 km 2 region of northern Victoria, Australia. Methods: Sites were repeatedly surveyed in the austral winter-spring breeding seasons of 2006 and 2007, with records collected of numbers of calling males and the presence of egg masses and tadpoles. We characterized the sites using static (e. g. dimensions, surrounding physiognomic characteristics such as tree cover) and labile (e. g. pH, dissolved oxygen) variables. Data were analysed using hierarchical Bayesian models. Results: For calling males, landscape type did not affect densities or species richness measures. The availability of a grassy verge around water bodies was an important predictor for most species, but other labile and static variables seemed not to be important. Fewer than half of the species historically known from the region were recorded. There were no important predictors of occurrence of egg masses or tadpoles. Reproduction effectively may have failed over the period, with fewer than one in four sites showing evidence of egg masses or tadpoles. Main conclusions: The proportion of sites at which some well-studied species (e. g. Crinia signifera y Litnnodynastes dumerilii) were recorded has dropped substantially since the 1970s, as have average densities of calling males of Crinia spp. The remnant anuran fauna appears to be dominated by resilient and hardy species with low current diversity. The on-going (12+ years) drought in these landscapes suggests a bleak long-term prognosis for the few remaining species of anuran amphibians.
30137992|Aim: The species-rich family of true toads (Anura: Bufonidae) has been the focus of several earlier studies investigating the biogeography of geographically widespread taxa. Herein, we employ newly developed Bayesian divergence estimate methods to investigate the biogeographical history of this group. Resulting age estimates are used to test several key temporal hypotheses including that the origin of the bufonid clade pre-dates Gondwanan vicariance (~105 million years ago, Ma). Area cladograms are also invoked to investigate the geographical origin of the family. Location: Worldwide, except the Australia-New Guinea plate, Madagascar and the Antarctic. Methods: A phylogenetic hypothesis of the relationships among true toads was derived from analysis of 2521 bp of DNA data including fragments from three mitochondrial (12S,
40205710|Aim: Elevational gradients distributed across the globe are a powerful test system for understanding biodiversity. Here I use a comprehensive set of bird elevational gradients to test the main drivers of diversity, including sampling, area, mid-domain effect, temperature, temperature and water availability, and hypotheses of evolutionary history. Location: Seventy-eight elevational gradients of bird diversity from mountains in both hemispheres spanning 24.5 S to 48.2 N, including gradients from various climates, biogeographical regions and habitat types. Methods: Data on bird elevational diversity were taken from the literature. Of the 150 datasets found or compiled, only those with a high, unbiased sampling effort were used in analyses. Datasets sampled all birds, all breeding birds or all forest birds; a few studies detailed seasonal, elevational shifts. Eighteen predictions of diversity theory were tested, including three sets of interactions. Results: Birds display four distinct diversity patterns in nearly equal frequency on mountains: decreasing diversity, low-elevation plateaus, low-elevation plateaus with mid-peaks, and unimodal mid-elevational peaks. Bird elevational diversity strongly supports current climate as the main driver of diversity, particularly combined trends in temperature and water availability. Bird diversity on humid mountains is either decreasing or shows a low-elevation plateau in diversity, while on dry mountains it is unimodal or a broad, low-elevation plateau usually with a mid-elevation maximum. The predictions of sampling, area and mid-domain effect were not consistently supported globally. The only evolutionary hypothesis with preliminary support was niche conservatism. Main conclusions: Both water and temperature variables are needed to comprehensively predict elevational diversity patterns for birds. This result is consistent for breeding and forest birds, for both hemispheres, and for local- or regional-scale montane gradients. More analyses are needed to discern whether the mechanism underlying these relationships is ecological, based on direct physiological limitations or indirect food resource limitations, or historical, based on phylogenetic niche conservation or other evolutionary trends related to climate. The species-area and mid-domain effects are not supported as primary drivers of elevational diversity in birds.
30137897|Aim: The aim of this study is to answer the questions: (1) do small organisms disperse farther than large, or vice versa; and (2) does the observed pattern differ for passive and active dispersers? These questions are central to several themes in biogeography (including microbial biogeography), macroecology, metacommunity ecology and conservation biology. Location: The meta-analysis was conducted using published data collected worldwide. Methods: We collected and analysed 795 data values in the peer-reviewed literature for direct observations of both maximal dispersal distance and mass of the dispersing organisms (e.g. seeds, not trees). Analysed taxa ranged in size from bacteria to whales. We applied macroecology analyses based on null models (using Monte Carlo randomizations) to test patterns relative to specific hypotheses. Results: Collected dispersal distance and mass data spanned 9 and 21 orders of magnitude, respectively. Active dispersers dispersed significantly farther (P < 0.001) and were significantly greater in mass (P < 0.001) than passive dispersers. Overall, size matters: larger active dispersers attained greater maximum observed dispersal distances than smaller active dispersers. In contrast, passive-disperser distances were random with respect to propagule mass, but not uniformly random, in part due to sparse data available for tiny propagules. Conclusions: Size is important to maximal dispersal distance for active dispersers, but not for passive dispersers. Claims that microbes disperse widely cannot be tested by current data based on direct observations of dispersal: indirect approaches will need to be applied. Distance-mass relationships should contribute to a resolution of neutral and niche-based metacommunity theories by helping scale expectations for dispersal limitation. Also, distance-mass relationships should inform analyses of latitudinal species richness and conservation biology topics such as fragmentation, umbrella species and taxonomic homogenization.
30137827|Aim: To examine, at a global scale, patterns in the direction in which climbing plants twine. We tested three hypotheses: (1) that twining direction is determined randomly; (2) that twining direction is determined by apices following the apparent movement of the sun across the sky; and (3) that twining direction is determined by the Coriolis effect. Location: Seventeen sites spanning nine countries, both hemispheres and 650 of latitude. Methods: Twining direction was recorded for the first c. 100 stems encountered along transects through natural vegetation at each site. Results: Ninety-two per cent of the 1485 twining stems we recorded grew in righthanded helices, i.e. they twined in an anticlockwise direction. This is significantly (P < 0.001) different from random. The proportion of stems twining right-handedly (anticlockwise) was independent of both latitude (P = 0.33) and hemisphere (P = 0.63). These data are inconsistent with the idea that twining direction is determined by either the relative passage of the sun through the celestial sphere or by the Coriolis effect. Thus, we reject all three of our hypotheses. Main conclusions: The predominance of right-handed helical growth in climbing plants cannot be explained by hypotheses attempting to link plant growth behaviour and global location. One alternative hypothesis for our findings is that the widespread phenomenon of anticlockwise twining arises as a function of microtubule orientation operating at a subcellular level.
3182737|Aim: A regional model of vegetation dynamics was enhanced to include biogeochemical cycling of nitrogen and was then applied to a forest transect in east China (FTEC) in order to investigate the responses of the transect to possible global change. Location: Eastern China. Methods: Biomass and nitrogen concentration of green and nongreen portions of vegetation, moisture contents of three soil layers, and total and available soil nitrogen are included as state variables in the enhanced model. The model was parameterized and validated against field observations of biomass, productivity, plant and soil nitrogen concentration, nitrogen uptake, a vegetation index derived from satellite remote sensing and digital maps of vegetation and soil distributions along a forest transect in eastern China (FTEC). The model was applied to FTEC in order to investigate the responsive characteristics of the ecosystems to global climatic change. Scenarios of climate change under doubled CO
40405776|Aim: To identify the reasons behind differing geographical species richness patterns of range-restricted and widespread species. Location: The Western Hemisphere. Methods: We used regression to determine the strongest environmental predictors of richness for widespread and range-restricted mammal species in 10,000 km quadrats in the continental Americas. We then used range-placement models to predict the expected correlation between range-restricted and widespread species richness were they to be determined by identical, random, or contrasting environmental factors. Finally, to determine the reasons underlying deviations from these predictions, we divided the Americas into 5% quantiles based on temperature and topographic heterogeneity and correlated richness of these two assemblages across quantiles-an approach that avoids constraints on statistical testing imposed by low potential for range overlap among range-restricted species. Results: Minimum annual temperature was the strongest predictor of widespread species richness while topographic heterogeneity was the best, although weak, predictor of range-restricted species richness in conventional regression analysis. Our models revealed that the observed correlation between range-restricted and widespread species richness was similar to what would be observed if both rangerestricted and widespread species richness were determined by temperature. Patterns of range-restricted and widespread species richness were highly correlated across temperature quantiles, but range-restricted species uniquely showed an increasing pattern across heterogeneity quantiles. Main conclusions: Species richness gradients among range-restricted species differ from those of widespread species, but not as extensively or for the reasons reported previously. Instead, these assemblages appear to share some but not all underlying environmental determinants of species richness. Our new approach to examining species richness patterns reveals that range-restricted and widespread species richnesses share a common response to temperature that conventional analyses have not previously revealed. However, topographic heterogeneity has assemblage-specific effects on range-restricted species.
4139425| Aim To understand changes in fire persistence traits of plants along a latitudinal gradient, considering the interactions between productivity, community (fuel) structure and fire regime. Location A gradient in the south of Australia (latitude 33-37S; longitude 140-143 E), including: Little Desert National Park (VIC), Big Desert Wilderness Park (VIC), Murray-Sunset National Park (VIC), Danggali Conservation Park (SA) and Tarawi Nature Reserve (NSW). Methods We selected four areas along a latitudinal gradient for which information on fire history and vegetation was available. Then, we tested to what extent the four selected areas have different climate and different fire regimes. Plant cover values of different life forms provided an indication of the plant community structure and flammability, and the proportion of species with different fire persistence traits (resprouting, seedbank persistence) informed us on the trait selection. Results Precipitation decreases and temperature increases from south to north. Thus the selected sites represent a gradient from high productivity (low aridity) in the south to low productivity (high aridity) in the north. Fire statistics suggest that fire frequency parallels productivity. There is a tendency for life form dominance and community structure to shift in such a way that fuel connectivity is reduced towards the north. Resprouting species increase and obligate seeders decrease along the fire-productivity gradient. Main conclusions Changes in plant traits are difficult to understand without simultaneous consideration of both the disturbance and the productivity gradients. In our study area, fire regime and productivity interact in such a way that decreases in productivity imply changes in fuel structure that produce a reduction in fire frequency. Resprouting species are better represented at the high fire-productivity part of the gradient, while obligate seeders are better represented at the opposite end of the gradient. The results also emphasize the importance of considering not only climate changes but also changes in fuel structure to predict future fire regimes. 
3697621|Aim: Bergmann's rule generally predicts larger animal body sizes with colder climates. We tested whether Bergmann's rule at the interspecific level applies to moths (Lepidoptera: Geometridae) along an extended elevational gradient in the Ecuadorian Andes. Location: Moths were sampled at 22 sites in the province Zamora-Chinchipe in southern Ecuador in forest habitats ranging from 1040 m to 2677 m above sea level. Methods: Wingspans of 2282 male geometrid moths representing 953 species were measured and analysed at the level of the family Geometridae, as well as for the subfamily Ennominae with the tribes Boarmiini and Ourapterygini, and the subfamily Larentiinae with the genera Eois, Eupithecia and Psaliodes. Results: Bergmann's rule was not supported since the average wingspan of geometrid moths was negatively correlated with altitude (r = -0.59, P < 0.005). The relationship between body size and altitude in Geometridae appears to be spurious because species of the subfamily Larentiinae are significantly smaller than species of the subfamily Ennominae and simultaneously increase in their proportion along the gradient. A significant decrease of wingspan was also found in the ennomine tribe Ourapterygini, but no consistent body size patterns were found in the other six taxa studied. In most taxa, body size variation increases with altitude, suggesting that factors acting to constrain body size might be weaker at high elevations. Main conclusions: The results are in accordance with previous studies that could not detect consistent body size patterns in insects at the interspecific level along climatic gradients.
3697548| Aim: Climate variability is an important mediating agent of ecosystem dynamics in cold, semi-arid regions such as the mountains of western North America. Climatically sensitive tree-ring chronologies offer a means of assessing the impact of climate variability on tree growth across temporal scales of years to centuries and spatial scales of metres to subcontinents. Our goal was to bring practices from landscape ecology that highlight the impact of landscape heterogeneity on ecological pattern and processes into a dendroclimatic study that shows that the biophysical setting of target trees affects ring-width patterns. Location: This study was conducted at two sites near alpine treeline in the Sequoia National Park, USA (3630' 00' N, 11830' 00' W). Methods: We collected stand information and increment cores from foxtail pines (Pinus balfouriana Grev. et Balf.) for eight tree-ring chronologies in four extreme biophysical settings at two sites using proxies for soil moisture and radiation derived from a digital elevation model. Results: Biophysical setting affected forest age-class structure, with wet and bright plots showing high recruitment after 1900 AD, but had no obvious effect on immature stem density (e.g. seedlings). Biophysical setting strongly affected ring-width patterns, with wet plots having higher correlation with instrumental temperature records while dry plots correlated better with instrumental precipitation records. Ring-width chronologies from the wet plots showed strong low-frequency variability (i.e. hundreds of years) while ring-width chronologies from the dry plots showed strong variability on multidecadal scales. Main conclusions: There was a strong association between biophysical setting and age-class structure, and with ring-width patterns in foxtail pine. The mediation of ring widths by biophysical setting has the potential to further the understanding of the expression of synoptic-scale climate across rugged terrain. When combined with remotely sensed imagery, a priori GIS modelling of tree growth offers a viable means to devise first-order predictions of climatic impacts in subalpine forest dynamics and to develop flexible and powerful monitoring schemes. 
3697403| Aim: On the basis of 2402 phytoecological relevs, with complete species lists, and real pH measurements resulting from chemical analyses of the top layer of forest soils, this paper compares quantitatively the ecological response of 46 herbaceous forest species along a pH gradient in two regions of northern France. Location: The two regions investigated are oceanic north-western France (NW) and semicontinental north-eastern France (NE). Methods: For each of the 46 species with more than 50 occurrences in both NW and NE regions, an ecological response curve was computed with simple logistic regression models, and two synthetic numerical values were derived: ecological optimum (OPT) and ecological amplitude (AMP). A comparison of the ecological behaviour of species present in both regions was performed in terms of shift in optimum and/or amplitude. Results: All 46 species did reveal a reaction to pH. Our main observation was the relative stability of the behaviour of most species with reference to pH conditions, which is consistent with results from some previous studies. Slight differences regarding the two synthetic parameters (OPT and AMP) were however observed between the NW and NE regions, probably due to a form of competitive release in neutral environments in the NW. Main conclusions: Among the main possibilities that could explain a geographical shift in the ecological behaviour of herbaceous species, competitive effects are, we suggest, the most plausible explanation. In the light of former studies, it seems that further analyses of geographical shifts in the ecological behaviour of forest plant species over large areas are needed, such as for example over the European continent. Nomenclature: Tutin et at. (2001). 
30137902|Aim: To analyse the radial growth of silver fir (Abies alba Mill.) in north-eastern France in relation to soil, climate and interspecific competition factors and to check the temporal stability of their effects during the 20th century. Location: The Vosges Mountains, located in north-eastern France. Methods: Data were collected from 143 plots regularly distributed over three altitude ranges (from 330 to 1100 m), three humus forms (moder to mull) and seven types of stands, including a pure stand of silver fir and six mixed stands containing this species. For each plot, an index of mean radial growth of silver fir was calculated, independent of tree age and calendar year of ring formation. Relationships between radial growth and ecological factors were analysed using linear mixed-effects models. Results: Radial growth of silver fir is low in the presence of Picea abies or of a high density of other dominant trees. Low aluminium concentration and good nitrogen supply, measured by the soil C:N ratio, are correlated with high radial growth. Water reserves, related to available water storage capacity and to lateral run-off, are also correlated with high radial growth. Analysis of environmental effects during the 20th century showed that growth was strongly correlated with nitrogen supply at the start of the century, and with aluminium toxicity and climate at the end of the century. The radial growth of trees located on sites with low nitrogen supply was lower before 1970 than that of trees located on nitrogen-rich soils. At the end of the century, radial growth of silver fir was the same for all levels of nitrogen nutrition. Main conclusions: Our results indicate that nitrogen supply was a limiting factor for the mean radial growth of silver fir before the 1970s. Eutrophication during the 20th century may then have eliminated limitation by nitrogen.
30134092|Aim: The hair of grazers provides an isotopic record of environmental and nutritional signals. Here, we assess the effect of altitude on the carbon and nitrogen isotope composition of the hair of ruminant grazers and its relation to grassland vegetation, to evaluate the use of hair isotope data for ecosystem reconstruction, animal nutritional ecology and biogeochemical studies in montane environments. Location: European Alps. Methods: We sampled grassland vegetation (pure C) and the hair of ruminants along an altitudinal gradient (400-2500 m), and analysed their isotope composition (
30137866|Aim The paradigm that species' patterns of distribution, abundance and coexistence are the result of adaptations of the species to their niches has recently been challenged by evidence that similar patterns may be generated by simple random processes. We argue here that a better understanding of macroecological patterns requires an integration of both ecological and neutral stochastic approaches. We demonstrate the utility of such an integrative approach by testing the sampling hypothesis in a species-energy relationship of forest bird species. Location A Mediterranean biome in Catalonia, Spain. Methods To test the sampling hypothesis we designed a metacommunity model that reproduces the stochastic sampling from a regional pool to predict local species richness variation. Four conceptually different sampling procedures were evaluated. Results We showed that stochastic sampling processes predicted a substantial part (over 40%) of the observed variation in species richness, but left considerable variation unexplained. This remaining variation in species richness may be better understood as the result of alternative ecological processes. First, the sampling model explained more variation in species richness when the probability that a species colonises a new locality was assumed to increase with its niche width, suggesting that ecological differences between species matter when it comes to explaining macroecological patterns. Second, extinction risk was significantly lower for species inhabiting high-energy regions, suggesting that abundance-extinction processes play a significant role in shaping species richness patterns. Main conclusions We conclude that species-energy relationships may not simply be understood as a result of either ecological or random sampling processes, but more likely as a combination of both.
4139437| Aim To test whether the temperature dependence of individuals' metabolic rates is the mechanism shaping broad-scale species-richness gradients as proposed in the Metabolic Theory of Ecology recently proposed by Allen, Gillooly and Brown. Location North America, north of Mexico. Methods Metabolic Theory predicts that the natural logarithm of species richness will be a linear function of environmental temperature ((kT), where k is Boltzmann's constant and T is temperature in K) with a slope of -0.78. We tested these predictions using the broad-scale variation in richness of amphibians, reptiles, trees, tiger beetles, butterflies and blister beetles. We tested whether the temperature-richness relation-ship was linear or curvilinear, and determined the range of temperature values (and geographical area) where the instantaneous slope of the curvilinear temperature-richness relationship was statistically indistinguishable from -0.78, after correcting for spatial autocorrelation. Results We found that for all taxa, temperature-richness relationships were curvi-linear. Moreover, for five of six taxa, the slope of this relationship was close to the predicted value for only a narrow range of temperatures. Blister beetles displayed the widest temperature range that is consistent with the Metabolic Theory, covering 45% of the study's geographical area. For the remaining taxa, the geographical range in which the slope is consistent with the predicted value amounts to only 10-20% of North America. Main conclusions For a wide array of taxa in North America, temperature-richness relationships deviate from the pattern predicted by Metabolic Theory. These results demonstrate that the temperature dependence of individuals' metabolic rates is not the sole cause of broad-scale diversity gradients. Even in areas where factors other than temperature do not influence productivity, the data do not suggest that richness patterns are determined by the temperature dependence of metabolic rate. 
41239258|Aim: We investigated how ozone pollution and climate change/variability have interactively affected net primary productivity (NPP) and net carbon exchange (NCE) across China's forest ecosystem in the past half century. Location: Continental China. Methods: Using the dynamic land ecosystem model (DLEM) in conjunction with 10-km-resolution gridded historical data sets (tropospheric O concentrations, climate variability/change, and other environmental factors such as land-cover/land-use change (LCLUC), increasing CO and nitrogen deposition), we conducted nine simulation experiments to: (1) investigate the temporo-spatial patterns of NPP and NCE in China's forest ecosystems from 1961-2005; and (2) quantify the effects of tropospheric O pollution alone or in combination with climate variability and other environmental stresses on forests' NPP and NCE. Results: China's forests acted as a carbon sink during 1961-2005 as a result of the combined effects of O, climate, CO, nitrogen deposition and LCLUC. However, simulated results indicated that elevated O caused a 7.7% decrease in national carbon storage, with O-induced reductions in NCE (Pg C year ) ranging from 0.4-43.1% among different forest types. Sensitivity experiments showed that climate change was the dominant factor in controlling changes in temporo-spatial patterns of annual NPP. The combined negative effects of O pollution and climate change on NPP and NCE could be largely offset by the positive fertilization effects of nitrogen deposition and CO. Main conclusions: In the future, tropospheric O should be taken into account in order to fully understand the variations of carbon sequestration capacity of forests and assess the vulnerability of forest ecosystems to climate change and air pollution. Reducing air pollution in China is likely to increase the resilience of forests to climate change. This paper offers the first estimate of how prevention of air pollution can help to increase forest productivity and carbon sequestration in China's forested ecosystems.
3182645|Taxon cycles are sequential phases of expansion and contraction of the ranges of species, associated generally with shifts in ecological distribution. The important contribution of the taxon cycle to biogeographical analysis is its emphasis on evolutionary and ecological interactions among colonizing and resident species, which influence their extinction dynamics and establish patterns of geographical distribution. Taxon cycles were inferred originally from the distribution of species across island archipelagos, where a correlation was noted between gaps in island occupancy and the degree of phenotypic differentiation. This pattern implied that phases of colonization were followed by range contraction, while endemic Antillean species that were undifferentiated between islands suggested secondary expansion and the beginning of a new cycle. This interpretation was met with scepticism, but reconstruction of phylogenetic relationships from gene sequences has now permitted us to characterize taxon cycles in Lesser Antillean birds. The relative timing of phases of the cycle can be deduced from genetic divergence between island populations. We have found that taxon cycles have periods in the order of 10
2997851|1. Physiological experiments have indicated that the lower CO
40205725|Aim: Coastal biodiversity hotspots are globally threatened by sea-level rise. As such it is important to understand how ecosystems resist, respond and adapt to sea-level rise. Using pollen, geochemistry, charcoal and diatom records in conjunction with previously published palaeoclimatic records, we investigated the mechanism, interactions and ecosystem response and resilience of Madagascar's littoral forest to late Holocene sea-level rise. Location: Sediment sequences were collected along the south-east coast of Madagascar in two adjacent habitats in Mandena; the highly diverse littoral forest fragment and species-poor Erica-matrix. Methods: We used a multi-proxy approach to investigate the relative influence of environmental changes on the littoral ecosystem. We reconstructed past vegetation and fire dynamics over the past 6500 years at two sites in the littoral forest using fossil pollen and macrofossil charcoal contained in sedimentary sequences. Alongside these records we reconstructed past marine transgressions from the same sedimentary sequences using geochemical analyses, and a salinity and drought index through the analysis of fossil diatoms. Results: Our findings indicated that it was the synergistic effect of sea-level rise coupled with rainfall deficits that triggered a threshold event with a switch from two types of littoral forest (an open Uapaca forest and a closed littoral forest fragment) to an Erica-Myrica heath/grassland occurring in approximately less than 100 years. Resilience to sea-level rise differed in the two adjacent habitats, suggesting that the littoral forest fragment was more resilient to the impacts of sea-level change and aridity than the open Uapaca woodland. Conclusions We demonstrated that the littoral ecosystem was influenced by late Holocene sea-level rise and climatic desiccation. While climate change-integrated conservation strategies address the effects of climate change on species distribution and dispersal, our work suggests that more attention should be paid to the impacts of interactive climatic variables that affect ecosystem thresholds.
3877791|Aim: To implement plant hydraulic architecture within the Lund-Potsdam-Jena Dynamic Global Vegetation Model (LPJ-DGVM), and to test the model against a set of observational data. If the model can reproduce major patterns in vegetation and ecosystem processes, we consider this to be an important linkage between plant physiology and larger-scale ecosystem dynamics. Location: The location is global, geographically distributed. Methods: A literature review was carried out to derive model formulations and parameter values for representing the hydraulic characteristics of major global plant functional types (PFTs) in a DGVM. After implementing the corresponding formulations within the LPJ-DGVM, present-day model output was compared to observational data. Results: The model reproduced observed broad-scale patterns in potential natural vegetation, but it failed to distinguish accurately between different types of grassland and savanna vegetation, possibly related to inadequate model representations of water fluxes in the soil and wildfire effects. Compared to a version of the model using an empirical formulation for calculating plant water supply without considering plant hydraulic architecture, the new formulation improved simulated patterns of vegetation in particular for dry shrublands. Global-scale simulation results for runoff and actual evapotranspiration (AET) corresponded well to available data. The model also successfully reproduced the magnitude and seasonal cycle of AET for most EUROFLUX forests, while modelled variation in NPP across a large number of sites spanning several biomes showed a strong correlation with estimates from field measurements. Main conclusions: The model was generally confirmed by comparison to observational data. The novel model representation of water flow within plants makes it possible to resolve mechanistically the effects of hydraulic differences between plant functional groups on vegetation structure, water cycling, and competition. This may be an advantage when predicting ecosystem responses to nonextant climates, in particular in areas dominated by dry shrubland vegetation.
4139418|Landscape modification and habitat fragmentation are key drivers of global species loss. Their effects may be understood by focusing on: (1) individual species and the processes threatening them, and (2) human-perceived landscape patterns and their correlation with species and assemblages. Individual species may decline as a result of interacting exogenous and endogenous threats, including habitat loss, habitat degradation, habitat isolation, changes in the biology, behaviour, and interactions of species, as well as additional, stochastic threats. Human-perceived landscape patterns that are frequently correlated with species assemblages include the amount and structure of native vegetation, the prevalence of anthropogenic edges, the degree of landscape connectivity, and the structure and heterogeneity of modified areas. Extinction cascades are particularly likely to occur in landscapes with low native vegetation cover, low landscape connectivity, degraded native vegetation and intensive land use in modified areas, especially if keystone species or entire functional groups of species are lost. This review (1) demonstrates that species-oriented and pattern-oriented approaches to understanding the ecology of modified landscapes are highly complementary, (2) clarifies the links between a wide range of interconnected themes, and (3) provides clear and consistent terminology. Tangible research and management priorities are outlined that are likely to benefit the conservation of native species in modified landscapes around the world.
41058217|Aim: Humid tropical alpine environments are crucial ecosystems that sustain biodiversity, biological processes, carbon storage and surface water provision. They are identified as one of the terrestrial ecosystems most vulnerable to global environmental change. Despite their vulnerability, and the importance for regional biodiversity conservation and socio-economic development, they are among the least studied and described ecosystems in the world. This paper reviews the state of knowledge about tropical alpine environments, and provides an integrated assessment of the potential threats of global climate change on the major ecosystem processes. Location: Humid tropical alpine regions occur between the upper forest line and the perennial snow border in the upper regions of the Andes, the Afroalpine belt and Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. Results and main conclusions: Climate change will displace ecosystem boundaries and strongly reduce the total area of tropical alpine regions. Displacement and increased isolation of the remaining patches will induce species extinction and biodiversity loss. Drier and warmer soil conditions will cause a faster organic carbon turnover, decreasing the below-ground organic carbon storage. Since most of the organic carbon is currently stored in the soils, it is unlikely that an increase in above-ground biomass will be able to offset soil carbon loss at an ecosystem level. Therefore a net release of carbon to the atmosphere is expected. Changes in precipitation patterns, increased evapotranspiration and alterations of the soil properties will have a major impact on water supply. Many regions are in danger of a significantly reduced or less reliable stream flow. The magnitude and even the trend of most of these effects depend strongly on local climatic, hydrological and ecological conditions. The extreme spatial gradients in these conditions put the sustainability of ecosystem management at risk.
41239474|Aim: Species distribution models (SDMs) have been used to address a wide range of theoretical and applied questions in the terrestrial realm, but marine-based applications remain relatively scarce. In this review, we consider how conceptual and practical issues associated with terrestrial SDMs apply to a range of marine organisms and highlight the challenges relevant to improving marine SDMs. Location: We include studies from both marine and terrestrial systems that encompass many geographic locations around the globe. Methods: We first performed a literature search and analysis of marine and terrestrial SDMs in ISI Web of Science to assess trends and applications. Using knowledge from terrestrial applications, we critically evaluate the application of SDMs in marine systems in the context of ecological factors (dispersal, species interactions, aggregation and ontogenetic shifts) and practical considerations (data quality, alternative modelling approaches and model validation) that facilitate or create difficulties for model application. Results: The relative importance of ecological factors to be considered when applying SDMs varies among terrestrial and marine organisms. Correctly incorporating dispersal is frequently considered an important issue for terrestrial models, but because there is greater potential for dispersal in the ocean, it is often less of a concern in marine SDMs. By contrast, ontogenetic shifts and feeding have received little attention in terrestrial SDM applications, but these factors are important to many marine SDMs. Opportunities also exist for applying more advanced SDM approaches in the marine realm, including mechanistic ecophysiological models, where water balance and heat transfer equations are simpler for some marine organisms relative to their terrestrial counterparts. Main conclusions: SDMs have generally been under-utilized in the marine realm relative to terrestrial applications. Correlative SDM methods should be tested on a range of marine organisms, and we suggest further development of methods that address ontogenetic shifts and feeding interactions. We anticipate developments in, and cross-fertilization between, coupled correlative and process-based SDMs, mechanistic eco-physiological SDMs, and spatial population dynamic models for climate change and species invasion applications in particular. Comparisons of the outputs of different model types will provide insight that is useful for improved spatial management of marine species.
3697469|Calcium is an essential requirement for the successful growth and development of gastropod molluscs. Data for British freshwater gastropods were used to examine the relationship between environmental calcium requirements and British and European range sizes. At both spatial scales calciphile species, which require a high level of environmental calcium, had significantly smaller range sizes than species able to exploit a wide range of environmental calcium levels. However, at least in Britain, range size may also be influenced by the availability of suitable habitat. British and European range sizes were significantly correlated. This study provides evidence for niche-based explanations of range size variation, and suggests that both niche breadth and niche availability are important in determining range size.
2665353|We analysed a 50-year dataset of avian species observations to determine how richness and community composition varied over a period of land-scape-scale environmental change. Our study area, northern lower Michigan, has experienced substantial land-use and land-cover change over time. Like much of the northern Midwest, it has shifted from a largely unpopulated, post-logging shrubland to a moderately populated closed-canopy forest. Such changes are generally expected to influence overall richness and community composition. We found that regional richness per year remained virtually unchanged over the study period. Year-to-year variation in species number was surprisingly low. Richness totals included vastly different species groups as the composition of the regional bird community changed substantially over time. Changes in the types of species present appear to reflect deterministic changes in habitat. The number of grassland and open-habitat species decreased, for example, while species associated with older forests and urban habitats increased. Our results suggest that habitat changes at the landscape scale do not necessarily lead to changes in the number of species a region can support. Such changes, however, do appear to influence the types of species that will occupy a region, and can lead to substantial changes in community composition.
40602952|Aim: Shifts in species ranges are a predicted and realized effect of global climate change; however, few studies have addressed the rates and consequence of such shifts, particularly in marine systems. Given ecological similarities between shifting and introduced species, we examined how our understanding of range shifts maybe informed by the more established study of non-native species introductions. Location: Marine systems world-wide. Methods: Database and citation searches were used to identify 129 marine species experiencing range shifts and to determine spread rates and impacts on recipient communities. Analyses of spread rates were based on studies for which postestablishment spread was reported in linear distance. The sizes of the effects of community impacts of shifting species were compared with those of functionally similar introduced species having ecologically similar impacts. Results: Our review and meta-analyses revealed that: (1) 75% of the range shifts found through the database search were in the poleward direction, consistent with climate change scenarios, (2) spread rates of range shifts were lower than those of introductions, (3) shifting species spread over an order of magnitude faster in marine than in terrestrial systems, and (4) directions of community effects were largely negative and magnitudes were often similar for shifters and introduced species; however, this comparison was limited by few data for range-shifting species. Main conclusions: Although marine range shifts are likely to proceed more slowly than marine introductions, the community-level effects could be as great, and in the same direction, as those of introduced species. Because it is wellestablished that introduced species are a primary threat to global biodiversity, it follows that, just like introductions, range shifts have the potential to seriously affect biological systems. In addition, given that ranges shift faster in marine than terrestrial environments, marine communities might be affected faster than terrestrial ones as species shift with climate change. Regardless of habitat, consideration of range shifts in the context of invasion biology can improve our understanding of what to expect from climate change-driven shifts as well as provide tools for formal assessment of risks to community structure and function.
40405774|Aim: This study investigated the use of stable  C and  isotopes in the sagittal otolith carbonate of narrow-barred Spanish mackerel, Scomberomorus commerson, as indicators of population structure across Australia. Location: Samples were collected from 25 locations extending from the lower west coast of Western Australia (30), across northern Australian waters, and to the east coast of Australia (18) covering a coastline length of approximately 9500 km, including samples from Indonesia. Methods: The stable C and O isotopes in the sagittal otolith carbonate of S. commerson were analysed using standard mass spectrometric techniques. The isotope ratios across northern Australian subregions were subjected to an agglomerative hierarchical cluster analysis to define subregions. Isotope ratios within each of the subregions were compared to assess population structure across Australia. Results: Cluster analysis separated samples into four subregions: central Western Australia, north Western Australia, northern Australia and the Gulf of Carpentaria and eastern Australia. Isotope signatures for fish from a number of sampling sites from across Australia and Indonesia were significantly different, indicating population separation. No significant differences were found in otolith isotope ratios between sampling times (no temporal variation). Main conclusions: Significant differences in the isotopic signatures of S. commerson demonstrate that there is unlikely to be any substantial movement of fish among these spatially discrete adult assemblages. The lack of temporal variation among otolith isotope ratios indicates that S. commerson populations do not undergo longshore spatial shifts in distribution during their life history. The temporal persistence of spatially explicit stable isotopic signatures indicates that, at these spatial scales, the population units sampled comprise functionally distinct management units or separate 'stocks' for many of the purposes of fisheries management. The spatial subdivision evident among populations of S. commerson across northern and western Australia indicates that it may be advantageous to consider S. commerson population dynamics and fisheries management from a metapopulation perspective (at least at the regional level).
30137985|It has been suggested that alien species with close indigenous relatives in the introduced range may have reduced chances of successful establishment and invasion (Darwin's naturalization hypothesis). Studies trying to test this have in fact been addressing four different hypotheses, and the same data can support some while rejecting others. In this paper, we argue that the phylogenetic pattern will change depending on the spatial and phylogenetic scales considered. Expectations and observations from invasion biology and the study of natural communities are that at the spatial scale relevant to competitive interactions, closely related species will be spatially separated, whereas at the regional scale, species in the same genera or families will tend to co-occur more often than by chance. We also argue that patterns in the relatedness of indigenous and naturalized plants are dependent on the continental/island setting, spatial occupancy levels, and on the group of organisms under scrutiny. Understanding how these factors create a phylogenetic pattern in invasions will help us predict which groups are more likely to invade where, and should contribute to general ecological theory.
3697637|Modelling strategies for predicting the potential impacts of climate change on the natural distribution of species have often focused on the characterization of a species' bioclimate envelope. A number of recent critiques have questioned the validity of this approach by pointing to the many factors other than climate that play an important part in determining species distributions and the dynamics of distribution changes. Such factors include biotic interactions, evolutionary change and dispersal ability. This paper reviews and evaluates criticisms of bioclimate envelope models and discusses the implications of these criticisms for the different modelling strategies employed. It is proposed that, although the complexity of the natural system presents fundamental limits to predictive modelling, the bioclimate envelope approach can provide a useful first approximation as to the potentially dramatic impact of climate change on biodiversity. However, it is stressed that the spatial scale at which these models are applied is of fundamental importance, and that model results should not be interpreted without due consideration of the limitations involved. A hierarchical modelling framework is proposed through which some of these limitations can be addressed within a broader, scale-dependent context.
3182734|The past 15 years have seen the development of macroecology as a respectable discipline within the biological sciences. Initial concerns about the utility of a large-scale approach to ecology have been quietened, if not eliminated, but other arguments about spatial scale in ecology have arisen to take their place. The situation has moved from the absolute advocacy of small-scale over large-scale studies to an advocacy of some large scales in preference to others. Here, we argue that there is no general sense in which one scale of study (either in terms of spatial extent or sampling resolution) is better than any other. As long as there are sensible reasons for using the scale chosen, studies at all scales have the potential to inform about the structure and function of the ecological systems that clothe this planet.
2997828|Recent, rapid and often underestimated landscape changes have occurred over large areas in Mediterranean Europe. They are the result of major rural depopulation. Old photographs of landscapes taken at the beginning of the twentieth century (i.e. old postcards) and present-day photographs taken at the same places were compared in a 2500-km
4139412|Aim To determine the relative influence of medicinal use, height and geographical range on the chronological sequence of the first verifiable printed records of 1239 native species of flowering plants in the UK. Location UK. Methods We used Cox proportional hazards models to provide a direct estimate of the influence through time of explanatory variables on the hazard function. Results In the period from 1538 to 1550, medicinal plants were 5-15 (95% confidence interval) times more likely to be discovered than non-medicinal plants. By 1600, 75% of medicinal plants had been discovered, and subsequently medicinal use had no significant influence on the probability of discovery. From 1538 to 1983, a 100-hectad increase in area resulted in a 4-6% increase in the probability of discovery. There was a small but significant decrease in the influence of area on the probability of discovery over the entire time period. In the same time period, a 10-fold increase in height resulted in a 3-35% increased probability of discovery. Main conclusions Our results demonstrate that the first written records (1538-1600) of UK flowering plants were very strongly influenced by the perceived medicinal properties of the plants.
3697550|Aim: Interannual land cover change plays a significant role in food security, ecosystem processes, and regional and global climate modelling. Measuring the magnitude and location and understanding the driving factors of interannual land cover change are therefore of utmost importance to improve our understanding and prediction of these impacts and to better differentiate between natural and human causes of land cover change. Despite advances in quantifying the magnitude of land cover change, the interpretation of the observed land cover change in terms of climatic, ecological and anthropogenic processes still remains a complex issue. In this paper, we map land cover change across sub-Saharan Africa and examine the influences of rainfall fluctuations on interannual change. Location: The analysis was applied to sub-Saharan Africa. Methods: Ten-day rainfall estimates (RFE) obtained from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Climate Prediction Center (CPC) were used to extract information on inter and intra-annual rainfall fluctuations. The magnitude of land cover change was quantified based on the multitemporal change vector method measuring year-to-year differences in bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) corrected 16-day enhanced vegetation index (EVI) data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectro-radiometer (MODIS). Statistical models were used to estimate the relationship between short-term rainfall variability and the magnitude of land cover change. The analysis was stratified first by physiognomic vegetation type and second by chorological data on species distribution to gain insights into spatial variations in response to short-term rainfall fluctuations. Results: The magnitude of land cover change was significantly related to rainfall variability at the 5% level. Stratification considerably strengthened the relationship between the magnitude of change and rainfall variability. Explanatory power of the models ranged from
3182710|Management of terrestrial carbon fluxes is being proposed as a means of increasing the amount of carbon sequestered in the terrestrial biosphere. This approach is generally viewed only as an interim strategy for the coming decades while other longer-term strategies are developed and implemented-the most important being the direct reduction of carbon emissions. We are concerned that the potential for rapid, disturbance-induced losses may be much greater than is currently appreciated, especially by the decision-making community. Here we wish to: (1) highlight the complex and threshold-like nature of disturbances - such as fire and drought, as well as the erosion associated with each - that could lead to carbon losses; (2) note the global extent of ecosystems that are at risk of such disturbance-induced carbon losses; and (3) call for increased consideration of and research on the mechanisms by which large, rapid disturbance-induced losses of terrestrial carbon could occur. Our lack of ability as a scientific community to predict such ecosystem dynamics is precluding the effective consideration of these processes into strategies and policies related to carbon management and sequestration. Consequently, scientists need to do more to improve quantification of these potential losses and to integrate them into sound, sustainable policy options.
40205686|Aim: The goal of our study was to test fundamental predictions of biogeographical theories in tropical reef fish assemblages, in particular relationships between fish species richness and island area, isolation and oceanographic variables (temperature and productivity) in the insular Caribbean. These analyses complement an analogous and more voluminous body of work from the tropical Indo-Pacific. The Caribbean is more limited in area with smaller inter-island distances than the Indo-Pacific, providing a unique context to consider fundamental processes likely to affect richness patterns of reef fish. Location: Caribbean Sea. Methods: We compiled a set of data describing reef-associated fish assemblages from 24 island nations across the Caribbean Sea, representing a wide range of isolation and varying in land area from 53 to 110,860 km. Regression-based analyses compared the univariate and combined effects of island-specific physical predictors on fish species richness. Results: We found that diversity of reef-associated fishes increases strongly with increasing island area and with decreasing isolation. Richness also increases with increasing nearshore productivity. Analyses of various subsets of the entire data set reveal the robustness of the richness data and biogeographical patterns. Main conclusions: Within the relatively small and densely packed Caribbean basin, fish species richness fits the classical species-area relationship. Richness also was related negatively to isolation, suggesting direct effects of dispersal limitation in community assembly. Because oceanic productivity was correlated with isolation, however, the related effects of system-wide productivity on richness cannot be disentangled. These results highlight fundamental mechanisms that underlie spatial patterns of biodiversity among Caribbean coral reefs, and which are probably also are functioning in the more widespread and heterogeneous reefs of the Indo-Pacific.
2997899| The classic 1955 and 1956 papers by Eustace Jones describe vegetation pattern, process and history in Okomu Forest, south-western Nigeria. Jones and colleagues were puzzled to find an extensive layer of charcoal and pottery below mature mahogany forests. Based on an extensive review of historical documents and the estimated ages of dying emergent tree species, Jones suggested that the forest in Okomu had regenerated after a human population decline 200--300 years previously. We made radiocarbon measurements on samples from the layer of charcoal and pottery described by Jones In addition, we obtained 
3182649| The aim of this study was to examine the effects of various biological factors such as body mass, trophic level, climate and geography on census area in terrestrial mammals. We also examine the effects of census area on the population density-body mass relationship. The geographic areas covered in this study include most major terrestrial biomes including taga, desert, savanna, grassland, tropical dry forest, temperate dry forest, tropical rain forest and temperate rain forest. An extensive literature search was conducted and we compiled data on census area and body mass from 377 mammalian populations and 59 communities. Statistical analyses include linear regression, Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance, LOWESS, and multiple regression. Overall, the regression between log census area (A) and log body mass (M) yielded a slope of 0.710, which did not differ significantly from 0.75, but it was significantly different from 1.0. The analyses also showed that the log A-log M relationship is constrained within a well-defined space in a similar fashion to the home range-body mass relationship. When mammals were separated into trophic groups, regression lines differed significantly in their intercepts, but not in slopes. At the community level, the census area was particularly affected by the population with the largest body mass within the community. Both the number of species and number of taxa encompassed by the community were found to be correlated positively with log A (r = 0.26, P = 0.0464 and r = 0.27, P = 0.0398, respectively). Sampling of mammalian species is not usually random. Not only is census area significantly associated with the technique used to sample a given species, but it is also influenced by biological factors that have been shown previously to influence population density. Striking similarities were found between the census area-body mass relationship and the home range-body mass relationship, suggesting that investigators may sample mammalian populations over areas that actually reflect the use of space of their focal species. 
40801848|Aim: To test historical and current influences on the distributions of sympatric colour morphotypes in the coral reef fish genus Hypoplectrus.
40928122|Aim: This study investigates inter-annual variability in burnt area in southern Africa and the extent to which climate is responsible for this variation. We compare data from long-term field sites across the region with remotely sensed burnt area data to test whether it is possible to develop a general model. Location: Africa south of the equator. Methods: Linear mixed effects models were used to determine the effect of rainfall, seasonality and fire weather in driving variation in fire extent between years, and to test whether the effect of these variables changes across the subcontinent and in areas more and less impacted by human activities. Results: A simple model including rainfall and seasonality explained 40% of the variance in burnt area between years across 10 different protected areas on the subcontinent, but this model, when applied regionally, indicated that climate had less impact on year-to-year variation in burnt area than would be expected. It was possible to demonstrate that the relative importance of rainfall and seasonality changed as one moved from dry to wetter systems, but most noticeable was the reduction in climatically driven variability of fire outside protected areas. Interannual variability is associated with the occurrence of large fires, and large fires are only found in areas with low human impact. Main conclusions: This research gives the first data-driven analysis of fire-climate interactions in southern Africa. The regional analysis shows that human impact on fire regimes is substantial and acts to limit the effect of climate in driving variation between years. This is in contrast to patterns in protected areas, where variation in accumulated rainfall and the length of the dry season influence the annual area burnt. Global models which assume strong links between fire and climate need to be re-assessed in systems with high human impact.
3697537|Aim: The effects of resolution and spatial extent on range measures were explored in estimates of the geographic distribution of tropical hawkmoths. Furthermore, data were tested for phylogenetic autocorrelation. Location: South-East Asia. Methods: Various range measures, such as geographic information system (GIS)-supported range estimates, minimum convex polygons, latitudinal and longitudinal extents, and their products, were derived from original distribution records and compared to each other. A taxonomic classification of the species was used to analyse phylogenetic effects on range sizes. Results: Range size measures exhibit a strongly right-skewed frequency distribution with many geographically restricted species and few widespread taxa. Rankings from GIS-supported, comprehensive range size estimates do not deviate greatly from more crude measurements of lower resolution. Comprehensive ranges and ranges within South-East Asia are correlated strongly, but already at this rather large scale the ranking of species changes considerably. Other measures of occupancy with an increasingly more localized consideration of 'range' show decreasing strengths of correlation. We found a weak, but significant, autocorrelation in range area data: related groups of species have ranges of similar size. Main conclusions: Spatial resolution did not affect range ranking greatly in our data. However, macroecological studies based only on parts of species' ranges must be viewed critically, particularly if their extent is small compared to comprehensive ranges. Phylogenetic non-independence of range size data must be considered in comparative analyses.
30137872|Aim To measure latitude-related body size variation in field-collected Paropsis atomaria Olivier (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) individuals and to conduct common-garden experiments to determine whether such variation is due to phenotypic plasticity or local adaptation. Location Four collection sites from the east coast of Australia were selected for our present field collections: Canberra (latitude 3519' S), Bangalow (latitude 2843' S), Beerburrum (latitude 2658' S) and Lowmead (latitude 2429' S). Museum specimens collected over the past 100 years and covering the same geographical area as the present field collections came from one state, one national and one private collection. Methods Body size (pronotum width) was measured for 118 field-collected beetles and 302 specimens from collections. We then reared larvae from the latitudinal extremes (Canberra and Lowmead) to determine whether the size cline was the result of phenotypic plasticity or evolved differences (= local adaptation) between sites. Results Beetles decreased in size with increasing latitude, representing a converse Bergmann cline. A decrease in developmental temperature produced larger adults for both Lowmead (low latitude) and Canberra (high latitude) individuals, and those from Lowmead were larger than those from Canberra when reared under identical conditions. Main conclusions The converse Bergmann cline in P. atomaria is likely to be the result of local adaptation to season length.
2997883|Measurements of tree canopy closure and field-layer reflectance were made in a series of plots in protected areas of eastern Zambia as part of a multiyear study of savanna woodlands. The plots were located in the Luangwa Valley and adjacent plateaux, which contained a range of vegetation types found in southern Africa. The vegetation consisted of four broad types 1. plateau miombo woodland, 2. valley miombo woodland; 3. scrub miombo woodland, and 4. scrub and woodland mopane. Hemispherical photographs of the tree layer provided measurements of tree canopy phenology in the different vegetation plots. The most seasonal woodland type was mopane, where tree canopy closure ranged from about 15% at the end of the dry season to just over 60% during the peak of the rains. Plateau miombo exhibited the lowest range of seasonality in the tree layer, ranging from about 40% to 60% closure over one complete seasonal cycle. Phenology of the field layer, expressed as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), closely followed that of the tree layer, although the field layer senesced earlier than trees, especially in plots with relatively low tree canopy closure. The relationship between tree-canopy closure and field-layer NDVI was positive and statistically significant for all sites of the study area, which suggests that woody biomass and herbaceous biomass are related positively in these savanna woodland ecosystems.
2997904| We compare estimates of total cropland area, paddy rice area, and irrigated cropland area in China from land cover maps derived from optical remote sensing in 1992--93 (1-km resolution NOAA AVHRR) and county-level agricultural census data for 1990. At national, regional, provincial, and county scales, the total cropland area estimated by remote sensing is 50--100% higher than reported in the agricultural census. For topographically flat North and Central China, there is a high correlation between county-level cropland area estimates by the two approaches. For other regions, the correlation between remote sensing and agricultural census cropland area is much weaker. Throughout China, there is only moderate to weak correlation between remote sensing-based and census-bases estimates of paddy rice area and total irrigated cropland area. It is likely that the census data underestimates and the remote sensing overestimates the actual cropland area. These uncertainties in agricultural land cover estimates will contribute to uncertainty in any large-scale biogeochemical analyses. 
30137900|Aim: How species traits and environmental conditions affect biogeographical dynamics is poorly understood. Here we test whether estimates of a species' evolutionary age, colonization and persistence ability can explain its current'range filling' (the ratio between realized and potential range size). Location: Fynbos biome (Cape Floristic Region, South Africa). Methods: For 37 species of woody plants (Proteaceae), we estimate range filling using atlas data and distribution models, evolutionary age using molecular phylogenies, and persistence ability using estimates of individual longevity (which determines the probability of extinction of local populations). Colonization ability is estimated from validated process-based seed dispersal models, the arrangement of potential habitat, and data on local abundance. To relate interspecific variation in range filling to evolutionary age, colonization and persistence ability, we use two complementary model types: phenomenological linear models and the process-based metapopulation model of Levins. Results: Linear model analyses show that range filling increases with a species' colonization and persistence ability but is not affected by species age. Moreover, colonization ability is a better predictor of range filling than its component variables (local abundance and dispersal ability). The phylogenetically independent interaction between colonization and persistence ability is significant (P < 0.05) for 97% of 180 alternative phylogenies. While the selected linear model explains 42% of the variance in arcsine transformed range filling, the Levins model performs more poorly. It overestimates range filling for realistic parameter values and produces unrealistic parameter estimates when fitted statistically. Main conclusions: Colonization and local extinction seem to shape Proteaceae range dynamics on ecological rather than macroevolutionary time-scales. Our results suggest that the positive abundance-range size relationship in this group is due primarily to the effect of abundance on colonization. In summary, this study contributes to a process-based understanding of range dynamics and highlights the importance of colonization for the future survival of Fynbos Proteaceae.
41058245|Aim: Two alternative hypotheses attempt to explain the upper elevation limit of tree lines world-wide, the carbon-limitation hypothesis (CLH) and the growthlimitation hypothesis (GLH); the altitudinal decrease of temperature is considered the driver constraining either carbon gain or growth. Using a widely distributed tree line species (Nothofagus pumilio) we tested whether tree line altitude is explained by the CLH or the GLH, distinguishing local from global effects. We elaborated expectations based on most probable trends of carbon charging with altitude according to both hypotheses, considering the alternative effects of drought. Location: Two climatically contrasting tree line ecotones in the southern Andes of Chile: Mediterranean (3654' S) and Patagonia (4604' S). Methods: At both locations, 35-50 trees of different ages were selected at each of four altitudes (including tree line), and stem and root sapwood tissues were collected to determine non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) concentrations. NSC accumulates whenever growth is more limited than photosynthesis. An altitudinal increase in NSCs means support for the GLH, while the opposite trend supports the CLH. We also determined stable carbon isotope ratios (C) to examine drought constraints on carbon gain. Results: NSC concentrations were positively correlated with altitude for stem tissue at the Mediterranean and root sapwood tissue at the Patagonia site. No depletion of NSC was found at either site in either tissue type. For both tissues, mean NSC concentrations were higher for the Patagonia site than for the Mediterranean site. Mean root sapwood NSC concentration values were five times higher than those of the corresponding stem sapwood at all altitudes. Values for C were positively correlated with altitude in the Mediterranean site only. Main conclusions: We found support for the GLH at the site without drought effects (Patagonia) and no support for the CLH at either site. It is suggested that drought moderated the effects of low temperature by masking the expected trend of the GLH at the Mediterranean site.
3697455| Aim: To establish the factors that correlate with the distribution of the four most commonly introduced rodent species on New Zealand offshore islands - ship rat (Rattus rattus), Norway rat (R. norvegicus), Pacific rat or kiore (R. exulans) and house mouse (Mus musculus) - and examine if these distributions are interactive at the archipelago scale. Location: The 297 offshore islands of the New Zealand archipelago (latitude: 34 S to 47 S; longitude: 166 E to 179 E). Methods: Data on the distribution of all four introduced rodent species and the characteristics of New Zealand offshore islands were collated from published surveys and maps. The distribution of individual rodent species was regressed on island characteristics using a logistic generalized linear model. Interactions were examined by including the distributions of other rodent species as predictors in models. Results: All four rodent species appear to be limited by a variety of factors, which differ between species in both number and type. The distribution of ship rats is limited by the most factors, reflecting the extent of its distribution across the archipelago. The distribution of mice is the least explicative. Only the three rat species interacted in their distribution. The distribution of kiore on offshore islands is significantly negatively related to that of ship rats and to a lesser extent Norway rats. The distribution of mice did not appear affected in any way by the number of other rodent species on an island. Main conclusions: Differences in competitive ability and dispersal allow all four species to inhabit the New Zealand archipelago. Kiore distribution appears to be most limited by ship rat (and to a lesser extent Norway rat) distribution. The distribution of kiore was not found to interact with the distribution of mice on offshore islands, as has been suggested by others. The distribution of mice on offshore islands was difficult to model, which highlights the difficulties in managing this species. Overall the results offer valuable insights for management methods to assist preventing the invasion of offshore islands. 
40602945|We outline the potentially important role of dispersal in linking diversity patterns at different spatial and temporal scales, and the resulting potential to link hypotheses explaining macroscale patterns of diversity. We do this by proposing a possible mechanism linking climate to diversity patterns: we argue that climate, via effects of continuity of habitat availability in space and time, mediates a dispersal-ecological specialization trade-off at the metacommunity level that leads to latitudinal trends in dispersal ability, ecological specialization, range sizes, speciation and species richness, ultimately driving the latitudinal diversity gradient. This trade-off constitutes a possible mechanism for the strong macroscale correlation between climate and species richness that is consistent with recent ideas about niche conservatism and gradient lengths, as well as other leading hypotheses. We present an overview of predictions derived from our ideas. Of these, some have already been tested and supported and others are still open to debate or need testing. Together they provide a unique set of predictions that allows falsification.
41239477|Aim: To test the hypothesis that communities with higher diversity have more predictable properties by examining patterns of community structure along a species richness gradient. Location: Trinidad and Tobago (1100 N, 6100 W), on the South American continental shelf, opposite the Orinoco River delta, north-east Venezuela. Methods: We used quantile regressions to investigate how three total abundance, absolute and relative dominance measures - numerical abundance, biomass and energy use, respectively - change across a species richness gradient. We investigated which allocation rule best mimics community assembly in this species richness gradient by examining the abundance of the dominant species and comparing it with predictions of niche apportionment models. Results: All measures of total abundance increase on average across the gradient, but the upper limit remains constant. On average, absolute dominance is constant, but the distance between the upper and lower limits decreases along the gradient. Relative dominance decreases with species richness. Observed dominance patterns are best described by Tokeshi's random fraction model. Main conclusions: Our results show that both total abundance and absolute dominance become increasingly variable as biodiversity decreases. Consequently, our study suggests that ecosystem properties are less predictable when biodiversity is lower.
40205731|Aim: To examine patterns of avian frugivory across dades, geography and environments. Location: Global, including all six major biogeographical realms (Afrotropics, Australasia, Indo-Malaya, Nearctic, Neotropics and Palaearctic). Methods: First, we examine the taxonomic distribution of avian frugivory within orders and families. Second we evaluate, with traditional and spatial regression approaches, the geographical patterns of frugivore species richness and proportion. Third, we test the potential of contemporary climate (water-energy, productivity, seasonality), habitat heterogeneity (topography, habitat diversity) and biogeographical history (captured by realm membership) to explain geographical patterns of avian frugivory. Results: Most frugivorous birds (50%) are found within the perching birds (Passeriformes), but the woodpeckers and allies (Piciformes), parrots (Psittaciformes) and pigeons (Columbiformes) also contain a significant number of frugivorous species (9-15%). Frugivore richness is highest in the Neotropics, but peaks in overall bird diversity in the Himalayan foothills, the East African mountains and in some areas of Brazil and Bolivia are not reflected by frugivores. Current climate explains more variance in species richness and proportion of frugivores than of non-frugivores whereas it is the opposite for habitat heterogeneity. Actual evapotranspiration (AET) emerges as the best single climatic predictor variable of avian frugivory. Significant differences in frugivore richness and proportion between select biogeographical regions remain after differences in environment (i.e. AET) are accounted for. Main conclusions: We present evidence that both environmental and historical constraints influence global patterns of avian frugivory. Whereas water-energy dynamics possibly constrain frugivore distribution via indirect effects on food plants, regional differences in avian frugivory most likely reflect historical contingencies related to the evolutionary history of fleshy fruited plant taxa, niche conservatism and past climate change. Overall our results support an important role of co-diversification and environmental constraints on regional assembly over macroevolutionary time-scales.
40405781|Aim The discipline of macroecology is increasingly being regarded as an effective vehicle for the evaluation of recent population- to ecosystem-level responses to widespread human and environmental influences. However, due to the prevalent use of time-averaged and cumulative data in macroecological analyses, the majority of the patterns that emerge from research in this field can be regarded as static. Here we review the application of dynamic macroecological analyses to changes in relationships between macroecological variables on seasonal to decadal scales. We illustrate the strength of this perspective for documenting changing patterns and testing hypotheses related to these dynamics on ecological time-scales. Location Studies were compiled and reviewed from terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Methods We review examples of temporal changes in macroecological patterns driven by recent anthropogenic influences and environmental change. Results The dynamic nature of macroecological patterns on ecological timescales has been revealed in recent years across a wide range of ecosystems, largely through the development, maintenance and analysis of biotic and environmental monitoring time series. The resultant analyses complement examinations of dynamics over evolutionary time and have similarly revealed that static portrayals can conceal important temporal dynamics that underlie the patterns of interest. As a consequence, static depictions, resting as they do on comparative analyses in which the validity of space-for-time substitutions is assumed, may be of limited use for testing hypotheses related to the mechanisms underlying the patterns revealed and, by extension, the development of reliable predictions of future states. Main conclusions Recent dynamic macroecological analyses have demonstrated the utility of combined spatial and temporal replication, and have contributed to hypothesis testing related to the mechanistic processes underlying changes in macroecological patterns on ecological time-scales. We suggest four specific avenues of future research to further the development and application of temporal approaches on similar time-scales within the field of macroecology.
3697668|Aim: Rainfall reliability has been neglected as a determinant of plant trait convergence and divergence in mediterranean-climate ecosystems. This paper reports on patterns of rainfall reliability-quantified as interannual variation in monthly and seasonal rainfall, and as the frequency of individual events in terms of their size, duration and intensity-for four fire-prone mediterranean-climate ecosystems. Location: The four mediterranean-climate regions of the world with fire-prone ecosystems, namely SW Cape (South Africa), SW Australia, California and the Mediterranean Basin (Andalusia, Spain). Methods: Using long-term monthly rainfall data from stations dispersed across the four regions, we computed monthly means and interannual variation for each month of the year - the latter quantified as the coefficient of variation (CV) - and divided these into winter and summer seasons. We also computed the mean number of rainfall events, the mean frequency in various categories of event duration (days), the amount of rainfall per event (mm) and the rainfall intensity per event (mm/day) per year for winter and summer seasons for a subset of the rainfall stations. Results: The fraction of rain falling in summer was lowest in California (5%) and similarly low (c. 25%) in the other three regions. The hierarchy of values of coefficient of variation (CV) of monthly rainfall during the winter period was as follows: California > Andalusia > > SW Cape > SW Australia; results for summer were: California > > Andalusia > > SW Australia ~ SW Cape. SW Australian sites experienced the greatest frequency of short, small and low-intensity rainfall events in both seasons; patterns in the SW Cape were intermediate between Australia and the two northern hemisphere sites which both received fewer, larger and more intense events. Overall, the two southern hemisphere regions (SW Australia and the SW Cape) had significantly more reliable regimes than the two northern hemisphere ones (Mediterranean Basin and California). Main conclusions: These differences in rainfall reliability regimes may provide a novel perspective on the distribution of certain plant life-history traits in mediterranean-climate ecosystems. Less reliable regimes would select for germination and seedling survival traits that enable persistence of genets in the face of uncertain moisture conditions during the winter and spring establishment phase. Study systems that accommodate for phylogenetic constraints, namely invasive species derived from mediterranean-climate ecosystems, as well as shared lineages, provide good opportunities to develop and test hypotheses on the implication of different rainfall reliability regimes. One of the novel implications of this study is that the distinctive trait of assemblages in the southern hemisphere regions may be a consequence not so much of their shared nutrient-poor soils as of their similarly reliable rainfall regimes.
3697609|Ongoing species invasions and extinctions are changing biological diversity in different ways at different spatial scales. Biotic homogenization (or BH) refers to the process by which the genetic, taxonomic or functional similarities of regional biotas increase over time. It is a multifaceted process that encompasses species invasions, extinctions and environmental alterations, focusing on how the identities of species (or their genetic or functional attributes) change over space and time. Despite the increasing use of the term BH in conservation biology, it is often used erroneously as a synonym for patterns of species invasions, loss of native species or changes in species richness through time. This reflects the absence of an agreed-upon, cogent definition of BH. Here, we offer an operational definition for BH and review the various methodologies used to study this process. We identify the strengths and weaknesses of these approaches, and make explicit recommendations for future studies. We conclude by citing the need for researchers to: (1) consider carefully the definition of BH by recognizing the genetic, taxonomic and functional realms of this process; (2) recognize that documenting taxonomic homogenization requires tracking the identity of species (not species richness) comprising biotas through space and time; and (3) employ more rigorous methods for quantifying BH.
3697571|Aim: The study examined qualitative predictions of ecological theories in relation to the spatial distribution of species turnover of aquatic macrophytes, through the following parameters: (1) distance between lakes (2) chemical conditions of the lakes (3) chemical differences between the lakes, and (4) the lake size. Location: 562 lakes dispersed throughout Northern Ireland were analysed. Methods: To obtain species turnover estimates independent of richness, the average distance between focal lakes and their five nearest neighbours in ordination space (DCA) was standardized by the species richness in a Generalized Additive Model (GAM). The relationships between species turnover and ecological (chemical condition, chemical difference, distance between lakes, and lake-size) and geographical parameters (latitude, longitude, and altitude) were analysed using GAM. Results: The results indicate that the pattern in species turnover is a combination of the chemical conditions and the distance between the lakes, including the interaction term. The effects of chemical heterogeneity and lake size parameters were both positive but weak. In general, increased distance and decreased ionic concentration contribute to increased turnover. The influence of distance on species turnover is strongest at low and high altitude, and at mid-elevation the species turnover is mainly driven by the chemical conditions. Towards the north there is an increasing influence of distance, whereas in the south the chemical conditions have their strongest influence. Conclusions: There is a need for components from several established ecological theories to explain the spatial trends in species turnover within Northern Ireland. Central theories in this particular study are the population/metapopulation dynamics, the continuum concept, and the species-pool concept.
3697669|Aim: Ongoing biological invasions will enhance the impacts of humans on biodiversity. Nonetheless, the effects of exotic species on diversity are idiosyncratic. Increases in diversity might be a consequence of similar responses by species to available energy, or because of positive relationships between human density, energy and propagule pressure. Here we use data from the Southern Ocean island plants and insects to investigate these issues. Location: The Southern Ocean Islands ranging from Tristan da Cunha to Heard Island and South Georgia. Methods: Generalized linear models are used to explore the relationships between indigenous and exotic species richness for plants and insects on two different islands. Similar models are used to examine interactions between indigenous and exotic species richness, energy availability and propagule pressure at the regional scale. Results: Positive relationships were found between indigenous and exotic species richness at local scales, although for plants, the relationship was partially triangular. Across the Southern Ocean Islands, there was strong positive covariation between indigenous and exotic plant species richness and insect species richness, even taking spatial autocorrelation into account. Both exotic and indigenous plant and insect species richness covaried with energy availability, as did human visitor frequency. When two islands with almost identical numbers of human visits were contrasted, it was clear that energy availability, or perhaps differences in climate-matching, were responsible for differences in the extent of invasion. Conclusion: In plants and insects, there are positive relationships between indigenous and exotic diversity at local and regional scales across the Southern Ocean islands. These relationships are apparently a consequence of similar responses by both groups and by human occupants to available energy. When visitor frequency is held constant, energy availability is the major correlate of exotic species richness, though the exact mechanistic cause of this relationship requires clarification.
40205716|Aim: Many ecological surveys record only the presence or absence of species in the cells of a rectangular grid. Ecologists have investigated methods for using these data to predict the total abundance of a species from the number of grid cells in which the species is present. Our aim is to improve such predictions by taking account of the spatial pattern of occupied cells, in addition to the number of occupied cells. Innovation: We extend existing prediction models to include a spatial clustering variable. The extended models can be viewed as combining two macroecological regularities, the abundance-occupancy regularity and a spatial clustering regularity. The models are estimated using data from five tropical forest censuses, including three Panamanian censuses (4, 6 and 50 ha), one Costa Rican census (16 ha) and one Puerto Rican census (16 ha). A serpentine grassland census (8  8 m) from northern California is also studied. Main conclusions: Taking account of the spatial clustering of occupied cells improves abundance prediction from presence-absence data, reducing the mean square error of log-predictions by roughly 54% relative to a benchmark Poisson predictor and by roughly 34% relative to current prediction methods. The results have high statistical significance.
41239338|Aim: Urban environments around the world share many features in common, including the local extinction of native plant species. We tested the hypothesis that similarity in environmental conditions among urban areas should select for plant species with a particular suite of traits suited to those conditions, and lead to the selective extinction of species lacking those traits. Location: Eleven cities with data on the plant species that persisted and those that went locally extinct within at least the last 100 years following urbanization. Methods: We compiled data on 11 plant traits for 8269 native species in the 11 cities and used hierarchical logistic regression models to identify the degree to which traits could distinguish species that persisted from those that went locally extinct in each city. The trait effects from each city were then combined in a meta-analysis. Results: The cities fell into two groups: those with relatively low rates of extinction (less than 0.05% species per year -Adelaide, Hong Kong, Los Angeles, San Diego and San Francisco), for which no traits reliably predicted the pattern of extinction, and those with higher rates of extinction (> 0.08% species per year -Auckland, Chicago, Melbourne, New York, Singapore and Worcester, MA), where shortstatured, small-seeded plants were more likely to go extinct. Main conclusions: Our analysis reveals patterns in trait selectivity consistent with local studies, suggesting some consistency in trait selection by urbanization. Overall, however, few traits reliably predicted the pattern of plant extinction across cities, making it difficult to identify a priori the extinction-prone species most likely to be affected by urban expansion.
2665421|1 Bird species numbers were studied on 109 reed islands at Lake Velence, Hungary, in the 1993 and 1994 breeding seasons. The aim was to describe and account for the abundance and distribution patterns of the bird species. 2 It was expected that an exponential model would fit the calculated species area curves. However, for the 1993 data, both the power function (LogS  LogArea) and the exponential (S  LogArea) models did so, while the power function, exponential and linear (S  A) models fitted the curves for the 1994 data. 3 The results showed that the pattern was not random: a collection of small islands held more species than a few large islands with the same total area. 4 The relative species richness of small islands is a result of the preference of most common passerine bird species for the edges of reed islands. Most individuals were found in the first 5 m of the reedbed, and no edge avoidance was detected on a local spatial scale. Large, rarer species (e.g. Great White Egret), however, were found to be dependent on large reed islands. 5 Comparison of results with two other studies on bird communities of reed islands revealed that the type of landscape matrix (e.g. deep water, shallow water or agricultural lands) among reed patches significantly influences bird communities. Deep water was dominated by grebes and coot, shallow water by reed-nesting passerines, and farmed areas by reed- and bush-nesting passerines.
2997890|Savanna woodlands and their associated species diversity and endemism are widely seen as declining through human impacts. Alternative views suggest that savanna ecosystems vary with a large number of biophysical factors, among which human impacts may be of relatively minor importance. This paper examines the debate with respect to Mkomazi Game Reserve in Northern Tanzania, where biodiversity has been inventoried and local resource use studied. It sets out the history of land use in Mkomazi and examines the available data on the area's plant, bird and invertebrate diversity. Comparative analysis is complicated by the paucity of data for other savannas in the same biogeographic zone, and by differences in sampling effort and methodology Conservation literature and Tanzanian government documents present Mkomazi as one of the richest savannas in Africa, as a centre of endemism, and as threatened by deleterious impacts of human land use. Available data do not substantiate such statements. The paper examines implications of those perceptions for management, particularly eviction of resident pastoralists from the Reserve in 1988, and subsequent exclusion of reserve-adjacent dwellers. Conservation relies increasingly on reserve-adjacent people, and on prioritizing the allocation of scarce resources. There is an urgent need for rigorous studies of the implications of human land use in savannas, for better data on biodiversity, and for rigorous standards in the way those data are applied.
3182679|Aim: The study examined the potential for change in biome representation within Canada's national park system under multiple climate change scenarios and subsequent potential vulnerabilities in Parks Canada policy and planning frameworks. Location: The study was conducted for Canada's 39 national parks. Methods: The vegetation change scenarios were based on modelling results from the BIOME3 and MAPSS equilibrium process-based global vegetation models (GVM), run with multiple doubled-CO
3182690|1 The 'big-leaf' approach to calculating the carbon balance of plant canopies is evaluated for inclusion in the ETEMA model framework. This approach assumes that canopy carbon fluxes have the same relative responses to the environment as any single leaf, and that the scaling from leaf to canopy is therefore linear. 2 A series of model simulations was performed with two models of leaf photosynthesis, three distributions of canopy nitrogen, and two levels of canopy radiation detail. Leaf- and canopy-level responses to light and nitrogen, both as instantaneous rates and daily integrals, are presented. 3 Observed leaf nitrogen contents of unshaded leaves are over 40% lower than the big-leaf approach requires. Scaling from these leaves to the canopy using the big-leaf approach may underestimate canopy photosynthesis by ~20%. A leaf photosynthesis model that treats within-leaf light extinction displays characteristics that contradict the big-leaf theory. Observed distributions of canopy nitrogen are closer to those required to optimize this model than the homogeneous model used in the big-leaf approach. 4 It is theoretically consistent to use the big-leaf approach with the homogeneous photosynthesis model to estimate canopy carbon fluxes if canopy nitrogen and leaf area are known and if the distribution of nitrogen is assumed optimal. However, real nitrogen profiles are not optimal for this photosynthesis model, and caution is necessary in using the big-leaf approach to scale satellite estimates of leaf physiology to canopies. Accurate prediction of canopy carbon fluxes requires canopy nitrogen, leaf area, declining nitrogen with canopy depth, the heterogeneous model of leaf photosynthesis and the separation of sunlit and shaded leaves. The exact nitrogen profile is not critical, but realistic distributions can be predicted using a simple model of canopy nitrogen allocation.
3697599| Aim: Previous studies conducted at the tree line in northwestern Qubec suggested that the forest tundra was created over the last 3000 years by deforestation as a result of the combined action of forest fires and climatic cooling. Our objectives were to: (1) validate at a larger spatial scale the time frame of the last 3000 years; (2) verify if the opening process was more pronounced during particular time periods; and (3) confirm that fire was the triggering mechanism. Location: Seventeen lakes from the forest tundra of northern Qubec. Methods: Pollen records were analysed to determine the date of landscape opening, as interpreted by the time of decrease towards present-day values of the ratio of Picea pollen percentage to pollen percentage of the taxa typical of open forest tundra landscapes (Betula, Ericaceae, Cyperaceae and Poaceae). Results: Landscape opening in northern Qubec started c. 3220 cal. BP (calibrated years before present) and was more pronounced between c. 2040 and 890 cal. BP. No spatial pattern was observed in the dates of landscape opening. Main conclusions: The suggestion that landscape opening in the forest tundra occurred over the last 3000 years was validated at the scale of northern Qubec. A period of more pronounced opening was identified between 2040 and 890 cal. BP and could be related to increased fire occurrence. Absence of a spatial pattern in the dates of landscape opening provides further confirmation that fire was the triggering mechanism. /// Objectif: Des tudes antrieures menes  la limite des arbres dans le nord-ouest du Qubec ont suggr que la toundra forestire aurait t cre au cours des derniers 3000 ans par la dforestation rsultant de l'action combine des feux de fort et d'un refroidissement climatique. Nos objectifs taient de (1) valider  une chelle spatiale plus importante la priode des derniers 3000 ans; (2) vrifier si le processus d'ouverture du paysage a t plus prononc  certaines priodes; et (3) confirmer que le feu a t le mcanisme dclencheur. Localisation: Dix-sept lacs de la toundra forestire du nord du Qubec. Mthodes: Les enregistrements polliniques ont t analyss pour dterminer la date d'ouverture du paysage, telle qu'interprte par le moment o survient une baisse marque vers les valeurs actuelles du ratio du pourcentage de pollen de Picea sur le pourcentage de pollen de taxons typiques des milieux ouverts de la toundra forestire (Betula, Ericaceae, Cyperaceae et Poaceae). Rsultats: L'ouverture du paysage dans le nord du Qubec a dbut vers 3220 cal. BP et s'est exprime de faon plus marque entre 2040 et 890 BP cal. Aucun patron spatial n'a t observ dans les dates d'ouverture du paysage. Principales conclusions: La suggestion selon laquelle l'ouverture du paysage dans la toundra forestire aurait eu lieu au cours des derniers 3000 ans a t valide  l'chelle du Qubec nordique. Une priode plus marque d'ouverture du paysage a t identifie entre 2040 et 890 cal. BP et pourrait tre relie  des frquences de feux plus leves. L'absence de patron spatial dans les dates d'ouverture du paysage est une confirmation supplmentaire que le feu a t le mcanisme dclencheur. 
3182664|Aim: The purpose of this study is to apply geographical information and artificial neural network (ANN) technologies in assessing ecosystem distribution on the island of Saint Lucia, as well as to develop an improved ecological classification using Holdridge's system of natural life zones. Location: Saint Lucia is a Caribbean island state located at 14
30137898|Aim: Few studies have explicitly examined the influence of spatial attributes of forest fragments when examining the impacts of fragmentation on woody species. The aim of this study was to assess the diverse impacts of fragmentation on forest habitats by integrating landscape-level and species-level approaches. Location: The investigation was undertaken in temperate rain forests located in southern Chile. This ecosystem is characterized by high endemism and by intensive recent changes in land use. Method: Measures of diversity, richness, species composition, forest structure and anthropogenic disturbances were related to spatial attributes of the landscape (size, shape, connectivity, isolation and interior forest area) of forest fragments using generalized linear models. A total of 63 sampling plots distributed in 51 forest fragments with different spatial attributes were sampled. Results: Patch size was the most important attribute influencing different measures of species composition, stand structure and anthropogenic disturbances. The abundance of tree and shrub species associated with interior and edge habitats was significantly related to variation in patch size. Basal area, a measure of forest structure, significantly declined with decreasing patch size, suggesting that fragmentation is affecting successional processes in the remaining forests. Small patches also displayed a greater number of stumps, animal trails and cow pats, and lower values of canopy cover as a result of selective logging and livestock grazing in relatively accessible fragments. However, tree richness and P3-diversity of tree species were not significantly related to fragmentation. Main conclusions: This study demonstrates that progressive fragmentation by logging and clearance is associated with dramatic changes in the structure and composition of the temperate forests in southern Chile. If this fragmentation process continues, the ability of the remnant forests to maintain their original biodiversity and ecological processes will be significantly reduced.
3697444|Aim: Our aims were to quantify climatic and soil controls on net primary productivity (NPP) and leaf area index (LAI) along subtropical to alpine gradients where the vegetation remains relatively undisturbed, and investigate whether NPP and LAI converge towards threshold-like logistic patterns associated with climatic and soil variables that would help us to verify and parameterize process models for predicting future ecosystem behaviour under global environmental change. Location: Field data were collected from 22 sites along the Tibetan Alpine Vegetation Transects (TAVT) during 1999-2000. The TAVT included the altitudinal transect on the eastern slope of the Gongga Mountains in the Eastern Tibetan Plateau, with altitudes from 1900 m to 3700 m, and the longitudinal-latitudinal transect in the Central Tibetan Plateau, of approximately 1000 km length and 40 km width. Methods: LAI was measured as the product of foliage biomass multiplied by the ratio of specific leaf area. NPP in forests and shrub communities was estimated as the sum of increases in standing crops of live vegetation using recent stem growth rate and leaf lifespan. NPP in grasslands was estimated from the above-ground maximum live biomass. We measured the soil organic carbon (C) and total and available nitrogen (N) contents and their pool sizes by conventional methods. Mean temperatures for the year, January and July and annual precipitation were estimated from available meteorological stations by interpolation or simulation. The threshold-like logistic function was used to model the relationships of LAI and NPP with climatic and soil variables. Results: Geographically, NPP and LAI both significantly decreased with increasing latitude (P < 0.02), but increased with increasing longitude (P < 0.01). Altitudinal trends in NPP and LAI showed different patterns. NPP generally decreased with increasing altitude in a linear relationship (r
3877794|Aim: There is an urgent need for conservation in threatened tropical forest regions. We explain and predict the spatial variation of  (i.e. within plot) and  (i.e. between plot) tree diversity in a tropical montane landscape subjected to a high deforestation rate. A major aim is to demonstrate the potential of a method that combines data from multiple sources (field data, remote sensing imagery and GIS) to evaluate and monitor forest diversity on a broad scale over large unexplored areas. Location: The study covered an area of c.
41239411|Aim: An understanding of the relationship between forest biomass and climate is needed to predict the impacts of climate change on carbon stores. Biomass patterns have been characterized at geographically or climatically restricted scales, making it unclear if biomass is limited by climate in any general way at continental to global scales. Using a dataset spanning multiple climatic regions we evaluate the generality of published biomass-climate correlations. We also combine metabolic theory and hydraulic limits to plant growth to first derive and then test predictions for how forest biomass should vary with maximum individual tree biomass and the ecosystem water deficit. Location: Temperate forests and dry, moist and wet tropical forests across North, Central and South America. Methods: A forest biomass model was derived from allometric functions and power-law size distributions. Biomass and climate were correlated using extensive forest plot (276 0.1-ha plots), wood density and climate datasets. Climate variables included mean annual temperature, annual precipitation, their ratio, precipitation of the driest quarter, potential and actual evapotranspiration, and the ecosystem water deficit. The water deficit uniquely summarizes water balance by integrating water inputs from precipitation with water losses due to solar energy. Results: Climate generally explained little variation in forest biomass, and mixed support was found for published biomass-climate relationships. Our theory indicated that maximum individual biomass governs forest biomass and is constrained by water deficit. Indeed, forest biomass was tightly coupled to maximum individual biomass and the upper bound of maximum individual biomass declined steeply with water deficit. Water deficit similarly constrained the upper bound of forest biomass, with most forests below the constraint. Main conclusions: The results suggest that: (1) biomass-climate models developed at restricted geographic/climatic scales may not hold at broader scales; (2) maximum individual biomass is strongly related to forest biomass, suggesting that process-based models should focus on maximum individual biomass; (3) the ecosystem water deficit constrains biomass, but realized biomass often falls below the constraint; such that (4) biomass is not strongly limited by climate in most forests so that forest biomass may not predictably respond to changes in mean climate.
41058236|Aim: Connectivity is a key determinant of the distribution and abundance of organisms and is greatly influenced by anthropogenic landscape modification, yet we lack a synthetic perspective on the magnitude and extent of matrix effects on connectivity. We synthesize results from published studies to understand the importance of matrix effects on fragmented animal populations. Location: Global. Methods: We conduct a meta-analysis of 283 fragmented populations representing 184 terrestrial animal taxa to determine the strength of matrix composition effects on the occurrence and abundance of animals in fragmented habitat. Results: Studies that use data on matrix composition report greater effects on abundance and occupancy of fragmented populations than studies that define connectivity without regard to the surrounding matrix (i. e. 'binary' studies that describe only characteristics of patch habitat). Main conclusions: Our findings underscore that conservation strategies must consider the importance of matrix habitat, have important implications for metapopulation and metacommunity paradigms, and provide direct large-scale, multi-taxa evidence that matrix habitat is an important driver of ecological dynamics in heterogeneous landscapes.
41239266|Aim: Community ecologists often compare assemblages. Alternatively, one may compare species distributions among assemblages for macroecological comparisons of species niche traits and dispersal abilities, which are consistent with metacommunity theory and a regional community concept. The aim of this metaanalysis is to use regressions of ranked species occupancy curves (RSOCs) among diverse metacommunities and to consider the common patterns observed. Location: Diverse data sets from four continents are analysed. Methods: Six regression models were translated from traditional occupancy frequency distributions (OFDs) and are distributed among four equation families. Each regression model was fitted to each of 24 data sets and compared using the Akaike information criterion. The analysed data sets encompass a wide range of spatial scales (5 cm-50 km grain, 2-7000 km extent), study scales (11-590 species, 6-5114 sites) and taxa. Observed RSOC regressions were tested for the differences in scale and taxa. Results: Three RSOC models within two equation families (exponential and sigmoidal) are required to describe the very different data sets. This result is generally consistent with OFD research, but unlike OFD-based expectations the simple RSOC patterns are not related to spatial scale or other factors. Species occupancy in diverse metacommunities is efficiently summarized with RSOCs, and multi-model inference reliably distinguishes among alternative RSOCs. Main conclusions: RSOCs are simple to generate and analyse and clearly identified surprisingly similar patterns among very different metacommunities. Species-specific hypotheses (e.g. niche-based factors and dispersal abilities) that depend on spatial scale may not translate to diverse metacommunities that sample regional communities. A novel set of three metacommunity succession and disturbance hypotheses potentially explain RSOC patterns and should be tested in subsequent research. RSOCs are an operational approach to the regional community concept and should be useful in macroecology and metacommunity ecology.
40205734|Aim: Species diversity and genetic diversity within a taxon are intrinsic parts of global biodiversity. These two levels of biodiversity can show strong correlation due to a variety of reasons (i.e. parallel processes affecting both communities and populations, genotypes of a numerically or functionally dominant species affecting community composition, a species assemblage selecting for a particular genotype by affecting its selection regime). We examined correlations between species and genetic biodiversity in four isolated endemic-rich spring systems in a hot desert and their potential link to environmental variables and physical isolation. Location: Chihuahuan Desert spring systems in the Pecos River basin of New Mexico and Texas, USA. Methods: We compared species richness of fish and benthic macroinvertebrate communities to within-population allelic richness of amphipods (monophyletic Gammarus spp.) and Pecos gambusia (Gambusia nobilis) using Mantel tests. We also compared pairwise community similarities with pairwise genetic identities of populations among the same groups. We tested correlations among diversity, similarity and environmental variables after controlling for the effects of spatial distances using partial Mantel tests. We partitioned genetic and species diversity into three spatial scales (i.e. individual springs, individual spring systems, the entire region) using AMOVA and Partition. Results: We found strong correlations between invertebrate species richness and mosquitofish allelic richness. We found even stronger correlations of amphipod and gambusia genetic identities with fish and invertebrate community similarities; these were best explained by geographic distance rather than abiotic environmental factors. Most of the taxa and communities exhibited the largest proportion of diversity at the regional level. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that drift and migration are the mechanisms that best explain our observations, and although -diversity among genes and species may not be strongly correlated, the pattern of species and allelic complementarity among these groups seems to be concordant at the regional level.
40602938|Aim: Models relating species distributions to climate or habitat are widely used to predict the effects of global change on biodiversity. Most such approaches assume that climate governs coarse-scale species ranges, whereas habitat limits fine-scale distributions. We tested the influence of topoclimate and land cover on butterfly distributions and abundance in a mountain range, where climate may vary as markedly at a fine scale as land cover. Location: Sierra de Guadarrama (Spain, southern Europe) Methods: We sampled the butterfly fauna of 180 locations (89 in 2004,91 in 2005) in a 10,800 km region, and derived generalized linear models (GLMs) for species occurrence and abundance based on topoclimatic (elevation and insolation) or habitat (land cover, geology and hydrology) variables sampled at 100-m resolution using GIS. Models for each year were tested against independent data from the alternate year, using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) (distribution) or Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (r s ) (abundance). Results: In independent model tests, 74% of occurrence models achieved AUCs of > 0.7, and 85% of abundance models were significantly related to observed abundance.Topoclimatic models outperformed models based purely on land cover in 72% of occurrence models and 66% of abundance models. Including both types of variables often explained most variation in model calibration, but did not significantly improve model cross-validation relative to topoclimatic models. Hierarchical partitioning analysis confirmed the overriding effect of topoclimatic factors on species distributions, with the exception of several species for which the importance of land cover was confirmed. Main conclusions: Topoclimatic factors may dominate fine-resolution species distributions in mountain ranges where climate conditions vary markedly over short distances and large areas of natural habitat remain. Climate change is likely to be a key driver of species distributions in such systems and could have important effects on biodiversity. However, continued habitat protection may be vital to facilitate range shifts in response to climate change.
3697514|Aim: We describe and use a model, SHIFT, to estimate potential migration due to climate change over the next 100 years. Location: Eastern United States. Methods: Five species, currently confined to the eastern half of the United States and not extending into Canada, were used to assess migration potential: Diospyros virginiana (persimmon), Liquidambar styraciflua (sweetgum), Oxydendrum arboreum (sourwood), Pinus taeda (loblolly pine), and Quercus falcata var. falcata (southern red oak). SHIFT is a matrix simulation model using simple inverse power functions to provide a distance decay of seed dispersal and is driven primarily by the abundance of the species near the boundary, the forest density within and beyond the boundary, and the distance between cells. For each cell outside the current boundary, the model creates an estimate of the probability that each unoccupied cell will become colonized over a period of 100 years. SHIFT is a 'fat-tailed' migration model that allows rare very long distance dispersal events and colonization could occur up to 500 km beyond the current distribution boundary. Model outputs were analysed using transects through sections showing relatively low and high colonization probabilities as a result of low and high densities of target trees (high source strength) as well as high densities of forest (high sink strength). We also assess migration potential for species by concentric rings around the current boundary. Results: Model outputs show the generally limited nature of migration for all five species over 100 years. There is a relatively high probability of colonization within a zone of 10-20 km (depending on habitat quality and species abundance) from the current boundary, but a small probability of colonization where the distance from the current boundary exceeds about 20 km. Whether biologically plausible or not, rare very long distance migration events are not sufficient to rescue migration. Species abundance (the source strength of migration) near the range boundary carried relatively more influence than percentage forest cover (sink strength) in determining migration rates. Main conclusion: The transect evaluation revealed the importance of abundance of the species near the boundary, indicating that rare species may have much more difficulty in unassisted northward migration due to climate change. The concentric rings analysis of the model outputs showed that only the first 10-20 km of area would have a reasonably high probability of colonization. Rare, long-distance events permit colonization of remote outliers, but much more needs to be understood about the likelihood of these rare events to predict the frequency of outlier establishment.
41058226|Aim: Species introductions and extinctions have reorganized the earth's biota, often leaving formerly spatially distinct assemblages more similar in species composition, a process termed biotic homogenization. The study of biotic homogenization has been almost entirely focused on the change in taxonomic similarity between assemblages through time. Here, we provide a trait-based method for calculating functional similarity through time and compare these trends in functional attributes with those trends generated from a taxonomic perspective. Location: Data were produced through computer simulation and gathered from North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) data and published accounts of North American birds for 10 locations across the east and west coast of the United States. Methods: We simulated change in assemblages with different trait types (binary and continuous), levels of trait overlap, number of traits and species richness to determine the relationship between change in taxonomic similarity (TS) and change in functional similarity (FS). We also assess the relationship between TS and FS for bird assemblages across 10 locales in the USA between 1968 and 2008. We used simple linear regression to determine the slope and correlation between TS and FS and used multiple regression to assess the influence of trait overlap, number of traits, species richness and the ratio of traits to species on the relationship between TS and FS. Results: Simulations reveal that trait redundancy governs the relationship between TS and FS. A decrease in trait overlap increases the slope of the regression between TS and FS and an increase in the ratio of traits to species in the regional pool increases the correlation. The relationship between TS and FS for breeding birds is comparable to simulations with low trait redundancy. Main conclusions: We show that often losing or gaining species from an assemblage tells us very little about the loss or gain of function, and that this scenario most often occurs when the two assemblages have high trait redundancy. It remains to be seen how prevalent this scenario is within empirical examples; however, the implications for the continued delivery of ecosystem functions in the face of species introductions and extinctions are large.
30134095|Aim: We aim to determine the empirical relationship between above-ground forest productivity and biomass. There are theoretical reasons to assume a relationship between forest structure and function, as both may be influenced by similar ecological factors such as moisture supply. Also, dynamic global vegetation model simulations imply that any increase in forest productivity driven by climate change will result in increases in biomass and therefore carbon storage. However, few studies have explored the strength and form of the relationship between forest productivity and biomass, whether in space or time. Location: Global scale. Methods: We collated a large data set of above-ground biomass (AGB) and aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and tested the extent to which spatial variation in forest biomass across the Earth can be predicted from forest productivity. Results: The global ANPP-AGB relationship differs fundamentally from the strongly positive, linear relationship reported in earlier analyses, which mostly lacked tropical sites. AGB begins to peak at c. 15-20 Mg ha year ANPP, plateaus at ANPP &gt; 20-25 Mg ha year, and may actually decline at higher levels of production. Main conclusions: High turnover rates in high-productivity forests may limit AGB by promoting the dominance of species with a low wood density. Predicted increases in ANPP will not necessarily favour increases in forest carbon storage, especially if changes in productivity are accompanied by compositional shifts.
4139427|Aim To assess whether eight traits of fish communities (species richness, three reproductive traits and four trophic traits) respond similarly to environmental gradients, and consequently display convergence between the lakes of France and north-east USA (NEUSA). Location 75 French and 168 north-east USA lakes. Methods The data encompass fish surveys, the assignment of species into reproductive and trophic guilds, and environmental variables characterizing the lakes and their catchments. The analytical procedure was adapted from the recommendations of Schluter (1986) [Ecology, 67, 1073-1085]. Results The comparison of the regional pools of lacustrine fishes indicated that NEUSA was about twice as speciose as France, mostly due to higher species turnover across lakes, although NEUSA lakes were consistently about 20% more speciose than French lakes for a given surface area. Warmer environments were consistently inhabited by a higher proportion of phytophilous and guarder species than were colder lakes. Hence there was convergence in community reproductive traits. Conversely, there was no evidence of convergence in the trophic structure of lacustrine fish communities between regions. Main conclusions The influence of temperature on the availability and quality of spawning substrates appears to be a major constraint on present-day lacustrine fish communities. In parallel, phylogenetic constraints, past events such as the diversification of the North American fish fauna, and selective extinctions during Pleistocene glaciations and subsequent recolonizations contribute to explaining the dissimilarities between the communi of the two regions and differences in their relationship to the environment.
3877790|Aim: Using a Dynamic Global Vegetation Model (DGVM), we assessed the independent and co-varying effects of temperature, precipitation and atmospheric CO
3877778|Aim: To evaluate Rapoport's rule for New World birds in two-dimensional geographical space. We specifically test for a topography x climate interaction that predicts little difference in range sizes between lowlands and mountains in cold climates, whereas in the tropics, montane species have narrow ranges and lowland species have broad ranges. Location: The western hemisphere. Methods: We used digitized range maps of breeding birds to generate mean range sizes in grids of 27.5 x 27.5 km and 110 x 110 km across North and South America. We examined the geographical pattern with respect to range in elevation, mean temperature in the coldest month, their interaction, biome size and continental width, using model II analysis of variance, multiple regression and simple correlation. Results: In northern latitudes species have broad ranges in both mountainous and flat areas. However, range sizes in the mountains and lowlands diverge southwards, with the most extreme differences in the tropics. Further, there are minimal differences in range sizes across latitudes in lowlands. The smallest mean ranges occur in the tropical Andes. Mean range sizes in north-central Canada, Central America and Argentina/Chile are also small, reflecting the narrowing of the continents in these areas. The best regression model explained 51% of the variation in mean range size. Main conclusions: The two-dimensional range size pattern indicates that neither winter temperature nor annual variability in temperature strongly influences the distribution of range sizes directly; rather, climate influences bird range sizes indirectly via effects on habitat size. Also, macroclimate interacts with topographic relief across latitudes, generating sharp mesoscale habitat gradients in tropical mountains but not in high latitude mountains or in lowlands at any latitude. Birds respond to these habitat gradients, resulting in 'latitudinal' range size gradients in topographically complex landscapes but not in simple landscapes.
2665336|Comparisons are made between a virgin forest remnant (primeval forest) and a lightly managed (near-to-nature) forest with regard to horizontal forest structures, the structure of forest stands, and the diversity of plant and bird species. In the virgin forest remnant the proportion of canopy gaps is smaller, there are no stands in the developmental phase of a pole stand (10 < cm d.b.h. < 30 cm), and both the growing stock and the proportion of less vigorous trees are considerably greater. In addition, there is a higher percentage of dead trees, a smaller proportion of minor tree species and a considerably lower diversity of plants. The diversity of bird species is similar for each forest type, but rare bird species are confined to the virgin forest remnant. The biological differences between the two types of forest have led to changes in the physical site conditions. The results of the research are valuable in assessing the consequences of near-to-nature forest management.
40205682|Aim: Body size is instrumental in influencing animal physiology, morphology, ecology and evolution, as well as extinction risk. I examine several hypotheses regarding the influence of body size on lizard evolution and extinction risk, assessing whether body size influences, or is influenced by, species richness, herbivory, island dwelling and extinction risk. Location: World-wide. Methods: I used literature data and measurements of museum and live specimens to estimate lizard body size distributions. Results: I obtained body size data for 99% of the world's lizard species. The body size-frequency distribution is highly modal and right skewed and similar distributions characterize most lizard families and lizard assemblages across biogeographical realms. There is a strong negative correlation between mean body size within families and species richness. Herbivorous lizards are larger than omnivorous and carnivorous ones, and aquatic lizards are larger than non-aquatic species. Diurnal activity is associated with small body size. Insular lizards tend towards both extremes of the size spectrum. Extinction risk increases with body size of species for which risk has been assessed. Main conclusions: Small size seems to promote fast diversification of disparate body plans. The absence of mammalian predators allows insular lizards to attain larger body sizes by means of release from predation and allows them to evolve into the top predator niche. Island living also promotes a high frequency of herbivory, which is also associated with large size. Aquatic and nocturnal lizards probably evolve large size because of thermal constraints. The association between large size and high extinction risk, however, probably reflects a bias in the species in which risk has been studied.
3182713|Which factors determine whether a species is obvious to collectors? For some taxa, species of small body size tend to be described later than large-bodied species, perhaps because large animals are more obvious or easily captured. Thus it has been proposed that current estimates of species numbers within taxa may be biased, as they may not include small species. However, the trend for recently described species to be small-bodied has only been observed in a few higher taxa, and may not be general. Herein, we examine the relationships between body size and date of description for the entire herpetofaunas of North America and Australia (snakes, lizards, turtles, frogs and salamanders). We found that body size is generally a poor predictor of description date in herpetofaunal taxa. Even for most taxa that did exhibit a negative relationship between these variables, recently described species could not be distinguished from a random draw from overall species pools. We interpret our results in the light of the history of exploration of these continents and the biology of reptiles and amphibians.
3182700| Studies of geographical patterns of diversity have focused largely on compiling and analysing data to evaluate alternative hypotheses for the near-universal decrease in species richness from the equator to the poles. Valuable insights into the mechanisms that promote diversity can come from studies of other patterns, such as variation in species distributions with elevation in terrestrial systems or with depth in marine systems. To obtain such insights, we analysed and interpreted data on species diversity, depth of occurrence and body size of pelagic fishes along an oceanic depth gradient. We used a database on pelagic marine fishes native to the north-east Pacific Ocean between 40N and 50N. We used data from the Pacific Rim Fisheries Program that were obtained from commercial, management and scientific surveys between 1999 and 2000. Depth of occurrence and maximum body length were used to assess the distributions of 409 species of pelagic fishes along a depth gradient from 0 to 8000 m. A presence-absence matrix was used to classify the depth range of each species into 100-m intervals. Atmar & Patterson's (1995) software was used to quantify the degree of nestedness of species distributions. Pelagic fish species diversity decreased steeply with increasing depth; diversity peaked at less than 200 m and more than half of the species had mean depths of occurrence between 0 and 300 m. The distribution of species showed a very strong nested subset pattern along the depth gradient. Whereas species with narrow ranges were generally restricted to shallow waters, wide-ranging species occurred from near the surface to great depths. The relationship between maximum body size and mean depth range differed between teleost and elasmobranch fishes: being positive for teleosts, but negative for elasmobranches. Results support hypotheses that some combination of high productivity and warm temperature promote high species diversity, and reject those that would attribute the pattern of species richness to the mid-domain effect, habitat area, or environmental constancy. The data provided a clear example of Rapoport's rule, a negative correlation between average depth range and species diversity. 
3182676|Aim: To compare theoretical approaches towards estimating risks of plant species loss to anthropogenic climate change impacts in a biodiversity hotspot, and to develop a practical method to detect signs of climate change impacts on natural populations. Location: The Fynbos biome of South Africa, within the Cape Floristic Kingdom. Methods: Bioclimatic modelling was used to identify environmental limits for vegetation at both biome and species scale. For the biome as a whole, and for 330 species of the endemic family Proteaceae, tolerance limits were determined for five temperature and water availability-related parameters assumed critical for plant survival. Climate scenarios for 2050 generated by the general circulation models HadCM2 and CSM were interpolated for the region. Geographic Information Systems-based methods were used to map current and future modelled ranges of the biome and 330 selected species. In the biome-based approach, predictions of biome areal loss were overlayed with species richness data for the family Proteaceae to estimate extinction risk. In the species-based approach, predictions of range dislocation (no overlap between current range and future projected range) were used as an indicator of extinction risk. A method of identifying local populations imminently threatened by climate change-induced mortality is also described. Results: A loss of Fynbos biome area of between 51% and 65% is projected by 2050 (depending on the climate scenario used), and roughly 10% of the endemic Proteaceae have ranges restricted to the area lost. Species range projections suggest that a third could suffer complete range dislocation by 2050, and only 5% could retain more than two thirds of their range. Projected changes to individual species ranges could be sufficient to detect climate change impacts within ten years. Main conclusions: The biome-level approach appears to underestimate the risk of species diversity loss from climate change impacts in the Fynbos Biome because many narrow range endemics suffer range dislocation throughout the biome, and not only in areas identified as biome contractions. We suggest that targeted vulnerable species could be monitored both for early warning signs of climate change and as empirical tests of predictions.
2997888|The sustainable use of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) is often put forward as a means for ensuring the conservation of forest vegetation types. This paper presents the results of research carried out in the savanna zone of Benin, which highlights the fact that the majority of species yielding important NTFPs are, in fact, located in the fields and fallows. The paper describes how the presence of villages affects the distribution of different vegetation types and how farmers selectively retain certain NTFP tree species, thereby creating a characteristic parkland landscape. It is suggested, however, that changes in the agricultural system and a gradual decline in the importance of NTFPs in people's lives will reduce the incentive for maintaining NTFP species and lead to the eventual loss of the parklands.
3697585|Aim: This research examines environmental theories and remote sensing methods that have been hypothesized to be associated with tropical dry forest structure. Location: Tropical dry forests of South Florida and the Neotropics. Methods: Field measurements of stand density, basal area and tree height were collected from 22 stands in South Florida and 30 stands in the Neotropics. In South Florida, field measurements were compared to climatic (temperature, precipitation, hurricane disturbance) and edaphic (rockiness, soil depth) variables, spectral indices (NDVI, IRI, MIRI) from Landsat 7 ETM+, and estimates of tree height from the Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM) and the National Elevation Dataset (NED). Environmental variables associated with tropical dry forest structure in South Florida were compared to tropical dry forest in other Neotropical sites. Results: There were significant correlations among temperature and precipitation, and stand density and tree height in South Florida. There were significant correlations between (i) stand density and mean NDVI and standard deviation of NDVI, (ii) MIRI and stand density, basal area and mean tree height, and (iii) estimates of tree height from SRTM with maximum tree height. In the Neotropics, there were no relationships between temperature or precipitation and tropical dry forest structure, however, Neotropical sites that experience hurricane disturbance had significantly shorter tree heights and higher stand densities. Main conclusions: It is possible to predict and quantify the forest structure characteristics of tropical dry forests using climatic data, Landsat 7 ETM+ imagery and SRTM data in South Florida. However, results based on climatic data are region-specific and not necessarily transferable between tropical dry forests at a continental spatial scale. Spectral indices from Landsat 7 ETM+ can be used to quantify forest structure characteristics, but SRTM data are currently not transferable to other regions. Hurricane disturbance has a significant impact on forest structure in the Neotropics.
41239476|Aim: To demonstrate that the concept of carrying capacity for species richness (S K ) is highly relevant to the conservation of biodiversity, and to estimate the spatial pattern of S K for native landbirds as a basis for conservation planning. Location: North America. Methods: We evaluated the leading hypotheses on biophysical factors affecting species richness for Breeding Bird Survey routes from areas with little influence of human activities. We then derived a best model based on information theory, and used this model to extrapolate S K across North America based on the biophysical predictor variables. The predictor variables included the latest and probably most accurate satellite and simulation-model derived products. Results: The best model of S K included mean annual and inter-annual variation in gross primary productivity and potential evapotranspiration. This model explained 70% of the variation in landbird species richness. Geographically, predicted S K was lowest at higher latitudes and in the arid west, intermediate in the Rocky Mountains and highest in the eastern USA and the Great Lakes region of the USA and Canada. Main conclusions: Areas that are high in S K but low in human density are high priorities for protection, and areas high in S K and high in human density are high priorities for restoration. Human density was positively related to S K , indicating that humans select environments similar to those with high bird species richness. Federal lands were disproportionately located in areas of low predicted S K .
3697643|Aims: The present paper concerns the analysis of macro-remains (plant imprints) from high altitude travertine deposits dating back to the early Holocene (9800 BP). Our results allow us to discuss treeline location and ecology, and to supplement previous data based on pollen from natural sediments and charcoal from natural soil. Location: The travertine under study is located in the Queyras massif, in the southern French Alps, along the Italian border. The site is situated on a south-facing slope. Methods: The travertine deposit has been dated by
40205649|Aim: To investigate the influence of sampling and methodological artefacts on the correlation between abundance and occupancy. Location: Global scope. Methods: A fixed effects weighted regression model was fitted to standardized effect size for 175 examples of correlations between abundance and occupancy. A regression tree model with standard effect size as the dependent variable was also fitted to the data. Results: Standard effect size, and therefore the correlation between abundance and occupancy, was found to be strongly influenced by the type of abundance measure used to characterize the abundance-occupancy relationship. Local mean abundance (also referred to as ecological mean abundance) was primarily responsible for negative correlations. Negative correlations also resulted from a mismatch in the sampling extents of abundance and occupancy measures. Main conclusions: The combination of abundance and occupancy measures selected to characterize the abundance-occupancy relationship for a given set of data has a profound impact on the sign of the correlation between the selected measures. Previous attempts to understand the processes giving rise to the pattern represented by the abundance-occupancy relationship have confounded sampling artefacts (e. g. spatial extent of abundance and occupancy information) and methodological artefacts (e. g. combining a truncated abundance measure such as local mean abundance with an untruncated occupancy measure such as proportion of occupied samples). Thus, a revision of the approach currently used to define and evaluate competing explanatory models of the abundance-occupancy relationship appears to be necessary.
40205673|Aim: To explore and identify probable mechanisms contributing to the relationships among body size, dietary niche breadth and mean, minimum, maximum and range of prey size in predaceous lizards. Location: Our data set includes species from tropical rainforests, semi-arid regions of Brazil, and from deserts of the south-western United States, Australia and the Kalahari of Africa. Methods: We calculated phylogenetic and non- phylogenetic regressions among predator body size, dietary breath and various prey size measures. Results: We found a negative association between body size and dietary niche breadth in 159 lizard species sampled across most evolutionary lineages of squamate reptiles and across major continents and habitats. We also show that mean, minimum, maximum and range of prey size were positively associated with body size. Main conclusions: Our results suggest not only that larger lizards tend to eat larger prey, but in doing so offset their use of smaller prey. Reduction of dietary niche breadth with increased body size in these lizards suggests that large predators target large and more profitable prey. Consequently, the negative association between body size and niche breadth in predators most likely results from optimal foraging. Though this result may appear paradoxical and runs counter to previous studies, resources for predators may be predictably more limited than resources for herbivores, thus driving selection for more profitable prey.
40205736|Aim: The theory of island biogeography predicts species richness based on geographical factors that influence the extinction-colonization balance, such as area and isolation. However, human influence is the major cause of present biotic changes, and may therefore modify biogeographical patterns by increasing extinctions and colonizations. Our aim was to evaluate the effect of human activities on the species richness of reptiles on islands. Location: Islands in the Mediterranean Sea and Macaronesia. Methods: Using a large data set (n = 212 islands) compiled from the literature, we built spatial regression models to compare the effect of geographical (area, isolation, topography) and human (population, airports) factors on native and alien species. We also used piecewise regression to evaluate whether human activities cause deviation of the species-area relationship from the linear (on log-log axes) pattern, and path analysis to reveal the relationships among multiple potential predictors. Results: The richness of both native and alien species was best explained by models combining geographical and human factors. The richness of native species was negatively related to human influence, while that of alien species was positively related, with the overall balance being negative. In models that did not take into account human factors, the relationship between island area and species richness was not linear. Large islands hosted fewer native species than expected from a linear (on log-log axes) species-area relationship, because they were more strongly affected by human influence than were small islands. Path analysis showed that island size has a direct positive effect on reptile richness. However, area also had a positive relationship with human impact, which in turn mediated a negative effect on richness. Main conclusion Anthropogenic factors can strongly modify the biogeographical pattern of islands, probably because they are major drivers of present-day extinctions and colonizations and can displace island biodiversity from the equilibrium points expected by theory on the basis of geographical features.
30137888|Aim: Worldwide, functional homogenization is now considered to be one of the most prominent forms of biotic impoverishment induced by current global changes. Yet this process has hardly been quantified on a large scale through simple indices, and the connection between landscape disturbance and functional homogenization has hardly been established. Here we test whether changes in land use and landscape fragmentation are associated with functional homogenization of bird communities at a national scale. Location: France. Methods: We estimated functional homogenization of a community as the average specialization of the species present in that community. We studied the spatial variation of this community specialization index (CSI) using 1028 replicates from the French Breeding Bird Survey along spatial gradients of landscape fragmentation and recent landscape disturbance, measured independently, and accounting for spatial autocorrelation. Results: The CSI was very sensitive to both measures of environmental degradation: on average, 23% of the difference in the CSI values between two sample sites was attributed to the difference in fragmentation and the disturbance between sites. This negative correlation between CSI and sources of landscape degradation was consistent over various habitats and biogeographical zones. Main conclusions: We demonstrate that the functional homogenization of bird communities is strongly positively correlated to landscape disturbance and fragmentation. We suggest that the CSI is particularly effective for measuring functional homogenization on both local and global scales for any sort of organism and with abundance or presence-absence data.
3697542|Aim: Climate is an important determinant of species distributions. We assess different aspects of risk arising from future climate change by quantifying changes in the spatial distribution of future climatic conditions compared with the recent past. Location: Europe. Methods: A 10' x 10' resolution gridded data set of five climate variables was used to calculate expected changes to the area, distance and direction of 1931-60 climatic conditions under the HadCM3 climate model for four future climate scenarios based on different rates of greenhouse gas emissions (SRES scenarios). Three levels of tolerance ranges determined the thresholds for which future conditions are considered analogous to 1931-60 (pre-warming) conditions. Results: For many parts of Europe, areas with pre-warming analogous climate conditions will be smaller and further away in the future than they are now. For any location in Europe, areas with pre-warming analogous mean annual temperature conditions will, on average, be reduced between 23.7% (B1 scenario) and 49.7% (A1FI scenario) by 2100 when assuming a medium tolerance range. The mean distance to these areas will, on average, increase between 272 km (B1) and 645 km (A1FI). These changes are more pronounced for temperature than for water availability variables and also for narrow tolerance ranges compared to wide tolerance ranges. Using a combined measure of both temperature and precipitation variables, areas with pre-warming analogous conditions are predicted to be in a more northeasterly direction in the future, but there are considerable regional differences within Europe. Main conclusions: The results suggest that, for some parts of Europe, the loss of area with any suitable climatic conditions represents the greatest risk to biodiversity, but in other regions the distances that species may have to move to reach suitable climatic conditions may be a greater problem. Quantifying the distance and direction in analyses of change of climatically suitable areas can add additional information for climate change risk assessments.
2997901|Satellite data provide the basis for geographically referenced global land cover characterization that is internally consistent, repeatable over time, and potentially more reliable than ground-based sources. During the last 20 years considerable research efforts have been devoted to the extraction of land cover information from these data. Only during the last few years have these methods begun to be applied in operational contexts. Such applications have thus far primarily addressed key global change issues such as the global carbon balance. Examples of the successful quasioperational implementation of remote sensing include NASA's Humid Tropical Landsat Pathfinder project, where high resolution data are being used at subcontinental scales to measure change in the areal extent of tropical rain forests throughout the world, and the Tropical Ecosystem Environment observation by Satellite (TREES) project to assess forest cover in the tropics. At coarser resolutions, a number of land cover products suitable for incorporation in global and regional models have been developed. Alternatives to traditional land cover classifications have also been developed to describe gradients and mosaics in the vegetation more realistically. These land cover products offer the possibility for applications in ecological and human dimensions research at regional and global scales, as well as for implementation of international agreements that require land cover information. Recently launched and future satellites will carry sensors that provide data with greatly improved capabilities for land cover characterization and advancements in computing environments make it feasible to take advantage of these new data. However, several challenges must be overcome in making a transition from research to operational land cover monitoring, including automation of methods to analyse the satellite data, more effective techniques for validation, and assurance of long-term continuity in the availability of satellite measurements.
2665411|Historical evidence indicates that Great-tailed Grackles colonized the Basin of Mexico from the Gulf Coast lowlands in the fifteenth century. They were probably assisted by an intentional introduction, but colonization succeeded because of anthropogenic habitat alterations over the previous two centuries. During the Colonial period, grackles withdrew from the Basin, only to recolonize it in recent decades. This withdrawal was also due probably to changes in land use, including drainage of much of the water from the Basin's lakes.
40205667|Aim: To investigate explanations for the maintenance of a positive spatial species richness-human population density correlation at broad scales, despite the negative impact of humans on species richness. These are (hypotheses 1-4): (1) human activities that create a habitat mosaic and (2) a more favourable climate, and (3) adequate conservation measures (e.g. sufficient natural habitat), maintain the positive species richness-human density correlation; or (4) the full range of human densities decrease the slope of the correlation without changing its form. Location: South Africa. Methods: Avian species richness data from atlas distribution maps and human population density data derived from 2001 census results were converted to a quarterdegree resolution. We investigated the number of land transformation types (anthropogenic habitat heterogeneity), irrigated area (increasing productivity), and other covarying factors (e.g. primary productivity) as predictors of species richness. We compared species richness-human density relationships among regions with different amounts of natural habitat, and investigated whether the full range of human densities decrease species richness in relation to primary productivity. Results: Hypotheses 1, 2 and 3 were supported. Human densities and activities that increase habitat heterogeneity and productivity are important beneficial factors to common species, but not to rare species. The species richness-human density relationship persists only at low land transformation levels, and no significant relationship exists at higher levels. For common species, the relationship becomes non-significant at lower land transformation levels than for rare species. Main conclusions: The persistence of the species richness-human density relationship depends mostly on the amount of remaining natural habitat. In addition, certain human activities benefit especially common species. Common species seem to be more flexible than rare species in response to human activity and habitat loss.
30137899|Aim: Niche theory emphasizes the importance of environmental conditions for the distribution and abundance of species. Using a macroecological approach our study aimed at identifying the important environmental gradients for spiders. We generated numerical values of niche position and niche width. We also investigated relationships between these niche properties as well as the degree of phylogenetic conservatism in order to draw conclusions about the evolution of the habitat niche. Location: Central Europe: lowlands of Austria, Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Methods: We analysed 244 published spider communities from 70 habitat types by correspondence analysis. The resulting community scores were used to test for correlations with habitat characteristics. Species scores were used to derive niche position (mean scores) and niche width (standard deviation of scores). To test for niche conservatism we estimated variance components across the taxonomic hierarchy. Results: The first two axes of the correspondence analysis were correlated with shading and moisture, respectively. Niche width had a hump-shaped relationship to both environmental gradients. -diversity was strikingly higher in open habitats than in forests. Habitat niche conservatism was lower than phylogenetic conservatism in body size. Main conclusions: Environmental factors are important drivers for the -diversity of spiders, especially across open habitats. This underlines the importance of preserving the whole range of moisture conditions in open habitats. Narrow niches of species occurring at the ends of both environmental gradients indicate that adaptations to extreme habitats lead to constraints in ecological flexibility. Nevertheless, the habitat niche of species seems to evolve much faster than morphological or physiological traits.
2997857| This paper attempts some preliminary evaluation of the potential of agroforestry techniques as a forestry strategy for controlling atmospheric CO
3697505| Aims: Astrocaryum sciophilum (Miq.) Pulle (Arecaceae) is an understorey palm, endemic to north-eastern South America with a patchy distribution. We tested the hypothesis that the spatial distribution of this palm species is not in equilibrium but is slowly colonizing the forest understorey. Location: Inventories and seed dispersal studies were conducted in the undisturbed tropical forest close to the Nouragues research station, French Guiana. Additional data were collected in the entire territory of French Guiana. Methods: We studied the demography of A. sciophilum on a 20-ha plot located at the edge of its distribution. The age of the palms was estimated by postulating an exponentially decreasing abundance by age class. Direct seed dispersal experiments were also conducted, to estimate dispersal parameters. The seeds of A. sciophilum were dispersed only by rodents. This information was used to parameterize a forest growth simulator, to study the spatial spread of this species. Results: Within the sampling plot, the density of A. sciophilum dropped sharply from about 500 individuals per hectare to zero. The maturation age was estimated to be 170  70 years, and over 55 years with 95% confidence. Seed-dispersal experiments yielded an average seed dispersal distance of 11 m and a maximum estimated dispersal distance of 125 m across a generational span of 55 years to maturity. Therefore, the maximal estimated colonization speed is 2.3 m/y. Conclusions: Empirical results and numerical simulations suggest that the boundary of the A. sciophilum population is a colonization front, and that the range of this species is slowly expanding. The implications of this result in respect of palaeoenvironmental changes in this region are discussed. 
4139409|Aim To analyse the patterns in species richness and endemism of the native European riverine fish fauna, in the light of the Messinian salinity crisis and the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). Location European continent. Methods After gathering native fish faunistic lists of 406 hydrographical networks, we defined large biogeographical regions with homogenous fish fauna, based on a hierarchical cluster analysis. Then we analysed and compared the patterns in species richness and endemism among these regions, as well as species-area relationships. Results Among the 233 native species present in the data set, the Cyprinidae family was strongly dominant (> 50% of the total number of species). Seven biogeographical regions were defined: Western Peri-Mediterranea, Central Peri-Mediterranea, Eastern Peri-Mediterranea, Ponto-Caspian Europe, Northern Europe, Central Europe and Western Europe. The highest regional species richness was observed for Central Peri-Mediterranea and Ponto-Caspian Europe. The highest endemic richness was found in Central Peri-Mediterranea. Species-area relationships were characterized by high slope values for Peri-Mediterranean Europe and low values for Central and Western Europe. Main conclusions The results were in agreement with the'Lago Mare' hypothesis explaining the specificity of Peri-Mediterranean fish fauna, as well as with the history of recolonization of Central and Western Europe from Ponto-Caspian Europe following the LGM. The results also agreed with the mechanisms of speciation and extinction influencing fish diversity in hydrographical networks. We advise the use of the seven biogeographical regions for further studies, and suggest considering Peri-Mediterranean Europe and Ponto-Caspian Europe as'biodiversity hotspots' for European riverine fish.
3877795|Aim: To test the Rapoport effect using null models and data sets taken from the literature. We propose an improvement on an existing method, testing the Rapoport effect in elevational and latitudinal distributions when distributions are restricted by sampling. Location: Global. Methods: First, we hypothesized that real range size distributions are similar to those expected by null assumptions (expected by only imposing boundaries to species distributions). When these distributions were different from those expected under the null assumptions, we tested the hypothesis that these distributions correspond to those expected when a Rapoport effect occurs. We used two simulation methods, random and pseudo-random, which differed only in that the latter one assumes fixed species mid-points, coinciding with real mid-points. Observed correlations between range size and mid-point were compared with the frequency distribution of 1000 simulations, using both simulation methods. We compared the correlation curves generated by 1000 simulations with those of the observed distributions, testing whether correlations indicated a Rapoport effect. Results: Several significant patterns of correlations between range size and mid-point were observed in the data sets when compared with random and pseudo-random simulations. However, few of these correlations were consistent with a Rapoport effect. Main conclusions: Although some recent studies are consistent with a Rapoport effect, our results suggest that the Rapoport effect is not a widespread pattern in global ecology.
2665380|1 Inbreeding and parthenogenesis are especially frequent in colonizing species of plants and animals, and inbreeding in wood-boring species in the weevil families Scolytinae and Platypodidae is especially common on small islands. In order to study the relationship between colonization success, island attributes and mating system in these beetles, we analysed the relative proportions of inbreeders and outbreeders for 45 Pacific and Old World tropical islands plus two adjacent mainland sites, and scored islands for size, distance from nearest source population, and maximum altitude. 2 The numbers of wood-borer species decreased with decreasing island size, as expected; the degree of isolation and maximum island altitude had negligible effects on total species numbers. 3 Numbers of outbreeding species decreased more rapidly with island size than did those of inbreeders. Comparing species with similar ecology (e.g. ambrosia beetles) showed that this difference was best explained by differential success in colonization, rather than by differences in resource utilization or sampling biases. This conclusion was further supported by analyses of data from small islands, which suggested that outbreeding species have a higher degree of endemism and that inbreeding species are generally more widespread. 4 Recently established small populations necessarily go through a period of severe inbreeding, which should affect inbreeding species much less than outbreeding ones. In addition, non-genetic ecological and behavioural (`Allee') effects are also expected to reduce the success of outbreeding colonists much more than that of inbreeders: compared with inbreeders, outbreeders are expected to have slower growth rates, have greater difficulties with mate-location and be vulnerable to random extinction over a longer period.
2665435|We used local habitat niche breadth, local abundance and body size of non-passerine afrotropical birds in Tsavo East National Park (Kenya) to predict species distributional ranges in Kenya and across Africa. Univariate analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between local abundance and distribution only on the scale of Kenya. Performing a multiple regression analysis, local abundance, local habitat niche breadth and body size explained a significant part of the variance in bird distribution, again only on the Kenyan scale. From these results, we speculate that on continental scales distributions may be more influenced by macroclimatic conditions and historical factors, whereas distributions on regional scales are predominantly influenced by ecological factors.
30137996|Aim: To estimate the effects of full-glacial atmospheric CO concentrations and climate upon leaf area index (LAI), using both global vegetation models and palaeoecological data. Prior simulations indicate lowered LAIs at the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM), but this is the first attempt to corroborate predictions against observations. Location: Eastern North America and eastern Beringia. Methods: Using a dense surface pollen data set and remotely sensed LAIs from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) instrument, we evaluate the ability of analogue-based techniques to reconstruct modern LAIs from pollen data. We then apply analogue techniques to LGM pollen records, calculate the ratio of LGM to modern LAIs (RLAI) and compare reconstructed RLAIs to RLAIs simulated by BIOME4. Sensitivity experiments with BIOME4 distinguish the effects of CO and climate on glacial LAIs. Results: Modern LAIs are skilfully predicted (r = 0.83). Data and BIOME4 indicate that LAIs at the LGM were up to 12% lower than modern values in eastern North America and 60-94% lower in Beringia. In eastern North America, LGM climates partially counteracted CO-driven decreases in LAI, while in Beringia both contributed to lowered LAIs. Main conclusions: In both regions climate is the primary driver of LGM LAIs. The decline in eastern North America LAIs is smaller than previously reported, so regional vegetation feedbacks to LGM climate may have been less significant than previously supposed. CO exerts both physiological and community effects upon LAI, by regulating resource availability for leaf production and by influencing the competitive balance among species and hence the composition and structure of plant communities. Pollen-based reconstructions using analogue methods do not incorporate the physiological effect and so are upper estimates of full-glacial LAIs. BIOME4 sensitivity experiments indicate that the community and physiological effects together caused 10% to 20% decrease in LAIs at the LGM, so simulated RLAIs that are 80-100% of reconstructed RLAIs are regarded as consistent with data.
40205740|Aim: We studied elevational species richness patterns of Schizothorax fishes and identified the roles of ecological and evolutionary factors in shaping the patterns of elevational diversity. Location: The Tibetan Plateau and its adjacent regions. Methods: We assembled distribution and altitude data for all Schizothorax species using the literature. We merged ecological and evolutionary approaches to test the relationships between species richness and ecological factors (climate, area, the middomain effect) or evolutionary factors ( diversification rates and time of colonization). Res U Its We found that species richness of Schizothorax fishes peaked at mid-elevations. Rainfall, area, the mid-domain effect and diversification rate were weak predictors of the richness pattern. Temperature showed a nonlinear relationship with species richness. Temperature and time of colonization were the most important variables in explaining the elevational diversity pattern. Main conclusion Our findings indicate that the time-for-speciation effect and niche conservatism play important roles in variation of species richness.
30134091|Aim and Location: Our aim is to develop pollen-climate inference models for southern Europe and to test their performance and inference power by cross-validation with modern climate data. Surface sediments collected from lakes along a climate gradient from the winter-cold/summer-wet Alps to winter-wet/summer-dry Sicily were analysed for modern pollen assemblages. Methods: For each lake, mean monthly temperatures, seasonal precipitation and site-specific climate uncertainties have been estimated. Pollen-climate relationships were studied using numerical analyses, and inference models were derived by partial least squares (PLS) and weighted-averaging PLS (WA-PLS) regressions for January and July temperatures (T), and for winter, spring and summer precipitation (P). In order to assess whether these variables are also of ecological importance for vegetation in the subregions, we split the data set into an Alpine and a Mediterranean subset. Results: Low bootstrap cross-validated root mean square errors of prediction (RMSEP) for January T (1.7C), July T (2.1C) and summer P (38 mm), as well as low RMSEPs expressed as a percentage of the gradient length (8-9%), indicate a good inference power. Models revealed excellent to good performance statistics for January T, July T and summer P (r = 0.8), and for winter and spring P (r = c. 0.5). We show that the variables with the highest explanatory power differ between the two subregions. These are summer T and P for the Alpine set, and January T, winter P and July T for the Mediterranean set. Main conclusions: The study reveals the influence of climatic conditions during the growing season on modern pollen assemblages and indicates the potential of pollen data for long-term climate reconstructions of parameters such as winter precipitation and temperature, which seem to be the main factors having an influence on the variability of Mediterranean climate. These models may therefore provide important information on past regional climate variability in southern Europe.
2997832|Many hypotheses have been proposed to explain regional species richness patterns. Among these, `Rapoport's rule' has sparked considerable controversy by stating that the latitudinal gradient in species richness can be explained indirectly as a function of narrower geographic ranges for species at low latitudes. Annual climatic variability, or deviation from mean climatic conditions, has been hypothesized to moderate this phenomenon. Furthermore, taxa that avoid much of this seasonality, such as temperate zone insects that enter diapause or species that migrate, were predicted to show reduced latitudinal gradients in richness. I test the suggested link between `Rapoport's rule' and species richness for two higher level insect taxa as well as for the class Mammalia. Although these taxa exhibit the well-known latitudinal gradient in species richness, simple annual climatic variability and deviation from mean annual climatic conditions provide very poor predictions of species richness in each of them. Potential evapotranspiration, a measurement of ambient climatic energy, explains most of the observed variance in regional species richness patterns for all three taxa, consistent with the species richness-energy hypothesis. I find no support for an indirect link between `Rapoport's rule' and terrestrial species richness patterns in North America.
2665370|1 This paper offers a commentary on the development of island ecological theory since the publication of MacArthur & Wilson's equilibrium theory in the 1960s. I distinguish the simple model at the core of their Equilibrium Theory of Island Biogeography (ETIB) and the broader body of their theory, which embraces evolutionary as well as ecological patterns - all, however, within the overarching framework or assumption of equilibrium. 2 The basic problems with the ETIB have long been known, and its status as a ruling paradigm has been the subject of concern for more than two decades. With the development of nonequilibrium ideas in ecology, island biogeographers arguably now have viable theoretical frameworks to set alongside or around the ETIB. Four conditions are highlighted as extremes: i) dynamic equilibrium; ii) dynamic nonequilibrium; iii) `static' equilibrium; and iv) `static' nonequilibrium: together providing a conceptual framework for island ecological analyses. 3 The importance of scale is stressed and attention is drawn to Haila's spatial-temporal continuum as an organizational device. It is argued that the processes represented within the ETIB (and by extension, other island theories) may be prominent within only a limited portion of this continuum, while elsewhere they are generally subsumed by other dominant processes. 4 Colonization and ecosystem development of near-shore islands constitute just a special case of ecological succession, and thus the development of theories of island assembly may benefit accordingly from efforts to incorporate ideas from the ecological succession literature. 5 The desirability of specifying answerable questions is stressed, as is the need to build a greater degree of complexity into the development of island ecological models. Notwithstanding which, it is also recognized that key advances are often brought about by simple, but bold models, of the form exemplified elsewhere in this issue.
41239405|Aim: We investigated the relationship between host and parasite diversity as well as latitudinal gradients in parasite diversity on a continental scale in European freshwater trematodes. Location: European freshwaters. Methods: We extracted distributional data for 564 freshwater trematodes across 25 biogeographical regions in Europe from the Limnofauna Europaea and used multiple regression analyses to test for correlations between the diversity of definitive (vertebrates) or first intermediate (gastropods) hosts and that of trematodes, and for latitudinal gradients in trematode diversity. In particular, we investigated patterns in beta diversity among latitudinal bands and between trematode species that parasitize host groups with low (autogenic) and high (allogenic) dispersal capacity. We also tested for a latitudinal gradient in the proportional representation of these two trematode groups within regional faunas. Results: Latitude or first intermediate host richness had no effect on trematode richness, but definitive host richness was a strong predictor of trematode richness, among both allogenic and autogenic parasites. We found that beta diversity of trematode faunas within latitudinal bands decreased to the north, with similar values for allogenic and autogenic trematodes. Finally, we observed an increasing proportion of autogenic species toward the north of Europe. Main conclusions: The richness of definitive hosts appears to be the driver of trematode diversity at a continental scale. The latitudinal gradient in beta diversity reflects patterns observed in free-living species and probably results from recolonization in the aftermath of the ice ages. The similar beta-diversity patterns of allogenic and autogenic trematodes and the increasing proportion of autogenic trematodes with increasing latitude are surprising. We suggest that the geographical scale of our analysis or confounding factors such as differences in habitat utilization and specialization may partly explain these patterns.
41058247|Aim: A consistent set of root characteristics for herbaceous plants growing in water-limited environments has been developed based on compilations of global root databases, but an overall analysis of why these characteristics occur is still missing. The central question in this study is whether an ecohydrological model which assumes that rooting strategies reflect maximization of transpiration can predict the variations in rooting strategies of plants in dry environments. Location: Arid ecosystems across the globe. Methods: A model was used to explore interactions between plant biomass, rootshoot allocation, root distribution, rainfall, soil type and water use by plants. Results: Model analyses showed that the predicted shifts in rooting depth and root-shoot allocation due to changes in rainfall, soil type and plant biomass were quite similar to observed shifts. The model predicted that soil type, annual rainfall and plant biomass each had strong effects on the rooting strategies that optimize transpiration, but also that these factors have strong interactive effects. The process by which plants compete for water availability (soil evaporation or drainage) especially affected the depth distribution of roots in the soil, whereas the availability of rainfall mainly affected the optimal root-shoot allocation strategy. Main conclusions: The empirically observed key patterns in rooting characteristics of herbaceous plant species in arid environments could be explained in this theoretical study by using the concept of hydrological optimality, represented here by the maximization of transpiration.
2997866|1. Three permanent plots (100 x 0m) were established in the subalpine Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) forest of Paneveggio in the spring of 1993, to begin a long-term forest ecosystem research project. The main purpose of these plots was to provide information about subalpine Norway spruce stand dynamics and to provide suggestions for close-to-nature silviculture. 2. The three stands were selected to represent the most common forest structures in the Paneveggio forest. The first stand is close to forestry roads, has a relatively regular and continuous canopy, and thinning and cutting operations only ended in the 1980s; the second stand is far from forest roads and has developed without anthropogenic influence for several decades; the third one is located at the present upper limit of the pure spruce forest and, apparently, was heavily used in the past as a pasture. 3. The first step in the investigation was to describe the structure and to study the history of the three stands using both written evidence from management plans and biological archives from tree rings. 4. The stands in plots 1 and 2 began to establish after a disturbance that removed part of the previous stands according to dendroecological studies, which are partially supported by written evidence. The remaining parts of these stands were eliminated by two major disturbances that occurred during the following decades. Written records about the use of the forest lead us to assume that the initial disturbances that occurred in the two stands were logging activities as a part of a group shelterwood system. The stand in plot 2 has developed without significant human interference for about half a century as confirmed by the presence of many dead trees. The stand in plot 3 consists of old trees that were part of an open stand and a secondary population that established after cessation of grazing.5. The study has confirmed that dendroecological techniques can be used to identify occurrence and intensity of previous disturbance in forests stands, although at Paneveggio it is difficult to distinguish between natural and anthropogenic disturbances in the tree ring record. The presence of human activity necessitates investigation of multiple lines of evidence. 6. Paneveggio's forest management plans were useful in the interpretation of the data obtained through dendroecological analysis, although events did not always correspond because data from the management plans (yearly thinning, felling, windthrow damage) never gave stand-level details, but applied to areas of several hectares. Despite these limitations, the information included in the management plans is of crucial importance in studying stand history and only by using all these sources of information is it possible to delineate the most important features of the history and disturbance that affected the origin and subsequent growth of the forest stands.
40602953|Aim: To provide the first comparative overview on the current numbers of alien species that invade representative European terrestrial and freshwater habitats for a range of taxonomie groups. Location: Europe. Methods: Numbers of naturalized alien species of plants, insects, herptiles, birds and mammals occurring in 10 habitats defined according to the European Nature Information System (EUNIS) were obtained from 115 regional data sets. Only species introduced after AD 1500 were considered. Data were analysed by ANCOVA and regression trees to assess whether differences exist among taxonomie groups in terms of their habitat affinity, and whether the pattern of occurrence of alien species in European habitats interacts with macroecological factors such as insularity, latitude or area. Results: The highest numbers of alien plant and insect species were found in human-made, urban or cultivated habitats; if controlled for habitat area in the region, wetland and riparian habitats appeared to support relatively high numbers of alien plant species too. Invasions by vertebrates were more evenly distributed among habitats, with aquatic and riparian, woodland and cultivated land most invaded. Mires, bogs and fens, grassland, heathland and scrub were generally less invaded. Habitat and taxonomie group explained most variation in the proportions of alien species occurring in individual habitats related to the total number of alien species in a region, and the basic pattern determined by these factors was fine-tuned by geographical variables, namely by the mainland-island contrast and latitude, and differed among taxonomie groups. Main conclusions: There are two ecologically distinct groups of alien species (plants and insects versus vertebrates) with strikingly different habitat affinities. Invasions by these two contrasting groups are complementary in terms of habitat use, which makes an overall assessment of habitat invasions in Europe possible. Since numbers of naturalized species in habitats are correlated among taxa within these two groups, the data collected for one group of vertebrates, for example, could be used to estimate the habitat-specific numbers of alien species for other vertebrate groups with reasonable precision, and the same holds true for insects and plants.
3182662|1 A classic biogeographic pattern is the alignment of diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid races of creosote bush (Larrea tridentata) across the Chihuahuan, Sonoran and Mohave Deserts of western North America. We used statistically robust differences in guard cell size of modern plants and fossil leaves from packrat middens to map current and past distributions of these ploidy races since the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). 2 Glacial/early Holocene (26-10
40928119|Aim: Climate change threatens to shift vegetation, disrupting ecosystems and damaging human well-being. Field observations in boreal, temperate and tropical ecosystems have detected biome changes in the 20th century, yet a lack of spatial data on vulnerability hinders organizations that manage natural resources from identifying priority areas for adaptation measures. We explore potential methods to identify areas vulnerable to vegetation shifts and potential refugia. Location: Global vegetation biomes. Methods: We examined nine combinations of three sets of potential indicators of the vulnerability of ecosystems to biome change: (1) observed changes of 20th-century climate, (2) projected 21st-century vegetation changes using the MCI dynamic global vegetation model under three Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) emissions scenarios, and (3) overlap of results from (1) and (2). Estimating probability density functions for climate observations and confidence levels for vegetation projections, we classified areas into vulnerability classes based on IPCC treatment of uncertainty. Results: One-tenth to one-half of global land may be highly (confidence 0.80-0.95) to very highly (confidence > 0.95) vulnerable. Temperate mixed forest, boreal conifer and tundra and alpine biomes show the highest vulnerability, often due to potential changes in wildfire. Tropical evergreen broadleaf forest and desert biomes show the lowest vulnerability. Main conclusions: Spatial analyses of observed climate and projected vegetation indicate widespread vulnerability of ecosystems to biome change. A mismatch between vulnerability patterns and the geographic priorities of natural resource organizations suggests the need to adapt management plans. Approximately a billion people live in the areas classified as vulnerable.
40205668|Aim: The influence of landscape structure on the distribution patterns of bats remains poorly understood for many species. This study investigates the relationship between area and isolation of islands and the probability of occurrence of six bat species to determine whether persistence and immigration abilities vary among bat species and foraging guilds. Location: Thirty-two islands in the Gulf of California near the Baja California peninsula in north-west Mexico. Methods: Using logistic regression and Akaike information criterion (AIC) model selection, we compared five a priori models for each of six bat species to explain patterns of island occupancy, including random patterns, minimum area effects, maximum isolation effects, additive area and isolation effects and compensatory area and isolation effects. Results: Five species of insectivorous bats (Pipistrellus hesperus, Myotis californicus, Macrotus californicus y Antrozous pallidus and Mormoops megalophylla) displayed minimum area thresholds on incidence. The probability of occurrence tended to decrease at moderate distances of isolation (c. 10-15 km) for these species (excepting A. pallidus). The distributions of two non-insectivorous species (Leptonycteris curasoae and Myotis vivesi) were not influenced by island size and isolation. Main conclusions: Minimum area thresholds on incidence suggest that island occupancy by insectivorous bats may be limited by resource requirements. Islands smaller than 100 ha typically did not support occupancy or use by insectivorous bats, except at minimal isolation distances. Insectivorous bat species may also be more sensitive to moderate levels of habitat isolation in some landscape contexts than previously expected. Our results suggest that differences in foraging habits may have important implications for understanding the distribution patterns of bats.
3182701|North American freshwater fishes were studied to determine whether they displayed the same relationships between log (geographical range size) and log (body size) and the same pattern of range shape as found among North American birds and mammals. The forces that produce these patterns were also investigated. The log (geographical range size):log (body size) relationship was analysed for 121 North American freshwater fish species. Thirty-two imperilled species were compared with 89 non-imperilled species to determine if the overall relationship could result from differential extinction. Range geometries were analysed, within and among habitat guilds, to determine if general patterns could be detected. The log (geographical range size):log (body size) pattern among freshwater fish species was triangular and qualitatively similar to that found for North American birds and mammals. The results suggest that below a minimum geographical range, the likelihood of extinction increases dramatically for freshwater fishes and that this minimum range size increases with body size. The pattern of fish species' range shapes differs from that found for other North American vertebrate taxa because, on average, fish possess much smaller ranges than terrestrial species and most fish species' geographical ranges extend further on a north-south axis than on an east-west axis. The log (geographical range size):log (body size) pattern reveals that fish species' geographical ranges are more constrained than those of terrestrial species. The triangular relationship may be caused by differential extinction of species with large bodies and small geographical ranges as well as higher speciation rates of small-bodied fish. The restricted geographical ranges of freshwater fishes gives them much in common with terrestrial species on oceanic islands. Range shape patterns within habitat guilds reflect guild-specific historical and current ecological forces. The overall pattern of range shapes emerges from the combination of ecologically different subunits.
30137901|Aim: We investigated whether climate change has affected the potential feeding activity of a winter active larva, the pine processionary moth (PPM), Thaumetopoea pityocampa L., and whether it may explain its range expansion. Location: The study area is France and, at a smaller scale, the Paris Basin. Methods: We used a statistical model derived from Huchon and Dmolin [1970 Revue Forestire Frangaise (special issue: La lutte biologique en fort), 220-234] to test whether their model, updated with climate change, could explain the observed range expansion. Since Battisti and colleagues have recently shown that climate could affect survival of the PPM through its effect on feeding activity, we also developed a mechanistic model based on larval feeding requirements (night air temperature above 0 C and temperature inside the nest above 9 C on the preceding day). We reconstructed the geographical distribution of feeding activity and we compared the resulting change with the PPM range expansion. Results: The statistical model did not successfully predict the observed expansion but the mechanistic model showed considerable change in the feeding activity of the PPM. In the Paris Basin, the PPM border coincided with a zone unfavourable for feeding activity in the period 1992-96. Feeding conditions became more favourable in the period 2001-04, and the PPM succeeded in crossing this zone. Over larger temporal and spatial scales improved feeding conditions in the north-western part of France were forecast by the mechanistic model. Main conclusions: (1) The range distribution of the PPM in the Paris Basin is no longer limited by unfavourable feeding conditions. (2) The pattern of range expansion of the PPM is now governed mainly by its dispersal capabilities and host tree distribution. (3) At the country scale, this approach gives an approximate prediction of the potential distribution of the PPM, though the model may not be reliable in mountainous regions.
40205651|Aim: Although parameter estimates are not as affected by spatial autocorrelation as Type I errors, the change from classical null hypothesis significance testing to model selection under an information theoretic approach does not completely avoid problems caused by spatial autocorrelation. Here we briefly review the model selection approach based on the Akaike information criterion (AIC) and present a new routine for Spatial Analysis in Macroecology (SAM) software that helps establishing minimum adequate models in the presence of spatial autocorrelation. Innovation: We illustrate how a model selection approach based on the AIC can be used in geographical data by modelling patterns of mammal species in South America represented in a grid system (n = 383) with 2 of resolution, as a function of five environmental explanatory variables, performing an exhaustive search of minimum adequate models considering three regression methods: non-spatial ordinary least squares (OLS), spatial eigenvector mapping and the autoregressive (lagged- response) model. The models selected by spatial methods included a smaller number of explanatory variables than the one selected by OLS, and minimum adequate models contain different explanatory variables, although model averaging revealed a similar rank of explanatory variables. Main conclusions: We stress that the AIC is sensitive to the presence of spatial autocorrelation, generating unstable and overfltted minimum adequate models to describe macroecological data based on non-spatial OLS regression. Alternative regression techniques provided different minimum adequate models and have different uncertainty levels. Despite this, the averaged model based on Akaike weights generates consistent and robust results across different methods and may be the best approach for understanding of macroecological patterns.
3697442|Aim: This paper examines species richness, abundance, and body size in deep-sea gastropods and how they vary over depth, which is a strong correlate of nutrient input. Previous studies have documented the empirical relationships among these properties in terrestrial and coastal ecosystems, but a full understanding of how these patterns arise has yet to be obtained. Examining the relationships among macro-ecological variables is a logical progression in deep-sea ecology, where patterns of body size, diversity, and abundance have been quantified separately but not linked together. Location: 196-5042 m depth in the western North Atlantic. Method: Individuals analysed represent all Vetigastropoda and Caenogastropoda (Class Gastropoda) with intact shells, excluding Ptenoglossa, collected by the Woods Hole Benthic Sampling Program (3424 individuals representing 80 species). Biovolume was measured for every individual separately (i.e. allowing the same species to occupy multiple size classes) and divided into log
30137879|Aim: To understand global patterns of genetic variation in plant species on mountains and to consider the significance of mountains for the genetic structure and evolution of plant species. Location: Global. Methods: We review published studies. Results: Genetic diversity within populations can vary along altitudinal gradients in one of four patterns. Eleven of 42 cited studies (26% of the total) found that populations at intermediate altitudes have greater diversity than populations at lower and higher altitudes. This is because the geographically central populations are under optimal environmental conditions, whereas the peripheral populations are in suboptimal situations. The second pattern, indicating that higher populations have less diversity than lower populations, was found in eight studies (19%). The third pattern, indicating that lower populations have lower diversity than higher populations, was found in 10 studies (24%). In 12 studies (29%), the intrapopulation genetic variation was found to be unaffected by altitude. Evidence of altitudinal differentiation was found in more than half of these studies, based on measurements of a range of variables including genome size, number of chromosomes or a range of loci using molecular markers. Furthermore, great variation has been found in phenotypes among populations at different altitudes in situ and in common garden experiments, even in cases where there was no associated variation in molecular composition. Mountains can be genetic barriers for species that are distributed at low elevations, but they can also provide pathways for species that occupy high-elevation habitats. [Correction added after publication 9 October 2007: 'less diversity' changed to greater diversity' in the second sentence of the Results section of the Abstract]. Main conclusions: Genetic diversity within populations can vary along altitudinal gradients as a result of several factors. The results highlight the importance of phenotypic examinations in detecting altitudinal differences. The influence of mountain ridges on genetic differentiation varies depending, inter alia, on the elevation at which the species occurs. Based on these findings, zoning by altitudes or ridges would be helpful for the conservation of tree populations with the onset of global warming.
3697466|Aim: To test the potential to conserve rare dry forest tree and shrub species circa situm. Location: Oaxaca, Mexico and Southern Honduras. Methods: Local uses (timber, posts and firewood) of species were determined principally through semistructured interviews with 20 rural householders in each of four communities in Honduras and four in Oaxaca. Tree and shrub diversity inventories were carried out in a total of 227 forest patches and parcels of farmland in those eight communities. Species' conservation priorities were determined using the star system of Hawthorne (1996) and IUCN listings. Results: Despite a large number of useful species, remarkably few were also conservation priorities. Useful species were found to be substitutable as is illustrated by Bombacopsis quinata, Cordia alliodora, Guaiacum sanctum and G. coulteri. Conclusions: In these areas, circa situm conservation is inhibited by the lack of species that are both rare and useful. Usefulness must be interpreted as a function of substitut-ability. Natural regeneration provides an abundance of diversity, farmers are unlikely to invest in the management of a species when suitable substitutes are freely available. The key to conserving rare species may be in maintaining or enhancing the value of the landscape elements in which they are found.
40602951|Aim: To review published evidence regarding the factors that influence the geographic variation in diversity of soil organisms at different spatial scales. Location: Global. Methods: A search of the relevant literature was conducted using the Web of Science and the author's personal scientific database as the major sources. Special attention was paid to include seminal studies, highly cited papers and/or studies highlighting novel results. Results: Despite their significant contribution to global biodiversity, our taxonomic knowledge of soil biota is still poor compared with that of most aboveground organisms. This is particularly evident for small-bodied taxa. Global patterns of soil biodiversity distribution have been poorly documented and are thought to differ significantly from what is reported above-ground. Based on existing data, it appears that microorganisms do not respond to large-scale environmental gradients in the same way as metazoans. Whereas soil microflora seem to be mainly represented by cosmopolitan species, soil animals respond to altitudinal, latitudinal or area gradients in the same way as described for above-ground organisms. At local scales, there is less evidence that local factors regulate above-and below-ground communities in the same way. Except for a few taxa, the humpbacked response to stress and disturbance gradients doesn't seem to apply underground. Soil communities thus appear weakly structured by competition, although competitive constraints may account for assembly rules within specific taxa. The main factor constraining local soil biodiversity is the compact and heterogeneous nature of soils, which provides unrivalled potential for niche partitioning, thus allowing high levels of local biodiversity. This heterogeneity is increased by the impact of ecosystem engineers that generate resource patchiness at a range of spatio-temporal scales.
41239346|Aim: The strength of consumer-plant interactions may decrease with latitude. Our objectives were to assess the spatial variation in folivory on Nothofagus pumilio and understand the influence of climate on folivory patterns as mediated by changes in folivore density and leaf traits. Location: Nothofagus pumilio forests, between 38 and 55S (Argentina). Methods: We studied the correlation of leaf damage with latitude on data from 47 sampling sites, and evaluated spatial patterns of autocorrelation on latitudinally detrended data with a principal coordinates of neighbour matrices method. Path analysis was used to test the association of temperature and precipitation with leaf damage, mediated by folivore density and leaf traits. We evaluated the adequacy of this ecological model by examining the spatial pattern of autocorrelation in the residuals, and combined spatial and environmental predictors of leaf damage into partial regression. Results: Leaf damage decreased with latitude, which was the only significant spatial predictor. The latitudinal decrease in temperature and precipitation was correlated with a decrease in the density of folivores and leaf size, and diminished leaf damage. Our ecological model adequately explained the spatial autocorrelation in the data: 44% of the variation in leaf damage was explained by the latitudinally structured component of the environment, whereas local environmental effects accounted for another 22%. Main conclusions: We conclude that N. pumilio forests show consistent latitudinal patterns of variation in folivory, folivore density and leaf traits. Our study suggests that the latitudinal variation in folivory rates is partly driven by the influence of climate on both plants and herbivores. This warns us about the potential susceptibility of folivory rates to climate warming. We emphasize the value of large-scale analyses as complementary to local experimental approaches to understanding the regulation of herbivory.
3697667|The noosphere concept was originally proposed as a sphere of mind or thought that has emerged from the biosphere over the course of human evolution. Two versions of the noosphere concept were developed in the 20th century and they differed with respect to whether the noosphere was to be considered separate from the biosphere or a new form of the biosphere. Both versions shared an assumption that collective human thought based on a scientific epistemology would achieve a benevolent relationship with the biosphere. Research in global ecology continues to reveal the growing influence of humanity on the biota and on the global biogeochemical cycles, but recent history has not confirmed humanity's ability to self-regulate. Nevertheless, the noosphere concept remains useful because it acknowledges the uniquely subjective aspect of human brain functioning and the propensity for humans to share ideas and work collaboratively. Both of these features will be needed to develop a structured coupling of humanity and the biosphere that preserves the biophysical processes sustaining the ecosphere.
30137887|Aim: A recent upsurge of interest in the island biogeography of exotic species has followed from the argument that they may provide valuable information on the natural processes structuring island biotas. Here, we use data on the occurrence of exotic bird species across oceanic islands worldwide to demonstrate an alternative and previously untested hypothesis that these distributional patterns are a simple consequence of where humans have released such species, and hence of the number of species released. Location: Islands around the world. Methods: Statistical analysis of published information on the numbers of exotic bird species introduced to, and established on, islands around the world. Results: Established exotic birds showed very similar species-area relationships to native species, but different species-isolation relationships. However, in both cases the relationship for established exotics simply mimicked that for the number of exotic bird species introduced. Exotic bird introductions scaled positively with human population size and island isolation, and islands that had seen more native species extinctions had had more exotic species released. Main conclusion: The island biogeography of exotic birds is primarily a consequence of human, rather than natural, processes.
2665422|1 We model the potential vegetation and annual net primary production (NPP) of China on a 10' grid under the present climate using the processed-based equilibrium terrestrial biosphere model BIOME3. The simulated distribution of the vegetation was in general in good agreement with the potential natural vegetation based on a numerical comparison between the two maps using the V statistic (V = 0.23). Predicted and measured NPP were also similar, especially in terms of biome-averages. 2 A coupled ocean atmosphere general circulation model including sulphate aerosols was used to drive a double greenhouse gas scenario for 2070 2099. Simulated vegetation maps from two different CO<sub>2</sub> scenarios (340 and 500 p.p.m.v.) were compared to the baseline biome map using V. Climate change alone produced a large reduction in desert, alpine tundra and ice/polar desert, and a general pole-ward shift of the boreal, temperate deciduous, warm-temperate evergreen and tropical forest belts, a decline in boreal deciduous forest and the appearance of tropical deciduous forest. The inclusion of CO<sub>2</sub> physiological effects led to a marked decrease in moist savannas and desert, a general decrease for grasslands and steppe, and disappearance of xeric woodland/scrub. Temperate deciduous broadleaved forest, however, shifted north to occupy nearly half the area of previously temperate mixed forest. 3 The impact of climate change and increasing CO<sub>2</sub> is not only on biogeography, but also on potential NPP. The NPP values for most of the biomes in the scenarios with CO<sub>2</sub> set at 340 p.p.m.v. and 500 p.p.m.v. are greater than those under the current climate, except for the temperate deciduous forest, temperate evergreen broadleaved forest, tropical rain forest, tropical seasonal forest, and xeric woodland/scrub biomes. Total vegetation and total carbon is simulated to increase significantly in the future climate scenario, both with and without the CO<sub>2</sub> direct physiological effect. 4 Our results show that the global process-based equilibrium terrestrial biosphere model BIOME3 can be used successfully at a regional scale.
40405783|Aim Although patterns are emerging for macroorganisms, we have limited understanding of the factors determining soil microbial community composition and productivity at large spatial extents. The overall objective of this study was to discern the drivers of microbial community composition at the extent of biogeographical provinces and regions. We hypothesized that factors associated with land use and climate would drive soil microbial community composition and biomass. Location Great Basin Province, Desert Province and California Floristic Province,California, USA. Methods Using phospholipid fatty acid analysis, we compared microbial communities across eight land-use types sampled throughout the State of California, USA (n = 1117). Results The main factor driving composition and microbial biomass was landuse type, especially as related to water availability and disturbance. Dry soils were more enriched in Gram-negative bacteria and fungi, and wetter soils were more enriched in Gram-positive, anaerobic and sulphate-reducing bacteria. Microbial biomass was lowest in ecosystems with the wettest and driest soils. Disturbed soils had less fungal and more Gram-positive bacterial biomass than wildland soils. However, some factors known to influence microbial ommunities, such as soil pH and specific plant taxa, were not important here. Main conclusions Distinct microbial communities were associated with landuse types and disturbance at the regional extent. Overall, soil water availability was an important determinant of soil microbial community composition. However, because of the inclusion of managed and irrigated agricultural ecosystems, the effect of precipitation was not significant. Effects of environmental and management factors, such as flooding, tillage and irrigation, suggest that agricultural management can have larger effects on soil microbial communities than elevation and precipitation gradients.
3697478|Aims: Throughout South-East Asia, droughts associated with ENSO (El
30137884|Aim: Our aim was to test whether extinction risk of frog species could be predicted from their body size, fecundity or geographical range size. Because small geographical range size is a correlate of extinction risk in many taxa, we also tested hypotheses about correlates of range size in frogs. Location: Global. Methods: Using a large comparative data set (n = 527 species) compiled from the literature, we performed bivariate and multiple regressions through the origin of independent contrasts to test proposed macroecological patterns and correlates of extinction risk in frogs. We also created minimum adequate models to predict snout-vent length, clutch size, geographical range size and IUCN Red List status in frogs. Parallel non-phylogenetic analyses were also conducted. We verified the results of the phylogenetic analyses using gridded data accounting for spatial autocorrelation. Results: The most threatened frog species tend to have small geographical ranges, although the relationship between range and extinction risk is not linear. In addition, tropical frogs with small clutches have the smallest ranges. Clutch size was strongly positively correlated with geographical range size (r = 0.22) and body size (r = 0.28). Main conclusions: Our results suggest that body size and fecundity only affect extinction risk indirectly through their effect on geographical range size. Thus, although large frogs with small clutches tend to be endangered, there is no comparative evidence that this relationship is direct. If correct, this inference has consequences for conservation strategy: it would be inefficient to allocate conservation resources on the basis of low fecundity or large body size; instead it would be better to protect areas that contain many frog species with small geographical ranges.
40205658|Aim: To examine the trends of 1982-2003 satellite-derived normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) values at several spatial scales within tundra and boreal forest areas of Alaska. Location: Arctic and subarctic Alaska. Methods: Annual maximum NDVI data from the twice monthly Global Inventory Modelling and Mapping Studies (GIMMS) NDVI 1982-2003 data set with 64-km pixels were extracted from a spatial hierarchy including three large regions: ecoregion polygons within regions, ecozone polygons within boreal ecoregions and 100-km climate station buffers. The 1982-2003 trends of mean annual maximum NDVI values within each area, and within individual pixels, were computed using simple linear regression. The relationship between NDVI and temperature and precipitation was investigated within climate station buffers. Results: At the largest spatial scale of polar, boreal and maritime regions, the strongest trend was a negative trend in NDVI within the boreal region. At a finer scale of ecoregion polygons, there was a strong positive NDVI trend in cold arctic tundra areas, and a strong negative trend in interior boreal forest areas. Within boreal ecozone polygons, the weakest negative trends were from areas with a maritime climate or colder mountainous ecozones, while the strongest negative trends were from warmer basin ecozones. The trends from climate station buffers were similar to ecoregion trends, with no significant trends from Bering tundra buffers, significant increasing trends among arctic tundra buffers and significant decreasing trends among interior boreal forest buffers. The interannual variability of NDVI among the arctic tundra buffers was related to the previous summer warmth index. The spatial pattern of increasing tundra NDVI at the pixel level was related to the west-to-east spatial pattern in changing climate across arctic Alaska. There was no significant relationship between interannual NDVI and precipitation or temperature among the boreal forest buffers. The decreasing NDVI trend in interior boreal forests may be due to several factors including increased insect/disease infestations, reduced photosynthesis and a change in root/leaf carbon allocation in response to warmer and drier growing season climate. Main conclusions: There was a contrast in trends of 1982-2003 annual maximum NDVI, with cold arctic tundra significantly increasing in NDVI and relatively warm and dry interior boreal forest areas consistently decreasing in NDVI. The annual maximum NDVI from arctic tundra areas was strongly related to a summer warmth index, while there were no significant relationships in boreal areas between annual maximum NDVI and precipitation or temperature. Annual maximum NDVI was not related to spring NDVI in either arctic tundra or boreal buffers.
3877783|Aims: Hantaviruses are zoonotic, aetiological agents maintained by rodents of the family Muridae. The occurrence of hantavirus in rodent hosts has been correlated to a number of climatic and environmental factors, including landscape structure. To date, most of these correlative studies have been conducted at moderate to fine spatial resolution. Our aim is to determine whether land cover classes defined at a mapping resolution of 1 km
2665349|1 Relationships between body mass and latitude, and body mass and elevation are examined in the assemblage of Andean passerine birds. 2 Across species, body mass is positively correlated with the mid-point of the species elevational distribution, but there is no significant relationship between body mass and latitudinal range mid-point. 3 When the assemblage is separated into Andean endemic and non-endemic species, the former group shows a significant positive relationship between body mass and elevation, and the latter a significant positive relationship between body mass and latitude (`Bergmann's rule'). Andean endemic species exhibit Bergmann's rule once elevation is controlled for using multiple regression. 4 These relationships are not a consequence of the phylogenetic non-independence of species. All the effects shown are very weak, with latitude and elevation explaining only a few per cent of the variation in body mass. Relationships are strongest when phylogenetically controlled analyses are performed just within genera. 5 The implications of these results for the mechanistic understanding of Bergmann's rule are discussed.
30137821|Aim: Distribution modelling relates sparse data on species occurrence or abundance to environmental information to predict the population of a species at any point in space. Recently, the importance of spatial autocorrelation in distributions has been recognized. Spatial autocorrelation can be categorized as exogenous (stemming from autocorrelation in the underlying variables) or endogenous (stemming from activities of the organism itself, such as dispersal). Typically, one asks whether spatial models explain additional variability (endogenous) in comparison to a fully specified habitat model. We turned this question around and asked: can habitat models explain additional variation when spatial structure is accounted for in a fully specified spatially explicit model? The aim was to find out to what degree habitat models may be inadvertently capturing spatial structure rather than true explanatory mechanisms. Location: We used data from 190 species of the North American Breeding Bird Survey covering the conterminous United States and southern Canada. Methods: We built 13 different models on 190 bird species using regression trees. Our habitat-based models used climate and landcover variables as independent variables. We also used random variables and simulated ranges to validate our results. The two spatially explicit models included only geographical coordinates or a contagion term as independent variables. As another angle on the question of mechanism vs. spatial structure we pitted a model using related bird species as predictors against a model using randomly selected bird species. Results: The spatially explicit models outperformed the traditional habitat models and the random predictor species outperformed the related predictor species. In addition, environmental variables produced a substantial R in predicting artificial ranges. Main conclusions: We conclude that many explanatory variables with suitable spatial structure can work well in species distribution models. The predictive power of environmental variables is not necessarily mechanistic, and spatial interpolation can outperform environmental explanatory variables.
3182663|1 Analysis of digitized aerial photographs taken in 1941 and 1994, using image processing and geographical information system technology, enabled the quantification of change in the coverage of forest and grassland patches that occur within a Eucalyptus savanna matrix in a subcoastal region of the Australian monsoon tropics. The 3058 ha study area was orientated along a low escarpment that separated a sandstone plateau from lowlands that comprised 58% and 42% of the area, respectively. 2 In the 53-year period, humans modified less than 1% of the study area, primarily for road building, and primarily in savanna areas. More than 85% of the study area at both sample times was covered by savanna. However, over the same period, the forest coverage increased from 5.03% to 9.91% of the study area and coverage of grassland decreased from 6.70% to 2.47%. The aerial photography also showed that tree density in the savanna had increased, although this was not assessed quantitatively. 3 There was an increase in the number of forest patches from 116 to 142. The number of grassland patches decreased (particularly those > 1 ha) from 87 to 59, although the size class distribution of forest and grassland patches was statistically similar for both sample times. 4 A 50-m GIS buffer was used to distinguish creek-lines environments from surrounding catchments. Using this criterion, 14% of the study area was classified as plateau creek-lines and 9% lowland creek-lines. Although the expansion of forest and loss of grassland varied significantly amongst catchment and creek-lines on the plateau and lowlands, the 1941 rank order of coverage of each vegetation type was maintained in these four landscape categories in 1994. In both years the greatest extent of forest and grassland occurred on the lowland catchments, despite their accounting for only one-third of the study area. 5 Transition matrices for vegetation change among the four landscape categories demonstrated that, unlike the other vegetation types, grasslands, particularly on the plateau, had a low probability of remaining unchanged during the study period. 6 The cause(s) of the overall increase of woody biomass across the topographic and edaphic gradient remains unclear but may be related to a period of increased rainfall since the 1970s, as well as to the cessation of Aboriginal landscape burning at the beginning of the study period.
40405758|Aim: We test the ' energetic equivalence rule' (EER) -the idea that the amount of energy used by a population per unit area per unit time is independent of body mass -in meio-invertebrate communities from a series of natural, multitrophic aquatic ' rock pool' microcosms. Our study represents the first rigorous test of the EER at local scales of observation in a community of naturally coexisting species. Location: Discovery Bay, Jamaica. Method: We estimated population energy use (PEU) for every occurrence of every species of meio-invertebrate fauna found in each of 29 microcosms (233 observations of 31 species) using estimates of population density obtained in January 2005 in combination with published metabolism-mass relations for closely related taxa. Results: In the rock pool system as a whole, population density decreased (ANCOVA: b = -0.38 (-0.55 to -0.19), r = 0.19, P< 0.001) and PEU increased with body mass (ANCOVA: b = 0.55 (0.36-0.73), r = 0.28, P < 0.001). Main conclusions: The positive PEU-body mass relation found here suggests that larger organisms are energetically dominant and points to the importance of sizestructured competition in these systems. Our results contrast those obtained in the few other previously published tests of the EER and challenge the idea that all species use similar amounts of energy regardless of their size.
3697429|Aim: To investigate the relative contributions of current vs. historical factors in explaining broad-scale diversity gradients using a combination of contemporary factors and a quantitative estimate of the temporal accessibility of areas for recolonization created by glacial retreat following the most recent Ice Age. Location: The part of the Nearctic region of North America that was covered by ice sheets during the glacial maximum 20 000 BP. Methods: We used range maps to estimate the species richness of mammals and terrestrial birds in
3697525|Aim: Inventorying plant species in an area based on randomly placed quadrats can be quite inefficient. The aim of this paper is to test whether plant species richness can be inventoried more efficiently by means of a spectrally-based ordering of sites to be sampled. Location: The study area was a complex wetland ecosystem, the Lake Montepulciano Nature Reserve, central Italy. This is one of the most important wetland areas of central Italy because of the diverse plant communities and the seasonal avifauna. Methods: Field sampling, based on a random stratified sampling design, was performed in June 2002. Plant species composition was recorded within sampling units of 100 m
2665369|1 The equilibrium model of island biogeography developed in the 1960s by MacArthur and Wilson has provided an excellent framework in which to investigate the dynamics of species richness in island and island-like systems. It is comparable in many respects to the Hardy Weinberg equilibrium model used in genetics as the basis for defining a point of reference, thus allowing one to discover the factors that prevent equilibrium from being achieved. Hundreds of studies have used the model effectively, especially those dealing with brief spans of time and limited geographical areas. In spite of this utility, however, there are important limitations to the MacArthur-Wilson model, especially when we consider long-term and large-scale circumstances. 2 Although their general theory is more complex, the MacArthur-Wilson equilibrium model treats colonization and extinction as the only two processes that are relevant to determining species richness. However, it is likely that phylogenetic diversification (phylogenesis) often takes place on the same time-scale as colonization and extinction; for example, colonization, extinction, and phylogenesis among mammals on occanic and/or old land-bridge islands in South-east Asia are all measured in units of time in the range of 10 000 l million years, most often in units of 100 000 years. 3 Phylogenesis is not a process that can be treated simply as `another form of colonization', as it behaves differently than colonization. It interacts in a complex manner with both colonization and extinction, and can generate patterns of species richness almost independently of the other two processes. In addition, contrary to the implication of the MacArthur-Wilson model, extinction does not drive species richness in highly isolated archipelagoes (those that receive very few colonists) to progressively lower values; rather, phylogenesis is a common outcome in such archipelagoes, and species richness rises over time. In some specific instances, phylogenesis may have produced an average of 14 times as many species as direct colonization, and perhaps 36 species from one such colonization event. Old, stable, large archipelagoes should typically support not just endemic species but endemic clades, and the total number of species and the size of the endemic clades should increase with age of the archipelago. 4 The existence of long-term equilibrium in actual island archipelagoes is unlikely. The land masses that make up island archipelagoes are intrinsically unstable because the geological processes that cause their formation are dynamic, and substantial changes can occur (under some circumstances) on a time-scale comparable to the processes of colonization, phylogenesis, and extinction. Large-scale island-like archipelagoes on continents also are unstable, in the medium term because of global climatic fluctuations, and in the long term because of the geologically ephemeral existence of, for example, individual mountain ranges. 5 Examples of these phenomena using the mammals of South-east Asia, especially the Philippines, make it clear that the best conceptual model of the long-term dynamics of species richness in island archipelagoes would be one in which colonization, extinction, and phylogenesis are recognized to be of equivalent conceptual importance. Furthermore, we should expect species richness to be always in a dynamic state of disequilibrium due to the constantly changing geological/geographical circumstances in which that diversity exists, always a step or two out of phase with the constantly changing equilibrium point for species richness.
40801922|Aim: Globally, one of the major threats to the integrity of native faunas is the loss of biodiversity that can result from the introduction of exotics. Here we document recent changes in the distribution of five common fish species that are linked to introductions in Chile.
3697576|Aim: The decrease in species richness with increasing elevation is a widely recognized pattern. However, recent work has shown that there is variation in the shape of the curve, such that both negative monotonic or unimodal patterns occur, influenced by a variety of factors at local and regional scales. Discerning the shape of the curve may provide clues to the underlying causes of the observed pattern. At regional scales, the area of the altitudinal belts and mass effects are important determinants of species richness. This paper explores the relationship between bird species richness, elevation, mass effects and area of altitudinal zones for birds in tropical mountains. Location: The three Andean ranges of Colombia and the peripheral mountain ranges of La Macarena and Santa Marta. Methods: Lists of bird species were compiled for altitudinal belts in eastern and western slopes of the three Andean Cordilleras and for La Macarena and Santa Marta. The area of the altitudinal belts was computed from digital elevation models. The effect of area was analysed by testing for differences among altitudinal belts in the slopes and intercepts of the species-area relationships. Mass effects were explored by separately analysing two sets of species: broadly distributed species, i.e. lowland species whose distributions extend into the Andes, and tropical Andean species, i.e., species that evolved in the Andes. Results: Plotting total number of species in each altitudinal belt revealed a decline in species richness with elevation. In slopes with a complete elevational gradient from lowlands to mountain peaks, the decrease was monotonic. In internal Andean slopes where the lower elevational belts are truncated, there was a peak at mid elevations. There was a linear relationship between number of species and area of the altitudinal belts. When controlling for area, there were no differences in the number of species among altitudinal belts (500-2600 m), except for the two upper-elevation zones (2600-3200 and > 3200 m), which had lower species richness. Diversity of widely distributed species declined monotonically with elevation, whereas tropical Andean species exhibited a mid-elevation peak. Main conclusions: A large proportion of the variation in species richness with elevation was explained by area of the altitudinal belts. When controlling for area, species richness remained constant up to 2600 m and then decreased. This pattern contrasts with a previously reported hump-shaped pattern for Andean birds. Diversity patterns of widely distributed species suggested that immigration of lowland species inflates diversity of lower elevational belts through mass effects. This influence was particularly evident in slopes with complete altitudinal gradients (i.e. connected to the lowlands). Tropical Andean species, in contrast, were more diverse in mid-elevational belts, where speciation rates are expected to be higher. The influence of these species was more prevalent in internal Andean slopes with no connection to the lowlands. The decline of species richness at high elevations may be related to higher extinction rates and lower resource levels.
40801851|Aim: Islands have often been used as model systems in community ecology. The incorporation of information on phylogenetic relatedness of species in studies of island assemblage structure is still uncommon, but could provide valuable insights into the processes of island community assembly. We propose six models of island community assembly that make different predictions about the associations between co-occurrences of species pairs on islands, phylogenetic relatedness and ecological similarity. We then test these models using data on mammals of Southeast Asian islands.
2665368|1 I present an alternative to the equilibrium theory of island biogeography, one which is based on the premise that many of the more general patterns in insular community structure result from, not despite, nonrandom variation among species. 2 For the sake of simplicity, the model is limited to patterns and processes operating over scales of ecological space and time: evolution is not included in the current version of the model. 3 The model assumes, as did MacArthur and Wilson's model, that insular community structure is dynamic in ecological time, but the model does not assume a balance, or equilibrium, of immigration and extinction. 4 The model presented here is hierarchical, phenomenological (it requires little parameterization beyond that which is directly derived from distributional data), graphical, and it includes potential feedback processes (including interspecific interactions). 5 The model offers an alternative explanation for a variety of patterns ranging from distributions of individual species, species-area and species-isolation relationships, to patterns of assembly of insular communities. The model also generates some new predictions and identifies some potentially important areas for future studies.
41058237|Aim: We deconstructed the mammal species richness pattern in Europe to assess the importance of large-scale gradients in current macroclimate relative to biogeographic history, habitat heterogeneity and human influence (HHH variables) as richness determinants for total species, and for widespread and endemic species separately. Location: Europe, west of 30  E. Methods: We deconstructed total species richness (50-km resolution) into its widespread and endemic species richness components. We used simultaneous autoregressive modelling (SAR) with information-theoretic model selection and variation partitioning to assess the importance of macroclimate and HHH variables. The HHH variables included two historical factors, estimated by novel methodologies: (1) ice-age-driven dynamics, represented by accessibility to recolonization from hindcasting-estimated glacial refugia, and (2) biogeographic peninsular dynamics, represented by distance to the entry region for the main European faunal source in western Asia. Results: A large fraction of explained variation was shared between macroclimate and HHH in the SAR models. For total species richness, more variation could be uniquely attributed to macroclimate than to HHH, whereas for the deconstructed patterns (widespread and endemic species) the opposite was the case. Considering the individual factors, there was a strong peninsula effect on both widespread and endemic species richness but not on total richness. Main conclusions: Both macroclimate and HHH variables (history, habitat heterogeneity and human influence) proved important predictors of species richness, but also difficult to disentangle. Notably, biogeographic history, in particular peninsular dynamics, is an important determinant of widespread and endemic species richness.
40405755|Predicting past distributions of species climatic niches, hindcasting, by using climate envelope models (CEMs) is emerging as an exciting research area. CEMs are used to examine veiled evolutionary questions about extinctions, locations of past rfugia and migration pathways, or to propose hypotheses concerning the past population structure of species in phylogeographical studies. CEMs are sensitive to theoretical assumptions, to model classes and to projections in non-analogous climates, among other issues. Studies hindcasting the climatic niches of species often make reference to these limitations. However, to obtain strong scientific inferences, we must not only be aware of these potential limitations but we must also overcome them. Here, I review the literature on hindcasting CEMs. I discuss the theoretical assumptions behind niche modelling, i. e. the stability of climatic niches through time and the equilibrium of species with climate. I also summarize a set of'recommended practices' to improve hindcasting. The studies reviewed: (1) rarely test the theoretical assumptions behind niche modelling such as the stability of species climatic niches through time and the equilibrium of species with climate; (2) they only use one model class (72% of the studies) and one palaeoclimatic reconstruction (62.5%) to calibrate their models; (3) they do not check for the occurrence of non-analogous climates (97%); and (4) they do not use independent data to validate the models (72%). Ignoring the theoretical assumptions behind niche modelling and using inadequate methods for hindcasting CEMs may well entail a cascade of errors and nave ecological and evolutionary inferences. We should also push integrative research lines linking macroecology, physiology, population biology, palaeontology, evolutionary biology and CEMs for a better understanding of niche dynamics across space and time.
3182724|Aim: To map net primary productivity (NPP) over the Canadian landmass at 1-km resolution. Location: Canada. Methods: A simulation model, the Boreal Ecosystem Productivity Simulator (BEPS), has been developed. The model uses a sunlit and shaded leaf separation strategy and a daily integration scheme in order to implement an instantaneous leaf-level photosynthesis model over large areas. Two key driving variables, leaf area index (every 10 days) and land cover type (annual), are derived from satellite measurements of the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR). Other spatially explicit input data are also prepared, including daily meteorological data (radiation, precipitation, temperature, and humidity), available soil water holding capacity (AWC) and forest biomass. The model outputs are compared with ground plot data to ensure that no significant systematic biases are created. Results: The simulation results show that Canada's annual net primary production was 1.22 Gt C year
41058219|Aims: Twentieth-century climate, the spatial pattern of tree establishment and positive feedback influence upper tree line ecotones. Here, I investigate how these factors interact to gain a more holistic understanding of how broad-scale abiotic and local-scale site conditions regulate tree establishment within upper tree line ecotones. Location: A latitudinal gradient (c. 35-45  N) in the US Rocky Mountains. Study sites (n = 22) were located in the Bighorn (BH), Medicine Bow (MB), Front Range (FR) and Sangre de Cristo (SDC) mountain ranges. Methods: Dendroecological techniques were used to reconstruct tree establishment dates that were compared with 20th-century climate data using correlation and regime shift analyses. Spatial patterns of tree establishment were analysed by Ripley's K and used to determine local-scale interactions capable of ameliorating broad-scale climate inputs through positive feedback. Results: Significant correlations (P < 0.01) between tree establishment and climate were confined to the FR, where a positive correlation was found with summer (June-August) and cool season (November-April) temperature (T<sub>max</sub>-T<sub>min</sub>). These trees were almost exclusively situated in a random spatial pattern. Similar patterns exist in the BH, yet their establishment was contingent on the availability of local shelter in the lee of boulders. Trees in the MB and SDC were primarily clustered in space and had no significant correlations with climate. Considerable lag times exist between regime shift changes in climate towards more favourable growing conditions and corresponding shifts in tree establishment in all mountain ranges except the FR, where synchronous shifts occurred in the early 1950s. Main conclusions: These results suggest that the influence of broad-scale climate on upper tree line dynamics is contingent on the local-scale spatial patterns of tree establishment and related influences of positive feedback. This research has important implications for understanding how vegetation communities will respond to global climate change.
30137868|Aim We seek to determine the factors which control the success of lianas across macroecological gradients. Lianas have a strong impact on the growth, mortality and biomass of tropical trees, and are reported to be increasing in dominance, so understanding their behaviour is important from the perspectives of both ecological and global change. Location Lowland and montane Neotropical forests. Methods Using 65 standardized samples of lianas ( 2.5 cm diameter) from across the Neotropics, we attempted to account for characteristics of both the environment and the forest in explaining macroecological variation in liana success in Neotropical forests, using regression analyses and structural equation modelling. Results We found that both liana density and basal area were unrelated to mean annual precipitation, dry season length or soil variables, except for a weak effect of mean annual precipitation on liana basal area. Structural characteristics of the forest explained more of the variation in liana density and basal area than the physical environment. More disturbed forests generally tended to have a higher liana density. Liana basal area, however, was highest in undisturbed forests. Main conclusions The availability of host trees and their characteristics may be more important than the direct effects of the physical environment in controlling the success of lianas in Neotropical forests. Changes to the tropical climate in the coming century may not strongly affect lianas directly, but could have very substantial indirect effects via changes in tree community structure and dynamics.
40801859|Aim: Climbing plants are characterized by long, wide vessel elements, which may be vulnerable to cold-or drought-induced embolism. However, the difference in vulnerability between lianas (woody climbing plants) and vines (herbaceous climbing plants) has not yet been reported. Here we hypothesize that both lianas and vines are more sensitive to variations in water and temperature than are self-supporting plants. Consequently, the proportions of lianas and vines in flora are expected to decline significantly along geographical and environmental gradients.
2665312|1 The history of a forest stand over the last 6000 years has been reconstructed by studying pollen, macrofossils and charcoal from a small, wet hollow in Suserup Skov on the island of Sjaelland in eastern Denmark. 2 The earliest recorded forest was Tilia-dominated but contained an intimate mixture of many different tree species that included Acer campestre, A. platanoides, Alnus glutinosa, Betula pubescens, Corylus avellana, Frangula alnus, Fraxinus excelsior, Malus sylvestris, Populus tremula, Pinus sylvestris, Quercus robur, Q. petraea, Salix spp., Sorbus aucuparia, Tilia cordata and T. platyphyllos. The preserved fruits of T. platyphyllos confirm its hitherto doubtful status as a native member of the Danish flora. 3 The present-day woodland developed after a period of intensive anthropogenic disturbance between  600 BC and AD 900, during which time open canopy conditions prevailed at Suserup. Fagus sylvatica and Fraxinus excelsior are the dominant trees at present, together with some Quercus robur and Ulmus glabra. 4 Charcoal was present in the sediments from most time periods except at the Ulmus decline. In the last 1000 years of the sequence - the period of Fagus dominance - charcoal counts were consistently low. 5 Pinus sylvestris was a natural component of this primarily deciduous forest, and the last macrofossil find dates from c. AD 900. Macrofossil Pinus cone scales recorded c. AD 1800 originate from planted individuals. Prior to Fagus dominance, the forest had an open structure partly caused by frequent, low-intensity fires associated with the presence of Pinus sylvestris. 6 The replacement of Tilia by Fagus in this forest was catalysed by human activity. If the forest had not been so disturbed, the rich diversity of trees would most probably have persisted up to the present time, with only a moderate-sized Fagus population.
3182727| Most previous attempts to model the geographical range expansion of an invading species assume random dispersal of organisms through a homogeneous environment. These models result in a series of uniformly increasing circles radiating out from the centre of origin over time. Although these models often give reasonable fits to available data, they do not typically include mechanisms of dispersal. Alternatively, models that include assumptions of non-random dispersal and a heterogeneous environment inevitably result in an anisotropic or jagged invasion front. This front will include propagules of pioneer individuals for the expanding species. Existing data from biological invasions reveal that the spatial structure of an invading species usually exhibits these propagules. Using population data gathered from the past century, we investigated the propagules of two North American invading bird species: the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris Linnaeus), and the house finch (Carpodacus mexicanus Mller), and found a correlation between propagule location and habitat quality. These results suggest that dispersing individuals seek out favourable habitat and remain there, thus introducing a possible mechanism for explaining non-uniform dispersal during invasions. When combined with results from other studies, our results suggest that propagules provide starting points for future population expansion of an invading species. 
30134089|Aim: The long-term stability of coastal ecosystems such as mangroves and salt marshes depends upon the maintenance of soil elevations within the intertidal habitat as sea level changes. We examined the rates and processes of peat formation by mangroves of the Caribbean Region to better understand biological controls on habitat stability. Location: Mangrove-dominated islands on the Caribbean coasts of Belize, Honduras and Panama were selected as study sites. Methods: Biological processes controlling mangrove peat formation were manipulated (in Belize) by the addition of nutrients (nitrogen or phosphorus) to Rhizophora mangle (red mangrove), and the effects on the dynamics of soil elevation were determined over a 3-year period using rod surface elevation tables (RSET) and marker horizons. Peat composition and geological accretion rates were determined at all sites using radiocarbon-dated cores. Results: The addition of nutrients to mangroves caused significant changes in rates of mangrove root accumulation, which influenced both the rate and direction of change in elevation. Areas with low root input lost elevation and those with high rates gained elevation. These findings were consistent with peat analyses at multiple Caribbean sites showing that deposits (up to 10 m in depth) were composed primarily of mangrove root matter. Comparison of radiocarbon-dated cores at the study sites with a sea-level curve for the western Atlantic indicated a tight coupling between peat building in Caribbean mangroves and sea-level rise over the Holocene. Main conclusions: Mangroves common to the Caribbean region have adjusted to changing sea level mainly through subsurface accumulation of refractory mangrove roots. Without root and other organic inputs, submergence of these tidal forests is inevitable due to peat decomposition, physical compaction and eustatic sea-level rise. These findings have relevance for predicting the effects of sea-level rise and biophysical processes on tropical mangrove ecosystems.
40205664|Aim: Models of the potential distributions of invading species have to deal with a number of issues. The key one is the high likelihood that the absence of an invading species in an area is a false absence because it may not have invaded that area yet, or that it may not have been detected. This paper develops an approach for screening pseudo-absences in a way that is logical and defensible. Innovation: The step-wise approach involves: (1) screening environmental variables to identify those most likely to indicate conditions where the species cannot invade; (2) identifying and selecting the most likely limiting variables; (3) using these to define the limits of its invasion potential; and (4) selecting points outside these limits as true absence records for input into species distribution models. This approach was adopted and used for the study of three prominent Hakea species in South Africa. Models with and without the false absence records were compared. Two rainfall variables and the mean minimum temperature of the coldest month were the strongest predictors of potential distributions. Models which excluded false absences predicted that more of the potential distribution would have a high invasion potential than those which included them. Main conclusions: The approach of applying a priori knowledge can be useful in refining the potential distribution of a species by excluding pseudo-absence records which are likely to be due to the species not having invaded an area yet or being undetected. The differences between the potential distributions predicted by the different models convey more information than making a single prediction, albeit a consensus model. The robustness of this approach depends strongly on an adequate knowledge of the ecology, invasion history and current distribution of that species.
3877780|Aim: Over the next 100 years, human-driven climate change and resulting changes in species occurrences will have global impacts on biodiversity, ecosystem function, and human health. Here we examine how climate change may affect the occurrences of tick species in Africa and alter the suitability of habitat outside Africa for African ticks. Location: Africa and the world. Methods: We predicted continental and global changes in habitat suitability for each of 73 African tick species, using multiple regression models in different climate change scenarios that cover a wide range of uncertainty. Results: Global habitat suitability improves for nearly all tick species under each of a representative range of eight climate change scenarios. Depending on the scenario, African tick species experience an average increase in global habitat suitability of between 1 million and 9 million square kilometres between 1990 and 2100. Main conclusions: The potential for successful translocations of ticks and their pathogens from Africa to the rest of the world is likely to increase over the next 100 years. Although the general trend is one of range expansion, there are winners and losers among tick species in each scenario, suggesting that tick community composition will be disrupted substantially by climate change. If this is also typical of other invertebrates, then climate change will disrupt not only the geographic location of communities but also their structure. Changes in tick communities are also likely to influence tick-borne pathogens.
40205665|Aim: To determine whether arthropod richness and abundance for combined taxa, feeding guilds and broad taxonomic groups respond in a globally consistent manner to a range of agricultural land-use and management intensification scenarios. Location: Mixed land-use agricultural landscapes, globally. Methods: We performed a series of meta-analyses using arthropod richness and abundance data derived from the published literature. Richness and abundance were compared among land uses that commonly occur in agricultural landscapes and that represent a gradient of increasing intensification. These included land-use comparisons, such as wooded native vegetation compared with improved pasture, and a management comparison, reduced-input cropping compared with conventional cropping. Data were analysed using three different meta-analytical techniques, including a simple vote counting method and a formal fixed-effects/random-effects meta-analysis. Results: Arthropod richness was significantly higher in areas of less intensive land use. The decline in arthropod richness was greater between native vegetation and agricultural land uses than among different agricultural land uses. These patterns were evident for all taxa combined, predators and decomposers, but not herbivorous taxa. Overall, arthropod abundance was greater in native vegetation than in agricultural lands and under reduced-input cropping compared with conventional cropping. Again, this trend was largely mirrored by predators and decomposers, but not herbivores. Main conclusions: The greater arthropod richness found in native vegetation relative to agricultural land types indicates that in production landscapes still containing considerable native vegetation, retention of that vegetation may well be the most effective method of conserving arthropod biodiversity. Conversely, in highly intensified agricultural landscapes with little remaining native vegetation, the employment of reduced-input crop management and the provision of relatively low-intensity agricultural land uses, such as pasture, may prove effective in maintaining arthropod diversity, and potentially in promoting functionally important groups such as predators and decomposers.
3697476|Aim: The objectives of this study were to determine the relationships between climatic factors and litterfall in coniferous and broadleaf forests in Eurasia and to explore the difference in litterfall between coniferous and broadleaf forests as related to climate at a continental scale. Location: We have used data from across Eurasia. Methods: The relationships between litterfall and climatic factors were examined using linear regression analysis of a compilation of published data from coniferous and broadleaf forests in Eurasia. Results: The relationships between litterfall and climatic factors show that in the temperate, subtropical, and tropical areas, broadleaf forests had higher litterfall than coniferous ones, whilst the opposite was found for boreal forests. Combining all climatic zones, a multiple regression analysis using annual mean temperature (T) and annual precipitation (P) as independent variables gave an adjusted
2665396|Studies of elevation clines in diversity and composition of ecological communities date back to the origins of biogeography. A modern resurgence of interests in these elevational clines is likely to contribute important insights for developing a more general theory of species diversity. In order to gain a more comprehensive understanding of geographical clines in diversity, the research programme for montane biogeography should include statistically rigorous tests of apparent patterns, comparisons of patterns among regions and taxonomic or ecological groups of species, and analyses of clines in environmental variables concurrent with biogeographical surveys. The conceptual framework for this research programme should be based on the assumption that elevational gradients in species diversity result from a combination of ecological and evolutionary processes, rather than the presumed independent effects of one overriding force. Given that montane ecosystems are hot spots of biological diversity, an expanded and integrated programme for biogeographic surveys in montane regions should provide valuable insights for conservation biologists.
3182697|Aim: To detect regional patterns of plant species richness in temperate nature reserves and determine the unbiased effects of environmental variables by mutual correlation with operating factors. Location: The Czech Republic. Methods: Plant species richness in 302 nature reserves was studied by using 14 explanatory variables reflecting the reserve area, altitude, climate, habitat diversity and prevailing vegetation type. Backward elimination of explanatory variables was used to analyse the data, taking into account their interactive nature, until the model contained only significant terms. Results: A minimal adequate model with reserve area, mean altitude, prevailing vegetation type and habitat diversity (expressed as the number of major habitat types in the reserve) accounted for 53.9% of the variance in species number. After removing the area effect, habitat diversity explained 15.6% of variance, while prevailing vegetation type explained 29.6%. After removing the effect of both area and vegetation type, the resulting model explained 10.3% of the variance, indicating that species richness further increased with habitat diversity, and most obviously towards warm districts. After removing the effects of area, habitat diversity and climatic district, the model still explained 9.4% of the variance, and showed that species richness (i) significantly decreased with increasing mean altitude and annual precipitation, and with decreasing January temperature in the region of the mountain flora, and (ii) increased with altitudinal range in regions of temperate and thermophilous flora. Main conclusions: We described, in quantitative terms, the effects of the main factors that might be considered to be determining plant species richness in temperate nature reserves, and evaluated their relative importance. The direct habitat effect on species richness was roughly equal to the direct area effect, but the total direct and indirect effects of area slightly exceeded that of habitat. It was shown that the overall effect of composite variables such as altitude or climatic district can be separated into particular climatic variables, which influence the richness of flora in a context-specific manner. The statistical explanation of richness variation at the level of families yielded similar results to that for species, indicating that the system of nature conservation provides similar degrees of protection at different taxonomic levels.
2665388|Hybrid zones are either distributed along clines or in a mosaic of patches. This distribution may depend upon variation in taxon habitat use. Habitat use and distribution of diverse taxa of water frogs (Rana ridibunda, R. lessonae, R. perezi, R. kl. grafi and R. kl. esculenta) in France are analysed to determine whether water frog complexes conform to the mosaic or clinal model. Biogeographical scenarios may be invoked in order to explain the distribution of water frogs. However, the distribution of R. perezi and R. kl. grafi, being restricted to regions characterized by Mediterranean or Oceanic climatic conditions, suggests that these frogs do not endure cold winters. R. ridibunda is widespread in Southern France and its distribution suggests multiple introductions. It is concluded that water frogs conform to the mosaic zone model rather than to the tension zone model because: (i) taxa exhibited differences in habitat use, (ii) pure parental species were documented and (iii) hybrids are not unfit relative to parental species.
2665386|This paper presents an analysis of the distributional patterns of blenniids (Pisces: Blenniidae) in the north-eastern Atlantic. Two peaks of species diversity were found, both in terms of number of species and number of endemics: one in the tropical African coast and another in the Mediterranean Sea. A cluster analysis of similarity values (Jaccard coefficient) among the eastern Atlantic zoogeographical areas, revealed the following groups: a north temperate group, a tropical group formed by the tropical African coast and Mauritania, another group formed by the islands of Cape Verde, a south temperate group (South Africa), and a southern Atlantic group formed by the islands of Ascension and St Helena. Within the north temperate group, the subgroups with higher similarities were: Azores and Madeira, Canary Islands and Morocco, and the Mediterranean and the Atlantic coast of the Iberian Peninsula. Based on affinity indices, the probable directions of faunal flows were inferred. The tropical coast of Africa and the Mediterranean emerged from this analysis as probable speciation centres of the north-eastern Atlantic blenniid fauna. The Mediterranean may have also acted as a refuge during glacial periods.
40928125|Aim: Species distribution models (SDMs) are used to infer niche responses and predict climate change-induced range shifts. However, their power to distinguish real and chance associations between spatially autocorrelated distribution and environmental data at continental scales has been questioned. Here this is investigated at a regional (10 km) scale by modelling the distributions of 100 plant species native to the UK. Location: UK. Methods: SDMs fitted using real climate data were compared with those utilizing simulated climate gradients. The simulated gradients preserve the exact values and spatial structure of the real ones, but have no causal relationships with any species and so represent an appropriate null model. SDMs were fitted as generalized linear models (GLMs) or by the Random Forest machine-learning algorithm and were either non-spatial or included spatially explicit trend surfaces or autocovariates as predictors. Results: Species distributions were significantly but erroneously related to the simulated gradients in 86% of cases (P < 0.05 in likelihood-ratio tests of GLMs), with the highest error for strongly autocorrelated species and gradients and when species occupied 50% of sites. Even more false effects were found when curvilinear responses were modelled, and this was not adequately mitigated in the spatially explicit models. Non-spatial SDMs based on simulated climate data suggested that 70-80% of the apparent explanatory power of the real data could be attributable to its spatial structure. Furthermore, the niche component of spatially explicit SDMs did not significantly contribute to model fit in most species. Main conclusions: Spatial structure in the climate, rather than functional relationships with species distributions, may account for much of the apparent fit and predictive power of SDMs. Failure to account for this means that the evidence for climatic limitation of species distributions may have been overstated. As such, predicted regional- and national-scale impacts of climate change based on the analysis of static distribution snapshots will require re-evaluation.
40405784|Aim Climatic factors are known to influence species distributions. However, elucidating the underlying mechanisms is challenging because direct and indirect effects of climatic and non-climatic factors are correlated. In the absence of this covariation and at fine-grain resolutions the direct effect of climate via physiological constraints should be stronger on the distributions of ectothermic organisms. So far, no comprehensive study has explicitly tested the influence of climate on species distributions by quantitatively comparing ectothermic and endothermic vertebrates. Location Peninsular Spain. Methods Presence-absence data of native terrestrial vertebrates in Peninsular Spain were modelled using generalized additive models to disentangle the influence of climate and other contemporary correlated factors (topography and plant cover). We performed partial regressions to partition the deviance explained by climatic and non-climatic effects into independent and shared components. We compared the independent contributions of climatic and non-climatic effects between ectothermic and endothermic vertebrates, and among mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians. Results After reducing the covariation with non-climatic factors, climate explained a greater proportion of deviance in ectotherms than in endotherms. Also, the contribution of temperature was highest for reptiles, and the contribution of precipitation was highest for amphibians, after extracting their overlaps with precipitation and temperature, respectively. The contribution of topography and plant cover remained high for birds after extracting the overlap with climate. Main conclusions Our results are consistent with the prediction that, at fine resolutions, the direct influence of climate (via physiological constraints) on range distributions is stronger in ectothermic vertebrates. Also, at least for birds, indirect effects of climate (via plant productivity) and other habitat characteristics remained relatively important once their covariation with climate was reduced. This study shows that controlling the direct effects of climate by their indirect effects and/or other correlated factors, combined with comparisons among functional groups, can be a useful approach to elucidate causal links with the spatial patterns of organisms.
4139430|Aim To determine whether invasive and locally abundant non-native species have a more homogenizing effect on plant communities than non-invasive and less abundant non-native species. Location California and Florida counties, conservation areas in the USA, and eight US cities. Methods Species lists among counties, conservation areas and cities were compared to see whether invasive and abundant non-native species increased the Jaccard index of similarity between localities beyond any increases caused by non-invasive and less abundant non-native species. Results For all comparisons, we found that invasive non-native species have a significantly greater homogenizing effect than non-invasive non-native species. For the US conservation areas, we found that locally abundant invasive species tend to be more widespread and more widely shared than less abundant invasive species. There is also a positive relationship between homogenization by invasive species and the magnitude of human disturbance. Main conclusions Invasive non-native species tend to be disproportionately shared among communities relative to non-invasive non-native species. This effect is enhanced by human disturbance, as measured by the ratio of non-native to native species. There is a synergism between abundance and geographical range which enhances the homogenizing effects of abundant species. Invasive species, with wide ecological niches, are more widely shared among communities and more locally abundant. Abundant invasive species are thus more spatially homogenizing, and more ecologically dominant (functionally homogenizing). Also, 'perceived homogenization' is probably greater than homogenization measured by the increase in shared species. The abundant species typically seen by the casual observer in a biological community are probably more commonly shared between communities than less common species. Studies that lack abundance data and measure homogenization only on the basis of shared species, which includes most homo studies to date, probably underestimate the homogenizing impacts of non-native species as perceived by people.
40602957|Aim: We examined data on corals and reef fishes to determine how particular local habitat types contribute to variation in community structure across regions covering gradients in species richness and how consistent this was over time. Location: Great Barrier Reef (GBR), Australia. Methods: We compared large-scale (1300 km), long-term (11 years) data on fishes and corals that were collected annually at fixed sites in three habitats (inshore, mid-shelf and outer-shelf reefs) and six regions (latitudinal sectors) along a gradient of regional species richness in both communities. We used canonical approaches to partition variation in community structure (sites x species abundance data matrices) into components associated with habitat, region and time and Procrustes analyses to assess the degree of concordance between coral and fish community structure. Results: Remarkably similar patterns emerged for both fish and coral communities occupying the same sites. Reefs that had similar coral communities also had similar fish communities. The fraction of the community data that could be explained by regional effects, independent of pure habitat effects, was similar in both fish (33%) and coral (36.9%) communities. Pure habitat effects were slightly greater in the fish (31.3%) than in the coral (20.1%) community. Time explained relatively little variation (fish = 7.9%, corals = 9.6%) compared with these two spatial factors. Conclusions: Our results indicate either that fish and coral communities were structured in similar ways by processes associated with region, habitat and time, or that the variation in fish community structure tracked variation associated with the coral communities at these sites and thereby reflects an indirect link between the environment and the structure offish communities mediated by corals. Irrespective of the causes of such commonality, we demonstrate that community structure, not just species richness, can be related to both habitat differences and regional setting simultaneously.
40205659|Aim: To estimate the potential effect of global climate change on the phenological responses of plants it is necessary to estimate spatial variations at larger scales. However, previous studies have not estimated latitudinal patterns in the phenological response directly. We hypothesized that the phenological response of plants varies with latitude, and estimated the phenological response to long-term climate change using autumn phenological events that have been delayed by recent climate change. Location: Japan. Methods: We used a 53-year data set to document the latitudinal patterns in the climate responses of the timing of autumn leaf colouring and fall for two tree species over a wide range of latitudes in Japan (31 to 44 N). We calculated single regression slopes for leaf phenological timing and air temperature across Japan and tested their latitudinal patterns using regression models. The effects of latitude, time and their interaction on the responses of the phenological timings were also estimated using generalized linear mixed models. Results: Our results showed that single regression slopes of leaf phenological timing and air temperature in autumn were positive at most stations. Higher temperatures can delay the timing of leaf phenology. Negative relationships were found between the phenological response of leaves to temperature and latitude. Single regression slopes of the phenological responses at lower latitudes were larger than those at higher latitudes. Main conclusions: We found negative relationships between leaf phenological responsiveness and latitude. These findings will be important for predicting phenological timing with global climate change.
41239347|Aims: Sin Nombre virus (SNV), a strain of hantavirus, causes hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) in humans, a deadly disease with high mortality rate (> 50%). The primary virus host is the deer mouse, and greater abundance of deer mice has been shown to increase the human risk of HPS. Our aim is to identify and compare vegetation indices and associated time lags for predicting hantavirus risk using remotely sensed imagery. Location: Utah, USA. Methods: A 5-year time-series of moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite imagery and corresponding field data was utilized to compare various vegetation indices that measure productivity with the goal of indirectly estimating mouse abundance and SNV prevalence. Relationships between the vegetation indices and deer mouse density, SNV prevalence and the number of infected deer mice at various time lags were examined to assess which indices and associated time lags might be valuable in predicting SNV outbreaks. Results: The results reveal varying levels of positive correlation between the vegetation indices and deer mouse density as well as the number of infected deer mice. Among the vegetation indices, the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and the enhanced vegetation index (EVI) produced the highest correlations with deer mouse density and the number of infected deer mice using a time lag of 1.0 to 1.3 years for May and June imagery. Main conclusions: This study demonstrates the potential for using MODIS time-series satellite imagery in estimating deer mouse abundance and predicting hantavirus risk. The 1-year time lag provides a great opportunity to apply satellite imagery to predict upcoming SNV outbreaks, allowing preventive strategies to be adopted. Analysis of different predictive indices and lags could also be valuable in identifying the time windows for data collection for practical uses in monitoring rodent abundance and subsequent disease risk to humans.
3697513|Aim: This study examines the effectiveness of the selected 'network' of Natura 2000 Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) at a regional scale in Greece, in terms of its representativeness of plant biodiversity. Location: The island of Crete is used as a case study because it is considered to be one of the 10 hotspots for biodiversity in the Mediterranean Basin. Methods: Hotspot analysis and complementarity algorithms are used to define priority areas for conservation and calculate their spatial overlap with the Natura 2000 SACs in Crete. Results: The various categories of hotspots contain subsamples of plant categories, used for their definition. Spatial overlap among different categories of hotspots, areas of complementary diversity and Natura 2000 SCAs is low. Main conclusions: The results show that the Natura 2000 SACs 'network' in Crete seems insufficient to ensure satisfactory representation of the regional plant biodiversity elements.
3697588|Aim: Africa is identified by the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as the least studied continent in terms of ecosystem dynamics and climate variability. The aim of this study was (1) to adapt the Lund-Postdam-Jena-GUESS (LPJ-GUESS) ecological modelling framework to Africa by providing new parameter values for tropical plant functional types (PFT), and (2) to assess the sensitivity of some African biomes to changes in precipitation regime. Location: The study area was a representative transect (
40928121|Aim: To examine whether change in the timing of a large number of phenological events and their response to temperature differs between trophic levels during the period 1988-2008. Location: In the vicinity of Kazan, Tatarstan Republic, Russia (5545 N, 4908 E). Methods: Observations of the dates of first events of 22 plant phases, 8 insect phases, 3 herpetofauna phases and 26 migrant bird phases were examined using regression to assess changes over time and response to temperature. Differences between trophic levels were assessed using ANOVA. Results: In comparison to studies from western Europe, relatively few phenological series (15) revealed a significant advance over time, but a much larger number (37), including all the herpetofauna and nearly all the plants, showed a response to temperature. Trends in birds were, on average, twice as great as those for plants, but plants had a significantly greater temperature response. Over the study period local temperatures had not risen significantly but some phenological change was still evident. Main conclusions: Phenological change has been less marked in the eastern edge of Europe than in western and central Europe. This is compatible with a lack of significant local warming during the study period. A large number of species show strong responses to temperature so will be expected to advance if/when local temperatures do increase. In contrast to results from elsewhere in Europe, early events were not the most temperature responsive, suggesting local adaptation preventing precocious behaviour and the consequent dangers of sub-zero temperatures.
40205666|Aim: One of the most recognized ecological paradigms on earth is the increase in species richness from the poles towards the equator. Here we undertake a comprehensive survey of the latitudinal gradients of species richness (LGSR) of coastal cephalopod fauna in the western (WA) and eastern margins (EA) of the Atlantic Ocean, and test climate and non-climate theories to explain the variation in diversity. Location: The coastal Atlantic Ocean. Methods: The diversity and geographical ranges of coastal cephalopods were investigated by means of an exhaustive survey of the primary literature, reports and on-line data bases. In order to test the productivity, ambient energy and area hypotheses, we investigated the relationship between diversity and net primary production (NPP), sea surface temperature (SST; measure of solar energy input) and continental shelf area, respectively. Results: LGSR of cephalopod molluscs are present at both Atlantic coasts, but are quite distinct from each other. Historical processes (rise of the Central American Isthmus, formation of 'Mare Lago' and glaciations) explained much of the shape and the zenith of LGSR. Contemporary climate and non-climate variables also each explained over 83% and 50% of the richness variation in WA and EA, respectively, and the best fitted models accounted for < 92% of the variance. By combining latitude with depth a strong Rapoport effect was observed in WA but not in EA. Main conclusions: Besides the evolutionary history, we demonstrate that the contemporary environmental gradients (SST and NPP), shelf area and extent of coral habitat can predict many of the diversity patterns. The longitudinal difference in Rapoport's bathymetric rule is attributed to western fauna specialization to shallow coral reef habitats and greater ecological tolerance of eastern fauna to upwelling ecosystem dynamics. A combined approach of historical biogeography and species-area-energy theories was essential to fully understand broad-scale variation in cephalopod biodiversity.
30137883|Aim: Estimates of abundances and densities of birds and mammals have often been shown to be scale dependent, in that population sizes over large areas are overestimated if extrapolated from surveys of small plots. Previous tests of the mechanisms suggested to cause this decelerating scaling pattern found evidence of a biased choice of small plots in patches of homogeneous habitat. Here we show that negative density-area relationships can also arise as result of not considering plots where individuals of the species or assemblage of interest are absent in surveys of differing spatial resolution. Location: We took a complete census of violets (Viola spp.) in 800 m of chalk grassland in Wye, Kent, UK, and used human population censuses for Finnish, Swiss and Italian municipalities, English districts, states of the USA and European countries. Methods: We used mixed models of logarithmically transformed number of individuals or densities as a function of area. Results: The census of violets shows that by increasing the survey resolution and by not considering plots without individuals, the effectively occupied area diminishes and a negative density-area relationship arises. The finding that negative density-area relationships are also common for people is evidence that the non-random choice of plots in population surveys of varying areas can be responsible for many observed negative density-area relationships. The shallower slope of the people-administrative area relationship for Switzerland and Finland compared with Italy, as well as for England and the USA compared with Europe, confirms that less than proportionate individuals-area relationships can be the consequence of larger plot areas containing a higher proportion of areas without individuals. Main conclusions: Densities should be reported together with the effective areas for which they were estimated. It should be clearly conveyed whether or not plots where the surveyed species was absent were included in the density estimation.
4139417|Discerning the processes influencing geographical patterns of species richness remains one of the central goals of modern ecology. Traditional approaches to exploring these patterns have focused on environmental and ecological correlates of observed species richness. Recently, some have suggested these approaches suffer from the lack of an appropriate null model that accounts for species ranges being constrained to occur within a bounded domain. Proponents of these null geometric constraint models (GCMs), and the mid-domain effect these models produce, argue their utility in identifying meaningful gradients in species richness. This idea has generated substantial debate. Here we discuss what we believe are the three major challenges in the application of GCMs. First, we argue that there are actually two equally valid null models for the random placement of species ranges within a domain, one of which actually predicts a uniform distribution of species richness. Second, we highlight the numerous decisions that must be made to implement a GCM that lead to marked differences in the predictions of the null model. Finally, we discuss challenges in evaluating the importance of GCMs once they have been implemented.
30137824|Aim: The degree to which a species is predictably encountered within its range varies tremendously across species. Understanding why some species occur less frequently within their range than others has important consequences for conservation and for analyses of ecological patterns based on range maps. We examined whether patterns in geographical range occupancy can be explained by species-level traits. Location: North America. Methods: We used survey data from 1993 to 2002 from the North American Breeding Bird Survey along with digital range maps produced by NatureServe to calculate range occupancy for 298 species of terrestrial birds. We tested whether species traits explained variation in range occupancy values using linear regression techniques. Results: We found three species traits that together explained more than half of the variation in range occupancy. Population density and niche breadth were positively correlated with occupancy, while niche position was negatively correlated with occupancy. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that high range occupancy will occur in species that are common at sites on which they occur, that tolerate a relatively wide range of ecological conditions and that tend to have ranges centred on areas with common environmental conditions. Furthermore, it appears that niche-based characteristics may explain patterns of distribution and abundance from local habitats up to the scale of geographical ranges.
3697519|Aim: Cross-system comparisons of species richness of benthic macrofauna and environmental factors were made of estuaries and adjacent sea areas in order to reveal possible regulating factors of estuarine biodiversity. Location: Denmark. Methods: Annual species abundance and biomass data from four years, from unvegetated soft sea/estuary floors were used from 26 grids, of which 15 were situated in estuaries. Bottom water data for oxygen concentration, salinity, and temperature were obtained from stations in or close to, the grids. Data on nutrient loading, water residence time and morphology were obtained for whole estuaries. Species richness from the grids, standardized to the same sample size, were related to environmental variables using linear regression. Results: Species richness was unrelated to oxygen deficiency and productivity, but positively related to salinity. However, an equally high degree of explanation (
3697437|Although some studies of seed dispersal mutualisms have documented adaptive relationships between fruits and frugivores, others have shown that adaptive patterns are constrained by phylogenetic, historical or climatic effects. Variable results among studies have thwarted attempts to find a paradigm to unite the field and direct research. Two recent studies in Global Ecology and Biogeography exemplify this dichotomy. One paper reported adaptive relationships between abundances of birds and fruits, while the other study found that bird-fruit abundance patterns were constrained by climatic effects. Almost paradoxically, both studies were conducted at the same locale. However, they focused on different spatio-temporal scales. These results are surprisingly consistent with several other recent studies that have taken a macroecological approach. They also indicate that mutualistic relationships between fruits and frugivores are scale dependent. When viewed together, recent work suggests that the conflicting results of previous studies may result from spatio-temporal variability of mutualistic relationships. This paper briefly reviews the emerging field of seed dispersal macroecology. A growing appreciation for scale appears to be leading the field in a new direction.
2665371|MacArthur and Wilson's equilibrium theory revolutionized the field of island biogeography and, to a large degree, ecology as well. The theory, which quickly became the ruling paradigm of island biogeography, has changed little over the past three decades. It has not kept pace with relevant theory and our growing appreciation for the complexity of nature, especially with empirical findings that species diversity on many islands: 1) is not in equilibrium; 2) is influenced by differences in speciation, colonization, and extinction among taxa; and 3) is influenced by differences among islands in characteristics other than area and isolation. The discipline of biogeography, itself, is in a state of disequilibrium. We may again be about to witness another paradigm shift, which will see the replacement of MacArthur and Wilson's theory. Wherever this shift may take us, we are confident that the next generation of biogeographers will still look to islands for insights into the forces that shape biological diversity.
3697431|Aims: Gradients of environmental variability have been proposed to explain spatial variation in patterns of geographical range size. We explore this relationship in NE Pacific algae and NW Atlantic gastropods by using the characteristics of species' bathymetric distributions as a proxy for tolerance of environmental variability. Location: NE Pacific and NW Atlantic. Methods: Data on species bathymetric and geographical distributions were compiled from the literature. Results: For both algae and gastropods, species that inhabit highly seasonal, shallow depth zones have broader latitudinal ranges, and occupy more biogeographical provinces, than species that live in more temporally stable, deeper zones. Furthermore, species that tolerate spatial variability along the bathymetric axis, i.e. those that occur in multiple depth zones, have broader geographical ranges than species restricted to fewer depth zones. Main conclusions: Within-range environmental variability, through both space and time, is predictive of large geographical ranges for marine algae and gastropods. Analysis of species distributions across perpendicular gradients (e.g. depth and latitude) is a powerful approach to discerning the mechanisms that govern biogeographical patterns, and provides easily obtainable broad-brush predictions regarding the biogeographical outcomes of global change.
3697611|Aim: To investigate the relationship between geographical range size and abundance (population density) in Australian passerines. Location: Australia (including Tasmania). Methods: We analysed the relationship between range size and local abundance for 272 species of Australian passerines, across the whole order and within families. We measured abundance as mean and maximum abundance, and used a phylogenetic generalized least-squares regression method within a maximum-likelihood framework to control for effects of phylogeny. We also analysed the relationship within seven different habitat types. Results: There was no correlation between range size and abundance for the whole set of species across all habitats. Analyses within families revealed some strong correlations but showed no consistent pattern. Likewise we found little evidence for any relationship or conflicting patterns in different habitats, except that woodland/forest habitat species exhibit a negative correlation between mean abundance and range size, whilst species in urban habitats exhibit a significant positive relationship between maximum abundance and range size. Despite the general lack of correlation, the raw data plots of range size and abundance in this study occupied a triangular space, with narrowly distributed species exhibiting a greater variation in abundances than widely distributed species. However, using a null model analysis, we demonstrate that this was due to a statistical artefact generated by the frequency distributions for the individual variables. Conclusions: We find no evidence for a positive range size-abundance relationship among Australian passerines. This absence of a relationship cannot be explained by any conflicting effects introduced by comparing across different habitats, nor is it explained by the fact that large proportions of Australia are arid. We speculate that the considerable isolation and evolutionary age of Australian passerines may be an explanatory factor.
3182699|The productivity hypothesis in respect of an animal species' geographical range predicts that whereas higher productivity at the equatorial periphery of a species' range favours superior competitors, lower productivity at the centre of a species' range favours high reproduction and reduced competitive traits. I test whether life-history patterns follow this hypothesis, using demographic data from 15 Canadian moose (Alces alces) populations. Two models are contrasted; the first assumes that intraspecific variation in age at maturity is explained proximately by density and juvenile mortality. Age at maturity was found to increase with decreasing juvenile mortality (P = 0.01) and increasing density (P = 0.006). To test the productivity hypothesis, the second model additionally included primary productivity and seasonality as geographical explanatory variables that would ultimately influence age at maturity via juvenile mortality and density. Path analysis indicated that including productivity and seasonality improved the model predictions of variation in age at maturity (R
30137885|Aim: This study aims to improve the formulation and results of the Brazilian Center for Weather Forecasting and Climate Studies Potential Vegetation Model (CPTECPVM) by developing a new parameterization for the long-term occurrence of fire in regions of potential savannas in the tropics. Compared with the relatively slow processes of carbon uptake and growth in vegetation, fast mortality and biomass consumption by fires may favour grasses and reduce tree coverage. Location: The tropics. Methods: For finding large-scale relationships between fires and other environmental factors, we made two main simplifying assumptions. First, lightning is the most important source of ignition for natural fires. Second, over continental areas in the tropics, lightning is mainly related to the zonal flux of moisture transport. Results: The parameterization of fire occurrence was built based on a simple empirical relationship, combining information on mean and intra-annual variance of the zonal wind. Main conclusions: The implementation of this new relationship improved the formulation and the results of the CPTEC-PVM. As a result of this new parameter, the accuracy of the model in allocating the correct vegetation (seasonal forests) instead of savannas for large regions in India and Southeast Asia is now substantially higher than in previous studies.
4139435| Aim We examined the relative contributions of spatial gradients and local environmental conditions to macroinvertebrate assemblages of boreal headwater streams at three hierarchical extents: bioregion, ecoregion and drainage system. We also aimed to identify the environmental variables most strongly related to assemblage structure at each study scale, and to assess how the importance of these variables is related to regional context and spatial structuring at different scales. Location Northern Finland (62-68 N, 25-32 E). Methods Variation in macroinvertebrate data was partitioned using partial canonical correspondence analysis into components explained by spatial variables (nine terms from the cubic trend surface regression), local environmental variables (15 variables) and spatially structured environmental variation. Results The strength of the relationship between assemblage structure and local environmental variables increased with decreasing spatial extent, whereas assemblage variation related to spatial variables and spatially structured environmental variation showed the opposite pattern. At the largest extents, spatial variation was related to latitudinal gradients, whereas spatial autocorrelation among neighbouring streams was the likely mechanism creating spatial structure within drainage systems. Only stream size and water acidity were consistently important in explaining assemblage structure at all study scales, while the importance of other environmental variables was more context-dependent. Main conclusions The importance of local environmental factors in explaining macroinvertebrate assemblage structure increases with decreasing spatial extent. This scale-related pattern is not caused solely by changes in study extent, however, but also by variable sample sizes at different regional extents. The importance of environmental gradients is context-dependent and few factors are likely to be universally important correlates of macroinvertebrate assemblage structure. Finally, our results suggest that bioassessment should give due attention to spatial structuring of stream assemblages, because important assemblage gradients may not only be related to local factors but also to biogeographical constraints and neighbourhood dispersal processes. 
41058246|Aim: In this paper, we compare species description rates to predict the numbers of undescribed species. These data are used to discuss the merits of various attempts to estimate species richness in the oceans. Location: European marine areas. Methods: Predictions of how many species may exist on Earth have lacked an inventory of how many have been described, except for a few small taxa. The ocean is a good place to start an inventory because it includes all but one of the phyla and most classes of life on Earth. The European Register of Marine Species (ERMS) was compiled by taxonomic experts, covered all marine taxa, and accounted for synonyms. Reflecting taxonomic history, Europe's species are the best described in the world. Results: ERMS listed 29,713 species of animals, plants and protists, but excluded bacteria and viruses. An estimated 6500 described species were not included. The best prediction of the number of species remaining to be described was 5613. Plots of years when species were first described showed no decrease in the rate of description for any taxa except birds, mammals and krill. If taxonomic effort has increased, whether due to more resources globally or greater efficiencies of productivity, then description rates per unit effort may be declining and the number of undescribed species may be lower than predicted. However, apart from reduced rates of description during the World Wars, there were no changes in description rates that could be easily attributed to such factors. Conclusions: There are about 36,000 species described from European seas, and we predict that 40,000 to 48,000 may exist. This comprises 15% of the estimated 230,000 described marine species. However, this area is well known compared with other seas and the proportion of species yet to be discovered will be higher elsewhere.
3697625|Aim: To determine if non-native plant species are homogenizing species composition among widely dispersed plant communities. Location: Twenty localities in North America. Methods: Species lists among localities were compared to measure the influence of non-native species richness at each locality on the Jaccard Index (JI) of similarity between localities. Results: After removing the effects of distance, because shared native species decreased with distance, three (nonexclusive) lines of evidence indicate that non-native species promote homogenization. First, pairs of sites with a high combined total of non-native species tend to have higher similarity than those with a low total of non-natives. Second, for a given distance, more non-native than native species tended to be shared among localities. Third, whereas most of the site comparisons with high total non-native richness have a non-native/native JI ratio greater than 1 (often much greater), only half of the comparisons with low total non-native richness have a ratio greater than one. Main conclusions: These findings provide quantitative support for the widely held, but rarely tested, notion that non-native species tend to homogenize biological communities because they are more commonly shared among communities. Such testing is important as non-native species could theoretically have no impact or even reduce homogenization among communities, if non-native colonizers consist of different species pools.
3697601| Aim: We describe the changes in species richness, rarity and composition with altitude, and explore whether the differences in Scarabaeinae dung beetle composition along five altitudinal transects of the same mountain range are related to altitude or if there are interregional differences in these altitudinal gradients. Location: Field work was carried out on the eastern slope of the eastern Cordillera, Colombian Andes, between Tam Peak to the north, in the Tam National Park (0723' N, 7223' W) and the San Miguel River (0028' N, IT 17' W) to the south. Methods: Sampling was carried out between February 1997 and November 1999 in five regions spanning elevation gradients. In each gradient, six sites were chosen at 250 m intervals between 1000 and 2250 m a.s.l. Results: We found a curvilinear relationship between altitude and mean species richness, with a peak in richness at middle elevations. However, the diversity of dung beetle assemblages does not seem to be related to the interregional differences in environmental conditions. The number of geographically restricted species is negatively and significantly related to altitude, with geographically restricted species more frequent at low altitude sites. Ordination delimited the two main groups according to altitude: one with all the highest sites (1750-2250 m a.s.l.) and a second group with the remaining sites (< 1750 m a.s.L). Analysis of species co-occurrence shows that these dung beetle assemblages seem to be spatially structured when all sites have the same probability of being chosen. In contrast, the spatial structure of species assemblages seems to be random when the probability of choosing any site is proportional to its altitude. Main conclusions: The altitude of sites is the main factor that influences the diversity of these dung beetle assemblages. The peak in species richness at middle elevations, the higher number of geographically restricted species at lower altitudinal levels, and the compositional differences along these mountain gradients seem to result from the mixing at these altitudes of dung beetle assemblages that have different environmental adaptations and, probably, different origins. The relevance of altitude in these assemblages is related to the limited role of these Neotropical high altitude environments as centres of refuge and vicariance for a monophyletic group of warm-adapted species, for which the vertical colonization of these high mountain environments by lineages distributed at lower altitudes would have been very difficult. 
3182729|We used a large forested preserve (Olympic National Park, USA) to examine the habitat associations of a unique and environmentally sensitive stream amphibian fauna: Ascaphus truei Stegneger, Rhyacotriton olympicus (Gaige) and Dicamptodon copei Nussbaum. We quantified the relative abundance of stream amphibians and compared them to physical, topographic, climatic and landscape variables. All three species were associated with the south-west to north-east climate gradient, tending to be most abundant in the south-west. Although a habitat generalist relative to the other two species, Dicamptodon copei was absent from the north-eastern portion of the park. Ascaphus truei and Rhyacotriton olympicus were both associated with coarse substrates and steep gradients. Unlike studies in harvested forests, all stream amphibians were common in waters with unconsolidated surface geology (e.g. marine sediments that erode easily). Studies of ecological preserves can provide an important baseline for evaluating species associations with environmental gradients and can reveal patterns not evident in more disturbed landscapes.
3697616|Aims: Quantification of the effects and interactions of natural and anthropogenic factors, including climate, canopy structure, land use and management conditions, on vegetation burning. The study of these relationships is fundamental to predict regional fire patterns and develop sound management and regulation policies for biomass burning at national and global levels. Location: Southern South America, including Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, Bolivia and Chile. Methods: Based on National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration-Advance Very High Resolution Radiometer (NOAA-AVHRR) satellite images, we identified fires in southern South America with a daily frequency for two periods (1999/2000 and 2000/01) using a contextual fire detection algorithm and integrating the density of these fires at a monthly scale into a
41239414|Aim: To describe and explain geographical patterns of false absence and false presence prediction errors that occur when describing current plant species ranges with species distribution models. Location: Europe. Methods: We calibrated species distribution models (generalized linear models) using a set of climatic variables and gridded distribution data for 1065 vascular plant species from the Atlas Florae Europaeae. We used randomly selected subsets for each species with a constant prevalence of 0.5, modelled the distribution 1000 times, calculated weighted averages of the model parameters and used these to predict the current distribution in Europe. Using a threshold of 0.5, we derived presence/absence maps. Comparing observed and modelled species distribution, we calculated the false absence rates, i.e. species wrongly modelled as absent, and the false presence rates, i.e. species wrongly modelled as present, on a 50  50 km grid. Subsequently, we related both error rates to species range properties, land use and topographic variability within grid cells by means of simultaneous autoregressive models to correct for spatial autocorrelation. Results: Grid-cell-specific error rates were not evenly distributed across Europe. The mean false absence rate was 0.16  0.12 (standard deviation) and the mean false presence rate was 0.22  0.13. False absence rates were highest in central Spain, the Alps and parts of south-eastern Europe, while false presence rates were highest in northern Spain, France, Italy and south-eastern Europe. False absence rates were high when range edges of species accumulated within a grid cell and when the intensity of human land use was high. False presence rates were positively associated with relative occurrence area and accumulation of range edges. Main conclusions: Predictions for various species are not only accompanied by species-specific but also by grid-cell-specific errors. The latter are associated with characteristics of the grid cells but also with range characteristics of occurring species. Uncertainties of predictive species distribution models are not equally distributed in space, and we would recommend accompanying maps of predicted distributions with a graphical representation of predictive performance.
30137988|Aim: By dissolving natural physical barriers to movement, human-mediated species introductions have dramatically reshuffled the present-day biogeography of freshwater fishes. The present study investigates whether the antiquity of Australia's freshwater ichthyofauna has been altered by the widespread invasion of non-indigenous fish species. Location: Australia. Methods: Using fish presence-absence data for historical and present-day species pools, we quantified changes in faunal similarity among major Australian drainage divisions and among river basins of north-eastern Australia according to the Sorensen index, and related these changes to major factors of catchment disturbance that significantly alter river processes. Results: Human-mediated fish introductions have increased faunal similarity among primary drainages by an average of 3.0% (from 17.1% to 20.1% similarity). Over three-quarters of the pairwise changes in drainage similarity were positive, indicating a strong tendency for taxonomic homogenization caused primarily by the widespread introduction of Carassius auratus, Gambusia holbrooki, Oncorhynchus mykiss and Poecilia reticulata. Faunal homogenization was highest in drainages subjected to the greatest degree of disturbance associated with human settlement, infrastructure and change in land use. Scenarios of future species invasions and extinctions indicate the continued homogenization of Australian drainages. In contrast, highly idiosyncratic introductions of species in river basins of north-eastern Australia have decreased fish faunal similarity by an average of 1.4%. Main conclusions: We found that invasive species have significantly changed the present-day biogeography of fish by homogenizing Australian drainages and differentiating north-eastern river basins. Decreased faunal similarity at smaller spatial scales is a result of high historical similarity in this region and reflects the dynamic nature of the homogenization process whereby sporadic introductions of new species initially decrease faunal similarity across basins. Our study points to the importance of understanding the role of invasive species in defining patterns of present-day biogeography and preserving the antiquity of Australia's freshwater biodiversity.
40801915|Aim: To understand the scenarios of'anthropogenic biomes' that integrate human and ecological systems, we need to explore the impacts of climate and human disturbance on vegetation in the past and present. Interactions among surface pollen, modern vegetation and human activities along climate and land-use gradients are tested to evaluate the natural and anthropogenic forces shaping the modern vegetation, and hence to aid the reconstruction of vegetation and climate in the past. This in turn will help with future predictions.
41058248|Aim: We examined evidence for the mesopredator release hypothesis at a subcontinental scale by investigating the relationship between indices of abundance of the dingo Canis lupus dingo (top-order predator) and the invasive red fox Vulpes vulpes (mesopredator) in three large regions across mainland Australia. The red fox is known to be one of the major threats to the persistence of small and medium-sized native vertebrates across the continent. Location: Australia. Methods: Indices of abundance were calculated from three independently collected datasets derived from bounty returns and field surveys. Data were analysed using univariate parametric, semi-parametric and nonparametric techniques. Results: Predator abundance indices did not conform to a normal distribution and the relationships between dingo and fox abundance indices were not well described by linear functions. Semi-parametric and nonparametric techniques revealed consistently negative associations between indices of dingo and fox abundance. Main conclusions: The results provide evidence that mesopredator suppression by a top predator can be exerted at very large geographical scales and suggest that relationships between the abundances of top predators and mesopredators are not linear. Our results have broad implications for the management of canid predators. First, they suggest that dingoes function ecologically to reduce the activity or abundance of red foxes and thus are likely to dampen the predatory impacts of foxes. More generally, they provide support for the notion that the mesopredatorsuppressive effects of top predators could be incorporated into broad-scale biodiversity conservation programmes in many parts of the world by actively maintaining populations of top predators or restoring them in areas where they are now rare. Determining the population densities at which the interactions of top predators become ecologically effective will be a critical goal for conservation managers who aim to maintain or restore ecosystems using the ecological interactions of top predators.
40205671|Aim: To identify geographical and climatic correlates of the timing of fruit production in fleshy fruited plant communities. Location: Global. Methods: We searched the literature for studies documenting monthly variation in the number of fleshy fruited species bearing ripe fruits in plant communities (i.e. fruit phenologies). From these data, we used circular vector algebra to characterize seasonal peaks in fruit production (mean date, as an angle) and the length of fruiting seasons (as a circular standard deviation). Generalized linear models and circular correlations were used to assess whether latitudinal patterns in fruit phenologies could be explained by variation in temperature, precipitation and actual evapotranspiration (AET). Results: Dates of peak fruit production and the length of fruiting seasons showed consistent differences with latitude. Annual peaks in fruit production occurred 1 to 3 months after the summer solstice at high-latitude sites in both hemispheres. Fruiting seasonality increased with latitude, indicating that fruiting seasons were longer in the tropics and shorter toward the poles. AET was the best climatic predictor of fruit phenologies. Annual peaks in fruit production were positively associated with annual peaks in AET and temperature, while fruiting seasons were shorter in areas with pronounced annual variation in AET. Main conclusions: Global patterns in fruiting seasons are associated with global variation in climate. Across the globe, fleshy fruits are produced after annual periods of elevated water-energy availability. Fruiting seasonality is also more pronounced in areas with strongly seasonal water-energy inputs. Therefore, the timing of reproduction in fleshy fruited plant communities appears to be determined, at least in part, by spatial and temporal variation in energy supplies needed to subsidise plant reproduction.
4139422|Aim Recently, a flurry of studies have focused on the extent to which geographical patterns of diversity fit mid-domain effect (MDE) null models. While some studies find strong support for MDE null models, others find little. We test two hypotheses that might explain this variation among studies: small-ranged groups of species are less likely than large-ranged species to show mid-domain peaks in species richness, and mid-domain null model predictions are less robust for smaller spatial extents than for larger spatial extents. Location We analyse data sets from elevational, riverine, continental and other domains from around the world. Methods We use a combination of Spearman rank correlations and binomial tests to examine whether differences within and among studies and domains in the predictive power of MDE null models vary with spatial scale and range size. Results Small-ranged groups of species are less likely to fit mid-domain predictions than large-ranged groups of species. At large spatial extents, diversity patterns of taxonomic groups with large mean range sizes fit MDE null model predictions better than did diversity patterns of groups with small mean range sizes. MDE predictions were more explanatory at larger spatial extents than at smaller extents. Diversity patterns at smaller spatial extents fit MDE predictions poorly across all range sizes. Thus, MDE predictions should be expected to explain patterns of species richness when ranges and the scale of analysis are both large. Main conclusions Taken together, the support for these hypotheses offers a more sophisticated model of when MDE predictions should be expected to explain patterns of species richness, namely when ranges and the scale of analysis are both large. Thus the circumstances in which the MDE is important are finite and apparently predictable.
40205684|Aim: Although bats of the Caribbean have been studied extensively, previous work is largely restricted to zoogeography, phylogeography or the effects of island characteristics on species richness. Variation among islands in species composition that is related to geographical or environmental variation remains poorly understood for much of the Caribbean. Location: Caribbean islands, including the Bahamas, Greater Antilles and Lesser Antilles. Methods: Using presence-absence data, we assessed the extent to which island area, maximum island elevation, inter-island distance and hurricane-induced disturbance affected patterns of composition and nestedness for bats in the Bahamas, Greater Antilles and Lesser Antilles. Analyses were conducted for all species, as well as for two broadly defined guilds: carnivores and herbivores. Results: For the Bahamas, only inter-island distance accounted for variation in species composition between islands. For the Greater and Lesser Antilles, differences in island area and inter-island distance accounted for differences in species composition between islands. Variation in species composition was not related significantly to differences in elevation or hurricane-related disturbance. In general, results of analyses restricted to a particular broad guild (i.e. carnivores or herbivores) mirrored those for all bats. Bat species composition was nested significantly in each island group. Nestedness was stronger in the Greater Antilles and in the Lesser Antilles than in the Bahamas. Carnivore assemblages were nested significantly in the Greater and in the Lesser Antilles, but not in the Bahamas. In contrast, herbivore assemblages were nested significantly in each island group. Main conclusions: Inter-island distance had a greater effect on compositional similarity of Caribbean bat assemblages than did island area, elevation or disturbance related to hurricanes. Differential immigration and hierarchical habitat distributions associated with elevational relief are likely to be primary causes for nestedness of Caribbean bat assemblages.
3182739|Borrichia aborescens (L.) DC. is a salt-tolerant perennial herb that is common on small islands in the central Bahamas. Two morphotypes are present: one with densely pubescent leaves and one with glabrous leaves. I conducted surveys in three archipelagos to document the geographical distribution of pubescence in this species and to infer the underlying mechanisms. B. aborescens was also grown from seed in a greenhouse. The pubescent form of B. aborescens was relatively more abundant on small islands than on nearby large 'mainland' islands. In two of the three archipelagoes, pubescence increased with distance on small islands. The pubescent form was relatively more abundant on small islands exposed to the open ocean compared to small islands that were protected by mainland islands or reefs on all sides. On a large mainland island, the pubescent form decreased in relative abundance inland from the coast. B. aborescens cultivated in a greenhouse revealed the effect of a genetic factor on the expression of pubescence. The observed patterns of variation are consistent with a physiological explanation for the adaptive benefit of pubescence. Trichomes may prevent physical blockage of the stomata by accumulation of salt in areas near breaking waves and salt spray.
30137817|Aim: In light of the current biodiversity crisis, there is a need to identify and protect species at greatest risk of extinction. Ecological theory and global-scale analyses of bird and mammal faunas suggest that small-bodied species are less vulnerable to extinction, yet this hypothesis remains untested for the largest group of vertebrates, fish. Here, we compare body-size distributions of freshwater and marine fishes under different levels of global extinction risk (i.e. listed as vulnerable, endangered or critically endangered according to the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species) from different major sources of threat (habitat loss/degradation, human harvesting, invasive species and pollution). Location: Global, freshwater and marine. Methods: We collated maximum body length data for 22,800 freshwater and marine fishes and compared body-size frequency distributions after controlling for phylogeny. Results: We found that large-bodied marine fishes are under greater threat of global extinction, whereas both small-and large-bodied freshwater species are more likely to be at risk. Our results support the notion that commercial fishing activities disproportionately threaten large-bodied marine and freshwater species, whereas habitat degradation and loss threaten smaller-bodied marine fishes. Main conclusions: Our study provides compelling evidence that global fish extinction risk does not universally scale with body size. Given the central role of body size for trophic position and the functioning of food webs, human activities may have strikingly different effects on community organization and food web structure in freshwater and marine systems.
40405788|Aims To better understand how demographic processes shape the range dynamics of woody plants (in this case, Proteaceae), we introduce a likelihood framework for fitting process-based models of range dynamics to spatial abundance data. Location The fire-prone Fynbos biome (Cape Floristic Region, South Africa). Methods Our process-based models have a spatially explicit demographic submodel (describing dispersal, reproduction, mortality and local extinction) as well as an observation submodel (describing imperfect detection of individuals), and are constrained by species-specific predictions of habitat distribution models and process-based models for seed dispersal by wind. Free model parameters were varied to find parameter sets with the highest likelihood. After testing this approach with simulated data, we applied it to eight Proteaceae species that differ in breeding system (monoecy versus dioecy) and adult fire survival. We assess the importance of Allee effects and negative density dependence for range dynamics, by using the Akaike information criterion to select between alternative models fitted for the same species. Results The best model for all dioecious study species included Allee effects, whereas this was true for only one of four monoecious species. As expected, sprouters (in which adults survive fire) were estimated to have lower rates of reproduction and catastrophic population extinction than related non-sprouters. Overcompensatory population dynamics seem important for three of four non-sprouters. We also found good quantitative agreement between independent data and most estimates of reproduction, carrying capacity and extinction probability. Main conclusions This study shows that process-based models can quantitatively describe how large-scale abundance distributions arise from the movement and interaction of individuals. It stresses links between the life history, demography and range dynamics of Proteaceae: dioecious species seem more susceptible to Allee effects which reduce migration ability and increase local extinction risk, and sprouters seem to have high persistence of established populations, but their low reproduction limits habitat colonization and migration.
41058230|Aim: An important issue regarding biodiversity concerns its influence on ecosystem functioning. Experimental work has led to the proposal of mechanisms such as niche complementarity. However, few attempts have been made to confirm these in natural systems, especially in forests. Furthermore, one of the most interesting unresolved questions is whether the effects of complementarity on ecosystem functioning (EF) decrease in favour of competitive exclusions over an increasing productivity gradient. Using records from permanent forest plots, we asked the following questions. (1) Is tree productivity positively related to diversity? (2) Does the effect of diversity increase in less productive forests? (3) What metric of diversity (e.g. functional or phylogenetic diversity) better relates to tree productivity? Location: Temperate, mixed and boreal forests of eastern Canada. Methods: Over 12,000 permanent forest plots, from temperate to boreal forests, were used to test our hypotheses in two steps. (1) Stepwise regressions were used to identify the best explanatory variables for tree productivity. (2) The selected climatic and environmental variables, as well as density and biodiversity indices, were included in a structural equation model where links (paths) between covarying variables are made explicit, making structural equation modelling the best tool to explore such complicated causal networks. Results: This is the first large-scale demonstration of a strong, positive and significant effect of biodiversity on tree productivity with control for climatic and environmental conditions. Important differences were noted between the two forest biomes investigated. Main conclusions: We show for the first time that complementarity may be less important in temperate forests growing in a more stable and productive environment where competitive exclusion is the most probable outcome of species interactions, whereas in the more stressful environment of boreal forests, beneficial interactions between species may be more important. The present work is also a framework for the analysis of large datasets in biodiversity-ecosystem functioning (B-EF) research.
2665424|1 The present study provides quantitative estimates of soil, vegetation structure and species distribution in 144 stands along two transects in two extreme desert zones of western Egypt. This study had two aims: (1) to describe the floristic composition of the accidental type of vegetation growing in parts of the Western Desert of Egypt; and (2) to analyse the distribution of species in relation to certain environmental factors by multivariate data analysis. 2 Eight environmental variables were recorded: salinity, pH, calcium carbonate, soil moisture, organic matter content, and percentages of sand, silt and clay. A total of 60 species belonging to 19 families of the angiosperms and Ephedra alata was recorded. Chamacphytes and therophytes were the most frequent, denoting a typical desert life-form spectrum, mainly of Saharo-Arabian distribution. 3 The samples were classified into eight TWINSPAN groups. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) showed that these groups could be distinguished by the first two DCA axes. They could also be effectively interpreted and explained with canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Based on forward regression, salinity, fine sediments, organic matter and soil moisture content related closely to the first three canonical axes, and accounted for 84.1% of the species-environment relationship among the stands. 4 Both classification and ordination resulted in a clear demonstration of the vegetation pattern in the study area. Other TWINSPAN groups were characterized in addition to those identified previously. In conclusion, the study area has a transitional character where the Nubian Desert and the Northern Mediterranean vegetation meet.
41239260|Aim: To determine where mammals that are presumed to be extinct are most likely to be rediscovered, and to test predictions of two hypotheses to explain trajectories of decline in mammals. Range collapse is based on the premise that extinction rates at the edge of species ranges are highest because habitat is suboptimal, so declining species are predicted to survive longer near the centre of their ranges. We predicted that under range collapse, remnant populations are most likely be rediscovered within their former core range. Conversely, if threats usually spread across ranges, declining species will be pushed to the periphery (range eclipse), so rediscoveries are predicted at the edge of the pre-decline range. If so, species would be more likely to be rediscovered in marginal habitat, and at higher elevations than the sites from which they disappeared. Location: World-wide. Methods: Using data on 67 species of mammals which have been rediscovered, I tested whether species were disproportionately rediscovered in the outer 50% of their former range area or at higher elevations than their last recorded locations, and which species characteristics were associated with rediscovery location and habitat change, using both the phylogenetic generalized least squares method to account for phylogenetic non-independence and linear models of raw species data. Results: Species affected by habitat loss were more likely to be rediscovered at the periphery than the centre of their former range, consistent with range eclipse caused by the spread of habitat destruction. High human population pressure predicted which species changed habitat between their previous records and rediscovery. Coastal species experienced higher human population densities, and were more likely to be rediscovered at the periphery of their former ranges, and there was some evidence of an up-slope shift associated with higher human populations at lower elevations. Main conclusion: The locations of rediscoveries of species affected by habitat loss were consistent with range eclipse through a mechanism of spreading habitat loss and human population pressure, rather than with range collapse. Searches for mammals that have declined from habitat loss should include range edges and marginal habitat, especially in areas of high human population density.
3182691|1 Advances in dynamic ecosystem modelling have made a number of different approaches to vegetation dynamics possible. Here we compare two models representing contrasting degrees of abstraction of the processes governing dynamics in real vegetation. 2 Model (a) (GUESS) simulates explicitly growth and competition among individual plants. Differences in crown structure (height, depth, area and LAI) influence relative light uptake by neighbours. Assimilated carbon is allocated individually by each plant to its leaf, fine root and sapwood tissues. Carbon allocation and turnover of sapwood to heartwood in turn govern height and diameter growth. 3 Model (b) (LPJ) incorporates a 'dynamic global vegetation model' (DGVM) architecture, simulating growth of populations of plant functional types (PFTs) over a grid cell, integrating individual-level processes over the proportional area (foliar projective cover, FPC) occupied by each PFT. Individual plants are not simulated, but are replaced by explicit parameterizations of their growth and interactions. 4 The models are identical in their representation of core physiological and biogeochemical processes. Both also use the same set of PFTs, corresponding to the major woody plant groups in Europe, plus a grass type. 5 When applied at a range of locations, broadly spanning climatic variation within Europe, both models successfully predicted PFT composition and succession within modern natural vegetation. However, the individual-based model performed better in areas where deciduous and evergreen types coincide, and in areas subject to pronounced seasonal water deficits, which would tend to favour grasses over drought-intolerant trees. 6 Differences in model performance could be traced to their treatment of individual-level processes, in particular light competition and stress-induced mortality. 7 Our results suggest that an explicit individual-based approach to vegetation dynamics may be an advantage in modelling of ecosystem structure and function at the resolution required for regional-to continental-scale studies.
3697628| Aim: To quantify the latitudinal gradient in species richness in the New World Triatominae and to explore the species-energy and area hypotheses as possible causes. Location: The gradient was studied for North and South America, between 43 N and 32 S. Methods: A database was constructed containing the geographical distribution of the 118 New World Triatominae species based on data extracted from several published sources. Species richness was recorded as the number of species present within 5 latitudinal bands. We used univariate and multivariate models to analyse the relationship between area within each latitudinal belt, land surface temperature, and potential evapotranspiration as explanatory variables, and species richness. All variables were georeferenced and data were extracted using a GIS. Results: Species richness of Triatominae increases significantly from the poles towards the Equator, peaking over the 5-10 S latitudinal band. It increases according to a linear model, both north and south of the Equator, although a quadratic model fits better to southern hemisphere data. Richness correlates with habitable geographical area, when it is analysed through a nonlinear multiple regression factoring out latitude, only in the southern hemisphere. Regarding the species-energy hypothesis, a multiple regression analysis controlling the effect of latitude shows a significant relationship between temperature and species richness. This effect is more pronounced in the southern hemisphere. Species richness shows a strong longitudinal trend south of the Equator (increasing to the east), but not north of the Equator. This differential pattern is reflected in significant interactions between longitude and both latitude and temperature in models of the species richness of the New World Triatominae. Main conclusions: To our knowledge, this is the first time that a latitudinal gradient in species richness has been shown and analysed for obligate haematophagous organisms, and it shows that the species-energy hypothesis can account for this phenomenon. This relationship is stronger in the southern hemisphere. 
2665400|1 Distribution data were assembled for non-volant small mammals along elevational gradients on mountain ranges in the western U.S.A. Elevational distributions in the species-rich Uinta Mountains were compared to those on smaller mountain ranges with varying degrees of historical isolation from the Uintas. 2 For mountain ranges supporting the richest faunas, species richness is highest over a broad low- to mid-elevation zone and declines at both lower and higher elevations. Patterns on other mountain ranges are similar but reflect lower overall species richness. 3 A basic relationship between elevational and geographical distribution is apparent in the occurrence patterns of mammals on regional mountains. Faunas on mountains that have had low levels of historical isolation appear to be influenced by immigration rather than extinction. Species restricted to high elevations in the Uintas are poorly represented on historically isolated mountains and form a portion of local faunas shaped by extinction. Species occurring at lower elevations in the Uintas have better representation on isolated mountains and apparently maintain populations through immigration. 4 Several widespread species show substantial variation in maximum elevation records on different mountain ranges. This involves (1) an upward shift in habitat zones on small, isolated mountain ranges, allowing greater access by low-elevation species, and (2) expansion of certain low- and mid-elevation species into habitats normally occupied by absent high-elevation taxa. 5 Results indicate that montane mammal faunas of the intermountain region have been shaped by broad-scale historical processes, unique regional geography and local ecological dynamics. Parallel examples among mammals of the Philippine Islands suggest that such patterns may characterize many insular faunas.
2665425|The biogeographic history of three cirrhitoid species pairs with east-west allopatric distributions across southern Australia was examined by determining levels of mitochondrial DNA sequence divergence and applying molecular clock calibrations. Similar levels of genetic divergence were observed for Aplodactylus Valenciennes and Goniistius Gill species pairs, but these were more than twice that observed for a Nemadactylus Richardson pair. Molecular clock calibrations suggested divergences occurred during the late Miocene and mid Pliocene, respectively. Given evidence of high dispersal capabilities, the habitat and climatic barriers of the Australian south coast appear too small to have facilitated speciation of the cirrhitoids examined. A mechanism is proposed by which ancestral cirrhitoids were vicariantly isolated into east and west coast populations during periods of climate change. Although Aplodactylus and Goniistius divergences occurred during the same period, separate vicariant events across the Australian north and south coasts are invoked.
3697590|Aim: The aim of this study was to analyse whether, and how, the inclusion of habitat specialists and edge-preferring species modifies the species-area relationship predictions of the island biogeography theory for an insect group (ground beetles, Coloptera: Carabidae) living in natural fragments. Species-habitat island area relationships applied to terrestrial habitat islands can be distorted by the indiscriminate inclusion of all species occurring in the fragments. Matrices surrounding terrestrial habitat fragments can provide colonists that do not necessarily distinguish the fragment from the matrix and can survive and reproduce there. Edge-preferring species can further distort the expected relationship, as smaller fragments have larger edge:core ratios. Location: Nineteen forest fragments were studied in the Bereg Plain, Hungary, and SW Ukraine. This area contains natural forest patches, mainly of oak and hornbeam, and supports a mountain entomofauna. Methods: Ground beetles (Carabidae) present in the 19 forest patches were categorized into generalists, forest specialists and edge-preferring species. We analysed the relationship between species richness and fragment area using species richness in the different categories. Results: The assemblages contained a high share of generalist species (species that occur also in the surrounding matrix). Forest patch size and the number of generalist species showed a marginally significant negative relationship, indicating that generalist species were more important in smaller patches. Forest specialist species richness was correlated positively with patch area. Edge-preferring species were shown to influence the species-area relationship: the number of edge-preferring species increased with the edge:area ratio. Main conclusions: Both generalist and edge-preferring species can considerably distort the species-area relationship. Island biogeography theory can be applied to habitat islands only if the habitat islands are defined correctly from the viewpoint of the target species.
3182659|Aim: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of climate, geography, census area and the distribution of body mass on the mass:density relationship in terrestrial mammal populations. Location: The areas covered include most major terrestrial biomes including the tropics, savannas, and temperate forests. Method: Data on population density and body mass from 827 populations belonging to 330 different terrestrial mammal species were derived from a review of the literature. Results: LOWESS and polynomial regression analysis indicated that the overall mass:density relationship on log-log scales was not linear and that the slope of this relationship behaves differently across the range of body mass. Body mass explained between 37 and 67% of the variability in population density depending upon the dietary category or the biome group. We also developed two multivariate models that can explain up to 65% of the variability in population density in terrestrial mammals. We also tested for a confounding effect of census area on the mass:density relationship on log-log scales in terrestrial mammals. Conclusions: Our findings support previous studies suggesting that body mass is a major predictor of the variance in population density in terrestrial mammals. We suggest that the non-linearity of the mass:density relationship may result from the fact that the overall distribution of body mass is a mixture of distributions across dietary groups and biomes. In contrast to body mass, our results indicate that climatic and geographical factors have a minor effect on population density. Although census area was closely correlated with body mass, body mass was generally a better predictor of population density than was census area.
41058223|Aim: Woody plants affect vegetation-environment interactions by modifying microclimate, soil moisture dynamics and carbon cycling. In examining broadscale patterns in terrestrial vegetation dynamics, explicit consideration of variation in the amount of woody plant cover could provide additional explanatory power that might not be available when only considering landscape-scale climate patterns or specific vegetation assemblages. Here we evaluate the interactive influence of woody plant cover on remotely sensed vegetation dynamics across a climatic gradient along a sky island. Location: The Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, USA. Methods: Using a satellite-measured normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) from 2000 to 2008, we conducted time-series and regression analyses to explain the variation in functional attributes of vegetation (productivity, seasonality and phenology) related to: (1) vegetation community, (2) elevation as a proxy for climate, and (3) woody plant cover, given the effects of the other environmental variables, as an additional ecological dimension that reflects potential vegetationenvironment feedbacks at the local scale. Results: NDVI metrics were well explained by interactions among elevation, vegetation community and woody plant cover. After accounting for elevation and vegetation community, woody plant cover explained up to 67% of variation in NDVI metrics and, notably, clarified elevation-and community-specific patterns of vegetation dynamics across the gradient. Main conclusions: In addition to the environmental factors usually considered -climate, reflecting resources and constraints, and vegetation community, reflecting species composition and relative dominance -woody plant cover, a broad-scale proxy of many vegetation-environment interactions, represents an ecological dimension that provides additional process-related understanding of landscapescale patterns of vegetation function.
3697620|The constraint envelope describing the relationship between geographical range size and body size has usually been explained by a minimum viable population size model, furnishing a strong argument for species selection if geographical range size turns out to be 'heritable'. Recent papers have questioned this assumption of nonzero geographical range heritability at a phylogenetic level, meaning that the logic that constraint envelopes provide support for higher-level selection fails. However, I believe that analysis of constraint envelopes can still furnish insights for the hierarchical expansion of evolutionary theory because the fitness furnished by variation in body size, which is frequently measured as a highly 'heritable' trait at the species level, can be partitioned into anagenetic and cladogenetic components. The constraint envelope furnishes an explicit mechanism for large-body biased extinction rates influencing the distribution of body size. More importantly, it is possible to envisage a scenario in which anagenetic trends driving an increase in body size in higher latitudes within species (Bergmann's rule) are counteracted by available habitat area or continental edges constraining overall species distribution in these higher latitudes, increasing the probability of extinction. Under this combined model, faunas at higher latitudes and under habitat constraints may reach equilibrium points between these opposing hierarchical adaptive forces at smaller body size than faunas with less intense higher-level constraints and will tend to be more right-skewed.
3697530|Aim: To introduce Gaussian mixture distributions and sequential maximum a posteriori image segmentation (GM-SMAP) as a model that predicts species ranges from mapped climatic variables, and to compare its predictive capacity with two commonly used bioclimatic models: regression tree analysis (RTA) and smoothed response surfaces (SRS). Location: North-west North America. Methods: We compared models for their ability to predict the distributional range of western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla). We calculated and projected nine climatic and water-balance variables to a 2-km grid up to 140 km from the T. heterophylla range. Models were trained using the five variables selected by RTA, as well as subsets of three variables. Goodness of fit was assessed using models trained and tested on the entire study area. Predictive capacity was assessed using 100 cross-validation tests, each trained on a randomly sampled 1% of the study area and tested on the complement of the study area. Results: Models using all five variables were significantly better than three-variable models. Model fit was greatest for SRS. GM-SMAP misclassified slightly more area and RTA misclassified almost twice the area compared to SRS. However, crossvalidation showed that the predictive capacity was clearly greatest for GM-SMAP and lowest for SRS, indicating that GM-SMAP makes more accurate predictions from sparse data. Main conclusions: GM distributions prevent overfitting using an information-theoretic approach, and the SMAP algorithm minimizes the spatial extent of the largest misclassified area using a multiscale method. These properties, useful for image classification, also aid their strong predictive capacity as a bioclimatic model. SRS overfit the data, lowering its predictive capacity, and RTA failed to capture details of interactions among variables, yielding a poor fit. These results demonstrate the strong potential of GM-SMAP as a bioclimatic model.
2997897|1. Britain is unusual in the quantity and quality of species and habitat data available, at both national and regional scales. This paper reviews the sources, coverage and quality of these data. 2. Habitat and species data are used by conservation agencies in England, Scotland and Wales for site selection and for monitoring habitat quality. The paper argues, however, that neither habitat data nor species distribution data on their own are sufficient to locate and monitor habitats for nature conservation purposes effectively. 3. Differences in sampling methodologies between habitat and species surveys present methodological difficulties for the development of an integrated monitoring system that uses both types of data. These problems need to be overcome if habitat and species data are to be used more effectively for nature conservation in the wider countryside. 4. A more integrated system based on the concept of biotope occupancy is proposed and discussed. The implementation of the system would assist with understanding those factors that explain observed patterns in species distribution and diversity, thereby helping to improve the effectiveness of policies for nature conservation
2997831|The aim of this study is to establish a practical index that considers both the size of the global range, and the mean relative abundance of species within their range. Detailed general distribution maps provide the basis for a classification of ranges into nine size categories. The abundance data are arranged into five categories, ranging from very rare to very common. These categories are derived directly from floristic literature. The Area-abundance-index is calculated using an empirical formula, i.e. by the addition of the mean relative global abundance and the range size category number. Values of the index range from 2 (very rare and range  10 km
3697600|Aim: We present a new method to economically map gradual changes in plant species composition in lowland rain forests using field data and satellite images. Such a method will be a useful tool in planning the sustainable use and conservation of Amazonian rain forests. Location: The study covered an area of c. 700 km
2997865|1. Predictions on species richness and incidence of species are made using data for three scales of mapping from the Greater Manchester butterfly atlas; for the whole of the conurbation (2 km x 2 km scale) and for two sample areas centred on the Mersey Valley (l km x 1 km scale; l ha scale). Predictions are based on data for recording effort, altitude, biotopes, host-plants and nectar resources. 2. Data for Greater Manchester indicate that substantial shortfalls may occur in recording butterfly species for atlases despite the fact that butterflies are generally easily identified and well supported with recorders. Shortfalls tend to be larger for species with fewer records, indicating that some species may be more easily overlooked than others. 3. The results demonstrate that targeting squares for re-survey is necessary and feasible. The predictions have other valuable research applications, the most important of which is being able to assess the accuracy of distribution maps, to correct them, and to make projections of distribution changes. 4. Predictions may be enhanced by improvements to mapping in three ways: (i) Collecting data on recording effort. Variation in recording effort typically accounts for differences in species richness and incidence of species more than any other variable; (ii) Collecting data on biotopes and specific resources. The present results are promising and demonstrate that the collection of environmental data linked to a suitable sampling frame could facilitate knowledge of the distribution of species over extensive areas that remain under-recorded; and (iii) Distinguishing between breeding individuals and vagrants. Vagrancy is a problem associated both with species and scale. Although species vary substantially in their capacity to migrate beyond their habitats, the effect of vagrancy on distribution maps becomes an increasingly large problem as the grain of mapping (size of recording units) decreases. It is suggested that over-recording can be a problem, particularly when mapping is fine-grained.
3697488|Circumstances have conspired to render the conservation movement curiously diffident in the expression of the fundamental beliefs that underpin it. 'Oppositional' activists assume their case as proven, while 'institutional' tacticians tend to adopt the point of view of those they oppose, deploying utilitarian/economic arguments. The latter arguments represent an unstable long-term option because they are an inadequate defence against compelling forces of corrosion and corruption. On present evidence, in a few hundred years the planet will be devoid of major natural areas, and the quality of human life will have been utterly compromised. A more honest admission that the natural world is an inalienable component of the human capacity to experience freedom (which is also a mental circumstance) would transform the way we treat the natural environment and hence the prospects for the long-term survival of biological diversity.
2665329|1 A zero-dimensional model of local atmosphere - vegetation interaction is presented. The model includes essentials of water related two-way feedbacks, such as the influence of vegetation on evapotranspiration, and the impact of temperature and drought on biomass growth and mortality. The simple model serves as a framework for the preliminary investigation of vegetation related feedbacks under climate change scenarios. 2 Model simulations for a mid-latitude forest area for an increasing external forcing indicate a transient growth of biomass up to a critical forcing, where drought stress begins to dominate the response. Beyond, biomass decreases, reinforced by the reduced evapotranspiration of a diminished vegetation, leading to an additional temperature increase (biomass evapotranspiration feedback). 3 The implementation of an additional feedback loop based on the hypothesis that drought stress implies not only a reduction in aboveground biomass, but also a net reduction in roots and therefore a reduction of the amount of water accessible to the plants for transpiration, leads to the occurrence of a second stable state in the atmosphere-vegetation system. In the bistable regime, a moderate perturbation can trigger an abrupt change of state. 4 The present conceptual investigations underline the importance of a dynamic vegetation subsystem in transient climate change, and stress in particular the possible role of feedbacks related to root dynamics.
3697558|Many commentators attest to a paradigm shift in biodiversity conservation, away from exclusive protected areas towards more people-centred or community-based conservation. This has been referred to as 'new conservation'. However, new conservation could be thought of as an attempt to re-label and re-package conservation and to 'get people on board' existing strategies. According to its critics even so-called new conservation policy, practice and institutions remain expert-driven, undemocratic and autocratic. I argue that for new conservation to become reality, then more fundamental changes in priority-setting, decision-making and organization are required. This paper presents three challenges for a real people-centred conservation: a more pluralist approach to understanding knowledge and values of different actors, greater deliberation and inclusion in decision-making, and a remodelling of institutions to support conservation.
40205703|Aim: In their recent paper, Kissling & Carl (2008) recommended the spatial error simultaneous autoregressive model
40405761|Aim: To evaluate the role of habitat heterogeneity on species richness and turnover in the mega species-rich Cape Floristic Region (Cape), the mediterranean region of southern Africa. Location: The Cape and Drakensberg regions of southern Africa. Methods: Bioclimatic data were used to estimate habitat amount and habitat heterogeneity in the Cape and Drakensberg regions; these data were then used to explain the patterns of species diversity in the Pentaschistis clade (Poaceae) in these two regions. Habitat variables were used to create ' bioclimatic units' to characterize 1' x 1' cells in southern Africa and to describe the niches of species. Using these bioclimatic units, the niche and range sizes of species in the two regions were compared. A phylogram was used to test for age and lineage effects. Results: Pentaschistis species diversity and turnover are higher in the Cape than the Drakensberg. There is no significant difference in the habitat amount and heterogeneity between the two regions. Species occupy the same range of estimated niche sizes, yet there are significantly more range-restricted Pentaschistis species in the Cape. Main conclusions: The roles of age-and lineage-related effects are rejected; biodiversity differences lie in the regions. Current macrohabitat does not explain the differences in biodiversity between the two regions. The larger number of range-restricted species in the Cape cannot be explained by dispersal mechanism or the occupation of range-restricted habitats. Species of Pentaschistis and other Cape clades share characteristics associated with species from historically climatically stable areas, and palaeoclimatic and palaeontological evidence indicates the Cape climate has been more stable than the Drakensberg climate throughout the Pleistocene. We conclude that the corresponding lack of extinction might have allowed an accumulation of species in the Cape. Similar climatic and biological evidence for the south-west Australian Floristic and Mediterranean regions indicate that the same mechanism might explain the high species richness of these mediterranean regions.
2665413|A systematic account of fish species inhabiting waters surrounding the Desventuradas Islands, off Chile, is presented. The 61 species recognized belong to 33 families of Osteichthyes, and one of Chondrichthyes (Squalidae). It was found that the icthyofaunal links were stronger to the Western Pacific (90.7%) than to the Eastern Pacific (6.9%), despite the fact that these islands are much closer to the South American coast than to the coasts of Oceania. Hydrographic and physical barriers are postulated as explaining this pattern.
4139410|Aims We present an analysis of grid-based species-richness data for European plants, mammals, birds, amphibians and reptiles, designed to test the proposition of Hawkins et al. (2003a) that the single best factor describing richness variation switches from the water regime to the energy regime in the mid-latitudes and that the 'breakpoint' is related to the physiological character of the taxa. We go on to develop subregional models showing the extent to which regional model fits vary as a function of the extent of the study system, and compare the relative performance of 'water', 'energy' and 'water-energy' models of richness for southern, northern and pan-European models. Location Western Europe. Methods We use atlas data comprising species range data for 187 species of mammals, 445 species of breeding birds, 58 amphibians, 91 reptiles and 2362 plant species, inserted into a c. 50 x 50 km grid cell system. We used 11 modelled climate variables, averaged for the period 1961-90. Statistical analyses were carried out using generalized additive models (GAMs), with splines simplified to a maximum of four degrees of freedom, and we tested for spatial autocorrelation using Moran's I values obtained at 10 different distance intervals. We selected favoured models on the grounds of deviance explained combined with a simple parsimony criterion, such that we selected either: (1) the best two-variable energy, water or water-energy model, or (2) a four-variable water-energy model, where the latter improved on the best two-variable model by a minimum of 5% deviance explained. Results Threshold energy values, at which richness shows a transition from an increasing to a decreasing function of annual solar radiation, were identified for all taxa apart from reptiles. We found conditional support for the switch from dominance of water variables (southern models) to energy variables (northern models). Our favoured models switched between 'water' and 'energy' for mammals, and between energy' and 'water-energy' for birds, depending on whether we used data of pan-European extent, southern or northern subsets. Deviance explained in our favoured models varied from 15% (birds, southern Europe) to 72% (amphibians, northern Europe), i.e. ranging from very poor to good fits with the data. Comparison with previous work indicates that our models are generally consistent with (if sometimes weaker than) previous findings. Main conclusions Our models are incomplete representations of factors influencing macro-scale richness patterns across Europe, taking no explicit account of, for example, topographic variation, human influences or long-term climatic variation. However, with the exception of birds, for which only the northern model attains over one-third deviance explained, the models show that climate can account for meaningful proportions of the deviance. We find general support for considering water and energy regimes together in modelling species richness, and for the proposition that water is more limiting in southern Europe and energy in the north. Our analyses demonstrate the sensitivity of model outcomes to the geographical location and extent of the study system, illustrating that simple curve-fitting exercises like these, particularly if based on regions with the complex history and geography characteristic of Europe, are unlikely to provide the basis for global, predictive models. However, such exercises may be of value in detecting which aspects of water and energy regimes may be of most importance in refining independently generated global models for regional application.
40205704|Aim: To examine the global pattern of the net primary production (NPP)/gross primary production (GPP) ratio of the Earth's land area along geographical and climatic gradients. Location: The global planetary ecosystem. Methods: The 4-year average annual NPP/GPP ratio of the Earth's land area was calculated using 2000-03 Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data. The global pattern of the NPP/GPP ratio was investigated by comparing it among each typical terrestrial ecosystem and plotting it along a geographical and climatic gradient, including latitude, altitude, temperature and precipitation. Results: The global terrestrial ecosystem had an average NPP/GPP ratio value of 0.52 with minor variation from 2000 to 2003. However, the NPP/GPP ratio showed considerable spatial variation associated with ecosystem type, geographical location and climate. Densely vegetated ecosystems had a lower NPP/GPP ratio than sparsely vegetated ecosystems. Forest ecosystems had a lower NPP/GPP ratio than shrub and herbaceous ecosystems. Geographically, the NPP/GPP ratio increased with altitude. In the Southern Hemisphere, the NPP/GPP ratio decreased along latitude from 30 to 10 and it exhibited high fluctuation in the Northern Hemisphere. Climatically, the NPP/GPP ratio exhibited a decreasing trend along enhanced precipitation when it was less than 2300 mm year and a static trend when the annual precipitation was over 2300 mm. The NPP/GPP ratio showed a decreasing trend along temperature when it was between -20 C and 10 C, and showed an increasing trend along rising temperature when it was between - 10 C and 20 C. Within each ecosystem, the NPP/GPP ratio revealed a similar trend to the global trend along temperature and precipitation. Conclusions The NPP/GPP ratio exhibited a pattern depending on the main climatic characteristics such as temperature and precipitation and geographical factors such as latitude and altitude. The findings of this research challenge the widely held assumption that the NPP/ GPP ratio is consistent regardless of ecosystem type.
3697563|Aim: Previous studies have developed strong, site-specific relationships between canopy metrics from lidar (light detecting and ranging) remote sensing data and forest structural characteristics such as above-ground biomass (AGBM), but the generality of these relationships is unknown. In this study, we examine the generality of relationships between lidar metrics and forest structural characteristics, including AGBM, from two study areas in Central America with different precipitation patterns. Location: A series of tropical moist forest sites in Panama and a tropical wet forest in Costa Rica. Methods: Canopy metrics (e.g. canopy height) were calculated from airborne lidar data. Basal area, mean stem diameter and AGBM were calculated from measurements taken as a part of ongoing forest dynamics studies in both areas. We examined the generality of relationship between lidar metrics and forest structure, and possible environmental effects (e.g. leaf phenology). Results: We found that lidar metrics were strongly correlated (
41239267|Aim: To explore the impacts of imperfect reference data on the accuracy of species distribution model predictions. The main focus is on impacts of the quality of reference data (labelling accuracy) and, to a lesser degree, data quantity (sample size) on species presence-absence modelling. Innovation: The paper challenges the common assumption that some popular measures of model accuracy and model predictions are prevalence independent. It highlights how imperfect reference data may impact on a study and the actions that may be taken to address problems. Main conclusions: The theoretical independence of prevalence of popular accuracy measures, such as sensitivity, specificity, true skills statistics (TSS) and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), is unlikely to occur in practice due to reference data error; all of these measures of accuracy, together with estimates of species occurrence, showed prevalence dependency arising through the use of a non-gold-standard reference. The number of cases used also had implications for the ability of a study to meet its objectives. Means to reduce the negative effects of imperfect reference data in study design and interpretation are suggested.
3697446|Aim: This paper investigates the use of an ecosystem simulation model, FOREST-BGC, to estimate the main ecophysiological processes (transpiration and photosynthesis) of Mediterranean coastal forest areas using remotely sensed data. Location: Model testing was carried out at two protected forest sites in central Italy, one of which was covered by Turkey oak (Circeo National Park) and the other by holm-oak (Castelporziano Estate). Methods: At both sites, transpiration and photosynthesis measurements were collected in the field during the growing seasons over a four-year period (1999 and 2001 for the Turkey oak; 1997, 1999 and 2000 for the holm-oak). Calibration of the model was obtained through combining information derived from ground measurements and remotely sensed data. In particular, remote sensing estimates of the Leaf Area Index derived from 1 x 1-km NOAA AVHRR Normalized Difference Vegetation Index data were used to improve the adaptation of the model to local forest conditions. Results: The results indicated different strategies regarding water use efficiency, 'water spending' for Turkey oak and 'water saving' for holm-oak. The water use efficiency for the holm-oak was consistently higher than that for the Turkey oak and the relationship between VPD and WUE for the holm-oak showed a higher coefficient of determination (
40602937|Aim: Patterns of fire regimes across Australia exhibit biogeographic variation in response to four processes. Variations in area burned and fire frequency result from differences in the rates of 'switching' of biomass growth, availability to burn, fire weather and ignition. Therefore differing processes limit fire (i.e. the lowest rate of switching) in differing ecosystems. Current and future trends in fire frequency were explored on this basis. Location: Case studies of forests (cool temperate to tropical) and woodlands (temperate to arid) were examined. These represent a broad range of Australian biomes and current fire regimes. Methods: Information on the four processes was applied to each case study and the potential minimum length of interfire interval was predicted and compared to current trends. The potential effects of global change on the processes were then assessed and future trends in fire regimes were predicted. Results: Variations in fire regimes are primarily related to fluctuations in available moisture and dominance by either woody or herbaceous plant cover. Fire in woodland communities (dry climates) is limited by growth of herbaceous fuels (biomass), whereas in forests (wet climates) limitation is by fuel moisture (availability to burn) and fire weather. Increasing dryness in woodland communities will decrease potential fire frequency, while the opposite applies in forests. In the tropics, both forms of limitation are weak due to the annual wet/dry climate. Future change may therefore be constrained. Main conclusions: Increasing dryness may diminish fire activity over much of Australia (dominance of dry woodlands), though increases may occur in temperate forests. Elevated CO effects may confound or reinforce these trends. The prognosis for the future fire regime in Australia is therefore uncertain.
3182715|Are latitudinal gradients in regional diversity random or biased with respect to body size? Using data for the New World avifauna, I show that the slope of the increase in regional species richness from the Arctic to the equator is not independent of body size. The increase is steepest among small and medium-sized species, and shallowest among the largest species. This is reflected in latitudinal variation in the shape of frequency distributions of body sizes in regional subsets of the New World avifauna. Because species are added disproportionately in small and medium size classes towards low latitudes, distributions become less widely spread along the body size axis than expected from the number of species. These patterns suggest an interaction between the effects of latitude and body size on species richness, implying that mechanisms which vary with both latitude and body size may be important determinants of high tropical diversity in New World birds.
2997882|Key issues related to the monitoring by remote sensing of open forest degradation in a tropical context are discussed. Degradation of forest-cover is often a complex process, with some degree of ecological reversibility and a strong interaction with climatic fluctuations. Only a representation of land cover as a continuous field of several biophysical variables can lead to an accurate detection of forest degradation. For this purpose, repetitive measurements of spectral, spatial and temporal indicators of the land surface have to be performed. Each set of indicators brings a specific type of information on the land cover. These indicators must therefore be combined to achieve a comprehensive description of the surface processes. The detection of inter-annual changes in landscape spatial structure is more likely to reveal long term and long lasting land-cover changes, while spectral indicators are more sensitive to fluctuations in primary productivity associated with climatic fluctuations. Different monitoring systems may be optimal for different ecosystems. A long time series of observations is always required. The monitoring of the spatio-temporal distribution of biomass burning may also give indications of open forest degradation.
2665348|1 Taxocenes - monophyletic ecological assemblages - are a key focus of macroecology. Abundance (individuals per area) is a basic property of taxocenes but has received less attention than diversity, although the two are probably related. Abundance reflects a taxocene's ability to harvest and sequester available energy and divide it among individuals. This paper explores how two properties of all taxocenes - trophic makeup and taxonomic level (e.g. genus, tribe, subfamily, family ...) - may contribute to patterns of local abundance at geographical scales. 2 Forty-nine ground ant taxocenes, in habitats ranging from New World deserts to rain forests, were surveyed along a three-orders of magnitude productivity gradient using transects of 30 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats at each site. Abundance - the number of nests per transect - varied over two orders of magnitude. 3 Over 80% of the genera collected were omnivores. However, herbivore, omnivore, and predator taxa were added to ant taxocenes in roughly 1 order of magnitude steps up the productivity gradient. Specialist detritivores were added last. 4 Net primary productivity and mean monthly temperature both consistently entered regression models predicting abundance. However, while productivity was the dominant predictor of abundance for higher taxa (families, subfamilies), temperature was the dominant predictor of abundance for lower taxa (tribes, genera). The answer to the question `What regulates the abundance of a taxocene?' is thus sensitive to the taxonomic level of analysis. 5 These data support the following scenario. Lower taxa are abiotic specialists given the insufficient number of genomes and generations required for the exploration of the entire abiotic envelope. Higher taxa, in contrast, consist of suites of abiotic specialists arrayed along the entire productivity gradient, with access to productivity everywhere the taxon occurs. If this scenario is true, individual species may respond to global changes in temperature; the higher taxa they belong to may most respond to global changes in productivity.
3182688|The objective of the European Terrestrial Ecosystem Modelling Activity (ETEMA) was to address some of the major challenges in developing generalized models to examine responses of natural and seminatural ecosystems to environmental change at the regional to European scale. The approach described herein was to break down the totality of ecosystem functioning into its key components, each with its characteristic spatial and temporal scales. A conceptual framework was developed describing the configuration of these components as modules within a generalized simulation model. The framework describes the key inputs, outputs and state variables, their spatial and temporal contexts, and information flows between modules. The 'backbone' of the model is a system of nested timing loops corresponding to the disparate time scales at which different ecosystem processes occur. The framework is a theoretical construct into which ecosystem models at levels of complexity ranging from the very general to the highly detailed can be mapped, and thus provides a guide for development of models for novel, particularly regional-scale, applications. A number of subsystem studies of the major components of ecosystem functioning, i.e. modules of the conceptual framework, are briefly introduced herein. The general aim of the subsystem studies was to identify the key alternative formulations (as opposed to minor variants) and test these against observational data. The various subsystem studies concern planetary boundary layer-ecosystem interactions, ecosystem CO
3182726|Desert precipitation is often characterized as more variable than precipitation in nondesert biomes. However, empirical support for this generalization is lacking. I analysed precipitation variability in five desert and four nondesert biomes that represent a xeric to mesic gradient in the South-western United States, using data from 328 weather stations, for a total of 18 337 station-years. I examined precipitation variability at two temporal scales: among years and among months, within years. Each of these scales was analysed for annual precipitation, summer precipitation and winter precipitation for a total of 18 separate analyses. Overall, precipitation variability does increase as precipitation decreases. However, I found little support for the generalization that desert precipitation is more variable than precipitation in nondeserts. At most time scales, many south-western American desert biomes are no more variable than nondesert biomes. The level of variability is highly dependent on which desert biome is under study, where in the biome a particular site is located, and what time scale is used to measure variability. Certain desert sites are in fact more variable than nondesert sites, in some cases by as much as fivefold. However, and perhaps more importantly, each desert biome includes many sites that are no more variable, across many or all time scales, than sites in the grassland or pine forest biomes. These results emphasize the importance of measuring variability for each study site of interest and caution against extrapolating from a few sites to biomes or gradients in general. Implications for the study of adaptations to environmental variability are discussed.
41239259|Aim: We tested whether coarse-grained occurrence data can be used to detect climatic niche shifts between native and non-native ranges for a set of widely introduced freshwater fishes. Location: World-wide. Methods: We used a global database of freshwater fish occurrences at the river basin scale to identify native and non-native ranges for 18 of the most widely introduced fish species. We also examined climatic conditions within each river basin using fine-grained climate data. We combined this information to test whether climatic niche shifts have occurred between native and non-native ranges. We defined climatic niche shifts as instances where the ranges of a climatic variable within native and non-native basins exhibit zero overlap. Results: We detected at least one climatic niche shift for each of the 18 studied species. However, we did not detect common patterns in the thermal preference or biogeographic origin of the non-native fish, hence suggesting a species-specific response. Main conclusions: Coarse-grained occurrence data can be used to detect climatic niche shifts. They also enable the identification of the species experiencing niche shifts, although the mechanisms responsible for these shifts (e.g. local adaptation, dispersal limitation or physiological constraints) have yet to be determined. Furthermore, the coarse-grained approach, which highlights regions where climatic niche shifts have occurred, can be used to select specific river basins for more detailed, fine-grained studies.
3697657|Aim: We analysed spatial datasets of abundance across the entirety, or near entirety, of the geographical ranges of 134 tree species to test macroecological hypotheses concerning the distribution of abundance across geographical ranges. Location: Our abundance estimates came via the USDA Forest Service Forest Inventory and Analysis Eastwide Database, which contains data for 134 eastern North American tree species. Methods: We extracted measures of range size and the spatial location of abundance relative to position in the range for each species to test four hypotheses: (a) species occur in low abundance throughout most of their geographical range; (b) there is a positive interspecific relationship between abundance and range size; (c) species are more abundant in the centre of their range; and (d) there is a bimodal distribution of spatial autocorrelation in abundance across a species range. Results: Our results demonstrate that (a) most species (85%) are abundant somewhere in their geographical range; (b) species achieving relatively high abundance tend to have larger range sizes; (c) the widely held assumption that species exhibit an 'abundant-centre distribution' is not well supported for the majority of species; we suggest 'abundant-core' as a more suitable term; and (d) there is no evidence of a bimodal distribution of spatial autocorrelation in abundance. Main Conclusions: For many tree species, high abundance can be achieved at any position in the range, though suitable sites are found with less frequency towards range edges. Competitive relationships may be involved in the distribution of abundance across tree ranges and species with larger ranges (and possibly broader niches) may be affected more by biotic interactions than smaller ranging species.
3697549|Aim: Polymorphism at neutral markers and at MHC loci in rodent populations living on islands is generally low. The main genetic factors that may contribute to a reduced level of genetic variability are genetic drift, reduced gene flow and founder events. We investigated the pattern of polymorphism at the second exon of the Mhc-DQA gene in island populations of Apodemus sylvaticus and in their mainland counterparts to investigate the pattern of MHC polymorphism in a phylogeographical context and to assess the impact of insularity on diversity at this locus. Location: Eight north Mediterranean populations of Apodemus sylvaticus were studied, including five island populations (Majorca, Minorca, Porquerolles, Port-Cros and Sicily) and three mainland populations. Methods: cDNA sequencing and nucleotide sequences analyses. Synonymous and non-synonymous substitutions were examined at the PBR and non-PBR sites. The DQA allelic distribution in populations was compared with the woodmouse phylogeography. Results: This study presents novel DQA alleles. High polymorphism of the DQA locus is recorded in natural populations of A. sylvaticus with 13 alleles being widely distributed irrespective of the geographical origin and palaeoclimatic history of populations. The DQA locus does not show the expected pattern for non-synonymous substitutions at the PBR sites. However, island populations show a weak loss of polymorphism in comparison with their mainland counterparts. Main conclusions: The DQA locus in the woodmouse seems to be subject to weak selection and does not allow resolution of phylogeographical relationships among European woodmouse populations. The presence of at least three alleles in island populations and the maintenance of five alleles between the two European lineages over 1.5 Myr suggest that balancing selection may act within populations, and more precisely within island populations, to maintain genetic variability. This study shows that phylogeographical studies are a prerequisite for any genetic investigation of selected genes in natural populations.
3697554|Aim: To test the mechanisms driving bird species richness at broad spatial scales using eigenvector-based spatial filtering. Location: South America. Methods: An eigenvector-based spatial filtering was applied to evaluate spatial patterns in South American bird species richness, taking into account spatial autocorrelation in the data. The method consists of using the geographical coordinates of a region, based on eigenanalyses of geographical distances, to establish a set of spatial filters (eigenvectors) expressing the spatial structure of the region at different spatial scales. These filters can then be used as predictors in multiple and partial regression analyses, taking into account spatial autocorrelation. Autocorrelation in filters and in the regression residuals can be used as stopping rules to define which filters will be used in the analyses. Results: Environmental component alone explained 8% of variation in richness, whereas 77% of the variation could be attributed to an interaction between environment and geography expressed by the filters (which include mainly broad-scale climatic factors). Regression coefficients of environmental component were highest for AET. These results were unbiased by short-scale spatial autocorrelation. Also, there was a significant interaction between topographic heterogeneity and minimum temperature. Conclusion: Eigenvector-based spatial filtering is a simple and suitable statistical protocol that can be used to analyse patterns in species richness taking into account spatial autocorrelation at different spatial scales. The results for South American birds are consistent with the climatic hypothesis, in general, and energy hypothesis, in particular. Habitat heterogeneity also has a significant effect on variation in species richness in warm tropical regions.
30137892|Aim: To critically review the status of the green sea turtle (Chelonia mydas) using the best available scientific studies as there is a prevailing view that this species is globally endangered and its marine ecosystem functions compromised. Location: Ogasawara (Japan), Hawaii (USA), Great Barrier Reef (Australia), Florida (USA), Tortuguero (Costa Rica). Methods: We compiled seasonal nesting activity data from all reliable continuous long-term studies (> 25 years), which comprised data series for six of the world's major green turtle rookeries. We estimated the underlying time-specific trend in these six rookery-specific nester or nest abundance series using a generalized smoothing spline regression approach. Results: Estimated rates of nesting population increase ranged from c. 4-14% per annum over the past two to three decades. These rates varied considerably among the rookeries, reflecting the level of historical exploitation. Similar increases in nesting population were also evident for many other green turtle stocks that have been monitored for shorter durations than the long-term studies presented here. Main conclusions: We show that six of the major green turtle nesting populations in the world have been increasing over the past two to three decades following protection from human hazards such as exploitation of eggs and turtles. This population recovery or rebound capacity is encouraging and suggests that the green turtle is not on the brink of global extinction even though some stocks have been seriously depleted and are still below historical abundance levels. This demonstrates that relatively simple conservation strategies can have a profound effect on the recovery of once-depleted green turtle stocks and presumably the restoration of their ecological function as major marine consumers.
3697430|Aim To examine the effect on the observed relationship between spatial turnover and latitude of both the measure of beta diversity used and the method of analysis. Location: The empirical analyses presented herein are for the New World. Methods: We take the spatial distributions of the owls of the New World as an exemplar data set to investigate the patterns of beta diversity across latitudes revealed by different analytical methods. To illustrate the strengths and weaknesses of alternative measures of beta diversity and different analytical approaches, we also use a simple random distribution model, focusing in particular on the influence of richness gradients and landmass geometry. Results: Our simple spatial model of turnover demonstrates that different combinations of analytical approach and measure of beta diversity can give rise to strikingly different relationships between turnover and latitude. The analyses of the bird data for the owls of the New World demonstrate that this observation extends to real data. Conclusions: For the particular assemblage considered, we present strong evidence that species richness declines at higher latitudes, and there is also some evidence that species turnover is greater nearer the equator, despite conceptual and practical difficulties involved in analysing spatial patterns of species turnover. We suggest some ways of overcoming these difficulties.
40205723|Aim: To test the influence of various species traits, elevation and phylogeographical history on the genetic diversity of high-mountain plants in the Alps and Carpathians. Location: The regular sampling grid comprised the whole range of the European Alps and the Carpathians. Methods: Twenty-two high-mountain plant species were exhaustively sampled and their genetic diversity was assessed with amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). ANOVAs were used to check for relationships between species traits and species genetic diversity, and to test whether genetic diversity was influenced by altitude and phylogeographical history (i.e. Alps versus Carpathians). Results: In both mountain systems, species dispersed and pollinated by wind showed higher genetic diversity than species with self or insect pollination, and with animal-or gravity-dispersed seeds. Only in the Alps did altitudinal range size affect species genetic diversity significantly: species with narrow altitudinal ranges in the highest vegetation belts had significantly higher genetic diversity than those expanding over wide altitudinal ranges. Genetic diversity was species specific and significantly higher in the Alps than in the Carpathians, but it was not influenced by elevation. Main conclusions: Wind pollination and wind dispersal seem to foster high genetic diversity. However, species traits are often associated and their effects on genetic diversity cannot be clearly disentangled. As genetic diversity is species specific, comparisons across species need to be interpreted with care. Genetic diversity was generally lower in the Carpathians than in the Alps, due to higher topographical isolation of alpine habitats in the Carpathians and this mountain massif's divergent phylogeographical history. Elevation did not influence genetic diversity, challenging the long-held view of decreasing genetic diversity with increasing elevation in mountain plants.
40801917|Aim: Increases in annual mean temperature in the course of current climate change are expected to facilitate mass species migration towards higher altitudes and latitudes.However, this migration may be slowed, or even temporarily reversed, by infrequent and unpredictable episodes of low winter temperatures. Iran experienced a severe cold wave in January and February 2008, giving an opportunity to observe the effects on a large number of woody plant species, many growing further north than their natural ranges.
2665326|We describe three models predicting relationships between: (a) the taxonomic composition of the regional species pool of phytophagous insects and the composition of the phytophagous insect fauna on a host taxon; and (b) the faunal composition of two host taxa. The predictions of these models were compared with empirical data representing the regional pool of phytophages in Central Europe and the faunas of two plant taxa: the cabbage plants (Brassicaceae) and the thistles (Asteraceae: Cardueae). Three important findings emerge at a general level. (1) Different taxonomic levels of insects (orders, families, genera) of the regional pool and on the investigated host taxa are well correlated in terms of species richness, but there is no consistent trend in the variance explained by this correlation across taxonomic levels. (2) The model considering evolutionary interactions and speciation processes is consistent with patterns found in the empirical data. (3) Asymmetries in sampled species numbers of insect families on both host taxa may be accounted for by reference to the biology of these insects. We conclude that the faunas of single host taxa can provide the basis for extrapolating to the regional pool, at least at high taxonomic levels.
3697551|Aim: Predictions of aquatic ecosystem change with global warming require basic data that accurately reflect the environmental conditions underlying species distributions. However, in remote arctic areas such baseline data are scarce. We assess the influence of environmental variables on chironomid distribution and taxon richness in shallow, isothermal lakes in a poorly studied arctic region. We pay particular attention to community variation along the treeline ecotonal zone where many environmental variables change abruptly in a relatively small area. Location: Lake transect in Finnish Lapland spanning from boreal coniferous forest to arctic tundra. Methods: Chironomid assemblages were determined from surface-sediment samples of 50 shallow (< 10 m) natural lakes. Abundance and taxon richness data were related to 24 limnological variables using canonical ordination techniques (DCA, CCA, RDA). A Monte Carlo permutation procedure was used to assess the explanatory power of single variables. Between-vegetation zone differences of richness were tested for statistical significance using one-way ANOVA. Results: In total, 7771 chironomid head capsules were identified, consisting of 13 species, 10 species groups, four subgenera, 41 genera, four genus groups, five types and three with uncertain taxonomic affiliation. A hump-shaped relationship between taxon richness and elevation was noted along the study transect with a peak in taxon richness occurring in mountain birch woodland lakes at middle elevations, decreasing then towards both warmer and colder ends of the elevation/temperature gradient. Of the individual parameters, sediment organic content, total organic carbon, pH, and lake-specific air temperature accounted for the greatest amount of variation in the chironomid data. Main conclusions: Maximum taxon richness occurred at mid-elevations where aquatic algae also reached their maximum diversity. This area coincides with an ecotonal transitional zone, which seems more likely to account for the peak in species richness. Our study demonstrates that the factors most strongly affecting chironomids in Finnish Lapland (i.e. temperature, and ecosystem features) are those that with great probability will also change as a result of future climate change. This will likely have an effect on the distribution of chironomids in subarctic and arctic areas.
2997896|Near-to-nature forestry is an attractive concept, but it is difficult to apply in a landscape where (i) the remaining fragments of original-natural forests are small and far apart; (ii) most large forests are secondary and very artificial; (iii) long-naturalized trees and other forest species are present throughout the country, and; (iv) natural disturbance regimes and their consequences cannot readily be observed. This paper summarizes the issues and problems relating to ancient seminatural woods and conifer plantation forests in Britain. Measures are indicated that would bring their management nearer to nature. Natural elements can be incorporated into stand composition, stand structure, processes and patterns, provided general principles are interpreted in a pragmatic and flexible manner.
3182681|The Mediterranean area is regarded nowadays as one of the hot-spots of world biodiversity. The Baetic ranges in Spain have such a large number of endemic plant taxa that the territory has been recognized as a well-defined biogeographical unit. These endemic taxa tend to concentrate on disjunct highland areas that have been described consequently as 'highland islands'. Despite the importance and complexity of these sites, the research carried out so far has produced only descriptive classifications. These approaches overlook the relationships between the sites and do not serve to identify the main centres of endemism. Herein, multivariate analysis techniques (cluster analysis and reciprocal averaging) and the parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE), applied to the 222 orophilous endemic taxa of the Baetic ranges, have been used to reveal the floristic similarities between the areas involved, to identify the centres of endemism and to re-assess the previous classifications. Four centres of endemism are defined, one siliceous and three calcareous. The most outstanding feature in the Baetic ranges is precisely the floristic difference between siliceous and calcareous mountains. Calcareous territories extend along a SW-NE axis in line with the oceanic-continental gradient. The nature of the soil in the vast siliceous and calcareous-dolomitic territories of the Sierra Nevada is probably the cause of the remarkable floristic diversity. Not surprisingly, in our analysis these areas stand out as centres of endemism. We conclude that previous biogeographical classifications of the ranges are too rigid and do not properly reflect the floristic similarities of the area under study.
40205709|Aim: Nestedness occurs when species present in depauperate sites are subsets of those found in species-rich sites. The degree of congruence of site nestedness among different assemblages can inform commonalities of mechanisms structuring the assemblages. Well-nested assemblages may still contain idiosyncratic species and sites that notably depart from the typical assemblage pattern. Idiosyncrasy can arise from multiple processes, including interspecific interactions and habitat preferences, which entail different consequences for species co-occurrences. We investigate the influence of fine-scale habitat variation on nestedness and idiosyncrasy patterns of beetle and bird assemblages. We examine community-level and pairwise species co-occurrence patterns, and highlight the potential influence of interspecific interactions for assemblage structure. Location: Cte-Nord region of Qubec, Canada. Methods: We sampled occurrences of ground-dwelling beetles, flying beetles and birds at sites within old-growth boreal forest. We examined the nestedness and idiosyncrasy of sites and sought relationships to habitat attributes. We analysed non-ran1dom species co-occurrence patterns at pairwise and community levels, using null model analysis and five 'association' indices. Results: All three assemblages were significantly nested. There was limited congruence only between birds and flying beetles whose nestedness was related to canopy openness. For ground-dwelling beetles, nestedness was related to high stand heterogeneity and sapling density, whereas site idiosyncrasy was inversely related to structural heterogeneity. For birds, site idiosyncrasy increased with canopy cover, and most idiosyncratic species were closed-canopy specialists. In all assemblages, species idiosyncrasy was positively correlated with the frequency of negative pairwise associations. Species co-occurrence patterns were non-random, and for flying beetles and birds positive species pairwise associations dominated. Communitylevel co-occurrence summaries may not, however, always reflect these patterns. Main conclusions: Nestedness patterns of different assemblages may not correlate, even when sampled at common locations, because of different responses to local habitat attributes. We found idiosyncrasy patterns indicating opposing habitat preferences, consistent with antagonistic interactions among species within assemblages. Analysis of such patterns can thus suggest the mechanisms generating assemblage structures, with implications for biodiversity conservation.
30137991|Aim: Spatial autocorrelation is a frequent phenomenon in ecological data and can affect estimates of model coefficients and inference from statistical models. Here, we test the performance of three different simultaneous autoregressive (SAR) model types (spatial
41239340|Aim: It has been qualitatively understood for a long time that climate change will have widely varying effects on human well-being in different regions of the world. The spatial complexities underlying our relationship to climate and the geographical disparities in human demographic change have, however, precluded the development of global indices of the predicted regional impacts of climate change on humans. Humans will be most negatively affected by climate change in regions where populations are strongly dependent on climate and favourable climatic conditions decline. Here we use the relationship between the distribution of human population density and climate as a basis to develop the first global index of predicted impacts of climate change on human populations. Location: Global. Methods: We use spatially explicit models of the present relationship between human population density and climate along with forecasted climate change to predict climate vulnerabilities over the coming decades. We then globally represent regional disparities in human population dynamics estimated with our ecological niche model and with a demographic forecast and contrast these disparities with CO emissions data to quantitatively evaluate the notion of moral hazard in climate change policies. Results: Strongly negative impacts of climate change are predicted in Central America, central South America, the Arabian Peninsula, Southeast Asia and much of Africa. Importantly, the regions of greatest vulnerability are generally distant from the high-latitude regions where the magnitude of climate change will be greatest. Furthermore, populations contributing the most to greenhouse gas emissions on a per capita basis are unlikely to experience the worst impacts of climate change, satisfying the conditions for a moral hazard in climate change policies. Main conclusions: Regionalized analysis of relationships between distribution of human population density and climate provides a novel framework for developing global indices of human vulnerability to climate change. The predicted consequences of climate change on human populations are correlated with the factors causing climate change at the regional level, providing quantitative support for many qualitative statements found in international climate change assessments.
40205726|Aim: Spatial turnover of species, or beta diversity, varies in relation to geographical distance and environmental conditions, as well as spatial scale. We evaluated the explanatory power of distance, climate and topography on beta diversity of mammalian faunas of North America in relation to latitude. Location: North America north of Mexico. Methods: The study area was divided into 313 equal-area quadrats (241241 km). Faunal data for all continental mammals were compiled for these quadrats, which were divided among five latitudinal zones. These zones were comparable in terms of latitudinal and longitudinal span, climatic gradients and elevational gradients. We used the natural logarithm of the Jaccard index (lnJ) to measure species turnover between pairs of quadrats within each latitudinal zone. The slope of lnJ in relation to distance was compared among latitudinal zones. We used partial regression to partition the variance in lnJ into the components uniquely explained by distance and by environmental differences, as well as jointly by distance and environmental differences. Results: Mammalian faunas of North America differ more from each other at lower latitudes than at higher latitudes. Regression models of lnJ in relation to distance, climatic difference and topographic difference for each zone demonstrated that these variables have high explanatory power that diminishes with latitude. Beta diversity is higher for zones with higher mean annual temperature, lower seasonality of temperature and greater topographic complexity. For each latitudinal zone, distance and environmental differences explain a greater proportion of the variance in lnJ than distance, climate or topography does separately. Main conclusions: The latitudinal gradient in beta diversity of North American mammals corresponds to a macrodimatic gradient of decreasing mean annual temperature and increasing seasonality of temperature from south to north. Most of the variance in spatial turnover is explained by distance and environmental differences jointly rather than distance, climate or topography separately. The high predictive power of geographical distance, climatic conditions and topography on spatial turnover could result from the direct effects of physical limiting factors or from ecological and evolutionary processes that are also influenced by the geographical template.
3697560|Aim: This paper presents a probabilistic method for the characterization of pollen taxa using attributes, and for the reconstitution of past biomes. The probabilities are calculated on the basis of European floristic and pollen databases sufficiently large and exhaustive to provide robust estimates. Location: The analysis is based on data from approximately 1000 sites throughout Europe. Method: We use all the pollen data from the European Pollen Database (EPD), which contains about 50 000 pollen assemblages distributed across Europe and covering the period from the Last Glacial Maximum to the present. Using existing floras, each pollen taxon has been characterized by allocating one or more modes of several attributes, chosen according to the biogeography and phenology of the taxon. With this information, conditional probabilities are defined, representing the chance of a given attribute mode occurring in a given pollen spectrum, when the taxa assemblage is known. The concept of co-occurrence is used to provide a greater amount of information to compensate for difficulties in the identification of pollen grains, allowing a better interpretation when there is little diversity in the pollen assemblage. Results: The method has been validated using a dataset of modern samples against existing methods of biome classification and remote sensing data. An application is proposed in which the new method is used to produce biomes for pollen data 6000 years ago. This confirms previous results showing an extension of the deciduous forest to the north, east and south, explained by milder winters in western and northern Europe, and cooler and wetter climate in the Mediterranean region. Conclusion: The results show the new method to be efficient, reliable and flexible and to be an improvement over the previous method of biomization. They will be used to test simulations of earth system models running on periods with climate significantly different from the present day, enabling a robust test of the validity of applying these models to the future.
40205656|Aim: To examine the way in which 'area' and 'habitat diversity' interact in shaping species richness and to find a simple and valid way to express this interaction. Location: The Natura 2000 network of terrestrial protected areas in Greece, covering approximately 16% of the national territory. Methods: We used the Natura 2000 framework, which provides a classification scheme for natural habitat types, to quantify habitat heterogeneity. We analysed data for the plant species composition in 16,143 quadrats in which 5044 species and subspecies of higher plants were recorded. We built a simple mathematical model that incorporates the effect of habitat diversity on the species-area relationship (SAR). Results: Our analysis showed that habitat diversity was correlated with area. However, keeping habitat diversity constant, species richness was related to area; while keeping area constant, species richness was related to habitat diversity. Comparing the SAR of the 237 sites we found that the slope of the species-area curve was related to habitat diversity. Main conclusions: Discussion of the causes of the SAR has often focused on the primacy of area per se versus habitat heterogeneity, even though the two mechanisms are not mutually exclusive and should be considered jointly. We find that increasing habitat diversity affects the SAR in different ways, but the dominant effect is to increase the slope of the SAR. While a full model fit typically includes a variety of terms involving both area and habitat richness, we find that the effect of habitat diversity can be reduced to a linear perturbation of the slope of the species accumulation curve.
3182680|Aim: Conservation strategies currently include little consideration of climate change. Insights about the biotic impacts of climate change from biogeography and palaeoecology, therefore, have the potential to provide significant improvements in the effectiveness of conservation planning. We suggest a collaboration involving biogeography, ecology and applied conservation. The resulting Climate Change-integrated Conservation Strategies (CCS) apply available tools to respond to the conservation challenges posed by climate change. Location: The focus of this analysis is global, with special reference to high biodiversity areas vulnerable to climate change, particularly tropical montane settings. Methods: Current tools from climatology, biogeography and ecology applicable to conservation planning in response to climate change are reviewed. Conservation challenges posed by climate change are summarized. CCS elements are elaborated that use available tools to respond to these challenges. Results: Five elements of CCS are described: regional modelling; expanding protected areas; management of the matrix; regional coordination; and transfer of resources. Regional modelling uses regional climate models, biotic response models and sensitivity analysis to identify climate change impacts on biodiversity at a regional scale appropriate for conservation planning. Expansion of protected areas management and systems within the planning region are based on modelling results. Management of the matrix between protected areas provides continuity for processes and species range shifts outside of parks. Regional coordination of park and off-park efforts allows harmonization of conservation goals across provincial and national boundaries. Finally, implementation of these CCS elements in the most biodiverse regions of the world will require technical and financial transfer of resources on a global scale. Main conclusions: Collaboration across disciplines is necessary to plan conservation responses to climate change adequately. Biogeography and ecology provide insights into the effects of climate change on biodiversity that have not yet been fully integrated into conservation biology and applied conservation management. CCS provide a framework in which biogeographers, ecologists and conservation managers can collaborate to address this need. These planning exercises take place on a regional level, driven by regional climate models as well as general circulation models (GCMs), to ensure that regional climate drivers such as land use change and mesoscale topography are adequately represented. Sensitivity analysis can help address the substantial uncertainty inherent in projecting future climates and biodiversity response.
40405777|Aim: To analyse the effects of simultaneously using spatial and phylogenetic information in removing spatial autocorrelation of residuals within a multiple regression framework of trait analysis. Location: Switzerland, Europe. Methods: We used an eigenvector filtering approach to analyse the relationship between spatial distribution of a trait (flowering phenology) and environmental covariates in a multiple regression framework. Eigenvector filters were calculated from ordinations of distance matrices. Distance matrices were either based on pure spatial information, pure phylogenetic information or spatially structured phylogenetic information. In the multiple regression, those filters were selected which best reduced Moran's / coefficient of residual autocorrelation. These were added as covariates to a regression model of environmental variables explaining trait distribution. Results: The simultaneous provision of spatial and phylogenetic information was effectively able to remove residual autocorrelation in the analysis. Adding phylogenetic information was superior to adding purely spatial information. Applying filters showed altered results, i.e. different environmental predictors were seen to be significant. Nevertheless, mean annual temperature and calcareous substrate remained the most important predictors to explain the onset of flowering in Switzerland; namely, the warmer the temperature and the more calcareous the substrate, the earlier the onset of flowering. A sequential approach, i.e. first removing the phylogenetic signal from traits and then applying a spatial analysis, did not provide more information or yield less autocorrelation than simple or purely spatial models. Main conclusions: The combination of spatial and spatio-phylogenetic information is recommended in the analysis of trait distribution data in a multiple regression framework. This approach is an efficient means for reducing residual autocorrelation and for testing the robustness of results, including the indication of incomplete parameterizations, and can facilitate ecological interpretation.
41058250|The latitudinal diversity gradient (LDG) has been known for over a century, but its origin remains poorly understood. Because both latitude and species richness are broadly related to temperature, environmental temperature has been proposed as a driver of the LDG. Recently, Wang et al. (2009, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 106,13388-13392) used datasets compiled from tree distributions in eastern Asia and North America to compare the species richness-temperature relationship between the two regions at several spatial scales and framed their analyses in the context of the metabolic theory of ecology. Here, we show that their datasets lack comparability between eastern Asia and North America and that some aspects of their analyses probably biased their results, casting doubt on some of their conclusions.
3182696|Aim: To predict French Scarabaeidae dung beetle species richness distribution, and to determine the possible underlying causal factors. Location: The entire French territory has been studied by dividing it into 301 grid cells of 0.72 x 0.36 degrees. Method: Species richness distribution was predicted using generalized linear models to relate the number of species with spatial, topographic and climate variables in grid squares previously identified as well sampled (n = 66). The predictive function includes the curvilinear relationship between variables, interaction terms and the significant third-degree polynomial terms of latitude and longitude. The final model was validated by a jack-knife procedure. The underlying causal factors were investigated by partial regression analysis, decomposing the variation in species richness among spatial, topographic and climate type variables. Results: The final model accounts for 86.2% of total deviance, with a mean jack-knife predictive error of 17.7%. The species richness map obtained highlights the Mediterranean as the region richest in species, and the less well-explored south-western region as also being species-rich. The largest fraction of variability (38%) in the number of species is accounted for by the combined effect of the three groups of explanatory variables. The spatially structured climate component explains 21% of variation, while the pure climate and pure spatial components explain 14% and 11%, respectively. The effect of topography was negligible. Conclusions: Delimiting the adequately inventoried areas and elaborating forecasting models using simple environmental variables can rapidly produce an estimate of the species richness distribution. Scarabaeidae species richness distribution seems to be mainly influenced by temperature. Minimum mean temperature is the most influential variable on a local scale, while maximum and mean temperature are the most important spatially structured variables. We suggest that species richness variation is mainly conditioned by the failure of many species to go beyond determined temperature range limits.
4139411| Aim Climate is often egarded as the primary control determining the location of an ecotone between two vegetation zones. However, other ecological factors may also be important, especially when the northern limit of the dominant species of a vegetation zone extends further than the limit of the zone itself. This study aimed to identify the ecological variables explaining the transition between two zones within the boreal biome in Quebec (eastern Canada): the southern mixedwood forests dominated by balsam fir (Abies balsamea) and white birch (Betula papyrifera), and the northern coniferous forests dominated by black spruce (Picea mariana). Location Quebec (eastern Canada). Methods Data from 5023 sampling plots from the ecological inventory of the Qubec Ministry of Natural Resources distributed throughout the two bioclimatic zones were used in logistic regressions to determine the relationships between the presence or absence of balsam fir stands and different abiotic and biotic variables, at both stand and landscape scales. Results The presence of balsam fir stands was negatively related to the thick organic horizons, coarse xeric deposits and low positions on the slope, whereas stands were favoured by high elevations, steep slopes and moderate drainage. These results defined the suitable conditions for the development of balsam fir stands. In the coniferous zone these suitable conditions were less abundant. Furthermore, the saturation level of suitable sites was lower, as well as the incidence of balsam fir stands in unsuitable sites (overflow). Balsam fir stands were mostly located near lakes and rivers. All significant variables at both the stand and landscape scales explained between 34 and 42% of the location of the potential northern distribution limit of the mixedwood zone. Main conclusions Our results suggest the important role of historical factors related to post-glacial vegetation and past disturbances in determining the relative abundance of balsam fir in both zones of the boreal biome. 
41058242|Aim: To investigate the potential distribution of Seasonally Dry Tropical Forests (SDTFs) during the Quaternary climatic fluctuations; to reassess the formerly proposed 'Pleistocenic arc hypothesis' (PAH); and to identify historically stable and unstable areas of SDTF distributions in the light of palaeodistribution modelling. Location: SDTFs in lowland cis-Andean eastern-central South America. Methods: We first developed georeferenced maps depicting the current distributional extent of SDTFs under two distinct definitions (narrow and broad). We then generated occurrence datasets, which were used with current and past bioclimatic variables to predict SDTF occurrence by implementing the maximum entropy machine-learning algorithm. We obtained historical stability maps by overlapping the presence/absence projections of each of three climatic scenarios [current, 6 kyr  during the Holocene, and 21 kyr  during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM)]. Finally, we checked the consistencies of the model prediction with qualitative comparisons of vegetation types inferred from available fossil pollen records. Results: The present-day SDTF distribution is disjunct, but we provide evidence that it was even more disjunct during the LGM. Reconstructions support a progressive southward and eastward expansion of SDTFs on a continental scale since the LGM. No significant expansion of SDTFs into the Amazon Basin was detected. Areas of presumed long-term stability are identified and confirmed (the three nuclear regions, Caatinga, Misiones and Piedmont, plus the Chiquitano region), and these possibly acted as current and historical refugial areas. Main conclusions: The LGM climate was probably too dry and cold to support large tracts of SDTF, which were restricted to climatically favourable areas relative to the present day (in contrast with the PAH, as it was originally conceived). Expansions of SDTFs are proposed to have occupied the southern portion of Caatinga nucleus more recently during the early-middle Holocene transition. We propose an alternative scenario amenable to further testing of an earlier SDTF expansion (either at the Lower Pleistocene or the Tertiary), followed by fragmentation in the LGM and secondary expansion in the Holocene. The stability maps were used to generate specific genetic predictions at both continental and regional scales (stable areas are expected to have higher genetic diversity and endemism levels than adjacent unstable areas) that can be used to direct field sampling to cover both stable (predicted refugia) and unstable (recently colonized) areas. Lastly, we discuss the possibility that SDTFs may experience future expansion under changing climate scenarios and that both stable and unstable areas should be prioritized by conservation initiatives.
3697470|Aim: Spatial autocorrelation in ecological data can inflate Type I errors in statistical analyses. There has also been a recent claim that spatial autocorrelation generates 'red herrings', such that virtually all past analyses are flawed. We consider the origins of this phenomenon, the implications of spatial autocorrelation for macro-scale patterns of species diversity and set out a clarification of the statistical problems generated by its presence. Location: To illustrate the issues involved, we analyse the species richness of the birds of western/central Europe, nort Africa and the Middle East. Methods: Spatial correlograms for richness and five environmental variables were generated using Moran's I coefficients. Multiple regression, using both ordinary least-squares (OLS) and generalized least squares (GLS) assuming a spatial structure in the residuals, were used to identify the strongest predictors of richness. Autocorrelation analyses of the residuals obtained after stepwise OLS regression were undertaken, and the ranks of variables in the full OLS and GLS models were compared. Results: Bird richness is characterized by a quadratic north-south gradient. Spatial correlograms usually had positive autocorrelation up to c. 1600 km. Including the environmental variables successively in the OLS model reduced spatial autocorrelation in the residuals to non-detectable levels, indicating that the variables explained all spatial structure in the data. In principle, if residuals are not autocorrelated then OLS is a special case of GLS. However, our comparison between OLS and GLS models including all environmental variables revealed that GLS de-emphasized predictors with strong autocorrelation and long-distance clinal structures, giving more importance to variables acting at smaller geographical scales. Conclusion: Although spatial autocorrelation should always be investigated, it does not necessarily generate bias. Rather, it can be a useful tool to investigate mechanisms operating on richness at different spatial scales. Claims that analyses that do not take into account spatial autocorrelation are flawed are without foundation.
3697603|Aim: Bioclimatic envelope models are often used to make projections of species' potential responses to climate change. It can be hypothesized that species with different kinds of distributions in environmental niche and geographical space may respond differently to changes in climate. Here, we compare projections of shifts in species ranges with simple descriptors of species niche (position and breadth) and geographical (range size) distributions. Location: Europe. Methods: The future distribution for 1200 European plant species were predicted by niche-based models using seven climate variables known to have an important role in limiting plant species distributions. Ecological niche properties were estimated using a multivariate analysis. Species range changes were then related to species niche properties using generalized linear models. Results: Generally, percentage of remaining suitable habitat in the future increased linearly with niche position and breadth. Increases in potential suitable habitat were associated with greater range size, and had a hump-shaped relationship with niche position on temperature gradient. By relating species chorotypes to percentage of remaining or gained habitat, we highlighted biogeographical patterns of species sensitivity to climate change. These were clearly related to the degree of exposure according to regional patterns of projected climate change. Main conclusion: This study highlights general patterns about the relationships between sensitivity of species to climate change and their ecological properties. There is a strong convergence between simple inferences based on ecological characteristics of species and projections by bioclimatic 'envelope' models, confirming macroecological assumptions about species sensitivity based on niche properties. These patterns appear to be most strongly driven by the exposure of species to climate change, with additional effects of species niche characteristics. We conclude that simple species niche properties are powerful indicators of species' sensitivity to climate change.
2997898|Mount Bloomfield has been shown to have several vegetation types, including medium stature forest on greywacke, small stature forest on serpentinized peridotite, and scrub and Gymnostoma woodland on dunite. The causes of the large physiognomic and floristic differences among these vegetation types have been investigated by soil chemical analyses, soil physical studies, and by a phytometer experiment involving the crop plant Zea mays. There was no relationship between maximum tree height and the soil chemical factors analysed (P, K, Ca, Mg, Ni) but there was a directly proportional relationship between maximum tree height and soil water retention. The phytometer experiment supported the idea that there is no acute soil toxicity in spite of the high soil Ni and Mg/Ca quotients recorded in this study. It is concluded that soil water retention, perhaps in combination with fire, is the major cause of stature differences among the vegetation types and together with soil chemistry is an important determinant of floristic composition.
40602948|Aim: Atmospheric CO concentrations depend, in part, on the amount of biomass locked up in terrestrial vegetation. Information on the causes of a broad-scale vegetation transition and associated loss of biomass is thus of critical interest for understanding global palaeoclimatic changes. Pollen records from the northeastern Tibet-Qinghai Plateau reveal a dramatic and extensive forest decline beginning c. 6000 cal. yr BP. The aim of this study is to elucidate the causes of this regional-scale change from high-biomass forest to low-biomass steppe on the Tibet-Qinghai Plateau during the second half of the Holocene. Location: Our study focuses on the north-eastern Tibet-Qinghai Plateau. Stratigraphical data used are from Qinghai Lake (3200 m a.s.l., 3632'-3715'N, 9936'-10047'E). Methods: We apply a modern pollen-precipitation transfer function from the eastern and north-eastern Tibet-Qinghai Plateau to fossil pollen spectra from Qinghai Lake to reconstruct annual precipitation changes during the Holocene.The reconstructions are compared to a stable oxygen-isotope record from the same sediment core and to results from two transient climate model simulations. Results: The pollen-based precipitation reconstruction covering the Holocene parallels moisture changes inferred from the stable oxygen-isotope record. Furthermore, these results are in close agreement with simulated model-based past annual precipitation changes. Main conclusions: In the light of these data and the model results, we conclude that it is not necessary to attribute the broad-scale forest decline to human activity.Climate change as a result of changes in the intensity of the East Asian Summer Monsoon in the mid-Holocene is the most parsimonious explanation for the widespread forest decline on the Tibet-Qinghai Plateau. Moreover, climate feedback from a reduced forest cover accentuates increasingly drier conditions in the area, indicating complex vegetation-climate interactions during this major ecological change.
40602955|Aim: The diversity-productivity relationship is a controversial issue in ecology. Diversity is sometimes seen to increase with productivity but a unimodal relationship has often been reported. Competitive exclusion was cited initially to account for the decrease of diversity at high productivity. Subsequently, the roles of evolutionary history (species pool size) and dispersal rate have been acknowledged. We explore how the effects of species pool, dispersal and competition combine to produce different diversity productivity relationships. Methods: We use a series of simulations with a spatially explicit, individual-based model. Following empirical expectations, we used four scenarios to characterize species pool size along the productivity gradient (uniformly low and high, linear increase and unimodal). Similarly, the dispersal rate varied along the productivity gradient (uniformly low and high, and unimodal). We considered both neutral communities and communities with competitive exclusion. Results and main conclusions: Our model predicts that competitive interactions will result in unimodal diversity-productivity relationships. The model often predicts unimodal patterns in neutral communities as well, although the decline in richness at high productivity is less than in competing communities. A positive diversity-productivity relationship is simulated for neutral communities when the species pool size increases with productivity and the dispersal rate is high. This scenario is probably more widespread in nature than the others since positive diversity-productivity relationships have been observed more frequently than previously expected, especially in the tropics and for woody species. Our simulated effects of species pool, dispersal and competition on diversity patterns can be linked to empirical observations to uncover mechanisms behind the diversityproductivity relationship.
3182740|Avian seed dispersal mutualisms are characterized frequently by stochastic interactions between birds and fruits; however, many studies report coarse-scale correlations in annual abundances of birds and fruits at particular locales (i.e. 'phenological synchrony'). This study tested the geographical consistency of phenological synchrony in a meta-analysis of data from 14 biogeographic locations. Data from a single site in British Columbia, Canada, were then used to test the dispersal facilitation hypothesis, which postulates that synchronous bird-fruit abundance patterns result from deterministic seed dispersal processes (i.e. avian fruit consumption). Results showed that phenological synchrony is a geographically consistent pattern. However, fruit production occurred after peak periods of bird abundances in British Columbia. Although phenological patterns were asynchronous at this site, observational and experimental fruit removal patterns supported the dispersal facilitation hypothesis. Avian fruit consumption covaried with bird abundances, suggesting selection may favour earlier fruit production and increased phenological synchrony. Environmental data suggest that earlier fruit production is constrained by cold spring temperatures, which inhibit the activity of pollinators and earlier dates of fruit maturation. Overall, the results show that phenological synchrony is a geographically consistent pattern in seed dispersal mutualisms. However, decoupled bird-fruit abundance patterns may occur despite deterministic processes favouring phenological synchrony.
40602944|Aim: Our objective was to document the general relationship between plant species richness (SR) and above-ground net primary productivity (ANPP) at different spatial scales and the environmental influence on this relationship. Location: Temperate and alpine grasslands of China. Methods: We investigated SR and ANPP at 321 field sites (1355 plots) across the widely distributed temperate and alpine grasslands of China. Ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions were used to test SR-ANPP relatinships among site means. Plot-level data of SR and ANPP were analysed with general linear models (GLMs) and the correlation between SR and ANPP was decomposed into covariance components to test the influence of climatic variables, region, vegetation type and remaining variation among sites on SR, ANPP and their relationship. Results: We found positive linear relationships between SR and ANPP among sites in both the alpine and temperate grassland regions and in different grassland vegetation types of these biomes. Environmental gradients such as growing-season precipitation affected both SR and ANPP in parallel. However, after removing the among-site environmental variation, residual SR and ANPP were no longer correlated at the pooled within-site level. Main conclusions: The positive SR-ANPP relationship across large-scale environmental gradients among sites was most likely the result of climatic variables influencing SR and ANPP in parallel. Our results suggest that in China's natural grasslands there is no direct relationship between SR and ANPP, presumably because the pool of available species for local community assembly is large, in contrast to experiments where species pools are artificially reduced.
40602960|Aim: Coral reefs are widely considered to be particularly vulnerable to changes in ocean temperatures, yet we understand little about the broad-scale spatio-temporal patterns that may cause coral mortality from bleaching and disease. Our study aimed to characterize these ocean temperature patterns at biologically relevant scales. Location: Global, with a focus on coral reefs. Methods: We created a 4-km resolution, 21-year global ocean temperature anomaly (deviations from long-term means) database to quantify the spatial and temporal characteristics of temperature anomalies related to both coral bleaching and disease. Then we tested how patterns varied in several key metrics of disturbance severity, including anomaly frequency, magnitude, duration and size. Results: Our analyses found both global variation in temperature anomalies and fine-grained spatial variability in the frequency, duration and magnitude of temperature anomalies. However, we discovered that even during major climatic events with strong spatial signatures, like the El Nio-Southern Oscillation, areas that had high numbers of anomalies varied between years. In addition, we found that 48% of bleaching-related anomalies and 44% of disease-related anomalies were less than 50 km 2 , much smaller than the resolution of most models used to forecast climate changes. Main conclusions: The fine-scale variability in temperature anomalies has several key implications for understanding spatial patterns in coral bleaching-and disease-related anomalies as well as for designing protected areas to conserve coral reefs in a changing climate. Spatial heterogeneity in temperature anomalies suggests that certain reefs could be targeted for protection because they exhibit differences in thermal stress. However, temporal variability in anomalies could complicate efforts to protect reefs, because high anomalies in one year are not necessarily predictive of future patterns of stress. Together, our results suggest that temperature anomalies related to coral bleaching and disease are likely to be highly heterogeneous and could produce more localized impacts of climate change.
40928132|Aim: Species-body size distributions (SBDs) are plots of species richness across body size classes. They have been linked to energetic constraints, speciation-extinction dynamics and to evolutionary trends. However, little is known about the spatial variation of size distributions. Here we study SBDs of European springtails (Collembola) at a continental scale and test whether minimum, average and maximum body size and the shapes of size distributions change across latitudinal and longitudinal gradients and whether SBDs of islands and mainlands differ. We also test whether the island rule and the positive body size-range size relationship of vertebrates also holds for Collembola. Location: Europe. Methods: We use a unique data set on the spatial distributions of 2102 species of European springtails across 52 countries and larger islands together with associated data on body size, area, climate variables, longitude and latitude. Differences in the central moments of SBDs are inferred from simultaneous spatial autoregression models. Results: The SBD of the European Collembola and its largest suborder Entomobryomorpha is unimodal and symmetrical. Average, minimum and maximum body weight and the skewness of the mainland/island SBDs peaked at intermediate latitudes. We could not find simple latitudinal gradients in minimum and maximum body weight. Average and maximum body size increased with country/island area in accordance with the island rule in vertebrates, while minimum body size did not significantly differ between islands and mainlands. Finally, we found a weak but statistically significant positive correlation of range size and body size. Main conclusions: We provide evidence for differences in body size distributions between islands and mainlands that are in part in line with the island rule in invertebrates. We also find evidence for an interspecific body size-range size relationship similar to that of vertebrates although the vertebrate pattern is much stronger than the springtail pattern. Our results on latitudinal gradients of maximum and average body size imply the need to account for species richness and area effects in the study of latitudinal gradients in body size. We recommend implementing sample size and area effects in the study of body size distributions on islands and mainlands.
40205733|Aim: Deep-sea pelagic diversity is poorly understood. Local (SL) and regional (SR) ichthyonekton species richness are presented and analysed with respect to local and regional environmental factors, and biogeographical processes. Location: Sixty-six stations from the Atlantic Ocean and adjacent sector of the Southern Ocean, 65 N to 57 S. Methods: Estimation of SL by means of rarefaction. Stepwise evaluation of SL and SR relationships by means of the second-order corrected Akaike information criterion (AICc) after locally weighted scatterplot smoothing (LOESS) and linear fitting, analysis of saturation effects by means of slopes of species accumulation curves (log-log plots). Results: Latitudinal gradients were present for SL and SR, and were asymmetric between the Northern and Southern hemispheres. Relatively low species richness was encountered for the Southern Ocean. Asymmetry at the regional level by means of higher SR was attributed to area effects in the South Atlantic. Log-log plots indicated saturation of local assemblages and dependence on environmental factors. SL was related to productivity; this relationship was hump-shaped. SR was positively related to area size and negatively to seasonality of production. Biogeographical effects were indicated in that SR peaks coincided with overlap zones of boreal and tropical faunas as a consequence of historical faunal exchange processes. Main conclusions: The stepwise approach allowed for distinction between effects of area size, productivity and biogeographical processes on diversity at local and regional scales. Productivity in particular is important in two ways. At the local scale, the link of productivity to SL is explained by a successional-functional hypothesis of resource utilization, whereas the seasonality effect for SR reinforces the hypothesis of dependence of deep-sea fishes on seasonality of production through changes of life-history traits. The causes of low Antarctic faunal diversity remained unresolved.
2665437|A new method of environmental inference is presented. This method uses the climatic restriction index (CRI) for each mammal species, based on its geographical range within different climatic regimes, and a set of calculated summary indexes known as the bioclimatic spectrum. Analysis of 50 faunas throughout the world shows that terrestrial mammal communities are effective tools for accurate climatic inference at large spatial scale. The results also indicate that the use of entire mammalian fauna is the best inference system, followed by those based on separate groups such as Insectivora, Rodentia, micromammals and macromammals. Removing Chiroptera from the analysis does not change the results significantly. Bioclimatic analysis appears to be a good method for environmental interpretation. This new method ensures a high qualitative precision. It provides an empirical model for mammal community characterization that must be taken into account for palaeoclimatic reconstructions of continental environments.
30137905|Aim: We assessed the rates of turnover of tree species with distance (beta diversity) in wet forests of the Western Ghats (WG) complex of India to see whether climate, topographic variation or species traits influence beta diversity. Location: The Western Ghats is a chain of mountains about 1600 km in length, running parallel to the western coast of the Indian Peninsula from above 80 N to almost 21 N latitude. Methods: We used data from 60 small plot inventories concentrated in three regions: the southernmost part of the Western Ghats (SWG) (824 to 937 N), the Nilgiri Hills (1112 to 1114 N), and the central Western Ghats (CWG) (1232 to 1451 N). We used Sorensen's index (SI) to estimate the similarity in species composition between two plots and regressed SI against the logarithm of the distance between plots to assess beta diversity. A bootstrapping procedure provided confidence intervals for regression coefficients. To test for the effects of climate, we regressed seasonality differences between plots against SI for low-elevation (< 800 m) plots along the north-south axis, and all plots in the SWG. We assessed the impact of the rainfall gradient in the Kogar region. Results: Among all three regions, beta diversity was highest along the latitudinal axis, and along the rainfall gradient in the Kogar region. Differences in seasonality between sites were strongly related to beta diversity along the north-south seasonality gradient and within the SWG. Within the three regions, beta diversity was highest in the region with the strongest rainfall gradient and lowest for the topographically heterogeneous SWG. Beta diversity did not differ between forest strata and dispersal modes. Main conclusions: We conclude that climate, particularly seasonality, is probably the primary driver of beta diversity among rain forest trees of the Western Ghats complex.
2665339|1 Assessments of climate change impacts on the global carbon cycle have to rely on accurate models describing the contribution of the terrestrial biosphere. Interannual climate fluctuations provide an ideal test case for their reliability because results can be checked against atmospheric measurements. 2 Intercomparisons have so far shown rather large discrepancies between the results of different terrestrial ecosystem models, especially for net primary productivity (NPP). Therefore, identification of the processes contributing most to modelling uncertainties is another necessary step towards more reliable predictions. 3 The Biosphere Energy-Transfer and Hydrology model (BETHY) is used to simulate global photosynthesis, and plant and soil respiration embedded within the full energy and water balance, based on 13 years of meteorological data. A series of sensitivity experiments is defined to assess the effects of estimated global uncertainties in a range of parameters. 4 It is found that modelling uncertainties are responsible for a large range of computed values of global annual NPP, while interannual climate fluctuations create only relatively minor changes. These fluctuations, however, are responsible for imbalances between carbon uptake by and release from the terrestrial biosphere, creating interannual fluctuations of the net biosphere-atmosphere CO<sub>2</sub> exchange. Here, different model versions tend to agree with each other, which indicates that the net flux is generally better constrained than average NPP. A comparison with net fluxes derived from atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> data shows a good agreement for most models. 5 The results support the hypothesis that at the time scale of a decade, the terrestrial biosphere causes most of the interannual fluctuations of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations, with the tropies playing a dominant role. They also indicate that modelling uncertainties for the net carbon exchanges tend to be less pronounced than for NPP. The method presented here, applied to other modelling studies, should also help in the identification of major uncertainties in biosphere process description, eventually leading to improved predictive capabilities of such models.
3697653| Aim: To examine the exploitation, recovery and current status of green turtles (Chelonia mydas) nesting at Ascension Island. Location: Ascension Island (UK) (757' S, 1422' W), South Atlantic Ocean. Methods: We analysed records of the harvest of green turtles nesting at Ascension Island between 1822 and 1935, illustrating the decline in numbers over this period. Using a deterministic age-class structured model we predict the initial number of breeding females present in the population prior to the recorded harvest and compare this to our estimate of the current population based upon our recent annual surveys (1999-2004). Results: Prior to 1822 we estimate the nesting population of green turtles to have been at least 19,000-22,000 individuals in order for the population to have survived the level of harvest recorded. From recent data (1999-2004), we estimate the current breeding population of green turtles at this site to be 11,000-15,000 females. Our results illustrate a dramatic recovery of the population, which is still increasing exponentially and shows no evidence of slowing, suggesting it has not reached 50% of its carrying capacity. Main conclusions: We estimate that, since the 1970s, the Ascension Island population of green turtles has increased by 285% and question the recent listing of this species as endangered by the IUCN (World Conservation Union), in particular in the Atlantic Ocean, where 75% of the populations assessed by the IUCN are increasing. Indeed, we estimate the global population of this species to be in excess of 2.2 million individuals. We suggest that the IUCN's global listing process detracts attention from those populations that are truly threatened with extinction and should not, in its present form, be applied to globally distributed long-lived species such as marine turtles. 
41239404|Aim: To assess the influence of natural environmental factors and historic and current anthropogenic processes as determinants of vegetation distributions at a continental scale. Location: Africa. Methods: Boosted regression trees (BRTs) were used to model the distribution of African vegetation types, represented by remote-sensing-based land-cover (LC) types, as a function of environmental factors. The contribution of each predictor variable to the best models and the accuracy of all models were assessed. Subsequently, to test for anthropogenic vegetation transformation, the relationship between the number of BRT false presences per grid cell and human impact was evaluated using hurdle models. Finally, the relative contributions of environmental, current and historic anthropogenic factors on vegetation distribution were assessed using regression-based variation partitioning. Results: Deserts and evergreen forests were best predicted by environmental variables, though most other LC classes were also relatively well predicted by the environment. Annual precipitation emerged as the most important determinant of all LC classes. At low rainfall levels, LC classes with increasing woody cover replaced each other as rainfall increased, while LC class rainfall optima overlapped at high rainfall levels. With some exceptions, anthropogenic factors had a relatively small influence on the distribution of most LC classes. However, anthropogenic factors did have an influence on the inaccuracies in BRT models, and these models provided an indication of which LC classes have been most reduced by transformation. Main conclusions: Here we show, for the first time, how environmental and anthropogenic factors influence vegetation distribution across Africa. LC classes at rainfall extremes are best predicted by the environment. In addition, we corroborate, also for the first time, the much-stated claim that rainfall is the most important variable for the distribution of African vegetation for all African vegetation types. Finally, we indicate how anthropogenic drivers affect LC distributions.
40801857|Aim: To establish the extent to which archipelagos follow the same species-area relationship as their constituent islands and to explore the factors that may explain departures from the relationship.
40405759|Aim: To evaluate the relative potential contribution of native ruderals and aliens to plant homogenization at a regional scale, after taking into account the effect of diverse environmental distances. Location: Catalonia (north-east Spain) Methods: We have used the flora module of the BDBC project (Catalonian Database of Biodiversity), which provides information on plant species distribution per 10x10 km Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) cell. Pairwise floristic similarities of: (1) total, (2) native non-ruderal, (3) native ruderal, and (4) alien vascular plant species have been calculated for a particularly well-sampled subset of UTM cells, using a modified version of the Simpson index. These similarities have been compared per UTM pair using Mantel tests, before and after considering their relative association with geographical, climatic and landscape distances from linear regression models. The floristic similarity of both total and native non-ruderal species was also correlated with the proportion of alien and native ruderal species after discounting the effects of environmental distances. Results: The proportion of variance explained by environmental correlates was highest for the floristic similarity of native non-ruderal plants and lowest for that of aliens. In all plant groups, climatic distance was the main significant variable of species similarity. Geographical distance was only significant for total and native non-ruderal species and was of secondary importance in both cases. Landscape distance was not significant in any case. Similarities among both aliens and native ruderals were significantly higher than among native non-ruderals, but these differences disappeared after removing the effect of environmental distances. Main conclusions: Species similarity between sites may depend on differences in environmental factors other than geographical distance. This has to be taken into account when exploring the implications for biotic homogenization. In the case of Catalonian flora, the potentially homogenizing effect of native ruderal and alien species seems to be associated with their lower dependence on geographical distance and climatic factors compared with those of native, non-ruderal species.
3697614|Aims: To describe the pattern of mean body size of native mammals in Europe, and to investigate its relationships with environmental predictors related to four hypotheses: (1) dispersal; (2) heat conservation; (3) heat dissipation; and (4) resource availability. Location: Continental western Europe and Great Britain. Methods: We used range maps to estimate the mean body size (average log mass) of mammals in 386 cells of
30134100|Aim: Many high-latitude floras contain more calcicole than calcifuge vascular plant species. The species pool hypothesis explains this pattern through an historical abundance of high-pH soils in the Pleistocene and an associated opportunity for the evolutionary accumulation of calcicoles. To obtain insights into the history of calcicole/calcifuge patterns, we studied species richness-pH-climate relationships across a climatic gradient, which included cool and dry landscapes resembling the Pleistocene environments of northern Eurasia. Location: Western Sayan Mountains, southern Siberia. Methods: Vegetation and environmental variables were sampled at steppe, forest and tundra sites varying in climate and soil pH, which ranged from 3.7 to 8.6. Species richness was related to pH and other variables using linear models and regression trees. Results: Species richness is higher in areas with warmer winters and at medium altitudes that are warmer than the mountains and wetter than the lowlands. In treeless vegetation, the species richness-pH relationship is unimodal. In tundra vegetation, which occurs on low-pH soils, richness increases with pH, but it decreases in steppes, which have high-pH soils. In forests, where soils are more acidic than in the open landscape, the species richness-pH relationship is monotonic positive. Most species occur on soils with a pH of 6-7. Main conclusions: Soil pH in continental southern Siberia is strongly negatively correlated with precipitation, and species richness is determined by the opposite effects of these two variables. Species richness increases with pH until the soil is very dry. In dry soils, pH is high but species richness decreases due to drought stress. Thus, the species richness-pH relationship is unimodal in treeless vegetation. Trees do not grow on the driest soils, which results in a positive species richness-pH relationship in forests. If modern species richness resulted mainly from the species pool effects, it would suggest that historically common habitats had moderate precipitation and slightly acidic to neutral soils.
40205691|Aim: A latitudinal gradient in species richness, defined as a decrease in biodiversity away from the equator, is one of the oldest known patterns in ecology and evolutionary biology. However, there are also many known cases of increasing poleward diversity, forming inverse latitudinal biodiversity gradients. As only three processes (speciation, extinction and dispersal) can directly affect species richness in areas, similar factors may be responsible for both classical (high tropical diversity) and inverse (high temperate diversity) gradients. Thus, a modified explanation for differential species richness which accounts for both patterns would be preferable to one which only explains high tropical biodiversity. Location: The New World. Methods: We test several proposed ecological, temporal, evolutionary and spatial explanations for latitudinal diversity gradients in the New World snake tribe Lampropeltini, which exhibits its highest biodiversity in temperate regions. Results: We find that an extratropical peak in species richness is not explained by latitudinal variation in diversification rate, the mid-domain effect, or Rapoport's rule. Rather, earlier colonization and longer duration in the temperate zones allowing more time for speciation to increase biodiversity, phylogenetic niche conservatism limiting tropical dispersal and the expansion of the temperate zones in the Tertiary better explain inverse diversity gradients in this group. Main conclusions: Our conclusions are the inverse of the predictions made by the tropical conservatism hypothesis to explain higher biodiversity near the equator. Therefore, we suggest that the processes invoked are not intrinsic to the tropics but are dependent on historical biogeography to determine the distribution of species richness, which we refer to as the 'biogeographical conservatism hypothesis'.
40928130|Aims: We have compared local (alpha) and regional (beta) species diversities of dung beetles in wet forests in the main tropical regions including Madagascar. Madagascar is exceptional in lacking native large herbivorous mammals which produce the key resource for dung beetles elsewhere. Location: Central and South America, mainland Africa, Madagascar and Southeast Asia. Methods: Trapping data on dung beetles and data on mammalian faunas were obtained from published and unpublished studies. We used our original data for Madagascar. Results: Species richness of dung beetles and that of large-bodied (> 15 mm length) species in particular were highly significantly explained by the regional number of large-bodied (> 10 kg) mammals (R from 50 to 80%). For a given pairwise spatial distance between two communities, beta diversity was significantly higher in Madagascar than elsewhere, explaining the very high total species richness in Madagascar in spite of low local diversity. Main conclusion: The presence and numbers of large herbivorous mammals greatly influence the species richness of dung beetles in tropical wet forests. The lack of native large herbivores rather than a limited species pool explains the low local diversity in Madagascar. Exceptionally high beta diversity in Madagascar suggests a pattern of old radiation involving extensive allopatric speciation.
2997885|1. The South and Middle American tropics contain the world's largest area of moist savanna. Despite an apparent uniformity in appearance, floristic groupings can be detected and four zones are provisionally outlined with a number of characteristic plants. 2. Although current knowledge of their biogeography and palaeoecology is scattered and incomplete, it is evident that there have been significant changes throughout the neotropics since the glacial maximum. 3. The largest and most significant savanna formations are the Brazilian cerrados, which occupy nearly 23% of that country, an area equivalent to that of western Europe. The cerrados range from savanna woodlands (cerradao), through progressively less arboreal formations (cerrado), to nearly treeless grasslands (campo). A number of adjoining vegetation formations are closely related, including evergreen and deciduous forests, scrub woodlands and wetlands. 4. Until the last decade, the biological diversity of the neotropical savannas was thought to be limited since, structurally, they appeared to form a relatively simple mosaic of repeated physiognomic units. New evidence reveals a rich diversity of tree, shrub and herbaceous plants in a continuously changing spatial pattern Such diversity reflects the great area of the biome, together with local differences in topography and drainage, soil conditions and fire frequency. 5. Research on the dynamic processes affecting savannas is of increasing importance and urgency given the potential value of the area that is still relatively undisturbed (about 50% of the original, but with less than 2% having federal reserve status) and the pace of current conversion to different forms of land use.
2665347|In complex areas of international policy, such as biodiversity conservation, there is a risk that well-promoted strategies will be received by decision makers as a cure-all. The U.S.-based Conservation International is promoting biodiversity hotspots as a `silver bullet' strategy for conserving most species for least cost. We assess the degree to which this goal is compatible with four social values that characterize the conservation movement. We find that biodiversity hotspots provide only a partial response because conservation does not treat all species as equal. We argue that explicit recognition of such values is fundamental to a structured debate contributing to the development of a common strategy for biodiversity conservation.
3697671|Aim: The elevational gradients of species richness have been well documented; however, studies about species turnover (i.e. beta diversity) in such gradients are limited. We aimed to evaluate the relationship between species turnover and elevation in rodents, and particularly to assess two assumptions at the local scale: (1) species turnover is higher at an intermediate elevation; and (2) turnover decreases at higher elevations as a result of species with larger elevational ranges; and a third assumption at a regional scale; (3) beta diversity changes positively with the size of the elevational range. Location: We selected 13 studies from the literature that evaluated the relationship between elevation and species richness in rodents, which include diverse sites around the world. Methods: We constructed presence/absence matrices of species occurring at 500-m intervals, in order to measure spatial species turnover, using Whittaker's (
41239263|Aim: To estimate population extinction rates within freshwater fish communities since the fragmentation of palaeo-rivers due to sea level rise at the end of the Pleistocene; to combine this information with rates estimated by other approaches (population surveys, fossil records); and to build an empirical extinction-area relationship. Location: Temperate rivers from the Northern Hemisphere, with a special focus on rivers discharging into the English Channel, in north-western France. Methods: (1) French rivers. We used a faunal relaxation approach to estimate extinction rates in coastal rivers after they became isolated by the sea level rise. Tributaries within the Seine were used to build a species-area relationship for a non-fragmented river system to predict species richness in coastal rivers before their fragmentation. (2) Other rivers. Extinction rates obtained for four other Holarctic river systems fragmented at the end of the Pleistocene, the fragmented populations of one salmonid species (Japan) and the fossil records from the Mississippi Basin were included in the study. Results: (1) French rivers. Within strictly freshwater fish species, rare and/or habitat specialist species were the most affected by fragmentation. In contrast, euryhaline species were not affected. A negative relationship between extinction rate and river basin size was observed. (2) Other rivers. Our study established a common scaling relationship for freshwater fish population extinction rates that spans seven orders of magnitude in river basin size. Main conclusions: This study strongly suggests that extinctions of fish populations occurred within French coastal rivers after they became isolated 8000 years ago. The patterns observed at regional and inter-continental scales are consistent with the expectation that large populations are less prone to extinction than small ones, resulting in a strong extinction-area relationship coherent over a large spatiotemporal scale. Our study is the first multi-scale quantitative assessment of background extinction patterns for freshwater fishes.
40801920|Aim: To test six hypotheses that could explain or mediate the positive correlation between human population density (HPD) and bird species richness while controlling for biased sampling effort. These hypotheses were labelled as follows: productivity (net primary productivity, NPP); inherent heterogeneity (diversity of vegetation types); anthropogenic heterogeneity (diversity of land uses); conservation policy (proportion of conservation land); increased productivity (humaninduced productivity increases); and the reduced-slope hypothesis (which predicts that humans have a negative impact on species numbers across the full range of variation in HPD).
40205718|Aim: To examine frequency distributions of body sizes for mammal assemblages at several spatial scales and assess the generality of results heretofore obtained only for North and South America. Location: Africa. Methods: Terrestrial African mammals were allocated to major biomes, and regional and local assemblages were extracted from published and unpublished literature. We produced body size frequency distributions for local, regional, biomic and continental distributions, both for whole assemblages and for three foraging strata, and compared these with several standard metrics (e. g. mean and median size, interquartile range, skew, bimodality, etc.). Differences between distributions were quantified using t-tests and analysis of variance. Results: African mammal faunas exhibit features in common with those of North and South America, most notably the gradual reduction in the modality and skew of body size distributions with decreasing spatial scale. Unlike other continents, however, the African mammal fauna exhibits a bimodal frequency distributions at all spatial scales. Our data suggest a role for competitive interactions in local assembly, as documented elsewhere, but further data on locally interacting assemblages are needed. Main conclusions: The African fauna appears unique in the expression of bimodality at all spatial scales. The presence of a secondary mode at large body size may reflect co-evolutionary adjustments to proto- human hunters and consequent escape from anthropogenic Pleistocene extinctions, but the absence of species of intermediate body size (c. 250- 4000 g) remains anomalous and is not readily explained by either historical or modern (ecological) factors. For the African mammal fauna, a key question in understanding the role of history versus ecology may not be why there are so many large species, but why there are so few intermediate-sized species.
3182735|Aim: Species assemblages with high proportions of localized taxa occur in regional islands with a history of strong ecoclimatic separation from adjacent systems. Current disturbance in such islands of relictualism or endemism disrupts the distinctive local character in favour of regionally distributed taxa with a wider range of tolerances. However, rehabilitation of the system should restore the localized biota. Thus, we used biogeographical composition to assess progress towards restoration of the dung beetle fauna associated with such an island of endemism following dredge-mining. Location: The study was conducted in natural coastal dune forest and a 23-year chronosequence of regenerating dune vegetation in the Maputaland centre of endemism, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Methods: Dung beetles were trapped in eight stands of regenerating vegetation of different ages (< 1 year to ~21 years) and in four stands of natural dune forest with differing ecological characteristics defined by measurements of vegetative physiognomy and microclimate. Species groups defined from multivariate analysis of biogeographical distribution patterns and vegetation associations were used to demonstrate quantitative compositional changes in the dung beetle assemblages across the chronosequence to natural forest. Results: Three biogeographical groups were defined. One group comprised species widespread in southern Africa or both southern and east Africa. The other two groups were endemic, one to the east coast and the other to Maputaland. There was a general trend from dominance by regionally distributed dung beetle taxa to dominance by locally distributed taxa across the chronosequence of regenerating vegetation from grassland, to open Acacia karroo thicket, to dense A. karroo-dominated woodland. However, this trend was linked closely to the relative physiognomic and microclimatic similarity between the regenerating vegetation and natural forest. Thus, proportions of locally distributed taxa were lower in older chronosequence woodland (~18-~21 years) with its low canopy cover and open understorey than in dense early chronosequence woodland (~9-~12 years), which is physiognomically and microclimatically closer to species-diverse natural forest with its dense canopy and understorey. Overall, the present dung beetle community comprises five species groups. Single widespread (21 spp.) and endemic groups (14 spp.) showed similar patterns of association with early chronosequence grassland and open thicket stands. A single widespread (3 spp.) and two endemic shade-associated groups (3 and 11 spp.) showed differing patterns of association centred, respectively, in late chronosequence woodland, natural forest, or all shaded stands. Main conclusions: At 23 years, vegetative regeneration is still at an early stage, but abundant activity of most, although not all species recorded in natural forest, is recovered with the closure of the woodland canopy at ~9 years. Compositional differences with respect to natural forest vary closely with vegetative physiognomy and its effect on the microclimate. Therefore, full compositional recovery is dependent on the re-establishment of natural forest physiognomy and microclimate.
3697622|Aim: Local-regional (LR) species diversity plots were conceived to assess the contribution of regional and local processes in shaping the patterns of biological diversity, but have been used also to explore the scaling of diversity in terms of its alpha, beta, and gamma components. Here we explore the idea that patterns in the geographical ranges of species over a continent can determine the shape of small region to large region (SRLR) plots, which are equivalent to LR plots when comparing the diversity of sites at two regional scales. Location: To test that idea, we analysed the diversity patterns at two regional scales for the mammals of North America, defined as the mainland from Alaska and Canada to Panama. Method: We developed a theoretical model relating average range size of species over a large-scale region with its average regional point species diversity (RPD). Then, we generated a null model of expected SRLR plots based on theoretical predictions. Species diversities at two scales were modelled using linear and saturation functions for Type I and Type II SRLR relationships, respectively. We applied the models to the case of North American mammals by examining the regional diversity and the RPD for 21 large-scale quadrats (with area equal to
2665408|1 This study compares the structural characteristics of 12 old-growth and six postfire second-growth hemlock-northern hardwood stands in north central Adirondack Park, New York, in order to test the null hypothesis that there are no differences in species composition, size structure, age structure and attributes such as dead wood and canopy gaps between old-growth stands and this type of second-growth forest. 2 The second-growth forests of this study regenerated following widespread logging-related fires in either 1903 or 1908; the old growth and second growth have similar environmental settings. 3 Estimates of stand ages, derived from an increment core of the oldest tree in each stand, range from 88 to 390 years. 4 Structural attributes are related to stand age (i.e. stage of development). In comparison with the second-growth forests of this study, older stands are characterized as (a) a larger average diameter of canopy trees; (b) a greater basal area of trees; (c) a lower density of canopy trees and of all trees 10 cm d.b.h.; (d) a higher density of eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carriere) trees; (e) a higher density of large trees (50 cm d.b.h.); (f) larger canopy gaps; and (g) a greater volume of coarse woody debris (both logs 20 cm d.b.h. and snags 10 cm d.b.h.). 5 Despite differences between old growth and second growth, especially in species composition, it appears from observations of the 18 stands that second-growth forests are developing some structural characteristics of old growth. 6 Structural attributes of the old-growth forests are similar to characteristics of the same forest type in geographically distant areas in eastern USA.
3697456|Aim: Species belonging to higher taxa endemic to islands are more likely to go extinct following human arrival. This selectivity may occur because more highly endemic island species possess features that make them uniquely vulnerable to impacts associated with human arrival, specifically: (1) restricted distribution (2) reduced predator escape response, including loss of flight, and (3) life history traits, such as large body mass, associated with greater susceptibility to hunting or habitat loss. This study aims to identify which of these features can explain the selective extinction of more highly endemic bird species in New Zealand. Location: North and South Island, New Zealand. Methods: Bird species breeding in New Zealand prior to human arrival were classified according to whether they became extinct or not during two periods of human settlement, prehistoric (post-Maori but pre-European arrival) and historic (post-European arrival). We modelled the relationships between extinction probability, level of endemism and life history traits in both periods. Results: The prehistoric extinction-endemism relationship can be explained entirely by the selective extinction of large-bodied species, whereas the historic extinction-endemism relationship appears due to increased susceptibility to introduced predators resulting from the loss of predator escape responses, including loss of flight. Conclusions: These features may explain extinction-endemism relationships more generally, given that human hunting and predator introductions are major impacts associated with human arrival on islands.
2997830|This paper describes structural change and damage to the natural tree vegetation in the Dr Alfredo Barrera Marin Botanical Garden, following Hurricane Gilbert in September, 1988. Post-hurricane data were compared with pre-hurricane data from the same plots, focusing mainly on composition and structure. Near complete defoliation of trees and plants of the understorey occurred and average foliage loss was estimated to be 4.5 t/ha. The density of trees decreased by 33%, and the basal area decreased by 12%. Small diameter trees accounted for the great majority of losses and trees in the largest diameter classes survived best. The average height of trees in the lower canopy decreased by 6% and for those in the upper canopy by 9%. The frequency of understorey plants decreased by 51% and their cover decreased by 70%. Floristic richness decreased only slightly after the hurricane
3697610|Aim: To investigate the major paradigms of intense isolation and little anthropogenic influence around Antarctica and to examine the timings and scales of the modification of the southern polar biota. Location: Antarctica and surrounding regions. Methods: First, mechanisms of and evidence for long-term isolation are reviewed. These include continental drift, the development of a surrounding deep-water channel and the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC). They also include levels of endemism, richness and distinctiveness of assemblages. Secondly, evidence for past and modern opportunities for species transport are investigated. Comparative levels of alien establishments are also examined around the Southern Ocean. Discussion: On a Cenozoic time-scale, it is clear that Gondwana's fragmentation led to increasing geographical isolation of Antarctica and the initiation of the ACC, which restricted biota exchange to low levels while still permitting some movement of biota. On a shorter Quaternary time-scale, the continental ice-sheet, influenced by solar (Milankovitch) cycles, has expanded and contracted periodically, covering and exposing terrestrial and continental shelf habitats. There were probably refugia for organisms during each glacial maxima. It is also likely that new taxa were introduced into Antarctica during cycles of ice sheet and oceanic front movement. The current situation (a glacial minimum) is not 'normal'; full interglacials represent only 10% of the last 430 ka. On short (ecological) time-scales, many natural dispersal processes (airborne, oceanic eddy, rafting and hitch-hiking on migrants) enable the passage of biota to and from Antarctica. In recent years, humans have become influential both directly by transporting organisms and indirectly by increasing survival and establishment prospects via climate change. Main conclusions: Patterns of endemism and alien establishment are very different across taxa, land and sea, and north vs. south of the Polar Frontal Zone. Establishment conditions, as much as transport, are important in limiting alien establishment. Three time-scales emerge as important in the modification of Antarctica's biota. The natural 'inter glacial' process of reinvasion of Antarctica is being influenced strongly by humans.
40928123|Aim: We test how productivity, disturbance rate, plant functional composition and species richness gradients control changes in the composition of high-latitude vegetation during recent climatic warming. Location: Northern Fennoscandia, Europe. Methods: We resampled tree line ecotone vegetation sites sampled 26 years earlier. To quantify compositional changes, we used generalized linear models to test relationships between compositional changes and environmental gradients. Results: Compositional changes in species abundances are positively related to the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI)-based estimate of productivity gradient and to geomorphological disturbance. Competitive species in fertile sites show the greatest changes in abundance, opposed to negligible changes in infertile sites. Change in species richness is negatively related to initial richness, whereas geomorphological disturbance has positive effects on change in richness. Few lowland species have moved towards higher elevations. Main conclusions: The sensitivity of vegetation to climate change depends on a complex interplay between productivity, physical and biotic disturbances, plant functional composition and richness. Our results suggest that vegetation on productive sites, such as herb-rich deciduous forests at low altitudes, is more sensitive to climate warming than alpine tundra vegetation where grazing may have strong buffering effects. Geomorphological disturbance promotes vegetation change under climatic warming, whereas high diversity has a stabilizing effect.
3697414|Aim: One of the limitations to using species' distribution atlases in conservation planning is their coarse resolution relative to the needs of local planners. In this study, a simple approach to downscale original species atlas distributions to a finer resolution is outlined. If such a procedure yielded accurate downscaled predictions, then it could be an aid to using available distribution atlases in real-world local conservation decisions. Location: Europe. Methods: An iterative procedure based on generalized additive modelling is used to downscale original European 50 x 50 km distributions of 2189 plant and terrestrial vertebrate species to c. 10 x 10 km grid resolution. Models are trained on 70% of the original data and evaluated on the remaining 30%, using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) procedure. Fitted models are then interpolated to a finer resolution. A British dataset comprising distributions of 81 passerine-bird species in a 10 x 10 km grid is used as a test bed to assess the accuracy of the downscaled predictions. European-wide, downscaled predictions are further evaluated in terms of their ability to reproduce: (1) spatial patterns of coincidence in species richness scores among different groups; and (2) spatial patterns of coincidence in richness, rarity and complementarity hotspots. Results: There was a generally good agreement between downscaled and observed fine-resolution distributions for passerine species in Britain (median Jaccard similarity = 70%; lower quartile = 36%; upper quartile = 88%). In contrast, the correlation between downscaled and observed passerine species richness was relatively low (rho = 0.31) indicating a pattern of error propagation through the process of overlaying downscaled distributions for many species. It was also found that measures of model accuracy in fitting original data (ROC) were a poor predictor of models' ability to interpolate distributions at fine resolutions (rho = -0.10). Although European hotspots were not fully coincident between observed and modelled coarse-resolution data, or between modelled coarse resolution and modelled downscaled data, there was evidence that downscaled distributions were able to maintain original cross-taxon coincidence of species-richness scores, at least for terrestrial vertebrate groups. Downscaled distributions were also able to uncover important environmental gradients otherwise blurred by coarse-resolution data. Main conclusions: Despite uncertainties, downscaling procedures may prove useful to identify reserves that are more meaningfully related to local patterns of environmental variation. Potential errors arising from the presence of false positives may be reduced if downscaled-distribution records projected to occur outside the range of original coarse-resolution data are excluded. However, the usefulness of this procedure may be limited to data-rich regions. If downscaling procedures are applied to data-poor regions, then there is a need to undertake further research to understand the structure of error in models. In particular, it would be important to investigate which species are poorly modelled, where and why. Without such an assessment it is difficult to support unsupervised use of downscaled data in most real-world situations.
30137997|Aim: In response to a recent paper suggesting the failure of ecological niche models to predict between native and introduced distributional areas of fire ants (Solenopsis invicta), we sought to assess methodological causes of this failure. Location: Ecological niche models were developed on the species' native distributional area in South America, and projected globally. Methods: We developed ecological niche models based on six different environmental data sets, and compared their respective abilities to anticipate the North American invasive distributional area of the species. Results: We show that models based on the 'bioclimatic variables' of the WorldClim data set indeed fail to predict the full invasive potential of the species, but that models based on four other data sets could predict this potential correctly. Main conclusions: The difference in predictive abilities appears to centre on the complexity of the environmental variables involved. These results emphasize important influences of environmental data sets on the generality and ability of ecological niche models to anticipate novel phenomena, and offer a simpler explanation for the lack of predictive ability among native and invaded distributional areas than that of niche shifts.
40205730|Aim: This first global quantification of the relationship between leaf traits and soil nutrient fertility reflects the trade-off between growth and nutrient conservation. The power of soils versus climate in predicting leaf trait values is assessed in bivariate and multivariate analyses and is compared with the distribution of growth forms (as a discrete classification of vegetation) across gradients of soil fertility and climate. Location: All continents except for Antarctica. Methods: Data on specific leaf area (SLA), leaf N concentration (LNC), leaf P concentration (LPC) and leaf N:P were collected for 474 species distributed across 99 sites (809 records), together with abiotic information from each study site. Individual and combined effects of soils and climate on leaf traits were quantified using maximum likelihood methods. Differences in occurrence of growth form across soil fertility and climate were determined by one-way ANOVA. Results: There was a consistent increase in SLA, LNC and LPC with increasing soil fertility. SLA was related to proxies of N supply, LNC to both soil total N and P and LPC was only related to proxies of P supply. Soil nutrient measures explained more variance in leaf traits among sites than climate in bivariate analysis. Multivariate analysis showed that climate interacted with soil nutrients for SLA and area-based LNC. Mass-based LNC and LPC were determined mostly by soil fertility, but soil P was highly correlated to precipitation. Relationships of leaf traits to soil nutrients were stronger than those of growth form versus soil nutrients. In contrast, climate determined distribution of growth form more strongly than it did leaf traits. Main conclusions: We provide the first global quantification of the trade-off between traits associated with growth and resource conservation 'strategies' in relation to soil fertility. Precipitation but not temperature affected this trade-off. Continuous leaf traits might be better predictors of plant responses to nutrient supply than growth form, but growth forms reflect important aspects of plant species distribution with climate.
2665352|Despite considerable published literature on the above-ground ecology of the pinewoods of Scotland, little research has considered the way in which pinewood soils differ from those under other vegetation types. Soil properties were compared between ancient, semi-natural Scots pine forest and moorland on three soil types in the Abernethy Forest Reserve in the Cairngorm Mountains of Scotland. Soil morphology differed considerably between the vegetation types on each soil type, principally in the thickness of organic layers. Forest soils had thicker organic layers and this was particularly true of the F horizon. Forest soils were slightly less acid than equivalent moorland soils and had accumulated significantly more carbon. Forest soils in this environment therefore have the capacity to sequester larger amounts of carbon than moorland, and therefore represent a significant potential carbon sink. The quantity of nitrogen and phosphorus was also consistently larger in the organic layers under pine forest and since little difference existed in these properties in the mineral horizons, it was concluded that this accumulation was real and represented a net addition to the tree-soil system.
3877793| Aim: To determine the relationship between the distribution of climate, climatic heterogeneity and pteridophyte species richness gradients in Australia, using an approach that does not assume potential relationships are spatially invariant and allows for scale effects (extent of analysis) to be explicitly examined. Location: Australia, extending from 10 S to 43 S and 112 E to 153 E. Method: Species richness within 50 x 50 km grid cells was determined using point distribution data. Climatic surfaces representing the distribution and availability of water and energy at 1 km and 5 km cell resolutions were obtained. Climate at the 50 km resolution of analysis was represented by their mean and standard deviation in that area. Relationships were assessed using geographically weighted linear regression at a range of spatial bandwidths to investigate scale effects. Results: The parameters and the predictive strength of all models varied across space at all extents of analysis. Overall, climatic variables representing water availability were more highly correlated to pteridophyte richness gradients in Australia than those representing energy. Their variance in cells further increased the strength of the relationships in topographically heterogeneous regions. Relationships with water were strong across all extents of analysis, particularly in the tropical and subtropical parts of the continent. Water availability explained less of the variation in richness at higher latitudes. Main conclusions: This study brings into question the ability of aspatial and single-extent models, searching for a unified explanation of macro-scaled patterns in gradients of diversity, to adequately represent reality. It showed that, across Australia, there is a positive relationship between pteridophyte species richness and water availability but the strength and nature of the relationship varies spatially with scale in a highly complex manner. The spatial variance, or actual complexity, in these relationships could not have been demonstrated had a traditional aspatial global regression approach been used. Regional scale variation in relationships may be at least as important as more general relationships for a true understanding of the distribution of broad-scale diversity. 
2665387|The species composition of reef-fish assemblages from nine Brazilian major coastal sites and four oceanic islands are compared. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was utilized to identify groups of sites based on similarity of composition, and to correlate environmental trends with such groups. Five distinct groups of sites were recognized: (1) the South and South-eastern coastal reefs (from Guarapari Islands to Santa Catarina, the southernmost Brazilian reefs); (2) the Northeastern coast (extending from the Manuel Luis Reefs to Abrolhos Archipelago); (3) Trindade Island; (4) Fernando de Noronha and Atol das Rocas; and (5) St Paul's Rocks. Water temperature, coral richness, distance from mainland, primary production and shelf width strongly correlated with the diversity and composition of the reef sites.
2665338|Five major drylands in South American display very low levels of faunal similarity. The remarkable consistency of faunal structure, however, suggests that it may be possible to extend earlier conclusions based only on the mammal fauna of the Altiplano and the Atacama Desert to all of South America's arid lands.
2665381|Three years of pollen trapping data from Barro Colorado Island, Panama, are compared with local vegetation inventories. Two hypotheses relating pollen representation to `messy' pollination and flower form are tested. Dioecious taxa were found to be over-represented in pollen spectra compared with their occurrence in local forests. Similarly, anemophilous and `messy' pollination types were found to be over-represented. While anemophilous taxa were the best dispersed pollen types, zoophilous taxa were also well-represented in dispersal classes of 20-40 m and > 40 m. Thus pollen arriving to lake sediments is most likely to be from anemophilous species or those zoophilous species exhibiting `messy' pollination syndromes. Pollination mechanisms will predictably bias the fossil record against certain flower morphologies. These data are of significance to those using the fossil pollen record to reconstruct the timing and sequence of angiosperm evolution. These data help prioritize plants to be included in modern pollen reference collections and to focus the search for `unknown' types on most-likely candidate families.
30137828|Aim: Many species are currently expanding their ranges in response to climate change, but the mechanisms underlying these range expansions are in many cases poorly understood. In this paper we explore potential climatic factors governing the recent establishment of new palm populations far to the north of any other viable palm population in the world. Location: Southern Switzerland, Europe, Asia and the world. Methods: We identified ecological threshold values for the target species, Trachycarpus fortunei, based on gridded climate data, altitude and distributional records from the native range and applied them to the introduced range using local field monitoring and measured meteorological data as well as a bioclimatic model. Results: We identified a strong relationship between minimum winter temperatures, influenced by growing season length and the distribution of the palm in its native range. Recent climate change strongly coincides with the palm's recent spread into southern Switzerland, which is in concert with the expansion of the global range of palms across various continents. Main conclusions: Our results strongly suggest that the expansion of palms into (semi-)natural forests is driven by changes in winter temperature and growing season length and not by delayed population expansion. This implies that this rapid expansion is likely to continue in the future under a warming climate. Palms in general, and T. fortunei in particular, are significant bioindicators across continents for present-day climate change and reflect a global signal towards warmer conditions.
3697615|Aim: To forecast the responses of alpine flora to the expected upward shift of treeline ecotones due to climatic warming, we investigated species richness patterns of vascular plants at small spatial scales across elevational transects. Location: Richness patterns were assessed at local scales along the elevational gradient in two undisturbed treeline ecotones and one disturbed treeline ecotone in the Spanish Pyrenees. Methods: We placed a rectangular plot (0.3-0.4 ha) in each treeline ecotone. We estimated and described the spatial patterns of plant richness using the point method and Moran's I correlograms. We delineated boundaries based on plant richness and tree cover using moving split windows and wavelet analysis. Then, to determine if floristic and tree cover boundaries were spatially related, overlap statistics were used. Results: Plant richness increased above the forest limit and was negatively related to tree cover in the undisturbed sites. The mean size of richness patches in one of these sites was 10-15 m. Moving split windows and wavelets detected the sharpest changes in plant richness above the forest limit at both undisturbed sites. Most tree cover and plant richness boundaries were not spatially related. Main conclusions: The upslope decrease of tree cover may explain the increase of plant richness across alpine treeline ecotones. However, the detection of abrupt richness boundaries well above the forest limit indicates the importance of local environmental heterogeneity to explain the patterns of plant richness at smaller scales. We found highly diverse microsites dominated by alpine species above the forest limit, which should be monitored to describe their response to the predicted upward shift of forests.
3697640|Aim: To investigate latitudinal and altitudinal patterns in body size variation among north-west European land snail species, as well as factors influencing such patterns. Location: Latitudinal patterns were investigated in northwest Europe from the British Isles and France in the west to Finland, Poland, Slovakia and Hungary in the east and from Norway in the north to France (with the exception of the Mediterranean part of the country), Switzerland, Austria and Hungary in the south. Altitudinal patterns were examined in the Alps in Austria and Switzerland. Methods: Data on latitudinal ranges of 366 north-west European land snail species, on altitudinal ranges of 175 species from Austria and 150 species from Switzerland, and on their body sizes were used to test for the presence of interspecific latitudinal or altitudinal body size patterns. Four methods, Stevens' method, the midpoint method, the across-species method, and a phylogenetically controlled analysis (CAIC) were applied. Results: As a result of the predominance of some small bodied clades at higher latitudes and some large bodied clades at lower latitudes, body size of north-west European land snails decreases significantly with increasing latitude. However, little of the body size variation across species is explained by latitude and the phylogenetically controlled analysis showed that the decrease of body size with increasing latitude is not a result of repeated and independent evolution of an association between body size and latitude in many clades. There is no significant correlation between body size of land snail species and altitude in the Alps although a negative correlation of body size and altitude is frequent within species. Main conclusion: If phylogenetic effects are controlled for, neither latitudinal nor altitudinal patterns in body size could be found. Bergmann's rule, which predicts a positive correlation between body size of species and latitude, could not be confirmed for north-west European land snails.
40205681|Aim: Vegetation exhibiting landscape-scale regular spatial patterns has been reported for arid and semi-arid areas world-wide. Recent theories state that such structures are bound to low-productivity environments and result from a selforganization process. Our objective was to test this relationship between periodic pattern occurrence and environmental factors at a global scale and to parametrize a predictive distribution model. Location: Arid and semi-arid areas world-wide. Methods: We trained an empirical predictive model (Maxent) for the occurrence of periodic vegetation patterns, based on environmental predictors and known occurrences verified on Landsat satellite images. Results: This model allowed us to discover previously unreported pattern locations, and to report the first ever examples of spotted patterns in natural systems. Relationships to the main environmental drivers are discussed. Main conclusions: These results confirm that periodic patterned vegetations are ubiquitous at the interface between arid and semi-arid regions. Self-organized patterning appears therefore to be a biome-scale response to environmental conditions, including soil and topography. The set of correlations between vegetation patterns and their environmental conditions presented in this study will need to be reproduced in future modelling attempts.
4139407| Aim To eyaluate frugivorous butterflies as indicators of forest disturbance in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. Location The study area is located in the municipality of Cotia, So Paulo State, south-eastern Brazil (2335-2350 S, 4645-4715 W). Methods Sampling was done at four sites inside a large forest block, the Morro Grande State Reserve, and in five forest fragments in an adjacent fragmented landscape. Butterflies were sampled with portable traps, baited with a fermented mixture of banana and sugar cane juice. Sampling was carried out during the period most favourable for the capture of frugivorous butterflies in south-eastern Brazil. Results All richness-related results indicated no effect of forest fragmentation on the frugivorous butterfly guild, concurring with the suggestion of appreciable resistance of Atlantic Forest butterflies to habitat modification. However, species composition discriminated between the two landscapes, indicating that fragmentation may have effects beyond simple species richness. When species were analysed individually, clear patterns of distribution emerged, with some species that were very abundant in the fragmented landscape being practically absent in the continuous landscape, and vice versa. This pattern seems consistent even for some subfamilies. Main conclusion Our findings support the usefulness of the frugivorous butterfly guild as a biological indicator of forest disturbance effects in one of the world's most threatened ecosystems. 
40205724|Aim: Soil nutrient content plays a key role in plant growth through mineral nutrition and toxicity. Its impact on plant species and community distribution is studied on a large geographical scale through surrogates like topography or geology. We investigated the importance of soil pH and C: N ratio, as direct nutritional gradients, to determine, with climatic factors, the spatial distribution of plant communities over large territories. Location: We studied the distribution of six beech habitats of the NATURA 2000 network throughout France (550,000 km). Methods: Models were calibrated with 2108 floristic plots classified in the NATURA 2000 system and including climatic and topographic variables and soil nutritional measurements carried out in a laboratory. Logistic regression was used to model habitat distribution according to environmental variables. Climatic layers, a digital elevation model and maps of soil pH and nitrogen content, created using plant indicator values and large floristic databases, were used to map the sites suitable for beech communities. Distribution models were evaluated with an independent set of 2091 phytosociological plots. Results: pH and nitrogen supply were the key distribution drivers for four of the six beech communities on a national scale. Their use in the distribution models distinguished within homogeneous climatic territories a gradient of nutritional conditions from acidic areas, suitable for nutrient-poor beech communities, to calcareous areas suitable for nutrient-rich ones. Predicted maps of beech habitats fit the spatial distribution of validation plots. Main conclusions: Soil pH and nitrogen supply strongly improve predictions of forest community distribution carried out with climatic variables on a broad geographical scale. They allow delineation of areas with nutritional conditions suitable for each community, as well as the realization of predictive high-resolution maps over large areas useful for sustainable and conservation management. Nomenclature Tutin & Heywood (2001) Flora Europaea. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
3182677|Aim: Climate change has the potential to have significant impacts on the distribution of species and on the composition of habitats. This paper identifies the potential changes in the future distribution of species under the UKCIP98 climate change scenarios, in order that such changes can be taken into account in conservation management. Location: The model was applied to Britain and Ireland. Methods: A model based on an artificial neural network was used to predict the changing bioclimate envelopes of species in Britain and Ireland. Fifty-four species representing 15 habitats were modelled. Results: The modelled species could be placed into three categories: those losing suitable climate space, those gaining it, and those showing little or no change. When the species were associated with habitats it was found that Arctic-Alpine/montane heath communities were the most sensitive to climate change, followed by pine woodland and beech woodland in southern England. In lowland heath, wet heath, cereal field margins, coastal grazing marsh, drought-prone acid grassland and calcareous grassland, the species either showed little change or an increase in suitable climate space. The other eight habitats showed a mixed response. Conclusions: The species show a variety of responses to climate change and thus their current habitat associations may alter. The uncertain future of some species and habitats is highlighted. Conservation policy and practice will need to be revised in the face of climate change.
3697413|Aim: A key question in ecology and ecological management is the extent to which management guidelines developed in one location can be generalized to other areas. Landscapes differ in their biophysical characteristics and the degree of human alteration imposed on them. Our aim was to develop a conceptual framework of Australian landscapes, on the basis of a few simple indicators, that can be used to enhance the communication of information in planning and managing landscapes, particularly for biodiversity conservation. Location: The project considered landscapes across the continent of Australia. Methods: The project was a desktop exercise and the approach was to identify the minimum set of variables, and levels within variables, that are most meaningful from the perspective of Australian landscapes and their management. This involved the identification of the key environmental axes and development of a proposed set of matrices involving various combinations of the axes, which was revised following consultation with stakeholders. Results: We developed a framework based on the primary variables of climate and vegetation. For climate, we used an agro-climatic classification incorporating a moisture index, growth index and seasonality, with climate classes aligned to existing bioregions. Vegetation was broadly classified on the presence or absence of a tree layer and whether the understorey was grassy or shrub-dominated. Secondary variables were the degree of landscape alteration and modification. The sensitivity of broad categories to ecosystem dysfunction was assessed, and the relative abundance of different categories across Australia was determined. Not all categories need to be considered since not all combinations of variables occur. Main conclusions: The framework provides a set of broad categories of landscapes with differing characteristics. We can then assess the importance of different types of threat in the different categories. By pulling together the potential threats in a systematic way across categories, we can start to consider what appropriate management responses might be in each case. Further, by providing a convenient way to compare landscapes in different categories, it becomes possible to see where generalizations among different landscapes may be possible and where they are definitely not likely to be helpful.
3697416| Aim: The main goal of this paper is to propose a new tool, in the form of Quantitative Bioclimatic Models (QnBMs), for reconstructing past climates based on fossil mammal associations. As a case study, European climatic conditions during the basal early Pleistocene will be inferred using QnBMs. Location: The study uses faunas throughout the world to develop a quantitative bioclimatic model, which is then applied to Quaternary faunas from Eurasia. Methods: The models were constructed by applying multivariate linear regression to modern mammal faunas and climates from all over the world. The models were validated with a second group of modern faunas, which includes several from transitional zones between different climates (ecotones). To test the reliability of the method when applied to fossil associations, the results obtained for the Pleistocene have been compared with those obtained from palynology. Results: Validation of the models shows that as many as 11 climatic factors can be inferred with high reliability using the regression models developed in this work. Comparisons of results in the late Pleistocene-Holocene of Barov (Czech Republic) between a palynological study and the quantitative bioclimatic analysis show a high degree of similarity. The results for the early Pleistocene show colder and drier climatic conditions for Europe than today. Main conclusions: The application of the quantitative bioclimatic models to present day as well as Quaternary mammal faunas proves to be a useful tool for palaeoclimatic reconstruction during the Quaternary and probably most of the Neogene. Transfer functions are presented for a complete set of climatic factors, allowing a precise estimation of the climate in a locality from its mammal fauna. 
40801858|Aim: Latitudinal-and regional-scale studies of reptile diversity suggest a predominant temperature effect, unlike many other vertebrate richness patterns which tend to be highly correlated with both temperature and water variables. Here I examine montane gradients in reptile species richness with separate analyses of snakes and lizards from mountains around the world to assess a predominant temperature effect and three additional theories of diversity, including a temperature-water effect, the species-area effect and the mid-domain effect (MDE).
3877777|Aim: Species richness-area theory predicts that more species should be found if one samples a larger area. To avoid biases from comparing species richness in areas of very different sizes, area is often controlled by counting the numbers of co-occupying species in near-equal area grid cells. The assumption is that variation in grid cell size accrued from working in a three-dimensional world is negligible. Here we provide a first test of this idea. We measure the surface area of c. 50 x 50 km and c. 220 x 220 km grid cells across western Europe. We then ask how variation in the area of grid cells affects: (1) the selection of climate variables entering a species richness model; and (2) the accuracy of models in predicting species richness in unsampled grid cells. Location: Western Europe. Methods: Models are developed for European plant, breeding bird, mammal and herptile species richness using seven climate variables. Generalized additive models are used to relate species richness, climate and area. Results: We found that variation in the grid cell area was large (50 x 50 km:
30137904|Aim: Comparative studies have revealed strong links between ecological factors and the number of parasite species harboured by different hosts, but studies of different taxonomic host groups have produced inconsistent results. As a step towards understanding the general patterns of parasite species richness, we present results from a new comprehensive data base of over 7000 host-parasite combinations representing 146 species of carnivores (Mammalia: Carnivora) and 980 species of parasites. Methods: We used both phylogenetic and non-phylogenetic comparative methods while controlling for unequal sampling effort within a multivariate framework to ascertain the main determinants of parasite species richness in carnivores. Results: We found that body mass, population density, geographical range size and distance from the equator are correlated with overall parasite species richness in fissiped carnivores. When parasites are classified by transmission mode, body mass and home range area are the main determinants of the richness of parasites spread by close contact between hosts, and population density, geographical range size and distance from the equator account for the diversity of parasites that are not dependent on close contact. For generalist parasites, population density, geographical range size and latitude are the primary predictors of parasite species richness. We found no significant ecological correlates for the richness of specialist or vector-borne parasites. Main conclusions: Although we found that parasite species richness increases instead of decreases with distance from the equator, other comparative patterns in carnivores support previous findings in primates, suggesting that similar ecological factors operate in both these independent evolutionary lineages.
2997854|Woody community phenology was studied in the central lowveld, South Africa, over a twelve month period at three sites along a rainfall gradient, with both toplands and bottomlands sampled at each site Each month, individual plants, in replicated samples, were scored into a number of categories describing their phenological state Position on the rainfall gradient influenced (1) onset and magnitude of leaf emergence, (2) onset and duration of mature leaves, and (3) the proportion of leafless trees Generally, the moist site demonstrated earlier leaf growth than the intermediate or arid sites Emergent and mature leaves were recorded earlier, and in the case of mature leaves, retained longer. Overall, there was a lower proportion of leafless trees during the dry season at the moist site, followed by the semi-arid site, followed by the arid site Differences with respect to catenal position were evident for the proportion of trees in winter with mature leaves, and the proportion of trees with senescent leaves Bottomlands had a greater proportion of trees with leaves during winter, but a lower proportion of trees recorded with senescent leaves Both of these findings were a result of the greater proportion of evergreen species in bottomlands, as well as increased leaf retention by the deciduous species Phenological activity of leaves was related to plant stem size In particular, there was greater leaf retention during the dry period by small stems, relative to large stems
40602941|Aim: To analyse how the patterns of species richness for the whole family Phyllostomidae determine the structure of diversity fields (sets of species-richness values) within the ranges of individual bat species. Location: The range of the family Phyllostomidae in North and South America. Methods: We generated a database of the occurrence of 143 phyllostomid bat species in 6794 quadrats, analysing the species-richness frequency distribution for all sites, and for subsets of sites defined by the geographic ranges of species.Range-diversity plots, depicting simultaneously the size and the mean species richness of ranges, were built to explore the patterns of co-occurrence in widespread and restricted species. We compared the empirical patterns against two null models: (1) with scattered (non-cohesive) ranges, and (2) with cohesive ranges modelled with the spreading-dye algorithm. Diversity fields were analysed with richness maps for individual species and with comparisons of species-richness frequency distributions. Results: Overall richness frequency distribution showed a multimodal patterrn, whereas simulated distributions showed lower values of variance, and were unimodal (for model 1) and bimodal (for model 2). Range-diversity plots for the empirical data and for the cohesive-ranges simulation showed a strong tendency of species to co-occur in high-diversity sites. The scattered-ranges simulation showed no such tendency. Diversity fields varied according to idiosyncratic features of species generating particular geographic patterns and richness frequency distributions. Main conclusions: Phyllostomid bats show a higher level of co-occurrence than expected from null models. That tendency in turn implies a higher variance in species richness among sites, generating a wider species-richness frequency distribution. The diversity field of individual species results from the size, shape and location of ranges, but also depends on the general pattern of richness for the whole family.
2997856|Five edaphically-restricted or -endemic butterflies, mostly associated with serpentine, are shown to be distributed in the western foothills of the Sierra Nevada in addition to their previously documented areas of occupancy in the California North Coast Ranges Two species are absolutely limited by the edaphic restriction of their host plants, while the other three seemingly are not The controversies concerning the origins of serpentine endemism in plants apply to butterflies as well. Long-term relictualism can presumably apply only at the metapopulation level, not the local population level, due to the frequency of fire in these habitats. Development and habitat-conversion trends pose a high risk to the long-term survival of these species in the Sierra Nevada
3697492|Aim: The aim of our study was to reveal relationships between richness patterns of native vs. alien plant species and spatial heterogeneity across varying landscape patterns at a regional scale. Location: The study was carried out in the administrative district of Dessau (Germany), covering around
3697415|Aim: The conservation of biological and genetic diversity is a major goal of reserve systems at local, regional, and national levels. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources suggests a 12% threshold (area basis) for adequate protection of biological and genetic diversity of a plant community. However, thresholds based on area may protect only a small portion of the total diversity if the locations are chosen without regard to the variation within the community. The objectives of this study were to demonstrate methods to apply a coarse-filter approach for identifying gaps in the current reserve system of the Psuedotsuga menziesii (Douglas-fir) forest type group based on current climatic conditions and a global climate change scenario. Location: Western United States. Method: We used an ecological envelope approach that was based on seven bioclimatic factors, two topographic factors, and two edaphic factors. Multivariate factor analysis was then used to reduce the envelope to two dimensions. The relative density of habitat and protected areas were identified in each part of the envelope based on the current climate and potential future climate. We used this information to identify gaps in the reserve system. Results: Although the protected areas occurred in all parts of the envelope, most existed in colder and drier areas. This was true for both the current climate and potential future climate. Main conclusion: To protect more of the ecological envelope, future conservation efforts would be most effective in western Oregon, north-western Washington, and north-western California.
3697420|Aim: The aim of this work was to estimate on a regional scale the effects of nitrogen (N) deposition and harvest intensity on N-budgets in forest soils as a basis for strategies of emission reduction and sustainable forest management methods. Location: The calculations were applied to Sweden, a country with a managed forest area of
3697443|Aim: To analyse the importance of local and regional influences on the patterns of species richness in natural and man-made lakes and to infer the impacts of human-mediated introductions on these patterns. Location: France. Methods: Species occurrence data were gathered for 25 natural and 51 man-made lakes. Analysis is based on regression models of local richness against their related regional richness and lake environmental variables. Results: Local native richness was mostly controlled by the regional richness. Conversely, local total richness was mainly explained by local variables. These statements apply to both natural and man-made lakes. Lacustrine systems displayed weak resistance to invaders. Main conclusions: Species introductions have apparently contributed to saturate fish communities in these systems even if no clear negative effect on the survival of native species (i.e. species extinction) is detectable so far.
3697559|Aim: In this study, we examine patterns of local and regional ant species richness along three elevational gradients in an arid ecosystem. In addition, we test the hypothesis that changes in ant species richness with elevation are related to elevation-dependent changes in climate and available area. Location: Spring Mountains, Nevada, U.S.A. Methods: We used pitfall traps placed at each 100-m elevational band in three canyons in the Spring Mountains. We compiled climate data from 68 nearby weather stations. We used multiple regression analysis to examine the effects of annual precipitation, average July precipitation, and maximum and minimum July temperature on ant species richness at each elevational band. Results: We found that patterns of local ant species richness differed among the three gradients we sampled. Ant species richness increased linearly with elevation along two transects and peaked at mid-elevation along a third transect. This suggests that patterns of species richness based on data from single transects may not generalize to larger spatial scales. Cluster analysis of community similarity revealed a high-elevation species assemblage largely distinct from that of lower elevations. Major changes in the identity of ant species present along elevational gradients tended to coincide with changes in the dominant vegetation. Regional species richness, defined here as the total number of unique species within an elevational band in all three gradients combined, tended to increase with increasing elevation. Available area decreased with increasing elevation. Area was therefore correlated negatively with ant species richness and did not explain elevational patterns of ant species richness in the Spring Mountains. Mean July maximum and minimum temperature, July precipitation and annual precipitation combined to explain 80% of the variation in ant species richness. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that in arid ecosystems, species richness for some taxa may be highest at high elevations, where lower temperatures and higher precipitation may support higher levels of primary production and cause lower levels of physiological stress.
30137990|Aim: Local communities are subject to spatiotemporal contingencies of landscape processes; community assembly is thus often considered to be unpredictable and idiosyncratic. However, evolved trade-offs of species' life histories may set distinct constraints on the assembly of species communities. In plants, the recruitment and invasion success of species into communities depend primarily on the number of propagules available and on their generative or vegetative character. Life-history trade-offs prevent individual plants from producing large numbers of both generative and vegetative propagules, but it is not clear whether this constrains their availability at the landscape scale. We thus tested whether: (1) the observed relationship between generative and vegetative propagules deviates from the null expectation stating that species contributing the bulk of generative propagules to the propagule rain should also contribute the bulk of vegetative propagules; and (2) whether vegetative and generative propagule pressures are negatively correlated once species abundance in the regional pool is accounted for. Location: A large riparian landscape in the Netherlands. Methods: Analyses were based on an extensive trapping of floating propagules (214,049 propagules of 47 species), and a rough proxy of species abundance across the entire pool. We used both species and phylogenetically independent contrasts as data points, and accounted for variation in size of generative propagules. Results: Both hypotheses were confirmed. Numbers of generative and vegetative propagules trapped per species were significantly negatively correlated (r= -0.33;
3697495|Aim: This study developed high-resolution datasets of the area of maize, soybean and wheat cultivation in the United States for 1950, 1970 and 1992. The datasets were used to examine the relationship between individual crop cover and nutrient levels in rivers across the Mississippi River Basin. Location: This study was conducted in the United States, with focus on the Mississippi River Basin. Methods: County and state-level estimates of the planted area of maize, soybean and wheat were integrated with a satellite-derived pattern in total cropland to develop 5' x 5' resolution datasets of the fractional area of maize, soybean and wheat in the United States for 1950, 1970 and 1992. Regression analysis was used to determine the relationships between mean levels of nitrogen, phosphorous and silica in 25 rivers across the Mississippi Basin, and the extent of maize, soybean and wheat cultivation in the watersheds. Results: The crop datasets provide a spatially explicit representation of the area of the three primary crops in 1950, 1970 and 1992. The datasets clearly depict the rapid expansion of soybean cultivation, the increased specialization of individual agricultural regions, and the accompanying reduction in agricultural biodiversity since 1950. The statistical analysis identified strong correlations between the extent of maize and soybean cover in a watershed and the level of nitrogen (N) and phosphorous (P) at the watershed outlet. In particular, the area of maize appears to be strongly related to the concentration of total-N and the ratio of dissolved inorganic-N and organic-N at the watershed outlet. Conclusions: The intensification of cultivation of the three primary crops - maize, soybean and wheat - has altered land cover and water quality across the U.S. since 1950. The high present-day rate of fertilizer use on maize and the expansion of soybean cultivation could be largely responsible for the change in nutrient ratios in the Mississippi River since 1950.
4139423| Aim To search for differences in the spatial variability of upper and lower elevational distribution limits of tropical ferns, based on the assumption that these are determined to different degrees by biotic and abiotic factors. Location The Yungas biogeographical region, in the Bolivian Andes. Methods From a data base of > 25,000 herbarium records, we analysed the skewness of the elevational distribution of 220 montane pteridophyte species, each with  15 records. Additionally, we compared the spatial variability of upper and lower elevational range limits of ferns in 351 plots of 400 m each along four elevational transects separated by 15-450 km. Results Individual species showed variable elevational distribution patterns, ranging from symmetric to asymmetric, i.e. downward and upward skewed, but overall there was a statistically significant trend towards asymmetric distributions with abrupt upper limits and diffuse lower limits. This trend, however, was almost exclusively due to terrestrial species occurring at and above the current timberline. The analysis of the elevational transects revealed no significant trends. Main conclusions The downward-skewed distributional abundance of terrestrial, open-country ferns near the timberline appears to be a result of the extensive forest destruction that has lowered the timberline in the high Andes by 500-800 m, opening up habitats for a restricted suite of species. Our study shows that a limited number of species can cause a general trend in the overall data set, and that failure to extract these data may result in unsupported conclusions, in our case to assign a greater importance to biotic and abiotic factors in the elevational limitation of plants at lower and upper elevations, respectively. 
40801921|Aim: To test whether functional homogenization of bird communities is promoted by anthropogenic landscape transformation, using specialization and habitat preference indices that account for the multidimensionality of niches.
4139439| Aim With the ever-increasing threats to biodiversity, efforts are being directed towards identifying hotspots of special importance for conservation. In particular, there has been an effort to identify irreplaceable regions that are especially rich in rare species. Areas of transition between ecological systems in which multiple species coincide are expected, almost by definition, to be species-rich. Here, we examine whether this is simply a result of an overlap between two communities in boundary regions, or whether boundary areas also hold concentrations of rare (e.g. range-limited) species. We ask whether an analysis that includes areas of transition may be a useful contribution to the identification of biodiversity centres. Location and methods To address these questions, we examined the relationship between passeriform richness and range size rarity of approximately 2300 bird species in 4889 1 New World grid cells, and the distance of the cells to boundaries between adjacent plant-based ecoregions. Results Areas nearer to boundary regions between ecoregions not only had more bird species, but also scored more highly in terms of species rarity. The range centres of the rarest 10% of species were distributed significantly closer to boundaries between ecoregions than were species in general. This pattern persisted for rarity when we divided the New World into three latitudinal belts and analysed each separately, and when we excluded the Andes. It also persisted when compared with randomly generated ecoregion polygons. Main conclusions The findings of this work suggest that transitiopal environments harbour many rare species, in addition to high richness. Consequently areas of biotic transition should be highly valued as biodiversity centres and need to be included in future global conservation analyses and decisions. 
3697516|Aim: The local distribution of woody vegetation affects most functional aspects of semiarid landscapes, from soil erosion to nutrient cycling. With growing concern about anthropogenic climate change, it has become critical to understand the ecological determinants of woody plant distribution in semiarid landscapes. However, relatively little work has examined the determinants of local variation in woody cover. Here we examine water balance controls associated with patterns of tree cover density in a topographically complex semiarid woodland. Location: Los Pinos Mountains, Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge LTER, New Mexico, USA. Methods: To explore the relationship between local water balance variation and tree cover density, we used a combination of high-resolution (1 x 1 m), remotely sensed imagery and quantitative estimates of water balance variation in space and time. Regression tree analysis (RTA) was used to identify the environmental parameters that best predict variation in tree cover density. Results: Using six predictor variables, the RTA explains 39% of the deviance in tree cover density over the landscape. The relationship between water balance conditions and tree cover density is highly contingent; that is, similar tree cover densities occur under very different combinations of water balance parameters. Thus, the effect of one environmental parameter on tree cover density depends on the values of other parameters. After tree cover density is adjusted for water balance conditions, residual variation is related to tree cover density in the neighbourhood of a particular location. Conclusion: In semiarid landscapes, vegetation structure is largely controlled by water supply and demand. Results presented here indicate that localized feedbacks and site-specific historical processes are critical for understanding the responses of semiarid vegetation to climate change.
3182692|1 SOMKO is a new simulation model of soil organic matter (SOM) dynamics aimed at predicting long-term and short-term SOM dynamics based on a mechanistic approach focusing on microbes as the key agents of decomposition. 2 SOM is partitioned into cohorts and chemical quality pools (classified by age and chemical composition), the microbial community processes are explicitly represented, and the C:N stoichiometric constraints are accounted for through a new mechanism of offer and demand. 3 The analysis of model equations shows that: (1) SOM C:N cannot decrease below microbial C:N; and (2) the nitrogen limitation of decomposition depends on SOM C:N, microbial biomass and soil mineral nitrogen. First tests of the model show good qualitative behaviour for simulating the dynamics of short-term litter-bag type decomposition, long-term SOM increase, pulsed mineral nitrogen production, the priming effect due to easily decomposable carbon addition, and the effects of vegetation clearance and climate change on SOM. Simulations are in good agreement with long-term experimental data. 4 SOMKO is an integrated component of the coupled soil-vegetation models within the ETEMA (European Terrestrial Ecosystem Modelling Activity) framework. Future extensions of this work include: (1) estimating microbial parameters from specific experiments; (2) spatial distribution of SOMKO in multistrata models; and (3) implementing nitrification/denitrification processes, phosphorus limitation and microfaunal activity.
41239264|Aim: The scale dependence of many ecological patterns and processes implies that general inference is reliant on obtaining scale-response curves over a large range of grains. Although environmental correlates of richness have been widely studied, comparisons among groups have usually been applied at single grains. Moreover, the relevance of environment-richness associations to fine-grain assemblages has remained surprisingly unclear. We present a first global cross-scale assessment of environment-richness associations for birds, mammals and amphibians from 2000 km down to c. 20 km. Location: World-wide. Methods: We performed an extensive survey of the literature for well-sampled terrestrial vertebrate inventories over clearly defined small extents. Coarser grain richness was estimated from the intersection of extent-of-occurrence range maps with concentric equal-distance circles around fine-grain assemblage location centroids. General linear and simultaneous autoregressive models were used to relate richness at the different grains to environmental correlates. Results: The ability of environmental variables to explain species richness decreases markedly toward finer grains and is lowest for fine-grained assemblages. A prominent transition in importance occurs between productivity and temperature at increased grains, which is consistent with the role of energy affecting regional, but not local, richness. Variation in fine-grained predictability across groups is associated with their purported grain of space use, i.e. highest for amphibians and narrow-ranged and small-bodied species. Main conclusions: We extend the global documentation of environmentrichness associations to fine-grained assemblages. The relationship between finegrained predictability of a group and its ecological characteristics lends empirical support to the idea that variation in species fine-grained space use may scale up to explain coarse-grained diversity patterns. Our study exposes a dramatic and taxonomically variable scale dependence of environment-richness associations and suggests that environmental correlates of richness may hold limited information at the level of communities.
3182652|Insular mammalian populations living in areas of small size are often characterized by a drastic change in body mass compared to related continental populations or species. Generally, small mammals (less than 100 g) evolve into giant forms while large mammals (up to 100 g) evolve into dwarf forms. These changes, coupled with changes in other life, behavioural, physiological or demographic traits are referred to generally as the insular syndrome. We tested in this study the relative contribution of three factors - area of island, numbers of competitor species and number of predator species - to changes in body size of the woodmouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) in the Western Mediterranean Sea. Our results, based on a comparative analysis using the phylogenetic independent contrasts method, indicate that the increase in body size is related both to the decrease of island size and to the lower number of predator species. A decrease of competitor species does not seem to have an important effect.
40405770|Aim: To evaluate the ability of species distribution models (SDMs) to predict the spatial structure of tree species within their, geographical ranges (how trees are distributed within their ranges). Location: Continental Spain. Methods: We used an extensive dataset consisting of c. 90,000 plots (1 plot km) where presence/absence data for 23 common Mediterranean and Atlantic tree species had been surveyed. We first generated SDMs relating the presence or absence of each species to a set of 16 environmental predictors, following a stepwise modelling process based on maximum likelihood methods. Superimposing spatial correlograms generated from the predictions of the SDMs over those generated from the raw data allowed a model-observation comparison of the nature, scale and intensity (level of aggregation) of spatial structure with the species ranges. Results: SDMs predicted accurately the nature and scale of the spatial structure of trees. However, for most species, the observed intensity of spatial structure (level of aggregation of species in space) was substantially greater than that predicted by the SDMs. On average, the intensity of spatial aggregation was twice that predicted by SDMs. In addition, we also found a negative correlation between intensity of aggregation and species range size. Main conclusions: Standard SDM predictions of spatial structure patterns differ among species. SDMs are apparently able to reproduce both the scale and intensity of species spatial structure within their ranges. However, one or more missing processes not included in SDMs results in species being substantially more aggregated in space tfran can be captured by the SDMs. This result adds to recent calls for a new generation of more biologically realistic SDMs. In particular, future SDMs should incorporate ecological processes that are likely to increase the intensity of spatial aggregation, such as source-sink dynamics, fine-scale environmental heterogeneity and disequilibrium.
30137886|Aim: To determine the functional relationships between, and the relative importance of, different driver variables (mean annual precipitation, soil properties, fire and herbivory) in regulating woody plant cover across broad environmental gradients in African savannas. Location: Savanna grasslands of East, West and Southern Africa. Methods: The dependence of woody cover on mean annual precipitation (MAP), soil properties (texture, nitrogen mineralization potential and total phosphorus), fire regimes, and herbivory (grazer, browser + mixed feeder, and elephant biomass) was determined for 161 savanna sites across Africa using stochastic gradient boosting, a refinement of the regression tree analysis technique. Results: All variables were significant predictors of woody cover, collectively explaining 71% of the variance in our data set. However, their relative importance as regulators of woody cover varied. MAP was the most important predictor, followed by fire return periods, soil characteristics and herbivory regimes. Woody cover showed a strong positive dependence on MAP between 200 and 700 mm, but no dependence on MAP above this threshold when the effects of other predictors were accounted for. Fires served to reduce woody cover below rainfall-determined levels. Woody cover showed a complex, non-linear relationship with total soil phosphorus, and was negatively correlated with delay content. There was a strong negative dependence of woody cover on soil nitrogen (N) availability, suggesting that increased N-deposition may cause shifts in savannas towards more grassy states. Elephants, mixed feeders and browsers had negative effects on woody cover. Grazers, on the other hand, depressed woody cover at low biomass, but favoured woody vegetation when their biomass exceeded a certain threshold. Main conclusions: Our results indicate complex and contrasting relationships between woody cover, rainfall, soil properties and disturbance regimes in savannas, and suggest that future environmental changes such as altered precipitation regimes, N-enrichment and elevated levels of CO are likely to have opposing, and potentially interacting, influences on the tree-grass balance in savannas.
3697457|Aim: This paper presents a probabilistic method of pollen spectra analysis. The method relies on a pollen taxon characterization using biotic and abiotic plant attribute modes, and their occurrence in a given pollen spectrum at a specific site. This type of analysis can provide an interpretation, which can lead to the reconstruction of the biome and, to an extent, of the abiotic conditions at the site. Methods: The analysis has been carried out at the European scale using data provided by the European Pollen Database for about 1000 sites. This dataset contains about 50,000 pollen spectra from the last 21 ka. In these spectra, each pollen taxon has been characterized by a set of 10 chosen attributes. These have been selected with regard to their relevance in biome reconstruction, but also on the basis of available literature. By using the probability of occurrence of each taxon in a given pollen spectrum, it is possible to calculate an affinity index for the spectrum to the attribute considered. To overcome difficulties caused by pollen identification in low diversified pollen spectra, a co-occurrence concept has been used to give more information. Results: The method has been validated on a set of 1327 modern surface samples by comparing the results to the major climatic and environmental variables that control the distribution of the vegetation. A reconstruction exercise on various characteristics of the plants was then carried out on a 6-ka dataset. This confirmed previous studies by showing a strong dominance of deciduous forest over most of Europe, related to a milder climate than at present in the north and a wetter and colder climate than at present in the south. By analysing the change in pollen/seed dispersion strategies and the light requirement, we show that the history of vegetation dynamics in relation to human influences can be assessed using this method. Main conclusions: Our results show that the probabilistic method is an objective tool for pollen assemblage analysis. It allows reconstruction of various characteristics of the vegetation at the continental and global scale for periods and sites with significantly different climate conditions. This method can also be used to compare maps of vegetation attributes for the validation of the new generalized dynamic ecosystems models.
41239339|Aim: It has long been assumed that deteriorating climate (cooling and warming above the norm) could shrink the carrying capacity of agrarian lands, depriving the human population of sufficient food. Population collapses (i.e. negative population growth) follow. However, this human-ecological relationship has rarely been verified scientifically, and evidence of warming-caused disaster has never been found. This research sought to explore quantitatively the temporal pattern, spatial pattern and triggers of population collapses in relation to climate change at the global scale over 1100 years. Location: Various countries/regions in the Northern Hemisphere (NH) during the pre-industrial era. Methods: We performed time-series analysis to examine the association between temperature change and country-wide/region-wide population collapses in different climatic zones. All of the known population collapse incidents in the NH in the period ce 8001900 were included in our data analysis. Results: Nearly 90% of population collapses in various NH countries/regions occurred during periods of climate deterioration characterized by shrinking carrying capacity of the land. In addition, we found that cooling dampened the human ecosystem and brought about 80% of the collapses in warmer humid, cooler humid and dry zones, while warming adversely affected the ecosystems in dry and tropical humid zones. All of the population collapses and growth declines in periods of warm climate occurred in dry and tropical humid zones. Malthusian checks (famines, wars and epidemics) were the dominant triggers of population collapses, which peaked dramatically when climate deteriorated. Main conclusions: Global demographic catastrophes and most population collapse incidents occurred in periods with great climate change, owing to overpopulation caused by diminished carrying capacity of the land and the resultant outbreak of Malthusian checks. Impacts of cooling or warming on land carrying capacity varied geographically, as a result of the diversified ecosystems in different parts of the Earth. The observed climatepopulation synchrony challenges Malthusian theory and demonstrates that it is not population growth alone but climateinduced subsistence shortage and population growth working synergistically, that cause large-scale human population collapses on the long-term scale.
41058227|Aim: Body size often plays a significant role in community assembly through its impacts on the life history and ecological attributes of species. Insight into the importance of size in structuring communities can be gained by examining the distribution of sizes of individuals [i.e. the individual size distribution (ISD) or size spectrum] in a community. ISDs have been studied extensively in aquatic and tree communities, but have received little attention in terrestrial animal communities. Here, we conduct the first macroecological analysis of ISDs in terrestrial animal communities to determine whether they show broad-scale consistency in shape. Location: North America, north of Mexico. Methods: Using likelihood-based methods and Gaussian mixture modelling, coupled with data from the Breeding Bird Survey and Christmas Bird Count, we determine whether the ISDs for thousands of breeding and wintering North American bird communities are: (1) monotonically decreasing, (2) unimodal or (3) multimodal. Results: We find that avian ISDs are consistently multimodal, with most characterized by more than five modes in both breeding and wintering communities from local to continental scales. In addition, the positions of these modes along the size axis are remarkably consistent. Main conclusions: The striking consistency in the ISD within bird communities, as with tree and aquatic communities, indicates that the ISD is an important and informative characterization of resource utilization within an ecological assemblage. The differences in shape of the ISD among these groups also suggest that differences in body size-related constraints affect interactions within a group and with the environment. Our results confirm that avian assemblages do exhibit structure along the body size axis, and therefore it will be fruitful to explore this pattern in greater detail.
4139420|Aim Broad-scale spatial variation in species richness relates to climate and physical heterogeneity but human activities may be changing these patterns. We test whether climate and heterogeneity predict butterfly species richness regionally and across Canada and whether these relationships change in areas of human activity. Location Canada. Methods We modelled the ranges of 102 butterfly species using genetic algorithms for rule-set production (GARP). We then measured butterfly species richness and potentially important aspects of human activity and the natural environment. These were included in a series of statistical models to determine which factors are likely to affect butterfly species richness in Canada. We considered patterns across Canada, within predominantly natural areas, human-dominated areas and particular ecozones. We examined independent observations of butterfly species currently listed under Canada's endangered species legislation to test whether these were consistent with findings from statistical models. Results Growing season temperature is the main determinant of butterfly species richness across Canada, with substantial contributions from habitat heterogeneity (measured using elevation). Only in the driest areas does precipitation emerge as a leading predictor of richness. The slope of relationships between all of these variables and butterfly species richness becomes shallower in human-dominated areas, but butterfly richness is still highest there. Insecticide applications, habitat loss and road networks reduce butterfly richness in human-dominated areas, but these effects are relatively small. All of Canada's at-risk butterfly species are located in these human-dominated areas. Main conclusions Temperature affects butterfly species richness to a greater extent than habitat heterogeneity at fine spatial scales and is generally far more important than precipitation, supporting both the species richness-energy and habitat heterogeneity hypotheses. Human activities, especially in southern Canada, appear to cause surprisingly consistent trends in biotic homogenization across this region, perhaps through range expansion of common species and loss of range-restricted species.
2665328|1 The role of undisturbed tropical land ecosystems in the global carbon budget is not well understood. It has been suggested that interannual climate variability can affect the capacity of these ecosystems to store carbon in the short term. In this paper, we use a transient version of the Terrestrial Ecosystem Model (TEM) to estimate annual carbon storage in undisturbed Amazonian ecosystems during the period 1980-94, and to understand the underlying causes of the year-to-year variations in net carbon storage for this region. 2 We estimate that the total carbon storage in the undisturbed ecosystems of the Amazon Basin in 1980 was 127.6 Pg C, with about 94.3 Pg C in vegetation and 33.3 Pg C in the reactive pool of soil organic carbon. About 83% of the total carbon storage occurred in tropical evergreen forests. Based on our model's results, we estimate that, over the past 15 years, the total carbon storage has increased by 3.1 Pg C (+2%), with a 1.9-Pg C (+2%) increase in vegetation carbon and a 1.2-Pg C (+4%) increase in reactive soil organic carbon. The modelled results indicate that the largest relative changes in net carbon storage have occurred in tropical deciduous forests, but that the largest absolute changes in net carbon storage have occurred in the moist and wet forests of the Basin. 3 Our results show that the strength of interannual variations in net carbon storage of undisturbed ecosystems in the Amazon Basin varies from a carbon source of 0.2 Pg C/year to a carbon sink of 0.7 Pg C/year. Precipitation, especially the amount received during the drier months, appears to be a major controller of annual net carbon storage in the Amazon Basin. Our analysis indicates further that changes in precipitation combine with changes in temperature to affect net carbon storage through influencing soil moisture and nutrient availability. 4 On average, our results suggest that the undisturbed Amazonian ecosystems accumulated 0.2 Pg C/year as a result of climate variability and increasing atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> over the study period. This amount is large enough to have compensated for most of the carbon losses associated with tropical deforestation in the Amazon during the same period. 5 Comparisons with empirical data indicate that climate variability and CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization explain most of the variation in net carbon storage for the undisturbed ecosystems. Our analyses suggest that assessment of the regional carbon budget in the tropics should be made over at least one cycle of El Nino-Southern Oscillation because of interannual climate variability. Our analyses also suggest that proper scaling of the site-specific and subannual measurements of carbon fluxes to produce Basin-wide flux estimates must take into account seasonal and spatial variations in net carbon storage.
3877784|Aim: In this continental-scale study, the biodiversity of benthic and planktonic algal communities was explored. A recent analysis of extinct and extant tree communities by Enquist et al. (2002) showed that richness of higher taxa was a power function of species richness, invariant across temporal and spatial scales. Here we examined whether the relationships between algal richness at hierarchical taxonomic levels conform to power laws as seen for trees, and if these relationships differ between benthic and planktonic habitats. Location: Streams from more than 50 major watersheds in the United States. Method: A total of 3698 samples were collected from 1277 locations by the National Water-Quality Assessment Program. Three types of stream habitat were sampled: richest targeted habitats, depositional targeted habitats, and phytoplankton. The relationships between taxonomic richness at the species level vs. all higher categories from genus to phylum across the three habitats were examined by ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions after In-transformation of all variables. The slopes, b, of these regressions represent the exponents of the power functions that scaled the richness of higher taxonomic levels (T) to species richness (5) in the form:
41058221|Aim: This paper presents a tool for long-term global change studies; it is an update of the History Database of the Global Environment (HYDE) with estimates of some of the underlying demographic and agricultural driving factors. Methods: Historical population, cropland and pasture statistics are combined with satellite information and specific allocation algorithms (which change over time) to create spatially explicit maps, which are fully consistent on a 5' longitude/latitude grid resolution, and cover the period 10,000 BC to AD 2000. Results: Cropland occupied roughly less than 1% of the global ice-free land area for a long time until AD 1000, similar to the area used for pasture. In the centuries that followed, the share of global cropland increased to 2% in AD 1700 (c. 3 million km 2 ) and 11% in AD 2000 (15 million km), while the share of pasture area grew from 2% in AD 1700 to 24% in AD 2000 (34 million km) These profound land-use changes have had, and will continue to have, quite considerable consequences for global biogeochemical cycles, and subsequently global climate change. Main conclusions: Some researchers suggest that humans have shifted from living in the Holocene (emergence of agriculture) into the Anthropocene (humans capable of changing the Earth's atmosphere) since the start of the Industrial Revolution.But in the light of the sheer size and magnitude of some historical land-use changes (e. g. as result of the depopulation of Europe due to the Black Death in the 14th century and the aftermath of the colonization of the Americas in the 16th century) we believe that this point might have occurred earlier in time. While there are still many uncertainties and gaps in our knowledge about the importance of land use (change) in the global biogeochemical cycle, we hope that this database can help global (climate) change modellers to close parts of this gap.
4139428|Aim Phylogenetic conservatism or heritability of the geographical range sizes of species (i.e. the tendency for closely related species to share similar range sizes) has been predicted to occur because of the strong phylogenetic conservatism of niche traits. However, the extent of such heritability in range size is disputed and the role of biology in shaping this attribute remains unclear. Here, we investigate the level of heritability of geographical range sizes that is generated from neutral models assuming no biological differences between species. Methods We used three different neutral models, which differ in their speciation mode, to simulate the life-history of 250,000 individuals in a square lattice of 50 x 50 cells. These individuals can speciate, reproduce, migrate and die in the metacommunity according to stochastic events. We ran each model for 3000 steps and recorded the range size of each species at each step. The heritability of geographical range size was assessed using an asymmetry coefficient between range sizes of sister species and using the coefficient of correlation between the range sizes of ancestors and their descendants. Results Our results demonstrated the ability of neutral models to mimic some important observed patterns in the heritability of geographical range size. Consistently, sister species exhibited higher asymmetry in range sizes than expected by chance, and correlations between the range sizes of ancestor-descendant species pairs, although often weak, were almost invariably positive. Main conclusions Our findings suggest that, even without any biological trait differences, statistically significant heritability in the geographical range sizes of species can be found. This heritability is weaker than that observed in some empirical studies, but suggests that even here a substantial component of heritability may not necessarily be associated with niche conservatism. We also conclude that both presentday and fossil data sets may provide similar information on the heritability of the geographical range sizes of species, while the omission of rare species will tend to overestimate this heritability.
40405772|Aim: To test how well species distributions and abundance can be predicted following invasion and climate change when using only species distribution and abundance data to estimate parameters. Location: Models were developed for the species' native range in the Americas and applied to Australia. Methods: We developed a predictive model for an invasive neotropical shrub (Parkinsonia aculeata) using a popular ecophysiological biodimatic modelling technique (CLIMEX) fitted against distribution and abundance data in the Americas. The effect of uncertainty in model parameter estimates on predictions in Australia was tested. Alternative data sources were used when model predictions were sensitive to uncertainty in parameter estimates. The resulting best-fit model was run under two climate change scenarios. Results: Of the 19 parameters used, 9 could not be fitted using data from the native range. However, only parameters that lowered temperature or increased moisture requirements for growth noticeably altered the model prediction in Australia. Differences in predictions were dramatic, and reflect climates in Australia that were not represented in the Americas (novel climates). However, these poorly fitted parameters could be fitted post hoc using alternative data sources prior to predicting responses to climate change. Conclusions: Novel climates prevented the development of a predictive model which relied only on native-range distribution and abundance data because certain parameters could not be fitted. In fact, predictions were more sensitive to parameter uncertainty thaft to climate change scenarios. Where uncertainty in parameter estimates affected predictions, it could be addressed through the inclusion of alternative data sources. However, this may not always be possible, for example in the absence of post-invasion data.
3697536|Aim: To examine temporal variation in nestedness and whether nestedness patterns predict colonization, extinction and turnover across islands and species. Location: Dahlak Archipelago, Red Sea. Method: The distributions of land birds on 17 islands were recorded in two periods 30 years apart. Species and islands were reordered in the Nestedness Temperature Calculator, software for assessing degrees of nestedness in communities. The occupancy probability of each cell, i.e. species-island combinations, was calculated in the nested matrix and an extinction curve (boundary line) was specified. We tested whether historical and current nested ranks of species and islands were correlated, whether there was a relationship between occupancy probability (based on the historical data) and number of extinctions or colonizations (regression analyses) and whether the boundary line could predict extinctions and colonizations (chi-square analyses). Results: Historical and current nested ranks of islands and species were correlated but changes in occupancy patterns were common, particularly among bird species with intermediate incidence. Extinction and turnover of species were higher for small than large islands, and colonization was negatively related to isolation. As expected, colonizations were more frequent above than below the boundary line. Probability of extinction was highest at intermediate occupancy probability, giving a quadratic relationship between extinction and occupancy probability. Species turnover was related to the historical nested ranks of islands. Colonization was related negatively while extinction and occupancy turnover were related quadratically to historical nested ranks of species. Main conclusions: Some patterns of the temporal dynamics agreed with expectations from nested patterns. However, the accuracy of the predictions may be confounded by regional dynamics and distributions of idiosyncratic, resource-limited species. It is therefore necessary to combine nestedness analysis with adequate knowledge of the causal factors and ecology of targeted species to gain insight into the temporal dynamics of assemblages and for nestedness analyses to be helpful in conservation planning.
41239349|Aim: The spatial organization of soil microbial communities on large scales and the identification of environmental factors structuring their distribution have been little investigated. The overall objective of this study was to determine the spatial patterning of microbial biomass in soils over a wide extent and to rank the environmental filters most influencing this distribution. Location: French territory using the French Soil Quality Monitoring Network. This network covers the entire French territory and soils were sampled at 2150 sites along a systematic grid. Methods: The soil DNA extracted from all these soils was expressed in terms of soil molecular microbial biomass and related to other soil and land-use data over French territory. Results: This study provides the first extensive map of microbial biomass and reveals the heterogeneous and spatially structured distribution of this biomass on the scale of France. The main factors driving biomass distribution are the physicochemical properties of the soil (texture, pH and total organic carbon) as well as land use. Soils from land used for intensive agriculture, especially monoculture and vineyards, exhibited the smallest biomass pools. Interestingly, factors known to influence the large-scale distribution of macroorganisms, such as climatic factors, were not identified as important drivers for microbial communities. Main conclusions: Microbial abundance is spatially structured and dependent on local filters such as soil characteristics and land use but is relatively independent of global filters such as climatic factors or the presence of natural barriers. Our study confirms that the biogeography of microorganisms differs fundamentally from the biogeography of 'macroorganisms' and that soil management can have significant large-scale effects.
30137822|Aim: There is a debate as to whether biotic interactions exert a dominant role in governing species distributions at macroecological scales. The prevailing idea is that climate is the key limiting factor; thus models that use present-day climate-species range relationships are expected to provide reasonable means to quantify the impacts of climate change on species distributions. However, there is little empirical evidence that biotic interactions would not constrain species distributions at macroecological scales. We examine this idea, for the first time, and provide tests for two null hypotheses:
30137994|Aim: To evaluate seasonal body-size patterns for New World birds in geographical space, to develop environmental models to explain the gradients, and to estimate phylogenetic and adaptive contributions. Location: The Western Hemisphere. Methods: We used range maps to generate gridded geometric mean body masses. Summer and winter patterns were distinguished based on breeding and non-breeding ranges. We first generated the geographical gradients, followed by phylogenetic eigenvector regression to generate body sizes predicted by the birds' positions in a phylogenetic tree, which were used to generate the expected phylogenetic gradient. Subtracting the expected pattern from the observed pattern isolated the adaptive component. Ordinary least squares multiple-regression models examined factors influencing the phylogenetic, adaptive and combined components of the seasonal body-size patterns, and non-spatial and spatial models were compared. Results: Birds are larger in the temperate zones than in the tropics. The gradient is quantitatively stronger in winter than in summer. Regression models explained 66.6% of the variance in summer mass and 45.9% of the variance in winter mass. In summer, phylogenetic and adaptive responses of birds contribute equally to the gradient. In winter, the gradient in North America is much stronger than that expected by taxonomic turnover, and responses of species independent of their family membership drive the overall pattern. Main conclusions: We confirm Bergmann's rule in New World birds and conclude that winter temperatures ultimately drive the pattern, exerting selection pressures on birds that overwhelm patterns expected by phylogenetic inertia at the family level. However, in summer, the movement of migratory species into the temperate zone weakens the gradient and generates a pattern more congruent with that expected from the taxonomic composition of the fauna. The analytical method we develop here represents a useful tool for partitioning the phylogenetic and non-phylogenetic components of spatially explicit macroecological data.
4139413| Aim To provide the first global quantification of the slope and shape of the latitudinal gradient in seed mass, and to determine whether global patterns in seed mass are best explained by growth form, vegetation type, seed dispersal syndrome, or net primary productivity (NPP). Location Global. Methods We collected seed mass data for 11,481 species x site combinations from around the world. We used regression to describe the latitudinal gradient in seed mass, then applied general linear models to quantify the relative explanatory power of each of the variables hypothesized to underlie the latitudinal gradient in seed size. Results There is a 320-fold decline in geometric mean seed mass between the equator and 60 . This decline is not linear. At the edge of the tropics, there is a sudden 7-fold drop in mean seed mass. The strongest correlates of the latitudinal gradient in seed mass are plant growth form, and vegetation type, followed by dispersal syndrome and NPP. A model including growth form, vegetation type, dispersal syndrome and NPP explains 51% of the variation in seed mass. Latitude explains just 0.2% of the residual variation from this model. Main conclusions This is the first demonstration of a major decrease in seed size at the edge of the tropics. This drop in seed mass is most closely correlated with changes in plant growth form and vegetation type. This suggests that the drop in seed mass might be part of a sudden change in plant strategy at the edge of the tropics. 
3697528|Aim: To quantify the relationship between the description dates of anuran species in the Brazilian Cerrado and some macroecological traits, and to verify the spatial patterns of average description dates and their correlation with human occupation and biodiversity knowledge. Location: Brazilian Cerrado (South America). Methods: The average date of description of 131 species of anurans found in 181 cells overlaying the Brazilian Cerrado was recorded. Description date was regressed across species on body size and geographical range size. Phylogenetic effects that could bias the significance tests of the multiple regression model of description dates on macroecological traits were taken into account using a phylogenetic subtraction method in which families and genera were classificatory factors in a nested two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) model. We also conducted a spatial analysis of the average description date that was estimated for each cell. This cell-based metric was regressed on human population size, the year of foundation of the municipalities and the number of inventories undertaken in each cell. The influence of spatial autocorrelation patterns was taken into account by using the geographically effective number of degrees of freedom. Results: The number of new species being discovered in the Brazilian Cerrado has been increasing, especially over the last 50 years. Cross-species analyses indicated that description dates were negatively correlated with body size and geographical range size, taking phylogenetic effects into account. Even after controlling for the spatial structures in all variables, average description date was positively correlated with human population in geographical space, but because of multicolinearity structure in the data, it was not possible to quantify the independent influence of human population and number of inventories on description date. Conclusions: As found in previous papers, large-bodied and widely distributed species are likely to be described first. Species yet to be discovered are probably small-bodied and with narrow distributions, more restricted to the Cerrado biome. Also, the explicit spatial approach showed that the average description date is spatially correlated with total human population and biodiversity knowledge in the Cerrado region. Our findings suggest that incorporating human population density into the reserve design algorithms, which has usually been done to avoid or minimize conservation conflicts, may also produce good results because this will preserve many places where most of the non-described species will probably be found in the future.
30137873|Aim To produce a robust, comprehensive global biome reconstruction for the Middle Pliocene (c. 3.6-2.6 Ma), which is based on an internally consistent palaeobotanical data set and a state-of-the-art coupled climate-vegetation model. The reconstruction gives a more rigorous picture of climate and environmental change during the Middle Pliocene and provides a new boundary condition for future general circulation model (GCM) studies. Location Global. Methods Compilation of Middle Pliocene vegetation data from 202 marine and terrestrial sites into the comprehensive GIS data base TEVIS (Tertiary Environmental Information System). Translation into an internally consistent classification scheme using 28 biomes. Comparison and synthesis of vegetation reconstruction from palaeodata with the outputs of the mechanistically based BIOME4 model forced by climatology derived from the HadAM3 GCM. Results The model results compare favourably with available palaeodata and highlight the importance of employing vegetation-climate feedbacks and the anomaly method in biome models. Both the vegetation reconstruction from palaeobotanical data and the BIOME4 prediction indicate a general warmer and moister climate for the Middle Pliocene. Evergreen taiga as well as temperate forest and grassland shifted northward, resulting in much reduced tundra vegetation. Warm-temperate forests (with subtropical taxa) spread in mid and eastern Europe and tropical savannas and woodland expanded in Africa and Australia at the expense of deserts. Discrepancies which occurred between data reconstruction and model simulation can be related to: (1) poor spatial model resolution and data coverage; (2) uncertainties in delimiting biomes using climate parameters; or (3) uncertainties in model physics and/or geological boundary conditions. Main conclusions The new global biome reconstruction combines vegetation reconstruction from palaeobotanical proxies with model simulations. It is an important contribution to the further understanding of climate and vegetation changes during the Middle Pliocene warm interval and will enhance our knowledge about how vegetation may change in the future.
2997868|In order to investigate the hypothesis that the Earth's climate and vegetation patterns may have more than one basic state, we use the fully coupled GENESIS-IBIS model. GENESIS is an atmospheric general circulation model. IBIS is a dynamic global vegetation model that integrates biophysical, physiological, and ecological processes. GENESIS and IBIS are coupled by way of a common land surface interface to allow for the full and transient interaction between changes in the vegetation structure and changes in the general circulation of the atmosphere. We examine two modern climate simulations of the coupled model initialized with two different initial conditions. In one case, we initialize the model vegetation cover with the modern observed distribution of vegetation. In the other case, we initialize the vegetation cover with evergreen boreal forests extending to the Arctic coast, replacing high-latitude tundra. We interpret the coupled model's behaviour using a conceptual model for multistability and demonstrate that in both simulations the climate-vegetation system converges to the same equilibrium state. In the present climate, feedbacks between land, ocean, sea ice, and the atmosphere do not result in the warming required to support an expanded boreal forest.
3697445|Aim: Traditional methodologies of mapping vegetation, as carried out by ecologists, consist primarily of field surveying or mapping from aerial photography. Previous applications of satellite imagery for this task (e.g. Landsat TM and SPOT HRV) have been unsuccessful, as such imagery proved to have insufficient spatial resolution for mapping vegetation. This paper reports on a study to assess the capabilities of the recently launched remote sensing satellite sensor Ikonos, with improved capabilities, for mapping and monitoring upland vegetation using traditional image classification methods. Location: The location is Northumberland National Park, UK. Methods: Traditional remote sensing classification methodologies were applied to the Ikonos data and the outputs compared to ground data sets. This enabled an assessment of the value of the improved spatial resolution of satellite imagery for mapping upland vegetation. Post-classification methods were applied to remove noise and misclassified pixels and to create maps that were more in keeping with the information requirements of the NNPA for current management processes. Results: The approach adopted herein for quick and inexpensive land cover mapping was found to be capable of higher accuracy than achieved with previous approaches, highlighting the benefits of remote sensing for providing land cover maps. Main conclusions: Ikonos imagery proved to be a useful tool for mapping upland vegetation across large areas and at fine spatial resolution, providing accuracies comparable to traditional mapping methods of ground surveys and aerial photography.
3697426| Macroecological studies infer ecological processes based on observed patterns. An often used measure of pattern is the species-area curve. Insufficient attention has been paid to the variety of methods used to construct those curves. There are six different methods based on different combinations of: (1) the pattern of quadrats or areas sampled (nested, contiguous, noncontiguous, or island); (2) whether successively larger areas are constructed in a spatially explicit fashion or not; and (3) whether the curve is constructed from single values or mean values. The resulting six types of curves differ in their shapes, how diversity is encapsulated, and the scales encompassed. Inventory diversity () can either represent a single value or a mean value, creating a difference in the focus of the measure. Differentiation diversity () can vary in the extent encompassed, and thus the spatial scale, depending on the pattern of quadrat placement. Species-area curves are used for a variety of purposes: extrapolation, setting a common grain, and hypothesis testing. The six types of curves differ in how they are used or interpreted in these contexts. A failure to recognize these differences can result in improper conclusions. Further work is needed to understand the sampling and measurement properties of the different types of species-area curves. 
40205652|Aim: We examine issues of uncertainty regarding the spatial and temporal representativeness of phenological observations using a newly compiled Europe-wide data base of phenological observations for Betula species. Location: Europe. Methods: A new data base was compiled from national phenological observations covering 15 European countries, with the longest observational periods exceeding several decades for some sites. From this, the spatial and temporal representativeness of phenological observations were evaluated via statistical analysis. Results: The results showed that there was a significant and irreducible uncertainty related to the use of data of a single station, which varied from 3 to 8 days depending on the station location. In more continental and northern climatic zones the uncertainty was lower, probably due to faster spring-time weather developments. In mild climatic conditions, the uncertainty of dates of the phenological phases registered by a single station exceeded 1 week. The considerable number of data allowed us to preliminarily estimate the features of some stations, marking them as 'late', 'early', 'representative' or 'random', depending on the dates reported by these sites and the corresponding regional means. Main conclusions: The uncertainties discovered in single-site phenological observations are significant for virtually any potential application. Possible approaches for handling the uncertainty problem are station pre-averaging and spatial regularization of the data set, pre-selection (down-sampling) or changing the description of the phenomena from deterministic to probabilistic.
40205717|Aim: Nutrient resorption from senescing leaves is an important mechanism of nutrient conservation in plants, but the patterns of nutrient resorption at the global scale are unknown. Because soil nutrients vary along climatic gradients, we hypothesize that nutrient resorption changes with latitude, temperature and precipitation. Location: Global. Methods: We conducted a meta-analysis on a global data set collected from published literature on nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) resorption of woody plants. Results: For all data pooled, both N resorption efficiency (NRE) and P resorption efficiency (PRE) were significantly related to latitude, mean annual temperature (MAT) and mean annual precipitation (MAP): NRE increased with latitude but decreased with MAT and MAP. In contrast, PRE decreased with latitude but increased with MAT and MAP. When functional groups (shrub versus tree, coniferous versus broadleaf and evergreen versus deciduous) were examined individually, the patterns of NRE and PRE in relation to latitude, MAT and MAP were generally similar. Main conclusions: The relationships between N and P resorption and latitude, MAT and MAP indicate the existence of geographical patterns of plant nutrient conservation strategies in relation to temperature and precipitation at the global scale, particularly for PRE, which can be an indicator for P limitation in the tropics and selective pressure shaping the evolution of plant traits. Our results suggest that, although the magnitude of plant nutrient resorption might be regulated by local factors such as substrate, spatial patterns are also controlled by temperature or precipitation.
3182714|The species richness of ecosystems can remain stable over time, despite changes in species composition and changes in the dominant plant species. While this pattern of stability is known to occur temporally, it has been examined poorly in a spatial context. To examine this spatially, the species richness, diversity and composition of native woodlands (of oak and bay trees) and exotic woodlands (of eucalypt trees) were compared in California. Species richness was nearly identical for understorey plants, leaf-litter invertebrates, amphibians and birds; only rodents had significantly fewer species in eucalypt sites. Species diversity patterns (using the Shannon-Wiener Index) were qualitatively identical to those for species richness, except for leaf-litter invertebrates, which were significantly more diverse in eucalypt sites during the spring. Species composition was different between sites, as evidenced by a principal components analysis, coefficients of similarity, and the relatively few species shared between native and eucalypt sites. Thus, the consistency in richness and diversity observed for most groups, in most seasons, occurred despite significant differences in species composition. These results are consistent with previous demonstrations of temporal stability, suggesting that species richness may often be stable, both temporally and spatially, despite changes in composition and regardless of the dominant vegetation.
40205672|Aim: Using a new approach to analyse fossil pollen data, we investigate temporal and spatial patterns in Populus (poplar, cottonwood, aspen) from the Late Glacial to the present at regional to continental scales. Location: North America. Methods: We extracted data on the timing and magnitude of the maximum value of Populus pollen from each pollen diagram in the North American Pollen Database (NAPD). The information was plotted in histograms of 150-year bins to identify times when Populus was abundant on the landscape. We also mapped the maximum values to identify spatial patterns and their causes. Results: Our analyses show that there have been several periods since the Late Glacial when Populus was abundant on the landscape: (1) from 12.35 to 12.65 kyr BP, in eastern North America, largely in response to the opening of the forest following the onset of the Younger Dryas; (2) from 10.85 to 11.75 kyr BP, following the termination of the Younger Dryas; and (3) during the last 150 years, as land was cleared for agricultural use, especially in the midwestern United States. Main conclusion Since the Late Glacial, changes in the abundance of Populus were caused more by the effects of abrupt climate change on its major competitors, rather than the direct effects of climate on Populus itself.
41239403|Savannas are defined based on vegetation structure, the central concept being a discontinuous tree cover in a continuous grass understorey. However, at the highrainfall end of the tropical savanna biome, where heavily wooded mesic savannas begin to structurally resemble forests, or where tropical forests are degraded such that they open out to structurally resemble savannas, vegetation structure alone may be inadequate to distinguish mesic savanna from forest. Additional knowledge of the functional differences between these ecosystems which contrast sharply in their evolutionary and ecological history is required. Specifically, we suggest that tropical mesic savannas are predominantly mixed tree-C grass systems defined by fire tolerance and shade intolerance of their species, while forests, from which C grasses are largely absent, have species that are mostly fire intolerant and shade tolerant. Using this framework, we identify a suite of morphological, physiological and life-history traits that are likely to differ between tropical mesic savanna and forest species. We suggest that these traits can be used to distinguish between these ecosystems and thereby aid their appropriate management and conservation. We also suggest that many areas in South Asia classified as tropical dry forests, but characterized by fire-resistant tree species in a C grass-dominated understorey, would be better classified as mesic savannas requiring fire and light to maintain the unique mix of species that characterize them.
3182723|Aim: Species generally become rarer and more patchily distributed as the margins of their ranges are approached. We predicted that in such marginal sites, tree species would tend to occur where some key environmental factors are at particularly favourable levels, compensating in part for the low overall suitability of marginal sites. Location: The article considers the spatial distributions of trees in Southeast Alaska (the Alaskan 'panhandle'). Methods: We quantified range marginality using spatial distributions of eight tree species across more than one thousand surveyed sites in Southeast Alaska. For each species we derived a site core/margin index using a three-dimensional trend surface generated from logistic regression on site coordinates. For each species, the relationships between the environmental factors slope, aspect and site marginality were then compared for occupied and unoccupied sets of sites. Results: We found that site slope is important for more Alaskan tree species than aspect. Three out of eight had a significant core/margin by occupied/unoccupied interaction, tending to be present in significantly shallower-sloped (more favourable) sites in the marginal areas than the simple core/margin trend predicted. For site aspect, one species had a significant interaction, selecting potentially more favourable northerly aspects in marginal areas. A finer-scale analysis based on the same data came to the same overall conclusions. Conclusions: There is evidence that several tree species in Alaska tend to occur in especially favourable sites in marginal areas. In these marginal areas, these species amplify habitat preferences shown in core areas.
3697623|Aim: To investigate the formation of nestedness and species co-occurrence patterns at the local (sampling station), the intermediate (island group), and the archipelago scale. Location: The study used data on the distribution of terrestrial isopods on 20 islands of the central Aegean (Greece). These islands are assigned to two distinct subgroups (Kyklades and Eastern islands). Methods: The Nestedness Temperature Calculator was used to obtain nestedness values and maximally nested matrices, the EcoSim7 software and a modified version of Sanderson (2000) method were used for the analysis of species cooccurrences. Idiosyncratic temperatures of species and the order of species placement in the maximally nested matrices were used for further comparisons among spatial scales. The relationships of nestedness values with beta-diversity, habitat diversity and a number of ecological factors recorded for each sampling station were also investigated. Results: Significant nestedness was found at all spatial scales. Levels of nestedness were not related to beta-diversity or habitat diversity. Nestedness values were similar among spatial scales, but they were affected by matrix size. The species that contributed most to the nested patterns within single islands were not the same as those that produce nestedness at the archipelago scale. There was significant variation in the frequency of species occurrence among islands and among spatial scales. There was no direct effect of ecological factors on the shaping of patterns of nestedness within individual islands, but habitat heterogeneity was crucial for the existence of such patterns. Positive associations among species prevailed at all scales when species per station were considered, while negative associations prevailed in the species per island matrices. All associations resulted from the habitat structure of sampling stations and from particularities of geographical distributions. Conclusions: There was no clear-cut distinction between nestedness patterns among spatial scales, even though different species, and partially different factors, contributed to the formation of these patterns in each case. There was a core of species that contributed to the formation of nested patterns at all spatial scales, while the patterns of species associations suggested that biotic interactions are not an important causal factor. The results of this study suggest that locally rare species cannot be widespread at a higher spatial scale, while locally common species can have a restricted distribution.
40405785|Aim Tropical forests have been recognized as important global carbon sinks and sources. However, many uncertainties about the spatial distribution of live tree above-ground biomass (AGB) remain, mostly due to limited availability of AGB field data. Recent studies in the Amazon have already shown the importance of large sample size for accurate AGB gradient analysis. Here we use a large stem density, basal area, community wood density and AGB dataset to study and explain their spatial patterns in an Asian tropical forest. Location Borneo, Southeast Asia. Methods We combined stem density, basal area, community wood density and AGB data from 83 locations in Borneo with an environmental database containing elevation, climate and soil variables. The Akaike information criterion was used to select models and environmental variables that best explained the observed values of stem density, basal area, community wood density and AGB. These models were used to extrapolate these parameters across Borneo. Results We found that wood density, stem density, basal area and AGB respond significantly, but differentially, to the environment. AGB was only correlated with basal area, but not with stem density and community wood specific gravity. Main conclusions Unlike results from Amazonian forests, soil fertility was an important positive correlate for AGB in Borneo while community wood density, which is a main driver of AGB in the Neotropics, did not correlate with AGB in Borneo. Also, Borneo's average AGB of 457.1 Mg ha was c. 60% higher than the Amazonian average of 288.6 Mg ha. We find evidence that this difference might be partly explained by the high density of large wind-dispersed Dipterocarpaceae in Borneo, which need to be tall and emergent to disperse their seeds. Our results emphasize the importance of Bornean forests as carbon sinks and sources due to their high carbon storage capacity.
3697659|Aim: To distinguish the effects of physical geography and socioeconomic conditions on the extinction of butterflies in European states, and to compare patterns influencing extinctions with patterns influencing species richness. Location: Europe. Method: Per-state species richness and extinctions were taken from the Red Data Book of European Butterflies, and their relationships with physical geography and socioeconomic predictors were analysed using regression analysis. Two hypothesis were explored: (1) extinctions are related primarily to identical physical geography factors that influence species richness; and (2) extinctions are influenced primarily by human pressure on natural biotopes and follow correlates of modern land use. Results: Extinctions and richness are not correlated. Richness increased towards low latitudes and with biotope and topographic heterogeneity, and decreased in states affected by Quaternary glaciation and on islands. The only socioeconomic correlate was human density, exhibiting a weak negative effect. Extinctions were negatively correlated with area and with biotope and topographic heterogeneity. They peaked in regions with mild climate in central latitudes. The strongest socioeconomic correlate was high density of railways, interpreted as a proxy of early industrialization. Further correlates were human density and urban employment. Main conclusion: Topographic and biotope heterogeneity predicts both high species richness and low extinction rates. Losses of butterflies result from a complex interplay of geography and relatively recent economic history, as low topographic heterogeneity and flat relief favoured the early advent of industrialization and intensive land use.
30137878|The area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, known as the AUC, is currently considered to be the standard method to assess the accuracy of predictive distribution models. It avoids the supposed subjectivity in the threshold selection process, when continuous probability derived scores are converted to a binary presence-absence variable, by summarizing overall model performance over all possible thresholds. In this manuscript we review some of the features of this measure and bring into question its reliability as a comparative measure of accuracy between model results. We do not recommend using AUC for five reasons: (1) it ignores the predicted probability values and the goodness-of-fit of the model; (2) it summarises the test performance over regions of the ROC space in which one would rarely operate; (3) it weights omission and commission errors equally; (4) it does not give information about the spatial distribution of model errors; and, most importantly, (5) the total extent to which models are carried out highly influences the rate of well-predicted absences and the AUC scores.
30137862|Aim To investigate the general pattern of changes in species richness and diversity of vascular plants due to environmental contamination and associated habitat changes imposed by point polluters, and identify the sources of variation in the response of plant communities to industrial pollution. Location Global. Methods We collected species richness and diversity data from 86 studies that were conducted around 60 atmospheric point polluters worldwide and reported in 95 papers (published in 1953-2007). We used meta-analysis to search for a general effect and to compare between polluter types and plant groups, and linear regression to describe the latitudinal gradient and to quantify relationships between pollution and effect size. Results Although the species richness of vascular plants generally decreased with pollution, the effects were not uniform across the studies. Polluters that cause soil acidification imposed a stronger detrimental effect on plant diversity than industries whose emissions increased soil pH. An overall adverse effect was primarily due to the contribution of non-ferrous smelters and aluminium plants; the effects of other
3697432| Aim: The bioclimatic model is a new method for palaeoclimatic reconstruction built on the assumption of a significant correlation between climate and mammal community composition. The goal of this approach is to infer past climatic conditions using mammal fossil associations as source data. Location: The study used mammal faunas from all over the world to develop the bioclimatic model. As an example of the potential of the model, we have applied it to Quaternary faunas from Eurasia. Methods: The proposed model was constructed by applying multivariate discriminant analysis to modern mammal faunas and climates from throughout the world. The model was validated with a different set of modern faunas than those used in the discriminant analysis, including some from transitional zones between different climates (ecotones). To test the reliability of the method in the Pleistocene, the results have been compared to those obtained with data from other disciplines, such as palaeobotany. Results: The results obtained in the validation of the model show that more than 90% of the localities have been classified correctly. Comparisons of results in the late Pleistocene-Holocene of Barov between a palaeobotanical study and the bioclimatic analysis show the latter to be highly accurate. The results for early Pleistocene faunas show somewhat drier and more open climatic conditions for Europe than the present day, with larger areas of steppe environments. Main Conclusions: The bioclimatic model could be used to infer climatic conditions from mammal faunas. The results presented in this work provide a preliminary example of the potential that bioclimatic analysis has as a tool for palaeoclimatic inference. Finally, this method offers the opportunity to standardize data coming from vertebrate palaeontology for use in the construction and evaluation of climatic models. 
2997855|Carbon and oxygen isotopic data are reported from 116 Pleistocene Equus teeth from sixty-six localities in the New World ranging from 68
3697453|Scheiner (2003) presented a classification of species-area curves into six types based on the pattern of sampling and how the data are combined to form the curves. Gray et al. (2004) contended that five of those types should be termed 'species-accumulation curves', reserving 'species-area curve' for those based on island-type data. Their proposition contradicts 70 years of usage and confounds curves that are area-explicit with those that are area-undefined. In exploring these issues, I highlight additional aspects of species-area and species-accumulation curves, including the assumption of nesting in Type IV (island) curves, how to convert area-unspecified curves into area curves, and the effects of the grain of the analysis on the properties of the curve. Further exploration, theoretical development, and dialogue are needed before we will understand all the biology that species-area curves summarize.
40205698|Aims: The combined effects of changes in climate and land use on tree mortality and growth patterns have rarely been addressed. Relict tree species from the Mediterranean Basin serve as appropriate models to investigate these effects, since they grow in climatically stressed areas which have undergone intense cover changes. The aim is to use climate, aerial photographs, stand structure and radial-growth data to explain the mortality and historical patterns of growth of Abies pinsapo in the area where this relict species was first protected. Location: Sierra de las Nieves, West Baetic Range, southern Spain. Methods: We assessed variations of tree cover in A. pinsapo forests through image analyses of aerial photographs spanning the last 50 years. We sampled 31 stands to assess current altitudinal patterns of forest structure and mortality. We evaluated the relationships between radial growth and regional climate using linear models in three sites at different elevations. Results: Regional warming and a decrease in precipitation were detected. Forest tree cover increased at all elevations from 1957 until 1991, but it afterwards decreased below 1100 m. Currently, the likelihood of tree mortality increases downwards and is associated with dense, closed stands with a low living basal area. In contrast to previous droughts, a sharp synchronized reduction in tree growth, not fully accounted for in linear climate-growth models, occurred at low elevations in 1994-95, but not upwards. It was preceded by a weakening of the negative association between low-elevation growth and water deficit since the late 1970s. Conclusions The intense densification of A. pinsapo forests following strict protection measures in the late 1950s enhanced the vulnerability of climate-sensitive A. pinsapo forests to recent drier conditions. Such abrupt land-use changes help to explain recent patterns of mortality and growth decline in low-elevation A. pinsapo forests.
40205706|Aim: To assess whether the water availability measures commonly used in species distribution models might be misleading because they do not account for the hydrological effects of changes in vegetation structure and functioning. Location: Europe. Methods: We compared different methods for estimating water availability in species distribution models with the soil water content predicted by a process-based ecosystem model. The latter also accounted for the hydrological effects of dynamic changes in vegetation structure and functioning, including potential physiological effects of increasing CO . Results: All proxies showed similar patterns of water availability across Europe for current climate, but when projected into the future, the changes in the simpler water availability measures showed no correlation with those projected by the more complex ecosystem model, even if CO effects were switched off. Main conclusions: Results from species distribution modelling studies concerning future changes in species ranges and biodiversity should be interpreted with caution, and more process-based representations of the water balance of terrestrial ecosystems should be considered within these models.
3182665|We investigated the relationship between species richness and numbers and types of individuals and species present in forests with different physiognomies in the southern Cape Province, South Africa. Data were collected from three different 'plot' types: 400 m
40801918|Aim: The Tibetan Plateau accounts for about a quarter of the total land area of China and has a variety of ecosystems ranging from alpine tundra to evergreen tropics. Its soils are dominated by permafrost and are rich in organic carbon. Its climate is unique due to the influence of the Asian monsoon and its complex topography. To date, the carbon dynamics of the Tibetan Plateau have not been well quantified under changes of climate and permafrost conditions. Here we use a process-based biogeochemistry model, the Terrestrial Ecosystem Model which was incorporated with a soil thermal model, to examine the permafrost dynamics and their effects on carbon dynamics on the plateau during the past century.
3697564| Aim: To develop the first national databases on land use and agricultural land use intensity in Canada for a wide variety of environmental monitoring applications. Location: Canada. Methods: In this paper, we describe a new system for the construction of both land use and land use intensity (within agricultural regions) called LUCIA (land use and cover with intensity of agriculture). Our methodology combines the highly detailed Canadian Census of Agriculture and recent growing season composites derived from the SPOT4/VEGETATION sensor. Census data are of much coarser resolution than the remotely sensed data but, by removing non-agricultural pixels from each census sampling area, we were able to refine the census data sufficiently to allow their use as ground truth data in some areas. The 'refined' census data were then used in the final step of an unsupervised classification of the remotely sensed data. Results: and main conclusions The results of the land use classification are generally consistent with the input census data, indicating that the LUCIA output reflects actual land use trends as determined by national census information. Land use intensity, defined as the principal component of census variables that relate to agricultural inputs and outputs (e.g. chemical inputs, fertilizer inputs and manure outputs), is highest in the periphery of the great plains region of central Canada but is also very high in southern Ontario and Qubec. 
30137865|Aim Using a global data base of the distribution of extant bird species, we examine the evidence for spatial variation in the evolutionary origins of contemporary avian diversity. In particular, we assess the possible role of the timing of mountain uplift in promoting diversification in different regions. Location Global. Methods We mapped the distribution of avian richness at four taxonomic levels on an equal-area 1 grid. We examined the relationships between richness at successive taxonomic levels (e.g. species richness vs. genus richness). We mapped the residuals from linear regressions of these relationships to identify areas that are exceptional in the number of lower taxa relative to the number of higher taxa. We use generalized least squares models to test the influence of elevation range and temperature on lower-taxon richness relative to higher-taxon richness. Results Peaks of species richness in the Neotropics were congruent with patterns of generic richness, whilst peaks in Australia and the Himalayas were congruent with patterns of both genus and family richness. Hotspots in the Afrotropics did not reflect higher-taxon patterns. Regional differences in the relationship between richness at successive taxonomic levels revealed variation in patterns of taxon co-occurrence. Species and genus co-occurrence was positively associated with elevational range across much of the world. Taxon occurrence in the Neotropics was associated with a positive interaction between elevational range and temperature. Conclusions These results demonstrate that contemporary patterns of richness show different associations with higher-taxon richness in different regions, which implies that the timing of historical effects on these contemporary patterns varies across regions. We suggest that this is due to dispersal limitation and phylogenetic constraints on physiological tolerance limits promoting diversification. We speculate that diversification rates respond to long-term changes in the Earth's topography, and that the role of tropical mountain ranges is implicated as a correlate of contemporary diversity, and a source of diversification across avian evolutionary history.
2665397|1 It is widely accepted that tropical lowland rain forest holds the greatest diversity of organisms, and it is often implied that this general pattern is also true for virtually all individual higher-level taxa. Standardized elevational transect surveys of non-flying small mammals (Insectivora and Rodentia) on geologically old, species-rich islands in the Philippines consistently show maximum diversity and relative abundance in upper montane/lower mossy forest at 1500-2200 m, often exceeding lowland species richness and relative abundance by a factor of three or more. 2 On mountains where maximum elevation exceeds 2000 m, there is a decline in species richness above about 1500-2000 m, yielding a curvilinear pattern of species richness along the elevational gradient. The peak in species richness occurs at the area of transition from montane to mossy forest, which is also the point at which rainfall probably peaks. In parallel with species richness, relative abundance of small mammals in the Philippines also increases from the lowlands to 1500-2200 m, increasing by a factor from two to 10. 3 Twelve hypotheses concerning patterns of diversity along elevational gradients, plus the null hypothesis, are evaluated. The null hypothesis of no variation and the hypotheses that maximum diversity is in the lowlands, that diversity is highest in areas of least perturbation, and that diversity increases with increasing area, are rejected. There is weak or ambiguous support for the hypotheses that diversity is greatest in areas of community interdigitation, that diversity is highest in the area of highest productivity, that diversity is correlated with habitat complexity, and that diversity is correlated with habitat diversity. There is strongest support for the hypotheses that diversity is correlated with annual rainfall, with total abundance of individuals in the community, with food resource diversity, with areas of reduced competition from other organisms, and with areas characterized by high rates of speciation. 4 Causality is difficult to evaluate because many hypotheses make non-exclusive predictions, they probably represent non-independent aspects of causal factors (in other words, there is much interaction among the processes highlighted by the various hypotheses), and they represent the range from proximate to ultimate and from descriptive to causal. All the hypotheses probably represent phenomena that exist in nature, but few (or none) represent phenomena found in all taxa. The primary challenge in the future will not be simply to accept or reject individual hypotheses, but rather to determine the circumstances under which the various causal factors are most important, how they interact, and how they can be combined into a more comprehensive and general multi-factorial model.
40928131|Aim: Biodiversity patterns along altitudinal gradients are less studied in aquatic than terrestrial systems, even though aquatic sites provide a more homogeneous environment independent of moisture constraints. We studied the altitudinal species richness pattern for planktonic rotifers in freshwater lakes and identified the environmental predictors for which altitude is a proxy. Location: Two hundred and eighteen lakes of Trentino-South Tyrol (Italy) in the eastern Alps; lakes covered 98% (range 65-2960 m above sea level) of the altitudinal gradient in the Alps. Methods: We performed: (1) linear regression between species richness and altitude to evaluate the general pattern, (2) multiple linear regression between species richness and environmental predictors excluding altitude to identify the most important predictors, and (3) linear regression between the residuals of the best model of step (2) and altitude to investigate any additional explanatory power of altitude. Selection of environmental predictors was based on limnological importance and non-parametric Spearman correlations. We applied ordinary least squares regression, generalized linear, and generalized least squares modelling to select the most statistically appropriate model. Results: Rotifer species richness showed a monotonie decrease with altitude independent of scale effects. Species richness could be explained (R = 51%) by lake area as a proxy for habitat diversity, reactive silica and total phosphorus as proxies for productivity, water temperature as a proxy for energy, nitrate as a proxy for human influence and north-south and east-west directions as covariates. These predictors completely accounted for the species richness-altitude pattern, and altitude had no additional effect on species richness. Main conclusions: The linear decrease of species richness along the altitudinal gradient was related to the interplay of habitat diversity, productivity, heat content and human influence. These factors are the same in terrestrial and aquatic habitats, but the greater environmental stability of aquatic systems seems to favour a linear pattern.
40205694|Aim: We examined whether species occurrences are primarily limited by physiological tolerance in the abiotically more stressful end of climatic gradients (the asymmetric abiotic stress limitation (AASL) hypothesis) and the geographical predictions of this hypothesis: abiotic stress mainly determines upper-latitudinal and upper-altitudinal species range limits, and the importance of abiotic stress for these range limits increases the further northwards and upwards a species occurs. Location: Europe and the Swiss Alps. Methods: The AASL hypothesis predicts that species have skewed responses to climatic gradients, with a steep decline towards the more stressful conditions. Based on presence-absence data we examined the shape of plant species responses (measured as probability of occurrence) along three climatic gradients across latitudes in Europe (1577 species) and altitudes in the Swiss Alps (284 species) using Huisman-Olff-Fresco, generalized linear and generalized additive models. Results: We found that almost half of the species from Europe and one-third from the Swiss Alps showed responses consistent with the predictions of the AASL hypothesis. Cold temperatures and a short growing season seemed to determine the upper-latitudinal and upper-altitudinal range limits of up to one-third of the species, while drought provided an important constraint at lower-latitudinal range limits for up to one-fifth of the species. We found a biome-dependent influence of abiotic stress and no clear support for abiotic stress as a stronger upper range-limit determinant for species with higher latitudinal and altitudinal distributions. However, the overall influence of climate as a range-limit determinant increased with latitude. Main conclusions: Our results support the AASL hypothesis for almost half of the studied species, and suggest that temperature-related stress controls the upperlatitudinal and upper-altitudinal range limits of a large proportion of these species, while other factors including drought stress may be important at the lower range limits.
41058240|Aim: Explanations of biogeographic diversity patterns have emphasized the role of large-scale processes that determine species pools, whereas explanations of local patterns have not. We address the hypothesis that local diversity patterns are also primarily dependent on the size of the available species pools, which are expected to be large when the particular habitat type has been evolutionary more abundant, or in unproductive habitats due to shorter generation time and hence higher diversification rates. Location: The Canary Islands. Methods: We determined the geographic distribution and habitat requirements of all native vascular plant species in the Canary Islands. Species pools for each habitat type on particular islands were further split into two categories according to origin: either originating due to local diversification or due to natural immigration. The dependence of historical diversification and diversification rate on habitat type, area, age, altitude and distance to the mainland was tested with general linear mixed models weighed according to the Akaike information criterion. Results: The largest portion of the local variation in plant species diversity was attributed to the historic (pre-human) habitat area, although island age was also important. The diversification rate was higher in unproductive habitats of coastal scrub and summit vegetation. Main conclusion: Our study supports the species pool hypothesis, demonstrating that natural local patterns of species diversity in different habitats mirror the abundance of those particular habitats in evolutionary history. It also supports the community-level birth rate hypothesis, claiming that stressful conditions result in higher diversification rates. We conclude that much of the observed local variation in plant diversity can be attributed to the differing sizes of species pools evolved under particular habitat conditions, and that historic parameters are far more important determinants of local diversity than suggested by ecological theory.
3697641|Aim: We tested whether variation in snapshots of butterfly species composition and species richness taken from one to six years apart could be interpreted as an ecologically meaningful trend or whether they might merely reflect stochasticity. Location: Field research was conducted in the Toquima Range and Shoshone Mountains, Lander and Nye counties, Nevada, USA. Methods: We obtained data for 49 sites in the Toquima Range from 1996 to 2002 and 39 sites in the Shoshone Mountains from 2000 to 2002. Sites spanned the gradient of local topographic and climatic conditions in those mountain ranges. Data on species composition and species richness were based on comprehensive field inventories. We calculated similarity of species composition using the Jaccard index. We conducted one-factor repeated-measures analyses of variance to test whether the distribution of similarity of species composition and the distribution of mean species richness depended on the number of years between inventories. Results: In both mountain ranges, much less of the difference in species composition was attributable to turnover of species composition within sites over time than to spatial differences among sites. Annual species richness in the Toquima Range was more variable than in the Shoshone Mountains, but again far less of the variation in species richness was attributable to year than to differences among sites. Main conclusions: Despite the fact that desert ecosystems are not expected to be highly resilient to global environmental change, there may be a time lag between deterministic environmental changes and a detectable faunal response, even in taxonomic groups that are known to be sensitive to changes in climate and vegetation. Although information on species richness and similarity of species composition are among the most practical data to collect in managed landscapes, these measures may not be highly sensitive to environmental changes over the short to moderate term.
40801854|Aim: Invasive species often exhibit a highly non-random suite of traits relative to non-invasive taxa, and these biases reflect strong selection at a series of steps along the invasion pathway. Here we investigate traits that are favoured in the first of these steps: the introduction of species outside their native geographic range. We use the global introduction of amphibians as our case study.
3182718|In many temperate and annual grasslands, above-ground net primary productivity (NPP) can be estimated by measuring peak above-ground biomass. Estimates of below-ground net primary productivity and, consequently, total net primary productivity, are more difficult. We addressed one of the three main objectives of the Global Primary Productivity Data Initiative for grassland systems to develop simple models or algorithms to estimate missing components of total system NPP. Any estimate of below-ground NPP (BNPP) requires an accounting of total root biomass, the percentage of living biomass and annual turnover of live roots. We derived a relationship using above-ground peak biomass and mean annual temperature as predictors of below-ground biomass (r
40205700|Aim: To contribute to the development of a macroevolutionary framework for riparian systems, reinforcing conceptual linkages between earth surface processes and biological and ecological processes. Location: Riparian systems. Methods: Literature review leading to an original proposition for perceiving the functioning of riparian systems in a new and different way. Results: Riparian systems provide diverse landforms, habitats and resources for animals and plants. Certain organisms, defined as 'ecosystem engineers', significantly create and modify the physical components of riparian systems. Many studies have highlighted such engineering effects by animals on riparian systems, but the identification and understanding of the effects and responses of plants within fluvial corridors have emerged only recently. The modulation of matter, resources and energy flows by engineering plants helps establish characteristic sequences of fluvial landform creation and maintenance associated with synergetic ecological successions. We relate this process to the concept of niche construction, developed mainly by evolutionary biologists. Feedbacks between adaptive responses of riparian plants to flow regime and adjusting effects on biostabilization and bioconstruction are discussed in the context of niche construction at the scale of ecological succession and the evolution of organisms. Main conclusions: Our conceptualization forges an integrated approach for understanding vegetated fluvial systems from a macroevolutionary perspective, for elucidating riparian ecosystem dynamics and potentially for establishing long-term stream conservation and restoration strategies.
30137986|Many recent studies have evaluated how global changes will affect biodiversity, and have mainly focused on how to develop conservation strategies to avoid, or at least minimize, extinctions due to shifts in suitable habitats for the species. However, these complex potential responses might be in part structured in phylogeny, because of the macroecological traits underlying them. In this comment, we review recent analytical developments in phylogenetic comparative methods that can be used to understand patterns of trait changes under environmental change. We focus on a partial regression approach that allows for partitioning the variance of traits into a fraction attributed to a pure ecological component, a fraction attributed to phylogenetically structured environmental variation (niche conservatism) and a fraction that may be attributed to phylogenetic effects only. We then develop a novel interpretation for linking these components for multiple traits with potential responses of species to global environmental change (i.e. adaptation, range shifts or extinctions). We hope that this interpretation will stimulate further research linking evolutionary components of multiple traits with broad-scale environmental changes.
3182728|An index (C
3697658|Aim: The goal of our study was to build a global model of island biogeography explaining bird species richness that combines MacArthur and Wilson's area-isolation theory with the species-energy theory. Location: Global. Methods: We assembled a global data set of 346 marine islands representing all types of climate, topography and degree of isolation on our planet, ranging in size from 10 ha to
2665379|Null models are pattern-generating models that deliberately exclude a mechanism of interest, and allow for randomization tests of ecological and biogeographic data. Although they have had a controversial history, null models are widely used as statistical tools by ecologists and biogeographers. Three active research fronts in null model analysis include biodiversity measures, species co-occurrence patterns, and macroecology. In the analysis of biodiversity, ecologists have used random sampling procedures such as rarefaction to adjust for differences in abundance and sampling effort. In the analysis of species co-occurrence and assembly rules, null models have been used to detect the signature of species interactions. However, controversy persists over the details of computer algorithms used for randomizing presence-absence matrices. Finally, in the newly emerging discipline of macroecology, null models can be used to identify constraining boundaries in bivariate scatterplots of variables such as body size, range size, and population density. Null models provide specificity and flexibility in data analysis that is often not possible with conventional statistical tests.
40928124|Aim: To evaluate the hypothesis that topographic features of high-elevation mountain environments govern spatial distribution and climate-driven dynamics of the forest. Location: Upper mountain forest stands (elevation range 1800-2600 m) in the mountains of southern Siberia. Methods: Archive maps, satellite and on-ground data from 1960 to 2002 were used. Data were normalized to avoid bias caused by uneven distribution of topographic features (elevation, azimuth and slope steepness) within the analysed area. Spatial distribution of forest stands was analysed with respect to topography based on a digital elevation model (DEM). Results: Spatial patterns in mountain forests are anisotropic with respect to azimuth, slope steepnesand elevation. At a given elevation, the majority of forests occupied slopes with greater than mean slope values. As the elevation increased, forests shifted to steeper slopes. The orientation of forest azimuth distribution changed clockwise with increase in elevation (the total shift was 120), indicating a combined effect of wind and water stress on the observed forest patterns. Warming caused changes in the forest distribution patterns during the last four decades. The area of closed forests increased 1.5 times, which was attributed to increased stand density and tree migration. The migration rate was 1.5  0.9 m year, causing a mean forest line shift of 63  37 m. Along with upward migration, downward tree migration onto hill slopes was observed. Changes in tree morphology were also noted as widespread transformation of the prostrate forms of Siberian pine and larch into erect forms. Main conclusions: The spatial pattern of upper mountain forests as well as the response of forests to warming strongly depends on topographic relief features (elevation, azimuth and slope steepness). With elevation increase (and thus a harsher environment) forests shifted to steep wind-protected slopes. A considerable increase in the stand area and increased elevation of the upper forest line was observed coincident with the climate warming that was observed. Warming promotes migration of trees to areas that are less protected from winter desiccation and snow abrasion (i.e. areas with lower values of slope steepness). Climate-induced forest response has significantly modified the spatial patterns of high-elevation forests in southern Siberia during the last four decades, as well as tree morphology.
41058238|Aim: The existence of a body size hierarchy across trophic connections is widely accepted anecdotally and is a basic assumption of many food-web models. Despite a strong theoretical basis, empirical evidence has been equivocal, and in general the relationship between trophic level and body size is often found to be weak or non-existent. Location: Global (aquatic). Methods: Using a global dataset for fishes (http://www. fishbase. org), we explored the relationship between body size and trophic position for 8361 fishes in 57 orders. Results: Across all species, trophic position was positively related to maximum length (r=0.194, b = 0.065, P<0.0001), meaning that a one-level increase in trophic level was associated with an increase in maximum length by a factor of 183. On average, fishes in orders that showed significantly positive trophic level-body size relations [mean=51.6 cm  11.8 (95% confidence interval, CI)] were 86 cm smaller than fishes in orders that showed no relation [mean=137.1 cm  50.3 (95% CI), P <0.01]. A separate slopes model ANCOVA revealed that maximum length and trophic level were positively correlated for 47% (27 of 57) of orders, with two more orders showing marginally non-significant positive relations; no significant negative correlations were observed. The full model (order x body size) explained 37% of the variation between body size and trophic position (P<0.0001). Main conclusions: Our results support recent models which suggest that trophic level and body size should be positively correlated, and indicate that morphological constraints associated with gape limitation may play a stronger role in determining body size in smaller fishes. Differences among orders suggest that the nature of the trophic level-body size relation may be contingent, in part, on evolutionary history.
3182651|A recent explanation for diversity gradients proposes a 'null model' based on how species ranges are constrained by the geometry of bounded domains. We conduct a test of this hypothesis by comparing patterns predicted by two two-dimensional geometric models against observed diversity patterns for terrestrially feeding Nearctic birds. Consistent with previous tests in two-dimensional space, we find empirical support for the hypothesis to be very weak. We also point out a fundamental conceptual flaw in the hypothesis with respect to the key assumption that ranges can exist independently of the environment in which they are embedded that undermines its theoretical basis as well. We conclude that the mid-domain effect has little empirical support and no theoretical support for its existence, and recommend that it be eliminated as a potential explanation for diversity gradients.
30137993|Aim: To describe the distribution of biodiversity and endemism of bryozoans in southern temperate and polar waters. We hypothesized that we would find: (1) no strong latitudinal richness gradient; (2) striking contrasts in richness and endemism between clades and between regions; and (3) that faunal similarity of regions would cluster geographically around each southern continent. Location: South Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans and the Southern Ocean. Methods: We constructed a data base from known literature, regional data bases and recent finds. We regionalized each southern continent, calculated levels of richness and endemism for each region and continent, and used PRIMER 5 to perform multivariate statistical analysis. Results: A third (1681) of global bryozoan species described occur south of 300 S, of which c. 87% were cheilostomes. In richness we found no latitudinal dine and change across longitude was stronger. New Zealand was richest and had the most (60%) endemic species, followed by Antarctica at 57%. There were striking contrasts in regional richness and endemism between clades but the highest levels of between region similarity were around Antarctica. The timing of past continent connectivity was reflected. Main conclusions: Bryozoans show strong hemispherical asymmetry in richness and, like molluscs and corals, decrease away from Australasia rather than with latitude. Species endemism is much lower in Antarctic bryozoans than previously thought, and as this taxon is not particularly dispersive and is now amongst the best studied regionally, maybe Antarctic endemism in general is lower and Antarctica less cut-off to species dispersal than previously thought. However, Antarctic generic endemism is double the level previously calculated and regional faunal similarities are much higher than around other continents - both reflecting long-term isolation. Bryozoans, in contrast to the paradigm of Antarctic fauna, may be fairly robust to predicted climate change. Paradoxically, they may also be one of the best taxa to monitor to sensitively detect marine benthic responses.
41239261|Aim: Despite the increasing pace of urbanization, little is known about how this process affects biodiversity globally. We investigate macroecological patterns of bird assemblages in urbanized areas relative to semi-natural ecosystems. Location: World-wide. Methods: We use a database of quantitative bird surveys to compare key assemblage structure parameters for plots in urbanized and semi-natural ecosystems controlling for spatial autocorrelation and survey methodology. We use the term 'urbanized' instead of 'urban' ecosystems as many of the plots were not located in the centre of towns but in remnant habitat patches within conurbations. Results: Some macroecological relationships were conserved in urbanized landscapes. Species-area, species-abundance and species-biomass relationships did not differ significantly between urbanized and non-urbanized environments. However, there were differences in the relationships between productivity and assemblage structure. In forests, species richness increased with productivity; in both forests and open habitats, the evenness of species abundances declined as productivity increased. Among urbanized plots, instead, both species richness and the evenness of species abundances were independent of variation in productivity. Main conclusions: Remnant habitats within urbanized areas are subject to many ecological alterations, yet key macroecological patterns differ remarkably little in urbanized versus non-urbanized plots. Our results support the need for increased conservation activities in urbanized landscapes, particularly given the additional benefits of local experiences of biodiversity for the human population. With increasing urbanization world-wide, broad-scale efforts are needed to understand and manage the effects of this driver of change on biodiversity.
4139434|Aim Our aim was to investigate how the environment, species characteristics and historical factors at the subcontinental scale affect patterns of diversity. We used the assembly of the Yellowstone biota over the past 10,000 years as a natural experiment for investigating the processes that generate a modern non-volant mammal species pool. Location The data represent species from throughout North America with special attention to the non-volant mammals of Yellowstone National Park, USA. Methods We used digitized range maps to determine biogeographical affinity for all non-volant mammals in the Rocky Mountains, Deserts and Great Plains biogeographical regions of North America. This biogeographical affinity, along with taxonomic order and body size class, was used to test whether non-random patterns exist in the assemblage of Yellowstone non-volant mammals. These characteristics were also used to investigate the strength of non-random processes, such as habitat or taxon filtering, on particular groups of species or individual species. Results Our results indicated that the Yellowstone fauna is composed of a non-random subset of mammals from specific body size classes and with particular biogeographical affinities. Analyses by taxonomic order found significantly more Carnivora from the Rocky Mountains region and significantly fewer Rodentia from the Deserts region than expected from random assembly. Analyses using body size classes revealed deviations from expectations, including several significant differences between the frequency distribution of regional body sizes and the distribution of those species found within Yellowstone. Main conclusions Our novel approach explores processes affecting species pool assembly in the Yellowstone region and elsewhere, and particularly identifies unique properties of species that may contribute to non-random assembly. Focusing on the mechanisms generating diversity, not just current diversity patterns, will assist the design of conservation strategies given future environmental change scenarios.
4139421|Aim To assess whether spatial variation in sampling effort drives positive correlations between human population density and species richness. Location British 10x10 km squares. Methods We calculated three measures of species richness from atlas data of breeding birds in Britain: total species richness, species richness standardised for sampling effort, and the number of species only recorded in supplementary casual records in a manner not standardised for survey effort. We then assessed the form of the relationship between these richness estimates and human population density, both with and without taking spatial autocorrelation into account. Results Both total and standardised species richness exhibit similar species richness-human population density relationships; species richness generally increases with human population density, but decreases at the very highest densities. Supplementary species richness is very weakly correlated with human population density. Main conclusions In this example, sampling effort only slightly influences the form of species richness-human population density relationships. The positive correlation between species richness and human population density and any resultant conservation conflicts are thus not artefactual patterns generated by confounding human density and sampling effort.
3182717|One expects greater similarity between communities that are close together in space than between communities that are widely separated. This may be due to similarity in environmental conditions, short-range dispersal, or both processes together. We examined whether these mechanisms were important in determining the invertebrate communities in a set of temporary freshwater rockpools within an area of 800 m
40801914|Aim: To assemble a data set of global crop planting and harvesting dates for 19 major crops, explore spatial relationships between planting date and climate for two of them, and compare our analysis with a review of the literature on factors that drive decisions on planting dates.
2665335|1. This paper aims to demonstrate the use of available vegetation data from the phytosociological literature in preliminary analyses to generate hypotheses regarding vegetation and climate change. 2. Data for over 3000 samples of calcareous grassland, mesotrophic grassland, heath and woodland vegetation were taken from the literature for a region in the west of Atlantic Europe and subjected to ordination by detrended correspondence analysis in order to identify the main gradients present. 3. Climate data were obtained at a resolution of 0.5<sup></sup> from an existing database. The relationship between vegetation composition and climate was investigated by the correlation of the mean scores for the first two ordination axes for each 0.5<sup></sup> cell with the climate and location variables. 4. The ordinations resulted in clear geographical gradients for calcareous grasslands, heaths and woodlands but not for mesotrophic grasslands. Significant correlations were shown between some of the vegetation gradients and the climate variables, with the strongest relationships occurring between the calcareous grassland gradients and July temperature, latitude and oceanicity. Some of the vegetation gradients were also inferred to reflect edaphic factors, management and vegetation history. 5. Those gradients that were related to temperature were hypothesized to reflect the influence of a progressively warmer climate on species composition, providing a baseline for further studies on the influence of climate change on species composition. 6. The validity of the literature data was assessed by the collection of an original set of field data for calcareous grasslands and the subsequent ordination of a dataset containing samples from both the literature and the field. The considerable overlap between the samples from the literature and the field suggest that literature data can be used, despite certain limitations. Such preliminary analyses, using readily available data, can thus achieve useful results, thereby saving lengthy and costly field visits.
40205719|Aim: We tested the hypothesis that the evolutionary fates of two sister groups (Alligatoroidea and Crocodyloidea) are differently constrained by phylogenetic and ecological (functional) factors in the face of climatic change. Location: Global. Methods: We quantified disparity in skull rostrum shape by means of geometric morphometrics. Mechanical performance of the rostrum was analyzed by applying beam theory calculations to morphological data and experimentally measured bite force. The phylogeny was expressed in the form of principal coordinates, the first ones of which were used as a set of explanatory variables. Extents of species occurrence were computed using species distribution maps. Finally, species maximum skull size were measured and considered as a proxy of maximum body size. We performed variation partitioning analyses in order to compare differential contributions of phylogenetic and ecological factors in Alligatoroidea and Crocodyloidea. Results: Alligatoroidea show higher 'pure' historical components than Crocodyloidea in explaining both rostrum shape and extent of occurrence (after controlling for body size). On the contrary, geometric variation of skull rostra of Crocodyloidea unequivocally shows a higher 'pure' functional component (linked to performance on prey capture) and a higher phylogenetically structured environmental variation than those found in Alligatoroidea. Results: obtained for body size variation are consistent with these patterns. In Alligatoroidea, body size variation contains a higher phylogenetic signal than in Crocodyloidea. Main Conclusions: Our results suggest that Crocodyloidea and Alligatoroidea may react differently when faced with significant environmental changes. We predict that global climatic changes will have a more important effect on Crocodyloidea than in Alligatoroidea by (1) promoting trait shift, adaptation to the new diet and speciation and (2) modifying the geographical range distribution of species (which may track favourable ecological conditions).
3697605|Aim: To determine the major patterns of change in avian diversity structure over space and time at a local resolution and continental extent in non-urban areas in North America. Location: The contiguous United States and southern Canada. Methods: We used 1673 North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) routes containing 547 terrestrial and aquatic species to estimate four diversity components: species richness, individual abundance, taxonomic distinctness and species evenness. We implemented three levels of analysis to examine changes in diversity structure on a yearly basis from 1968 to 2003: (1) a canonical analysis of discriminance, (2) a univariate analysis across BBS routes, and (3) a univariate analysis at individual BBS routes. We estimated changes in similarity in species composition over time between 470,730 BBS route pairs. We also estimated the level of human activity at BBS routes using three spatial anthropogenic databases. Results: BBS routes were located in non-urban areas in association with low nighttime light activity and moderately low human population densities. The analysis of diversity structure indicated the presence of two independent patterns: (1) a temporally consistent pattern defined by increasing species richness (12% increase from 1968 to 2003) associated with limited gains in taxonomic distinctness, and (2) an association between species abundance and evenness related to variability in abundance associated with the most abundant species. The similarity analysis indicated that BBS routes located closer to the Atlantic and the Pacific coasts of the United States experienced the strongest patterns of homogenization of species composition. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that avian diversity structure has changed at the local scale in non-urban areas in North America. However, there was no evidence for a consistent continent-wide pattern. Instead, the evidence pointed to the presence of regional factors influencing diversity patterns. This study provides a foundation for more detailed investigations of the spatiotemporal and taxonomic details of these general patterns.
4139444|Aim Globally, most landscape burning occurs in the tropical savanna biome, where fire is a characteristic of the annual dry season. In northern Australia there is uncertainty about how the frequency and timing of dry season fires have changed in the transition from Aboriginal to European fire management. Location In the tropical eucalypt savannas that surround the city of Darwin in the northwest of the Northern Territory of Australia. Methods Our study had three parts: (1) we developed a predictive statistical model of mean mass (
3697629|Aim: To use the method of parsimony analysis of endemism to identify areas of endemism for passerine birds in the Atlantic Forest, South America, and to compare the locations of these areas with areas previously identified for birds as well as other taxa. Location: The Atlantic Forest, eastern South America. Methods: We analysed a matrix composed of the presence (1) or absence (0) of 140 endemic species in 24 quadrats of 1 x 1 degree distributed along the Atlantic Forest to find the most parsimonious area cladogram. Results: Fourteen most parsimonious cladograms were found and then summarized in a single consensus tree. Four areas of endemism were identified: Pernambuco, Central Bahia, Coastal Bahia, and Serra do Mar. Main conclusions: Avian areas of endemism in the Atlantic Forest have significant generality, as they are highly nonrandom and congruent with those of other groups of organisms. A first hypothesis about the historical relationships among the four areas of avian endemism in the Atlantic Forest is delineated. There is a basal dichotomy among areas of endemism in the Atlantic Forest, with Pernambuco forming a northern cluster and Coastal Bahia, Central Bahia and Serra do Mar comprising a southern cluster. Within the southern cluster, Central Bahia and Serra do Mar are more closely related to each other than to Coastal Bahia.
3697660|Aim: To present a general, process-based river model for suspended particulate matter (SPM). Location: General approach based on processes; data from Europe and Israel. Methods: The model has been tested and calibrated using an empirical river model for SPM and validated (blind-tested) using data from seven European sites. This modelling gives mean monthly SPM concentrations in water for defined river sites. The model is based on processes in the entire upstream river stretch (and not for given river segments) and calculates the transport of SPM from land to water, primary production of SPM (within the upstream river stretch), resuspension, mineralization and retention of SPM in the upstream river stretch (but not bed load of friction materials, such as sand). The catchment area is differentiated into inflow (~ dry land) areas and outflow area (~ wetland areas dominated by relatively fast horizontal SPM-fluxes). The model is simple to apply in practice as all driving variables may be accessed readily from maps. The driving variables are: latitude, altitude, continentality, catchment area and mean annual precipitation. Results: Modelled values have been compared to independent empirical data from sites covering a relatively wide domain (catchment areas from
3182660|1 The origin and distribution of the species of freshwater interstitial (stygobiont) syncarids of the Iberobathynella genus (Crustacea, Parabathynellidae), endemic to the Iberian Peninsula, are considered in the context of evolutionary biogeography. 2 We established the most likely phylogenetic relationships between the 14 known species of the Iberobathynella genus on the basis of morphological characters. We assumed a common marine ancestor and estimated the possible phylogenetic ages of the 14 inland species from the number of cladogram nodes. 3 The land ages at the sites where the species are found help to tell us when the landmasses emerged definitively: most species are found in areas that have undergone one or more marine transgressions/regressions since the Triassic and which could therefore have been colonized by the common ancestors. 4 We assessed the Boutin-Coineau two-step model of colonization and evolution in an attempt to elucidate the evolutionary history of Iberobathynella and to offer a plausible palaeogeographical scenario. We looked for concordance between the possible chronology of Iberobathynella taxa colonization and their phylogenetic relationships, but found none of significance. Hence, we cannot reject the possibility that evolutionary clade divergence within the genus was independent of sea-level changes in the Senonian (88.5-65 mya) and Eocene (56.5-35.4 mya) epochs. We can therefore neither confirm nor rule out a correlation.
2997881|Ecosystem heterogeneity and lack of data on areas and deforestation rates have constrained the modelling of deforestation in tropical open woodlands. Smaller and more continuous changes in ecosystem quality attributes (e g canopy cover, tree density and biomass density) are best described as degradation, not deforestation. Suggestions are made for constructing degradation models by relaxing some assumptions of deforestation models to cope with the multiple uses of multiple vegetation layers by multiple users. Employing biomass as a dependent variable would account for biomass reductions caused by changes in woodland area, tree density and the biomass of retained trees and shrubs, and overcome the problem of how to aggregate changes in woodland area and tree density. Disaggregating models by woodland type is also recommended.
2997852|1. Mangrove species richness declines dramatically from a maximum in the Indo-West Pacific (IWP) to a minimum in the Caribbean and Western Atlantic. Explaining this `anomalous' biogeographic pattern has been a focus of discussion for most of this century 2. Two hypotheses have been put forward to explain the mangrove biodiversity anomaly The `centre-of-origin hypothesis' asserts that all mangrove taxa originated in the IWP and subsequently dispersed to other parts of the world. The `vicariance hypothesis' asserts that mangrove taxa evolved around the Tethys Sea during the Late Cretaceous, and regional species diversity resulted from in situ diversification after continental drift 3. Five lines of evidence are used to test between these two hypotheses. First, we review the mangrove fossil record Second, we compare modern and fossil distributions of mangroves and eight genera of gastropods that show high fidelity to the mangrove environment Third, we describe species-area relationships of mangroves and associated gastropods with respect to area of available habitat Fourth, we analyse patterns of nestedness of individual plant and gastropod communities in mangrove forests. Fifth, we analyse patterns of nestedness of individual plant and gastropod species 4. All five lines of evidence support the vicariance hypothesis The first occurrences in the fossil record of most mangrove genera and many genera of gastropods associated with mangrove forests appear around the Tethys Sea from the Late Cretaceous through the Early Tertiary Globally, species richness in any given mangrove forest is tightly correlated with available area Patterns of nestedness at the community and species-level both point towards three independent regions of diversification of mangrove ecosystems: South-east Asia, the Caribbean and Eastern Pacific, and the Indian Ocean region
2665385|Patterns of change in distribution (presence/absence) and abundance since the late 1960s were examined in 20 species of farmland bird in southern Britain in predominantly arable (eastern), predominantly mixed (central) and predominantly grassland (western) regions. Comparisons were made between changes in distribution and in abundance to determine whether these measures show similar relationships to environmental change. Local extinctions of selected species and reductions in species richness were significantly greater in the predominantly grassland region. Decreases in abundance were greatest in seven species in the predominantly arable region, two in the mixed region and nine in the grassland region. Changes in distribution and abundance showed consistent patterns in three species, turtle dove Streptopelia turtur L., yellow wagtail Motacilla flava L. and reed bunting Emberiza schoeniclus L. In another four species, grey part-ridge Perdix perdix L., lapwing Vanellus vanellus L., tree sparrow Passer montanus L. and corn bunting Miliaria calandra L., decreases in abundance were greatest in the arable region, yet declines in distribution were lowest. For other individual species, changes in distribution were too small to draw any conclusions in relation to farm type. We suggest that modern grassland systems are suboptimal habitats compared to arable or mixed agricultural land for many farmland species that occur at relatively low density in the more western, grass-dominated region. Declines in abundance are therefore more likely to lead to local extinction in these areas than in eastern areas where abundance is higher. However, the role of changes in grassland management on bird populations requires further research. It is suggested that conclusions drawn from changes in distribution alone, in the absence of supporting data on changes in abundance, may be misleading where the aim is to assess how large-scale spatial dynamics of populations relate to environmental change.
3697604|Aim: The geographical range size frequency distributions of animal and plant assemblages are among the most important factors affecting large-scale patterns of diversity. Nonetheless, the relationship between habitat type and the range size distributions of species forming assemblages remains poorly understood. We examined how the mean latitudinal range sizes of species in Neotropical bird species assemblages shift during forest clearance and subsequent regeneration. We tested the hypothesis that bird species assemblages in early successional habitats tend to have larger latitudinal ranges than those in more mature forests. Location: We considered breeding bird chronosequence data from six Neotropical forests. Results: Breeding bird assemblages were found to have the species with the largest average latitudinal range sizes in cleared areas, intermediate in young secondary forests and smallest in old secondary and mature forests. Similar differences were also found when we compared congeners differing in their successional preferences. Sizes of regional ranges (within the Neotropics) did not, however, differ consistently among successional stages. The larger latitudinal (but not regional) ranges of early successional species was as a result in part of the tendency of early successional species to have ranges that extend beyond the Neotropical forest biome. Conclusions: Our analysis of chronosequences suggests that as early successional habitats mature, a consistent shift from large-ranged species towards more small ranged species occurs. Even relatively old secondary forests have bird species with larger average ranges than mature forests. As a consequence, conservation of secondary forests alone will miss many of the species most at risk of extinction and most unlikely to be conserved in other locations or biomes.
2665366|1 In the colonization of an island by potentially interacting species both the severity of the competition between them and the length of the interval between their arrivals should affect the likelihood of the second species becoming established. Between-island variation in priority and the interval between colonizations will depend on the dispersal rates of the two species. 2 We predict that early colonization should be relatively deterministic, whereas later in the colonization process both the sequence of arrivals and the interval between them will be more variable. 3 Possible instances of both deterministic and stochastic stages in community development are identified in the colonization of the Krakatau islands by zoochorous forest trees and large zoochorous lianes.
41058218|Aim: To estimate whether species have shifted at equal rates at their leading edges (cool boundaries) and trailing edges (warm boundaries) in response to climate change. We provide the first such evidence for tropical insects, here examining elevation shifts for the upper and lower boundaries shifts of montane moths.Threats to species on tropical mountains are considered. Location: Mount Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysia. Methods: We surveyed Lepidoptera (Geometridae) on Mount Kinabalu in 2007, 42 years after the previous surveys in 1965. Changes in species upper and lower boundaries, elevational extents and range areas were assessed. We randomly subsampled the data to ensure comparable datasets between years. Estimated shifts were compared for endemic versus more widespread species, and for species that reached their range limits at different elevations. Results: Species that reached their upper limits at 2500-2700 m (n = 28 species, 20% of those considered) retreated at both their lower and upper boundaries, and hence showed substantial average range contractions (-300 m in elevational extent and -45 km in estimated range area). These declines may be associated with changes in cloud cover and the presence of ecological barriers (geological and vegetation transitions) which impede uphill movement. Other than this group, most species (n -109,80% of the species considered) expanded their upper boundaries upwards (by an average of 152 m) more than they retreated at their lower boundaries (77 m). Main conclusions: Without constraints, leading margins shifted uphill faster than trailing margins retreated, such that many species increased their elevational extents. However, this did not result in increases in range area because the area of land available declines with increasing elevation. Species close to a major ecological/geological transition zone on the mountain flank declined in their range areas. Extinction risk may increase long before species reach the summit, even when undisturbed habitats are available.
3697402|Aims: The aims were (1) to assess the species richness and structure of phytophagous Hemiptera communities along a latitudinal gradient, (2) to identify the importance of rare species in structuring these patterns, and (3) to hypothesize about how phytophagous Hemiptera communities may respond to future climate change. Location: East coast of Australia. Methods: Four latitudes within the 1150 km coastal distribution of Acacia falcata were selected. The insect assemblage on the host plant Acacia falcata was sampled seasonally over two years. Congeneric plant species were also sampled at the sites. Results: Ninety-eight species of phytophagous Hemiptera were collected from A. falcata. Total species richness was significantly lower at the most temperate latitude compared to the three more tropical latitudes. We classified species into four climate change response groups depending on their latitudinal range and apparent host specificity. Pairwise comparisons between groups showed that the cosmopolitan, generalist feeders and specialists had a similar community structure to each other, but the climate generalists had a significantly different structure. Fifty-seven species were identified as rare. Most of these rare species were phloem hoppers and their removal from the dataset led to changes in the proportional representation of all guilds in two groups: the specialist and generalist feeders. Main conclusions: We found no directional increase in phytophagous Hemiptera species richness. This indicates that, at least in the short term, species richness patterns of these communities may be similar to that found today. As the climate continues to change, however, we might expect some increases in species richness at the more temperate latitudes as species migrate in response to shifting climate zones. In the longer term, more substantial changes in community composition will be expected because the rare species, which comprise a large fraction of these communities, will be vulnerable to both direct climatic changes, and indirect effects via changes to their host's distribution.
2665434|The New Zealand avifauna has changed considerably since the arrival of humans approximately 1000 years ago. The extinction of native species followed by their replacement with introduced exotic species is recognized as having greatly reduced the distinctiveness of the avifauna. Using phylogenetically independent methods, I tested whether life history and ecological correlates of extinction, introduction and persistence were significant across species and within taxa. Extinct land bird species were, on average, and independent of phylogenetic relatedness, larger-bodied than extant species. Introduction success was found to be significantly associated with increasing species body size, generation time and indices of human effort. In contrast, the geographical distribution of extant land birds was correlated with traits associated with high population growth rates (i.e. small, rapidly developing species, with high fecundity). My results suggest that selection pressures have changed significantly since the arrival of human colonists in New Zealand and that these changes have favoured different types of land birds, to the general detriment of endemic species. Comparative methods that explicitly examine historical changes are necessary to elucidate the changing roles of biological and extrinsic traits in the differential success of species in any assemblage.
40205653|Aim: To assess the geographical variation in the relative importance of vertebrates, and more specifically of birds and mammals, as seed dispersal agents in forest communities, and to evaluate the influence of geographical and climatic factors on the observed trends. Location: One hundred and thirty-five forest communities in the Brazilian Atlantic forest. Methods: We collected data on dispersal modes for 2292 woody species. By combining species x site with species x trait matrices, we obtained the percentages of endozoochory, ornithochory, mastozoochory and the mean fruit diameter for the local forest communities. We used Spearman's correlation to assess bivariate relationships between variables. Subsequently, we performed paired t-tests to verify if variations in frequency of dispersal modes and mean fruit diameter were influenced by altitude or temperature. Then, we applied multiple linear regressions to evaluate the effect of geographical and climatic variables on variation in the relative frequency of dispersal modes and mean fruit diameter across communities. Results: We found no consistent latitudinal or longitudinal trend in the percentage of vertebrate-dispersed species, neither bird-nor mammal-dispersed species along the Atlantic forest. Endozoochory was affected chiefly by annual mean rainfall, increasing towards moister sites. Forest communities located at higher altitudes had a higher percentage of bird-dispersed species. Even when sites with identical values of annual mean temperature were compared, altitude had a positive effect on ornithochory. Conversely, we found a higher percentage of mammal-dispersed species in warmer forests, even when locations at the same altitudinal belts were contrasted. Fruit diameter was clearly related to altitude, decreasing towards higher elevations. Main conclusions: This is the first analysis of a large data set on dispersal syndromes in tropical forest communities. Our findings support the hypotheses that: (1)geographical variation in the relative number of fleshy fruit species is mainly driven by moisture conditions and is relatively independent of geographical location, and (2) broad-scale trends in fruit size correspond to geographical variation in the relative importance of mammals and birds as seed dispersal agents at the community level.
3697502| Aim: We present the first global synthesis of plant canopy leaf area index (LAI) measurements from more than 1000 published estimates representing ~400 unique field sites. LAI is a key variable for regional and global models of biosphere-atmosphere exchanges of energy, carbon dioxide, water vapour, and other materials. Location: The location is global, geographically distributed. Results: Biomes with LAI values well represented in the literature included croplands, forests and plantations. Biomes not well represented were deserts, shrublands, tundra and wetlands. Nearly 40% of the records in the database were published in the past 10 years (1991-2000), with a further 20% collected between 1981 and 1990. Mean ( SD) LAI, distributed between 15 biome classes, ranged from 1.3 0.9 for deserts to 8.7  4.3 for tree plantations, with temperate evergreen forests (needleleaf and broadleaf) displaying the highest average LAI (5.1-6.7) among the natural terrestrial vegetation classes. Following a statistical outlier analysis, the global mean ( SD) LAI decreased from 5.2 (4.1) to 4.5 (2.5), with a maximum LAI of 18. Biomes with the highest LAI values were plantations > temperate evergreen forests > wetlands. Those with the lowest LAI values were deserts < grasslands < tundra. Mean LAI values for all biomes did not differ statistically by the methodology employed. Direct and indirect measurement approaches produced similar LAI results. Mean LAI values for all biomes combined decreased significantly in the 1990s, a period of substantially more studies and improved methodologies. Main conclusions: Applications of the LAI database span a wide range of ecological, biogeochemical, physical, and climate research areas. The data provide input to terrestrial eco-system and land-surface models, for evaluation of global remote sensing products, for comparisons to field studies, and other applications. Example uses of the database for global plant productivity, fractional energy absorption, and remote sensing studies are highlighted. 
41239483|Aim: Species distribution modelling is commonly used to guide future conservation policies in the light of potential climate change. However, arbitrary decisions during the model-building process can affect predictions and contribute to uncertainty about where suitable climate space will exist. For many species, the key climatic factors limiting distributions are unknown. This paper assesses the uncertainty generated by using different climate predictor variable sets for modelling the impacts of climate change. Location: Europe, 10W to 50 E and 30 N to 60  N. Methods: Using 1453 presence pixels at 30 arcsec resolution for the great bustard (Otis tarda), predictions of future distribution were made based on two emissions scenarios, three general climate models and 26 sets of predictor variables. Twentysix current models were created, and 156 for both 2050 and 2080. Map comparison techniques were used to compare predictions in terms of the quantity and the location of presences (map comparison kappa, MCK) and using a range change index (RCI). Generalized linear models (GLMs) were used to partition explained deviance in MCK and RCI among sources of uncertainty. Results: The 26 different variable sets achieved high values of AUC (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve) and yet introduced substantial variation into maps of current distribution. Differences between maps were even greater when distributions were projected into the future. Some 64-78% of the variation between future maps was attributable to choice of predictor variable set alone. Choice of general climate model and emissions scenario contributed a maximum of 15% variation and their order of importance differed for MCK and RCI. Main conclusions: Generalized variable sets produce an unmanageable level of uncertainty in species distribution models which cannot be ignored. The use of sound ecological theory and statistical methods to check predictor variables can reduce this uncertainty, but our knowledge of species may be too limited to make more than arbitrary choices. When all sources of modelling uncertainty are considered together, it is doubtful whether ensemble methods offer an adequate solution.Future studies should explicitly acknowledge uncertainty due to arbitrary choices in the model-building process and develop ways to convey the results to decision-makers.
2665431|1 We expanded the island biogeography paradigm to test whether mammalian communities of the heavily fragmented temperate rain forests of the Olympic Peninsula were influenced by local environmental conditions, biogeographic factors (fragment area and isolation) and characteristics of the surrounding landscape. 2 We used live-trapping, sign surveys and infrared triggered cameras to compare distributions of non-volant mammals among fragments and between fragments and other principal landscape components (continuous old-growth, riparian corridors, second-growth forest and clearcuts). 3 Of the 24 species of non-volant mammals detected during our studies, 18 occurred in at least one fragment. 4 Species richness of old-growth mammals was not significantly correlated with fragment area or isolation, per se, but was significantly and positively correlated with the amount of old-growth fragments and old second-growth (41-159 years) in the surrounding landscape (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.95, P < 0.005). 5 Distributions of three old-growth dependent species [shrew-mole (Neurotrichus gibbsii), Douglas squirrel (Tamiasciurus douglasii) and Trowbridge shew (Sorex trowbridgii)] were significantly associated with local environmental conditions within the fragment, with geographical isolation from continuous old-growth and riparian corridors, and with the amount of old-growth and old second growth in the adjacent matrix.
40801926|Aim: Few studies have attempted to assess the overall impact of fragmentation at the landscape scale. We quantify the impacts of fragmentation on plant diversity by assessing patterns of community composition in relation to a range of fragmentation measures.
3697644| Aim: Coevolved relationships between individual species of birds and plants rarely occur in seed dispersal mutualisms. This study evaluates whether reciprocal relationships may occur between assemblages of bird and plant species. Location: Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada (4850'-N, 12522'-W). Methods: The distribution and fruiting phenologies of seven shrub species were compared to seasonal changes in habitat selection and seed dispersal by six fruit-eating bird species. Results: Shrub species inhabiting forest understorey habitat had earlier fruiting phenologies than shrub species inhabiting forest edge habitat along lake and bog margins. Birds showed a parallel pattern in habitat selection, being more abundant in the forest understorey early in the fruiting season, and more abundant in the forest edge later in the season. Rates of seed deposition covaried with avian habitat selection, in such a way that birds directed seed dispersal into habitats preferred by shrubs. Conclusions: These results depict a broad-scale pattern in the abundance of birds and fruits indicative of reciprocal interactions. Seasonal changes in seed dispersal to each habitat appear to reinforce the relationship between shrub habitat affinities and fruiting phenologies. Phenological differences between habitats may also reinforce seasonal changes in avian habitat selection. Therefore, although reciprocal interactions between pairs of bird and plant species are rare, broad-scale reciprocal relationships may occur between assemblages of bird and plant species. 
2997863|The terms biosphere, ecosphere, and Gaia are used as names for the global ecosystem. However, each has more than one meaning. Biosphere can mean the totality of living things residing on the Earth, the space occupied by living things, or life and life-support systems (atmosphere, hydrospheres, lithosphere, and pedosphere). Ecosphere is used as a synonym of biosphere and as a term for zones in the universe where life as we know it should be sustainable. Gaia is similar to biosphere (in the sense of life and life-support systems) and ecosphere (in the sense of biosphere as life and life-support systems), but, in its most extreme form, refers to the entire planet as a living entity. A case is made for avoiding the term Gaia (at least as a name for the planetary ecosystem), restricting biosphere to the totality of living things, and adopting the ecosphere as the most apt name for the global ecosystem.
2665382|A simple dynamic model relating forest area in a region, its contribution to dry season precipitation and the effect on its own establishment was developed. The model equation shows hysteresis between forest and savannas as a function of imported dry season precipitation. Regions are either dominated by forests or savannas, with each ecosystem showing stability despite changes in imported dry season precipitation. Deforestation beyond a certain threshold value, however, could cause a collapse of forest ecosystems and replacement by savannas in marginal areas. The predictions of this model corroborate pollen core analysis in the Amazon basin, where historical stability of tropical forest cover has been shown despite global climate change.
40205722|Aim: To explore potential shifts in vegetation and fire regime in some dominant forest types in the north-eastern part of the Mediterranean basin under climate change. Location: Two altitudinal gradients in the continental part of Greece. Methods: We developed a forest gap dynamics simulator that provides feedback from the stand to its water balance and flammability status. The model is used to simulate vegetation dynamics in two mountainous areas, currently found under different aridity conditions. Two climatic change scenarios (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change A1 and B2) were applied to explore differences in the response of the established forest types. In addition we explicitly accounted for the role of fire, under both current and altered climate patterns. Results: Fire was identified to play a significant role in low-altitude sites. Its significance increased with the severity of the climate change scenario. Elevational shifts of the dominant species were simulated for each site, while in some cases these changes were associated with a shorter fire cycle and a frequent resetting of processes of vegetation change. Main conclusions: Our simulations suggest a greater vulnerability of mountainous Mediterranean drier areas regarding compositional alteration and flammability trends. Changes in vegetation could take place through both a discrete and synergistic realization of changes in the drought stress and fire frequency.
2665407|It is paradoxical that exotic species invade and displace native species that are well adapted to local environments. Yet, even those exotics that eventually become abundant and widespread, often do so only after having failed to establish following multiple earlier introductions. The first pattern, while not generally discussed in this context, is usually explained by exotic species pre-adaptations for human altered environments and by a release from enemies. It can be understood further by examining the superior quality of colonists from large species-rich regions and the historical contingency of evolution. The second pattern is generally explained by invoking demographic and environmental stochasticity; however, it can be understood further by examining the role of environmental variation over space and by metapopulation dynamics. These processes provide a context in which these patterns of invasion are not paradoxical, but instead, expected.
3697575|Aims: To evaluate the role of native predators (birds) within an Australian foodweb (lerp psyllids and eucalyptus trees) reassembled in California. Location: Eucalyptus groves within Santa Cruz, California. Methods: We compared bird diversity and abundance between a eucalyptus grove infested with lerp psyllids and a grove that was uninfested, using point counts. We documented shifts in the foraging behaviour of birds between the groves using structured behavioural observations. Additionally, we judged the effect of bird foraging on lerp psyllid abundance using exclosure experiments. Results: We found a greater richness and abundance of Californian birds within a psyllid infested eucalyptus grove compared to a matched non-infested grove, and that Californian birds modify their foraging behaviour within the infested grove in order to concentrate on ingesting psyllids. This suggests that Californian birds could provide indirect top-down benefits to eucalyptus trees similar to those observed in Australia. However, using bird exclosure experiments, we found no evidence of top-down control of lerp psyllids by Californian birds. Main conclusions: We suggest that physiological and foraging differences between Californian and Australian pysllid-eating birds account for the failure to observe top-down control of psyllid populations in California. The increasing rate of non-indigenous species invasions has produced local biotas that are almost entirely composed of non-indigenous species. This example illustrates the complex nature of cosmopolitan native-exotic food webs, and the ecological insights obtainable through their study.
3697592|Aim: Questions related to abundances of organisms are central to ecological research. A priori, a scale independent estimation of abundances would be expected. However, we find estimates of numbers of bird individuals from all over the world to increase less than proportionately with increasing plot size. At the whole assemblage level, the pattern holds across biogeographical regions and habitats. The slope of the interspecific and, for the majority of species, the intraspecific individuals-area relationship is also significantly shallower than 1. The question arises as to which mechanisms cause these patterns. Location: Global. Methods: At the assemblage, interspecific and intraspecific levels, we tested three mechanisms that could be responsible for these patterns by comparing the slope of the individuals-plot area relationship for subsets of a database compiled from the literature. Spatial autocorrelation was controlled for. Results: There was no evidence for an influence of plot area choice in order to sample a constant number of individuals. Evidence for higher survey efficiency was available only with increasing number of visits at the intraspecific level. Evidence for influences of habitat heterogeneity was present at the assemblage, interspecific and intraspecific levels. This mechanism can work only if small plots are delimited non-randomly in homogeneous habitat. Main conclusions: Avian population size estimates without indication of the area over which they were obtained are of substantially less value than those coupled with that information. Ecologists planning to compare avian abundances between plots varying in some other factor of interest should minimize variations in their areas and/or account for them in data analyses. Population viability analyses, regional and global population size estimates, site prioritization and the scaling of ecosystem and species energy utilization need to address the plot area effect on assemblage and individual species abundances.
3697572| Aim: We analyse the proximate causes of the large variation in flowering periodicity among four tropical dry forests (TDF) and ask whether climatic periodicity or biotic interactions are the ultimate causes of flowering periodicity. Location: The four TDFs in Guanacaste (Costa Rica), Yucatan, Jalisco and Sonora (Mexico) are characterized by a 5-7 month long dry season and are located along a gradient of increasing latitude (10-30N). Methods: To dissect the differences in flowering periodicity observed at the community level, individual tree species were assigned to 'flowering types', i.e. groups of species with characteristic flowering periods determined by similar combinations of environmental flowering cues and vegetative phenology. Results: Large variation in the fraction of species and flowering types blooming during the dry and wet season, respectively, indicates large differences in the severity of seasonal drought among the four forests. In the dry upland forests of Jalisco, flowering of leafless trees remains suppressed during severe seasonal drought and is triggered by the first rains of the wet season. In the other forests, leaf shedding, exceptional rainfall or increasing daylength cause flowering of many deciduous species at various times during the dry season, well before the summer rains. The fraction of deciduous species leafing out during the summer rains and flowering when leafless during the dry season is largest in the Sonoran TDF. Main conclusions: In many wide-ranging species the phenotypic plasticity of flowering periodicity is large. The distinct temporal separation of spring flowering on leafless shoots and subsequent summer flushing represents a unique adaptation of tree development to climates with a relatively short rainy season and a long dry season. Seasonal variation in rainfall and soil water availability apparently constitutes not only the proximate, but also the ultimate cause of flowering periodicity, which is unlikely to have evolved in response to biotic adaptive pressures. 
3182730|The reproductive phenology of 60 understorey species was monitored at monthly intervals for 20 months in a medium elevation wet evergreen forest in the Southern Western Ghats. The life forms monitored were herbs (including terrestrial orchids), shrubs and small trees. Flowering and fruiting were non-uniform with a dry season flowering peak and wet season fruiting peak. Flowering in the understorey correlated negatively with rainfall. No significant correlation was detected for fruiting. Life forms had flowering and fruiting peaks at different times of the year.
2665420|A hypothesis is suggested for functional roles of remnant plant populations in communities and ecosystems. A remnant population is capable of persistence during extended time periods, despite a negative population growth rate, due to long-lived life stages and life-cycles, including loops that allow population persistence without completion of the whole life cycle. A list of critera is suggested to help identification of remnant plant populations. Several community and ecosystem features may result from the presence of remnant plant populations. Apart from increasing community and ecosystem resilience just by being present, remnant populations may contribute to resilience through enhancing colonization by other plant species, by providing a persistent habitat for assemblages of animals and microorganisms, and by reducing variation in nutrient cycling. It is suggested that the common ability of plants to develop remnant populations is a contributing factor to ecosystem stability. Remnant populations are important for the capacity of ecosystems to cope with the present-day impact caused by human society, and their occurrence should be recognized in surveys of threatened plant species and communities.
40405775|Aim: We aimed to describe the large-scale patterns in population density of roe deer Caprelous capreolus in Europe and to determine the factors shaping variation in their abundance. Location: Europe. Methods: We collated data on roe deer population density from 72 localities spanning 25 latitude and 48 longitude and analysed them in relation to a range of environmental factors: vegetation productivity (approximated by the fraction of photosynthetically active radiation) and forest cover as proxies for food supply, winter severity, summer drought and presence or absence of large predators (wolf, Canis lupus, and Eurasian lynx, Lynx lynx), hunter harvest and a competitor (red deer, Cervus elaphus). Results: Roe deer abundance increased with the overall productivity of vegetation cover and with lower forest cover (sparser forest cover means that a higher proportion of overall plant productivity is allocated to ground vegetation and thus is available to roe deer). The effect of large predators was relatively weak in highly productive environments and in regions with mild climate, but increased markedly in regions with low vegetation productivity and harsh winters. Other potentially limiting factors (fcunting, summer drought and competition with red deer) had no significant impact on roe deer abundance. Main conclusions: The analyses revealed the combined effect of bottom-up and top-down control on roe deer: on a biogeographical scale, population abundance of roe deer has been shaped by food-related factors and large predators, with additive effects of the two species of predators. The results have implications for management of roe deer populations in Europe. First, an increase in roe deer abundance can be expected as environmental productivity increases due to climate change. Secondly, recovery plans for large carnivores should take environmental productivity and winter severity into account when predicting their impact on prey.
3697522|The sensitivity and response of northern hemisphere altitudinal and polar treelines to environmental change are increasingly discussed in terms of climate change, often forgetting that climate is only one aspect of environmental variation. As treeline heterogeneity increases from global to regional and smaller scales, assessment of treeline sensitivity at the landscape and local scales requires a more complex approach than at the global scale. The time scale (short-, medium-, long-term) also plays an important role when considering treeline sensitivity. The sensitivity of the treeline to a changing environment varies among different types of treeline. Treelines controlled mainly by orographic influences are not very susceptible to the effects of warming climates. Greatest sensitivity can be expected in anthropogenic treelines after the cessation of human activity. However, tree invasion into former forested areas above the anthropogenic forest limit is controlled by site conditions, and in particular, by microclimates and soils. Apart from changes in tree physiognomy, the spontaneous advance of young growth of forest-forming tree species into present treeless areas within the treeline ecotone and beyond the tree limit is considered to be the best indicator of treeline sensitivity to environmental change. The sensitivity of climatic treelines to climate warming varies both in the local and regional topographical conditions. Furthermore, treeline history and its after-effects also play an important role. The sensitivity of treelines to changes in given factors (e.g. winter snow pack, soil moisture, temperature, evaporation, etc.) may vary among areas with differing climatic characteristics. In general, forest will not advance in a closed front but will follow sites that became more favourable to tree establishment under the changed climatic conditions.
3182703|In a given area, human activities usually cause the extinction of native species and the establishment of non-native species. A key conservation issue is whether non-native establishment tends to outpace native species extinction to produce a net gain in species richness. To determine this, empirical data must be accumulated at various scales. I show that, within the United States, the number of established non-native plant species per state does tend to outpace the number of extinct and threatened species per state. The net gain in plant species is strongly and positively correlated with human population density. Continuation of this trend predicts substantial gains in net plant species richness for all states in the United States as human population grows. This contrasts with freshwater fishes, where most states show a net loss of species diversity as extinct and threatened species exceed established non-native species. Changes in fish diversity do not correlate strongly with human population or non-native species but are largely driven by the decline of native fish species.
30137863|Aim To study how differences in species richness patterns of woody and herbaceous plants may be influenced by ecological and evolutionary factors. Unimodal species richness-productivity relationships (SRPRs) have been of interest to ecologists since they were first described three decades ago for British herbaceous vegetation by J. P. Grime. The decrease in richness at high productivity may be due to competitive exclusion of subordinate species, or diverse factors related to evolution and dispersal. Unimodal SRPRs are most often reported for plants, but there are exceptions. For example, unimodal SRPRs are common in the temperate zone but not in the tropics. Similarly, woody species and forest communities in the Northern Hemisphere do not tend to show unimodal SRPRs. Location Global. Methods We used data from the literature to test whether a unimodal SRPR applies to woody species and forest communities on a global scale. We explored whether the shape of SRPRs may be related to the lack of clonality in woody species (which may prevent their being competitively superior), or the legacy of evolutionary history (most temperate woody species originate from tropical lineages, and due to niche conservatism they may still demonstrate 'tropical patterns'). We used case studies that reported the names of the dominant or most abundant species for productive sites. Results Woody species were indeed less clonal than herbaceous species. Both clonality and the temperate evolutionary background of dominating species were associated with unimodality in SRPRs, with woodiness modifying the clonality effect. Main conclusions The unimodal SRPR has been common in the ecological literature because most such studies originate from temperate herbaceous communities with many clonal species. Consequently, both evolutionary and ecological factors may influence species richness patterns.
30137890|Aim: To describe the geographical pattern of mean body size of the non-volant mammals of the Nearctic and Neotropics and evaluate the influence of five environmental variables that are likely to affect body size gradients. Location: The Western Hemisphere. Methods: We calculated mean body size (average log mass) values in 110 x 110 km cells covering the continental Nearctic and Neotropics. We also generated cell averages for mean annual temperature, range in elevation, their interaction, actual evapotranspiration, and the global vegetation index and its coefficient of variation. Associations between mean body size and environmental variables were tested with simple correlations and ordinary least squares multiple regression, complemented with spatial autocorrelation analyses and split-line regression. We evaluated the relative support for each multiple-regression model using AIC. Results: Mean body size increases to the north in the Nearctic and is negatively correlated with temperature. In contrast, across the Neotropics mammals are largest in the tropical and subtropical lowlands and smaller in the Andes, generating a positive correlation with temperature. Finally, body size and temperature are nonlinearly related in both regions, and split-line linear regression found temperature thresholds marking clear shifts in these relationships (Nearctic 10.9 C; Neotropics 12.6 C). The increase in body sizes with decreasing temperature is strongest in the northern Nearctic, whereas a decrease in body size in mountains dominates the body size gradients in the warmer parts of both regions. Main conclusions: We confirm previous work finding strong broad-scale Bergmann trends in cold macroclimates but not in warmer areas. For the latter regions (i.e. the southern Nearctic and the Neotropics), our analyses also suggest that both local and broad-scale patterns of mammal body size variation are influenced in part by the strong mesoscale climatic gradients existing in mountainous areas. A likely explanation is that reduced habitat sizes in mountains limit the presence of larger-sized mammals.
41239478|Aim: To evaluate the strength of evidence for hypotheses explaining the relationship between climate and species richness in forest plots. We focused on the effect of energy availability which has been hypothesized to influence species richness: (1) via the effect of productivity on the total number of individuals (the more individuals hypothesis, MIH); (2) through the effect of temperature on metabolic rate (metabolic theory of biodiversity, MTB); or (3) by imposing climatic limits on species distributions. Location: Global. Methods: We utilized a unique ' Gentry-style' 370 forest plots data set comprising tree counts and individual stem measurements, covering tropical and temperate forests across all six forested continents. We analysed variation in plot species richness and species richness controlled for the number of individuals by using rarefaction. Ordinary least squares (OLS) regression and spatial regressions were used to explore the relative performance of different sets of environmental variables. Results: Species richness patterns do not differ whether we use raw number of species or number of species controlled for number of individuals, indicating that number of individuals is not the proximate driver of species richness. Productivityrelated variables (actual evapotranspiration, net primary productivity, normalized difference vegetation index) perform relatively poorly as correlates of tree species richness. The best predictors of species richness consistently include the minimum temperature and precipitation values together with the annual means of these variables. Main conclusion: Across the world's forests there is no evidence to support the MIH, and a very limited evidence for a prominent role of productivity as a driver of species richness patterns. The role of temperature is much more important, although this effect is more complex than originally assumed by the MTB. Variation in forest plot diversity appears to be mostly affected by variation in the minimum climatic values. This is consistent with the ' climatic tolerance hypothesis' that climatic extremes have acted as a strong constraint on species distribution and diversity.
3697460|Aim: To model long-term trends in plant species distributions in response to predicted changes in global climate. Location: Amazonia. Methods: The impacts of expected global climate change on the potential and realized distributions of a representative sample of 69 individual Angiosperm species in Amazonia were simulated from 1990 to 2095. The climate trend followed the HADCM2GSal scenario, which assumes an annual 1% increase of atmospheric CO
40405771|Aim: The use of ecological niche models (ENMs) to predict potential distributions of species is steadily increasing. A necessary assumption is that climatic niches are conservative, but recent findings of niche shifts during biological invasion indicate that this assumption is not always valid. Selection of predictor variables may be one reason for the observed shifts. In this paper we assess differences in climatic niches in the native and invaded ranges of the Mediterranean house gecko (Hemidactylus turcicus) in terms of commonly applied climate variables in ENMs. We analyse which variables are more conserved versus relaxed (i.e. subject to niche shift). Furthermore, we study the predictive power of different sets of climate variables. Location: The Mediterranean region and North America. Methods: We developed models using Maxent and various subsets of variables out of 19 bioclimatic layers including: (1) two subsets comprising almost all variables excluding only highly collinear ones; (2) two subsets with minimalistic variable sets of water availability and energy measures; (3) two subsets focused on temperature-related parameters; (4) two subsets with precipitation-related parameters; and (5) one subset comprising variables combining temperature and precipitation characteristics. Occurrence data from the native Mediterranean range were used to predict the potential introduced range in North America and vice versa. Degrees of niche similarity and conservatism were assessed using both Schoener's index and Hellinger distances. The significance of the results was tested using null models. Results: The degree of niche similarity and conservatism varied greatly among the predictors and variable sets applied. Shifts observed in some variables could be attributed to active habitat selection while others apparently reflected background effects. Main conclusions: The study was based on comprehensive occurrence data from all regions where Hemidactylus turcicus is present in Europe and North America, providing a robust foundation. Our results clearly indicate that the degree of conservatism of niches in H. turcicus largely varies among predictors and variable sets applied. Therefore, the extent of niche conservatism of variables applied should always be tested in ENMs. This has an important impact on studies of biological invasion, impacts of climate change and niche evolution.
3182678|Aim: To review the insights that palaeoecology can offer on the threat posed to Andean communities by global climate change. Location: The geographical focus is the eastern flank of the tropical Andes, with particular reference to Peru. Method: The article presents a synthetic review of the problem. Results: Species-rich communities of the eastern Andean flank are threatened both by development and climate change. If, as predicted, the cloudbase and frost line lifts 600 m elevation this century, there will be a substantial loss of cloud forest habitat. Palaeoecology provides insights on the location and nature of past ecotones, the continuity of niche availability, and estimates for rates and modes of migration. With further warming and drying of lower montane regions, upslope migration of species will be individualistic: a new equilibrium with the altered climate is unlikely to be attained. The zone of agriculture will move upslope faster than the migrating trees and so landscape conversion will negate the ability of some species to respond to the new conditions. Conservation of the lower reaches of modern cloud forest is advocated as a means to limit this foreseeable extinction event. Main Conclusions: Climate change will induce changes in plant and animal communities. Human disturbance will invade climatically marginal agricultural lands at the pace of climate change. Rapid migratory response such as that witnessed at the onset of the Holocene may not be evident as climates warm, because Holocene climatic stability has reduced outlying upslope populations that may have served as expansion nuclei. Conservation must aim to maintain plant and animal niches, rather than particular communities of species.
3877774|Although macroecology arose from geographical ecology, it has diverted from a geographical perspective. At present, most macroecological studies use a statistical approach that adopts an 'individual species focus' and relies on comparisons between species to test for broad-scale ecological patterns. Sometimes, space is included as part of the analysis, but almost always in a single dimension. In both situations, observed relationships are depicted using bivariate scatter-plots. We argue that current macroecological approaches may interfere with our perception of patterns and have important implications for their biological interpretation. We use the literature concerned with spatial variation in the range sizes of species (Rapoport's rule) to illustrate our point of view. Given the current lack of maps actually showing the patterns we are trying to explain, we contend that macroecology could benefit greatly by returning to its geographical roots, at least when data contain spatial structure.
41058249|Aim: Carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) stoichiometry is a critical indicator of biogeochemical coupling in terrestrial ecosystems. However, our current understanding of C : N stoichiometry is mainly derived from observations across space, and little is known about its dynamics through time. Location: Global secondary forests. Methods: We examined temporal variations in C : N ratios and scaling relationships between N and C for various ecosystem components (i. e. plant tissue, litter, forest floor and mineral soil) using data extracted from 39 chronosequences in forest ecosystems around the world. Results: The C : N ratio in plant tissue, litter, forest floor and mineral soil exhibited large variation across various sequences, with an average of 145.8  9.4 (mean  SE), 49.9  3.0, 38.2  3.1 and 18.5  0.9, respectively. In most sequences, the plant tissue C : N ratio increased significantly with stand age, while the C : N ratio in litter, forest floor and mineral soil remained relatively constant over the age sequence. N and C scaled isometrically (i. e. the slope of the relationship between log-transformed N and C is not significantly different from 1.0) in litter, forest floor and mineral soil both within and across sequences, but not in plant tissue either within or across sequences. The C : N ratio was larger in coniferous forests than in broadleaf forests and in temperate forests than in tropical forests. In contrast, the N-C scaling slope did not reveal significant differences either between coniferous and broadleaf forests or between temperate and tropical forests. Main conclusions: These results suggest that C and N become decoupled in plants but remain coupled in other ecosystem components during stand development.
2665399|1 This study documents patterns of rodent and bat diversity related to abiotic and biotic factors along elevational gradients in the Sierra Mazateca (640-2600 m a.s.l.) and Sierra Mixteca (700-3000 m a.s.l.) in Oaxaca, Mexico. 2 The two transects share similar faunas: 17 and 23 rodent species were captured in the sierras Mazateca and Mixteca, respectively, 14 of which occurred on both transects. Rodent species richness was similar in the wet season and the dry season along both transects. Rodent species richness peaked at 1025-1050 m in tropical semideciduous forest on both transects. Endemic species were restricted to high-elevation habitats. 3 Sixteen and 17 bat species were captured in the sierras Mazateca and Mixteca, respectively; 11 occurred on both transects. Bat species richness was higher in the wet season than in the dry season in the Sierra Mazateca. Bat species richness peaked at 1850 m in pine-oak forest in the Sierra Mazateca, and at 750 m and 1050 m in tropical semi-deciduous forest in the Sierra Mixteca, decreasing abruptly at higher elevations on both transects. 4 Patterns of trophic diversity of rodents and bats coincided with those of species richness on each transect. Species richness increased with increasing habitat diversity; increased with increasing rainfall and productivity; increased with increasing resource diversity; and increased in areas with high rates of speciation (rodents only). 5 The need for conservation action in Oaxaca is urgent and proponents should promote establishment of protected areas linking lowland habitats with high species richness to high-elevation habitats harbouring large numbers of endemic forms.
3697577|Aim: To examine which aspects of primates and carnivore biology can be used to predict attributes of species yet to be discovered. Location: Global. Methods: Multiple regressions of phylogenetically independent contrasts and nonphylogenetic species date of description, on multiple biological predictor variables, formed from previous hypotheses tested in the literature. Results: Orders differ, but both carnivore and primate species with a large geographical range tend to have been discovered earlier. When geographical range is controlled for, body mass is also significantly correlated with description date in carnivores, but remains a poor predictor in primates. No multiple-predictor model is apparent in the primates, but diurnal species are on average more likely to be described first. Carnivores not endemic to the tropics are more likely to be discovered earlier, reflecting a northern bias in description patterns. Main conclusions: Geographical range is by far the most important predictor variable. The study may have ramifications for conservation hotspot selection: species possessing a small geographical range are least likely to have been described, yet are most heavily weighted in some hotspot selection algorithms.
40928127|Aim: To assess the hypotheses that compound leaves of trees in the Amazon forest are an adaptation to drought and/or rapid growth. Location: Amazon rain forest, South America. Methods: Genera from 137 permanent forest plots spread across Amazonia were classified into those with compound leaves and those with simple leaves. Metrics of compound leaf prevalence were then calculated for each plot and regression models that accounted for spatial autocorrelation were used to identify associations between climate variables and compound leaf structure. We also tested for associations between compound leaf structure and a variety of ecological variables related to life history and growth strategies, including wood density, annual increase in diameter and maximum height. Results: One plant family, Fabaceae, accounts for 53% of compound-leaved individuals in the dataset, and has a geographical distribution strongly centred on north-east Amazonia. On exclusion of Fabaceae from the analysis we found no significant support for the seasonal drought hypothesis. However, we found evidence supporting the rapid growth hypothesis, with possession of compound leaves being associated with faster diameter growth rates and lower wood densities. Main conclusion: This study provides evidence that possession of compound leaves constitutes one of a suite of traits and life-history strategies that promote rapid growth in rain forest trees. Our findings highlight the importance of carefully considering the geographical distribution of dominant taxa and spatial clustering of data points when inferring ecological causation from environment-trait associations.
3877776|Aim: It has often been suggested that South Africa's Cape fynbos shrublands, although extremely rich in plant species, are poor in insects, thus representing a notable exception from the broad plant-insect diversity relationship. The aims of this study were to compare the diversity patterns of plant-inhabiting insects in fynbos and the vegetation of three neighbouring biomes (grassland, subtropical thicket, and Nama-karoo), and to test for a general relationship between plant diversity and insect diversity across these biomes. Location: South-western to south-eastern South Africa. Methods: We conducted seasonal plant surveys and sweep insect sampling in 10 x 10 m plots in the Baviaanskloof Conservation Area (Eastern Cape), where all four biomes occur. We also conducted once-only collections in the core area of each biome. Results: Fynbos plots had insect diversity values similar to those of grassland and subtropical thicket (a dense, evergreen and spinescent shrubland with a high abundance of succulents and climbers), and significantly higher than Nama-karoo (an open, semiarid shrubland). A remarkably strong positive relationship was found between plant and insect species richness. Main conclusions: Previous generalizations were based on a few insect groups (e.g. butterflies, under-represented in fynbos), but ignored published results on other groups (e.g. galling insects, which are in fact over-represented in this vegetation). We show that, overall, insect diversity in fynbos is comparable to that of neighbouring biomes. Fynbos vegetation does not represent a significant exception from the broad positive relationship between plant diversity and insect diversity.
40205655|Aim: To quantify the occurrence of floristic change in the vascular flora of Chile. We test whether continental areas have experienced floristic modification leading to either homogenization, differentiation or tracking. Location: Continental Chile. Methods: On the basis of the geographical distribution of native (1806 species) and naturalized plants (552 species) in continental Chile, we quantified change between two floristic stages: (1) pre-European flora, including native extant and extinct species; and (2) current flora, including native and naturalized species, but excluding extinct plants. We compared changes in compositional similarity (calculated by Jaccard's index, J) between pairs of regions, and similarity decay with respect to geographical distance. Additionally, by means of Whittaker's index, we examined species turnover, distinguishing between native and naturalized plants. Results: Between floristic stages (pre-European vs. current flora) no significant changes in floristic similarity were noted at national or regional scales. Similarity decay showed no statistical differences between pre-European and current flora. Analysing patterns of geographical turnover, we found that species turnover of naturalized plants over their geographical range is similar to that of native plants. Conclusions The composition of the continental flora of Chile does not show significant modifications in similarity patterns after considering naturalized species, thus indicating floristic tracking. The causes of this phenomenon may be related to the current geographical distribution of naturalized plants, which closely parallels that of native plants. Our results differ from those obtained in Northern Hemisphere continents, thus indicating that trends of biotic change may differ between hemispheres.
30137903|Aim: To assess evidence for geographical and environmental range expansion through polyploidy in wild potatoes (Solanum sect. Petota). There are diploids, triploids, tetraploids, pentaploids and hexaploids in this group. Location: Wild potatoes occur from the south-western USA (Utah and Colorado), throughout the tropical highlands of Mexico, Central America and the Andes, to Argentina, Chile and Uruguay. Methods: We compiled 5447 reports of ploidy determination, covering 185 of the 187 species, of which 702 determinations are presented here for the first time. We assessed the frequency of cytotypes within species, and analysed the geographical and climatic distribution of ploidy levels. Results: Thirty-six per cent of the species are entirely or partly polyploid. Multiple cytotypes exist in 21 species, mostly as diploid and triploid, but many more may await discovery. We report the first chromosome count (2n = 24) for Solanum hintonii. Diploids occupy a larger area than polyploids, but diploid and tetraploid species have similar range sizes, and the two species with by far the largest range sizes are tetraploids. The fraction of the plants that are polyploids is much higher from Mexico to Ecuador than farther south. Compared with diploids, triploids tend to occur in warmer and drier areas, whereas higher-level polyploids tend to occur in relatively cold areas. Diploids are absent from Costa Rica to southern Colombia, the wettest part of the group's range. Main conclusions: These results suggest that polyploidy played an important role in this group's environmental differentiation and range expansion.
3697433|Aims: To model differential extinction rates for island populations of tigers Panthern tigris and leopards P. pardus. Location Indonesia. Methods: We built VORTEX population models of tiger and leopard populations on an island the size of Bali (
3697503|Aim: This study tests the hypothesis that the propensity of land cover patches to change is related to their shape and geometric complexity. Location: The analysis is based on a
2665316|Increases in the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide and associated changes in climate may exert large impacts on plant physiology and the density of vegetation cover. These may in turn provide feedbacks on climate through a modification of surface-atmosphere fluxes of energy and moisture. This paper uses asynchronously coupled models of global vegetation and climate to examine the responses of potential vegetation to different aspects of a doubled-CO<sub>2</sub> environmental change, and compares the feedbacks on near-surface temperature arising from physiological and structural components of the vegetation response. Stomatal conductance reduces in response to the higher CO<sub>2</sub> concentration, but rising temperatures and a redistribution of precipitation also exert significant impacts on this property as well as leading to major changes in potential vegetation structure. Overall, physiological responses act to enhance the warming near the surface, but in many areas this is offset by increases in leaf area resulting from greater precipitation and higher temperatures. Interactions with seasonal snow cover result in a positive feedback on winter warming in the boreal forest regions.
41058225|Aim: The study aims to decipher the co-occurrence of understorey plant assemblages and, accordingly, to identify a set of species groups (diversity deconstruction) to better understand the multiple causal processes underlying post-fire succession and diversity patterns in boreal forest. Location: North-eastern Canadian boreal forest (4907'-5144'N;70 13-6515 /W). Methods: Data on understorey plant communities and habitat factors were collected from 1097 plots. Species co-occurrence was analysed using null model analysis.We derive species groups (i. e. biodiversity deconstruction) using the strength of pairwise species co-occurrences after accounting for random expectation under a null model and cluster analyses. We examine the influence of a set of spatiotemporal environmental variables (overstorey composition, time-since-fire, spatial location and topography) on richness of species groups using Bayesian model averaging, and their relative influence through hierarchical partitioning of variance. Results: Understorey plant assemblages were highly structured, with co-occurrencebased classification providing species groups that were coherently aggregated within, but variably segregated between, species groups. Group richness models indicate both common and distinct responses to factors affecting plant succession. For example, Group 2 (e. g. Rhododendron groenlandicum and Cladina rangiferina) showed concurrent contrasting responses to overstorey composition and was strongly segregated from Groups 3 (e. g. Clintonia borealis and Maianthenum canadense) and 4 (e. g. Epilobium angustifolium and Alnus rugosa). Groups 3 and 4 showed partial similarity, but they differed in their response to time-since-fire, drainage and latitude, which were more important for Group 1 (e. g. Ptilium crista-castrensis and Empetrum nigrum). A single successional model based on total richness masked crucial grouplevel relationships with factors that we examined, such as latitude. Main conclusions: By demonstrating the co-occurrence structure and linking to causal factors, the results from this study characterize both common and distinct responses of understorey plants to biophysical attributes of sites, and potential interspecific interactions, behind non-random assemblage structure during post-fire succession. A biodiversity deconstruction approach could offer a concise and explicit framework to gain a better understanding of the complex assembly of ecological communities during succession.
3697574|Aim: Our aim is to investigate the relationship between body size and geographical range in Neotropical marsupials, considering the possible effects of latitude and phylogeny. Location: Neotropical region. Methods: Phylogenetic generalized least-squares regression method (PGLS) is used to investigate the relationship between body size, geographical range, and latitude considering the phylogenetic relationship between species. Data for 22 species were compiled from the literature. Results: The scattergram of body size vs. geographical range was triangular in shape. Body size and geographical range were positively correlated throughout the phylogeny. Latitude was not important to this relationship. Conclusions: The polygonal relationship between geographical range and body size seems to be moulded by ecological and geographical constraints rather than by a common association with latitude.
41239341|Aim: To compare the evolutionary and ecological patterns of two extensively studied island biotas with differing geological histories (the Hawaiian Islands and the Greater Antilles). We evaluated the results from PACT (phylogenetic analysis for comparing trees), an innovative approach that has been proposed to reveal general patterns of biotic expansion (between regions) and in situ (within a region) diversification, as well as species-area relationships (SAR) and the taxon pulse dynamic. Location: The Hawaiian Islands and Greater Antilles. Methods: We used the PACT algorithm to construct general area cladograms and identified biotic expansion and in situ nodes. We analysed the power-law SAR and relative contribution of biotic expansion and in situ diversification events using power-law and linear regression analyses. Results: Both biotic expansion and in situ nodes were prevalent throughout the PACT general area cladograms (Greater Antilles, 55.9% biotic expansion, 44.1% in situ; Hawaiian Islands, 40.6% biotic expansion, 59.4% in situ). Of the biotic expansion events, both forward and backward events occurred in both regions (Greater Antilles, 85.1% forward, 14.9% backward; Hawaiian Islands, 65% forward, 35% backward). Additionally, there is a power-law SAR for the Greater Antilles but not for the Hawaiian Islands. However, exclusion of Hawai'i (the youngest, largest Hawaiian Island) produced a power-law SAR for the Hawaiian Islands. Main conclusions: The prevalence of in situ events as well as forward and backward biotic expansion events reveals that both Hawaiian and Greater Antillean biotas have evolved through alternating episodes of biotic expansion and in situ diversification. These patterns are characteristic of the taxon pulse dynamic, for which few data have previously been recorded on islands. Additionally, our analysis revealed that historical influences on the power-law SARs are pronounced in both assemblages: old, small islands are relatively species rich and young, large islands are relatively species poor. Thus, our PACT results are consistent with hypotheses of geological influence on the evolution of island biotas and also provide greater insight into the role of the taxon pulse dynamic in the formation of island equilibria.
40801853|Aim: Ecogeographical variation of body size in vertebrates (e. g. Bergmann's rule) has long been recognized. However, the patterns and causes of intra-specific ecogeographical variation of body size in ectotherms, and in amphibians in particular, are strongly debated. We identified the relationship between bioclimatic variables and body size predicted a priori by alternative hypotheses (heat balance, endurance, seasonality, starvation resistance, water availability, primary productivity, parental investment) proposed to explain ecogeographical patterns of body size in ectotherms, and we evaluated the relative support of these hypotheses in explaining variation in body size of the Italian crested newt, Triturus carnifex.
3697523|Aim: Our aim was to quantify climatic influences on key leaf traits and relationships at the global scale. This knowledge provides insight into how plants have adapted to different environmental pressures, and will lead to better calibration of future vegetation-climate models. Location: The data set represents vegetation from 175 sites around the world. Methods: For more than 2500 vascular plant species, we compiled data on leaf mass per area (LMA), leaf life span (LL), nitrogen concentration (N
41239413|Aim: To assess the effect of local adaptation and phenotypic plasticity on the potential distribution of species under future climate changes. Trees may be adapted to specific climatic conditions; however, species range predictions have classically been assessed by species distribution models (SDMs) that do not account for intra-specific genetic variability and phenotypic plasticity, because SDMs rely on the assumption that species respond homogeneously to climate change across their range, i.e. a species is equally adapted throughout its range, and all species are equally plastic. These assumptions could cause SDMs to exaggerate or underestimate species at risk under future climate change. Location: The Iberian Peninsula. Methods: Species distributions are predicted by integrating experimental data and modelling techniques. We incorporate plasticity and local adaptation into a SDM by calibrating models of tree survivorship with adaptive traits in provenance trials. Phenotypic plasticity was incorporated by calibrating our model with a climatic index that provides a measure of the differences between sites and provenances. Results: We present a new modelling approach that is easy to implement and makes use of existing tree provenance trials to predict species distribution models under global warming. Our results indicate that the incorporation of intrapopulation genetic diversity and phenotypic plasticity in SDMs significantly altered their outcome. In comparing species range predictions, the decrease in area occupancy under global warming conditions is smaller when considering our survivaladaptation model than that predicted by a 'classical SDM' calibrated with presenceabsence data. These differences in survivorship are due to both local adaptation and plasticity. Differences due to the use of experimental data in the model calibration are also expressed in our results: we incorporate a null model that uses survival data from all provenances together. This model always predicts less reduction in area occupancy for both species than the SDM calibrated with presence-absence. Main conclusions: We reaffirm the importance of considering adaptive traits when predicting species distributions and avoiding the use of occurrence data as a predictive variable. In light of these recommendations, we advise that existing predictions of future species distributions and their component populations must be reconsidered.
3182702| To model the effects of global climate phenomena on avian population dynamics, we must identify and quantify the spatial and temporal relationships between climate, weather and bird populations. Previous studies show that in Europe, the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) influences winter and spring weather that in turn affects resident and migratory landbird species. Similarly, in North America, the El Nio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) of the Pacific Ocean reportedly drives weather patterns that affect prey availability and population dynamics of landbird species which winter in the Caribbean. Here we show that ENSO- and NAO-induced seasonal weather conditions differentially affect neotropical- and temperate-wintering landbird species that breed in Pacific North-west forests of North America. For neotropical species wintering in western Mexico, El Nio conditions correlate with cooler, wetter conditions prior to spring migration, and with high reproductive success the following summer. For temperate wintering species, springtime NAO indices correlate strongly with levels of forest defoliation by the larvae of two moth species and also with annual reproductive success, especially among species known to prey upon those larvae. Generalized linear models incorporating NAO indices and ENSO precipitation indices explain 50-90% of the annual variation in productivity reported for 10 landbird species. These results represent an important step towards spatially explicit modelling of avian population dynamics at regional scales. 
3697504| Aim: To study the present-day olive stands and their ecology in the eastern part of the territory of the ancient city of Sagalassos, to study the variation of olive pollen production and dispersal near the olive stands, to establish a modern pollen reference model, and to compare Hellenistic-Roman pollen data from two wetlands with this modern reference model. Location: Eastern part of the territory of the ancient city of Sagalassos, western Taurus mountain range in south-west Turkey. Methods: The study is based on field survey, pollen analysis of surface samples, multivariate statistics of modern pollen data and the use of 'modern analogues' in comparison with Hellenistic-Roman pollen samples. Results: A field survey revealed the presence of 35 olive stands in the study area. These are mainly small-scale stands. The olive pollen representation in the surface samples is highly variable. Two groups of modern 'olive' pollen spectra could be distinguished: (1) a group representing mainly olive stands from lush and moist mixed orchards; and (2) a group representing mainly olive stands from open small-scale olive stands in combination with annual crop agriculture. Although no 'perfect' modern analogue was found for the Hellenistic-Roman pollen data, the fossil pollen data show similarities with modern spectra from the second group, due to the presence of relatively high pollen values for secondary anthropogenic indicators. Main conclusion: A well-organized and diverse, but time- and energy-consuming, agricultural system was maintained nearby the wetlands of anakli soils, presumably to maximize the yields in both valleys. 
41239262|Aim: To understand the ecological and historical/evolutionary processes underlying an inverse latitudinal gradient of richness (LGR) using crustacean peracarid species as a model group. Location: The Pacific coast of South America, along the Chilean coast between 18 S and 56 S. Methods: The LGR was evaluated using a dataset including 320 marine peracarid species reported for the coasts of Chile. Five ecological hypotheses invoking a relationship between species richness and present-day conditions were tested: species-energy, species-area, Rapoport rescue effect, mid-domain geometric constraint and niche breadth. Historical/evolutionary hypotheses (i.e. biogeographic conservatism, and diversification rates) were indirectly tested by analysing the latitudinal variation in the taxonomic distinctness, the taxonomic conservatism of the midpoint of the latitudinal range and the degree of nestedness at different taxonomic levels. Results: Richness increased poleward, varying approximately eightfold, following an inverse LGR coupled with an increase in bathymetrie distribution. Overall this inverse LGR seems robust to uncertainties in the completeness of the species inventory. We found support for only two of the five ecological hypotheses tested: species-area and Rapoport rescue effect. Historical/evolutionary hypotheses seemed important in structuring the richness pattern, as indicated by the higher taxonomic distinctness in the southern region, the strong taxonomic inertia in the mean range size and the high degree of nestedness of assemblages at different taxonomic levels. Conclusions: When combined, these results underscore the importance of longterm processes and historical/evolutionary explanations for the inverse LGR, conceptualized in what we term the 'out of the deep south' hypothesis that involves the effects of both biogeographic niche conservatism and evolutionary rates. We propose that the southern region may be a source of evolutionary novelties and/or exhibit higher diversification rates (i.e. higher speciation/lower extinction rates). Furthermore, phylogenetic conservatism of latitudinal range may limit the geographic expansion of these new taxa towards the depauperated northern region.
3697651|We explore the issues relevant to those types of ecosystems containing new combinations of species that arise through human action, environmental change, and the impacts of the deliberate and inadvertent introduction of species from other regions. Novel ecosystems (also termed 'emerging ecosystems') result when species occur in combinations and relative abundances that have not occurred previously within a given biome. Key characteristics are novelty, in the form of new species combinations and the potential for changes in ecosystem functioning, and human agency, in that these ecosystems are the result of deliberate or inadvertent human action. As more of the Earth becomes transformed by human actions, novel ecosystems increase in importance, but are relatively little studied. Either the degradation or invasion of native or 'wild' ecosystems or the abandonment of intensively managed systems can result in the formation of these novel systems. Important considerations are whether these new systems are persistent and what values they may have. It is likely that it may be very difficult or costly to return such systems to their previous state, and hence consideration needs to be given to developing appropriate management goals and approaches.
40928128|Aim: Alien plant invasion is prominent in the Hawaiian Islands. There are many factors involved in invader success. To date, there is a general lack of information about one of them, which we aim to study here: the terpene emission capacity of both Hawaiian native and alien plants. Location: Oahu (Hawaii). Methods: We screened 35 alien and 35 native dominant plant species on Oahu Island for monoterpene emissions. The emission rates were measured from fieldgrown plants under standardized conditions of temperature and quantum flux density in the laboratory. Results: The emission rates of total terpenes ranged from 0 g g h to 55 g g h, and altogether 15 different terpenes were emitted in detectable amounts by the overall set of species. A phylogenetic signal was observed for total terpene emissions. Total terpene emission rates were higher in aliens than in native species (12.8  2.0 vs. 7.6  1.9 g g h, respectively). Main conclusions: The greater terpene emission capacity may confer protection against multiple stresses and may partly account for the success of the invasive species, and may make invasive species more competitive in response to new global change-driven combined stresses. These results are consistent with aliens coming from very diverse ecosystems with generally higher biotic and abiotic stress pressures, and having higher nutrient concentrations. On the contrary, these results are not consistent with the 'excess carbon' hypotheses. These results indicate changes in vegetation terpene emissions brought about by alien plant invasions.
3697454|We analyse the concept of carrying capacity (CC), from populations to the biosphere, and offer a definition suitable for any level. For communities and ecosystems, the CC evokes density-dependence assumptions analogous to those of population dynamics. At the biosphere level, human CC is uncertain and dynamic, leading to apprehensive rather than practical conclusions. The term CC is widely used among ecological disciplines but remains vague and elusive. We propose the following definition: the CC is 'the limit of growth or development of each and all hierarchical levels of biological integration, beginning with the population, and shaped by processes and interdependent relationships between finite resources and the consumers of those resources'. The restrictions of the concept relate to the hierarchical approach. Emergent properties arise at each level, and environmental heterogeneity restrains the measurement and application of the CC. Because the CC entails a myriad of interrelated, ever-changing biotic and abiotic factors, it must not be assumed constant, if we are to derive more effective and realistic management schemes. At the ecosystem level, stability and resilience are dynamic components of the CC. Historical processes that help shape global biodiversity (e.g. continental drift, glaciations) are likely drivers of large-scale changes in the earth's CC. Finally, world population growth and consumption of resources by humanity will necessitate modifications to the paradigm of sustainable development, and demand a clear and fundamental understanding of how CC operates across all biological levels.
3697440|Aim: This article aims to test for and explore spatial nonstationarity in the relationship between avian species richness and a set of explanatory variables to further the understanding of species diversity variation. Location: Sub-Saharan Africa. Methods: Geographically weighted regression was used to study the relationship between species richness of the endemic avifauna of sub-Saharan Africa and a set of perceived environmental determinants, comprising the variables of temperature, precipitation and normalized difference vegetation index. Results: The relationships between species richness and the explanatory variables were found to be significantly spatially variable and scale-dependent. At local scales > 90% of the variation was explained, but this declined at coarser scales, with the greatest sensitivity to scale variation evident for narrow ranging species. The complex spatial pattern in regression model parameter estimates also gave rise to a spatial variation in scale effects. Main conclusions: Relationships between environmental variables are generally assumed to be spatially stationary and conventional, global, regression techniques are therefore used in their modelling. This assumption was not satisfied in this study, with the relationships varying significantly in space. In such circumstances the average impression provided by a global model may not accurately represent conditions locally. Spatial nonstationarity in the relationship has important implications, especially for studies of species diversity patterns and their scaling.
3877792|Aim: Maps of species richness are the basis for applied research and conservation planning as well as for theoretical research investigating patterns of richness and the processes shaping these patterns. The method used to create a richness map could influence the results of such studies, but differences between these methods have been insufficiently evaluated. We investigate how different methods of mapping species ranges can influence patterns of richness, at three spatial resolutions. Location: California, USA. Methods: We created richness maps by overlaying individual species range maps for terrestrial amphibians and reptiles. The methods we used to create ranges included: point-to-grid maps, obtained by overlaying point observations of species occurrences with a grid and determining presence or absence for each cell; expert-drawn maps; and maps obtained through species distribution modelling. We also used a hybrid method that incorporated data from all three methods. We assessed the correlation and similarity of the spatial patterns of richness maps created with each of these four methods at three different resolutions. Results: Richness maps created with different methods were more correlated at lower spatial resolutions than at higher resolutions. At all resolutions, point-to-grid richness maps estimated the lowest species richness and those derived from species distribution models the highest. Expert-drawn maps and hybrid maps showed intermediate levels of richness but had different spatial patterns of species richness from those derived with the other methods. Main conclusions: Even in relatively well-studied areas such as California, different data sources can lead to rather dissimilar maps of species richness. Evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of different methods for creating a richness map can provide guidance for selecting the approach that is most appropriate for a given application and region.
4139433|Aim Spatial autocorrelation (SAC) in data, i.e. the higher similarity of closer samples, is a common phenomenon in ecology. SAC is starting to be considered in the analysis of species distribution data, and over the last 10 years several studies have incorporated SAC into statistical models (here termed 'spatial models'). Here, I address the question of whether incorporating SAC affects estimates of model coefficients and inference from statistical models. Methods I review ecological studies that compare spatial and non-spatial models. Results In all cases coefficient estimates for environmental correlates of species distributions were affected by SAC, leading to a mis-estimation of on average c. 25%. Model fit was also improved by incorporating SAC. Main conclusions These biased estimates and incorrect model specifications have implications for predicting species occurrences under changing environmental conditions. Spatial models are therefore required to estimate correctly the effects of environmental drivers on species present distributions, for a statistically unbiased identification of the drivers of distribution, and hence for more accurate forecasts of future distributions.
3697540| Aim: To determine how species richness, abundance, biomass, energy use and mean number of individuals per species scale with environmental energy availability in wintering and breeding avian assemblages, and to contrast assemblages of (i) common and rare species and (ii) breeding residents and migrants. To assess whether such patterns are compatible with the 'more individuals hypothesis' (MIH) that high-energy areas are species-rich because they support larger populations that are buffered against extinction. Location: The North American continent (latitudinal range 23.4 -48.1 N; longitudinal range 124.2-68.7 W). Methods: Avian species richness, abundance, biomass and energy use were calculated for 295 Resident Bird Count plots. Environmental energy availability was measured using ambient temperature and the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), a close correlate of plant productivity. Analyses took plot area into account, and were conducted (with and without taking habitat type into account) using general linear models and spatial mixed models. Results: Positive species-energy relationships were exhibited by both wintering and breeding assemblages, but were stronger in the former. The structure of winter assemblages responded more strongly to temperature than NDVI, while breeding assemblages tended to respond more strongly to NDVI. Breeding residents responded to annual measures of energy availability while breeding migrants and the winter assemblage responded more strongly to seasonal measures. In the winter assemblage, rare and common species exhibited species-energy relationships of a similar strength, but common breeding species exhibited a much stronger relationship than rare breeding species. In both breeding and wintering assemblages, abundance, biomass and energy use increased with energy availability and species richness. Energy availability was a poor predictor of the mean number of individuals per species. Main conclusions: The nature of the species-energy relationship varies seasonally and with the manner in which energy availability is measured. Our data suggest that residents are less able to respond to seasonal fluxes in resource availability than long-distance migrants. Increasing species richness and energy availability is associated with increasing numbers of individuals, biomass and energy use. While these observations are compatible with the MIH our data provide only equivocal support for this hypothesis, as the rarest species do not exhibit the strongest species-energy relationships. 
40928120|Aim: As the demands for food, feed and fuel increase in coming decades, society will be pressed to increase agricultural production  whether by increasing yields on already cultivated lands or by cultivating currently natural areas  or to change current crop consumption patterns. In this analysis, we consider where yields might be increased on existing croplands, and how crop yields are constrained by biophysical (e.g. climate) versus management factors. Location: This study was conducted at the global scale. Methods: Using spatial datasets, we compare yield patterns for the 18 most dominant crops within regions of similar climate. We use this comparison to evaluate the potential yield obtainable for each crop in different climates around the world. We then compare the actual yields currently being achieved for each crop with their 'climatic potential yield' to estimate the 'yield gap'. Results: We present spatial datasets of both the climatic potential yields and yield gap patterns for 18 crops around the year 2000. These datasets depict the regions of the world that meet their climatic potential, and highlight places where yields might potentially be raised. Most often, low yield gaps are concentrated in developed countries or in regions with relatively high-input agriculture. Main conclusions: While biophysical factors like climate are key drivers of global crop yield patterns, controlling for them demonstrates that there are still considerable ranges in yields attributable to other factors, like land management practices. With conventional practices, bringing crop yields up to their climatic potential would probably require more chemical, nutrient and water inputs. These intensive land management practices can adversely affect ecosystem goods and services, and in turn human welfare. Until society develops more sustainable high-yielding cropping practices, the trade-offs between increased crop productivity and social and ecological factors need to be made explicit when future food scenarios are formulated.
30137869|Aim We present a model to account for self-assembly of the slough-ridge-tree island patterned landscape of the central Everglades in southern Florida via feedbacks among landforms, hydrology, vegetation and biogeochemistry. We test aspects of this model by analysing vegetation composition in relation to local and landscape-level drivers. Location We quantified vegetation composition and environmental characteristics in central Water Conservation Area (WCA) 3A, southern WCA-3A and southern WCA-3B in southern Florida, based on their divergence in water management and flow regimes over the past 50 years. Methods In 562 quadrats, we estimated species coverages and quantified maximum, minimum and average water depth, soil depth to bedrock, normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and proximity to the nearest tree island. We used non-metric multi-dimensional scaling (NMS) to relate compositional variation to local and landscape-level factors, and evaluated environmental differences among eight a priori vegetation types via ANOVA. Results Water depth and hydroperiod decreased from sloughs to ridges to tree islands, but regions also differed significantly in the abundance of several community types and the hydroregimes characterizing them. NMS revealed two significant axes of compositional variation, tied to local gradients of water depth and correlated factors, and to a landscape-scale gradient of proximity to tall tree islands. Sawgrass height and soil thickness increased toward higher ridges, and NDVI was greatest on tree islands. Main conclusions This study supports four components of our model: positive feedback of local substrate height on itself, woody plant invasion and subsequent P transport and concentration by top predators nesting on taller tree islands, compositional shifts in sites close to tree islands due to nutrient leakage, and flow-induced feedback against total raised area. Regional divergence in the relationship of community types to current hydroregimes appears to reflect a lag of a few years after shifts in water management; a longer lag would be expected for shifts in landscape patterning. Both local and landscape-level drivers appear to shape vegetation composition and soil thickness in the central Everglades.
40205685|Aim: Individually focused conservation management of many species is expensive and logistically impractical. Mesofilter conservation methods may facilitate the simultaneous management of multiple species. We used data on distributions of two sets of avian guilds, based on dependence on riparian vegetation and on nest location, to relate occurrence rates to environmental variables. Variables were selected by expert opinion and are likely to be affected by changes in climate and land use. Location: Data were collected from 2001-06 in four adjacent mountain ranges in the central Great Basin (Lander, Nye and Eureka counties, Nevada, USA): the Shoshone Mountains and the Toiyabe, Toquima and Monitor ranges. Methods: Data on occurrence of birds, vegetation composition and vegetation structure were obtained in the field. Geographical coordinates and the normalized difference vegetation index were derived from a digital elevation model and a satellite image. To construct a general model for guilds as a whole, while allowing flexibility for variation in the functional responses of individual species, we applied multivariate adaptive regression splines. Results: The predictive capacity of expert knowledge of relationships between birds and vegetation was inconsistent. Latitude, longitude and elevation may constrain the response of some guilds to changes in vegetation structure and composition. Guild-based models were useful for modelling species with sparse distributions, which are difficult to model individually. In essence, this method supplements models for the individual species with patterns for the guild to which they belong. Main conclusions: Guilds of birds appeared to have predictable associations with selected attributes of vegetation structure and composition. The criteria by which species are grouped into guilds may affect the success of predictions and management interventions. Our derived models offer the potential to predict effects on the avifauna of management or climate- driven change in vegetation.
30137889|Aim: Predictive species distribution modelling is a useful tool for extracting the maximum amount of information from biological collections and floristic inventories. However, in many tropical regions records are only available from a small number of sites. This can limit the application of predictive modelling, particularly in the case of rare and endangered species. We aim to address this problem by developing a methodology for defining and mapping species pools associated with climatic variables in order to investigate potential species turnover and regional species loss under climate change scenarios combined with anthropogenic disturbance. Location: The study covered an area of 6800 km in the highlands of Chiapas, southern Mexico. Methods: We derived climatically associated species pools from floristic inventory data using multivariate analysis combined with spatially explicit discriminant analysis. We then produced predictive maps of the distribution of tree species pools using data derived from 451 inventory plots. After validating the predictive power of potential distributions against an independent historical data set consisting of 3105 botanical collections, we investigated potential changes in the distribution of tree species resulting from forest disturbance and climate change. Results: Two species pools, associated with moist and cool climatic conditions, were identified as being particularly threatened by both climate change and ongoing anthropogenic disturbance. A change in climate consistent with low-emission scenarios of general circulation models was shown to be sufficient to cause major changes in equilibrium forest composition within 50 years. The same species pools were also found to be suffering the fastest current rates of deforestation and internal forest disturbance. Disturbance and deforestation, in combination with climate change, threaten the regional distributions of five tree species listed as endangered by the IUCN. These include the endemic species Magnolia sharpii Miranda and Wimmeria montana Lundell. Eleven vulnerable species and 34 species requiring late successional conditions for their regeneration could also be threatened. Main conclusions: Climatically associated species pools can be derived from floristic inventory data available for tropical regions using methods based on multivariate analysis even when data limitations prevent effective application of individual species modelling. Potential consequences of climate change and anthropogenic disturbance on the species diversity of montane tropical forests in our study region are clearly demonstrated by the method.
3697458|Aim: To determine whether rare or common species contribute most to overall patterns of spatial variation in extant species richness. Location: Mexico. Methods: Using data on the distribution of mammal species across Mexico at a quarter degree resolution, we ranked species from the most widespread to the most restricted (common-to-rare) within the study area, and from the most restricted to the most widespread (rare-to-common), and generated a sequence of patterns of species richness for increasing numbers of species. At each stage along both series of richness patterns, we correlated the species richness pattern for the subassemblage with that of the full assemblage. This allows comparison of subassemblages of the n most common with the n most rare species, in terms of how well they match the full assemblage richness pattern. Further analyses examined the effects on these patterns of correlation of the amount of raw information contained in the distributions of given numbers of rare and common species. Results: For the mammals of Mexico the more widely distributed species contribute disproportionately to patterns of species richness compared with more restricted species, particularly for non-volant species and endemic species. This is not simply a consequence of differences in the volumes of information contained in the distributions of rare and common species, with the disproportionate contribution of common species if anything being sharpened when these differences are taken into account. The pattern is most clearly demonstrated by endemic species, suggesting that the contribution of common species is clearest when the causes of rarity and commonness are limited to those genuinely resulting in narrow and widespread geographical ranges, respectively, rather than artificial (e.g. geopolitical) boundaries to the extents of study regions. Conclusions: Perhaps surprisingly, an understanding of the determinants of overall patterns of species richness may gain most from consideration of why common species occur in some areas and are absent from others, rather than consideration of the distributions of rare species.
3697400|Aim: This paper describes the development of novel indices of bird-habitat preference to examine bird species' use of habitats and their distributions relative to habitats. It assesses the implications for bird conservation regionally and the scope for biodiversity assessments generally. Location: A 200 km by 400 km area of farmland with seminatural and urban areas, covering south-eastern England. Methods: Cluster analysis was used to link birds to landscapes. Cluster centroid coordinate values were processed to derive indices of bird-habitat preference. Further developments assessed the relative values of individual habitats for birds. Results: Clustering objectively linked birds to landscapes. Maps of the clusters showed strong regional patterns associated with distinctive habitat assemblages. Derived indices related bird species directly to individual habitats and habitats to birds. Even rare species and scarce habitats showed successful linkages, often to each other. Objective corroboration strongly supported the associations of coastal, wetland, urban and woodland birds and habitats; but, it suggested that farmland birds, whose numbers have nearly halved since 1977, may prefer alternative habitats. Main conclusions: Land cover maps from remote sensing provide an effective way to link birds to habitats and vice versa. Thus, generalized habitat maps might be used to extrapolate localized or sample-based bird observations or the results of autecological studies, helping to predict and understand bird distributions in the wider countryside. The weak links between farmland birds and farmland habitats in a region dominated by farming, suggests that reasons for the decline in farmland birds may be deep seated and thus hard to reverse. The procedures described are repeatable elsewhere and applicable more generally to evaluate landscapes and biodiversity. It is suggested that remote sensing could rarely be bettered as a means of assessing habitats, comprehensively, over wide areas, in most parts of the world.
2997887|1. It is generally considered that the open woodlands of north-west Namibia are experiencing widespread degradation due to over-use of resources by local herders. 2. Data are presented regarding community floristics, diversity, density, cover and population structure for woody vegetation These are analysed in relation to abiotic factors of topography and substrate, and to settlement impacts represented indirectly by distance from settlement and directly by measures of branch cutting and browsing. 3. None of the vegetation indices upheld predicted patterns of degradation except on a small scale, confined to within settlements. Moreover, in nearly all cases, local settlement effects were within the range of variability observed at larger scales. 4. It is concluded that continuing perceptions and fears of degradation in this area relate more to ideology than evidence. In particular, it is argued that factors conferring resilience and persistence on both the environment and the regional herding economy are obscured by (1) disregard for the implications of spatial and temporal scale in interpretations of ecological data, (2) a conceptual adherence to equilibrium dynamics that stresses density-dependent impacts of people and livestock over and above the role of abiotic factors in constraining and driving primary productivity; and (3) remnants of a colonial ideology, which tends to view `traditional communal farming' practices as environmentally degrading.
3182711|Aim: We examined the effects of drought in the summer of 1995 and the subsequent year on contrasting species of plants, moths, butterflies and ground beetles. We tested whether population increases were associated with: (a) species of warm environments (b) species of dry environments (c) species with rapid reproduction (d) species with high rates of dispersal. Location: The study was conducted at Environmental Change Network (ECN) sites throughout Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Methods: Climate monitoring, recording of plant species in permanent plots, transect walking for butterflies, light trapping for moths and pitfall trapping for carabid beetles were used. Results: There was an overall increase in the number of species recorded in permanent vegetation plots between 1994 and 1996, principally among the annual and biennial vascular plants, probably as a result of gap colonization in grasslands. Most butterfly and moth species increased between 1994 and 1995. Among the butterflies, a southern distribution and high mobility were associated with species tending to increase throughout the period 1994-96, whereas declining species tended to have a northern distribution. A similar number of carabid beetle species increased as decreased in the period 1994-96; decreasing species tended to be associated with lower temperatures and wetter soils. Conclusions: Current climate change scenarios indicate that the incidence of droughts in the United Kingdom will increase. A series of dry, hot summers could lead to a rapid change in the population of some species although others, including many plants, may be more resilient. This may lead to complex changes in ecosystems and needs to be considered in planning conservation strategies.
2665351|1 Blanket mire in Northern Ireland is an ecologically threatened habitat in which land use for hand peat-cutting, forestry and agriculture has had a major influence. A recent land use change is the introduction of tractor-powered peat-harvesting. In this paper, the effect of machine peat-cutting on ombrotrophic blanket mire vegetation is assessed from a regional sample of cut and uncut plots. 2 Principal components analysis identified water-table depth and grazing intensity as major factors influencing the species composition of uncut mire. A key variable affecting the composition of machine cut mire across the drainage gradient was the number of times cut, with multiple annual cutting causing progressive decreases in acrotelm depth, catotelm bulk density and plant cover. Ericaceous species and Sphagnum spp. were particularly sensitive to cutting, with Eriophorum angustifolium and Campylopus introflexus characteristic of multiple-cut sites. 3 Redundancy analysis, with number of times cut partialled out, showed that recovery time accounted for a significant amount of variance in vegetation composition. Species that significantly increased in abundance with recovery time were Sphagnum spp., Odontoschisma sphagni, Erica tetralix and Drosera rotundifolia. 4 Sites cut frequently, or which were grazed, recovered more slowly. Recovery from cutting was partly dependent on the post-cutting structure of the mire surface and the species that survive cutting. The rate of recovery on sites cut once, then abandoned, is relatively rapid compared with multiple-cut sites where species colonization is constrained by bare compacted peat.
3697471| Aim: To investigate the relationship between chiropteran species distributions and four fundamental environmental factors - temperature, precipitation, soil and vegetation - and to construct a species richness prediction map based on the environmental factors. Location: The state of Michoacn, Mxico. Methods: Bat specimens collected during a 2-year project were combined with museum specimens to form a dataset of over 3200 entries pertaining to 71 species of bats. Coordinates of the collection localities were recorded with GPS receivers or determined from maps. ArcView GIS was used to characterize the distribution of the species relative to the four environmental factors by projecting coordinates of the collection sites onto digitized maps of those factors. Correspondence analysis (CA) was used to evaluate the relationship between species distributions and the environmental factors. Results: The CA results indicated that the order of importance of these factors is (from highest to lowest): temperature, vegetation, precipitation and soil. A predicted distribution map was constructed for each species of bat, based on the result of the CA analysis, using correspondences of each species to climate, vegetation and precipitation. Soil types were excluded from the prediction model because soil type does not appear to carry high predictive value for bat species in Michoacn. Distribution maps of the 71 bat species were then overlaid to generate a map of bat species richness for the state of Michoacn. Main conclusions: Neither family membership nor feeding guild affiliation appear to play important roles in chiropteran species distributions in Michoacn. The bat species richness prediction map will be a useful tool for conservation works in the region. 
2665401|The four major papers in this special feature present and interpret data from field studies on the distributions and diversity of small mammals in elevational gradients on mountains in the Philippines, Borneo, southern Mexico and western United States. In the introductory paper, Lomolino places these studies in the context of historical, methodological and conceptual themes in contemporary biogeography. In this final paper, I focus on some important similarities and interesting differences among the four case studies. All of the studies provide evidence for the influence of ecological factors, such as climate, productivity and habitat heterogeneity, on mammalian diversity. All also provide evidence for the influence of historical dispersal, extinction, and speciation events. Perhaps the most interesting result is the documentation of a frequent, but not universal, peak in species diversity at some elevation intermediate between the base and peak of a mountain. Efforts to understand the mechanistic basis for this pattern - and why it differs from the continuous decrease in diversity from the equator to the poles - promise to contribute to developing a general theoretical explanation for the major patterns of biodiversity on earth.
41058231|Aim: The proportion of sampled sites where a species is present is known as prevalence. Empirical studies have shown that prevalence can affect the predictive performance of species distribution models. This paper uses simulated species data to examine how prevalence and the form of species environmental dependence affect the assessment of the predictive performance of models. Methods: Simulated species data were based on various functions of simulated environmental data with differing degrees of spatial correlation. Seven model performance measures -sensitivity, specificity, class-average (CA), overall prediction success, kappa (K), normalized mutual information (NMI) and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC)  were applied to species models fitted by three regression methods. The response of the performance measures to prevalence was then assessed. Three probability threshold selection methods used to convert fitted logistic model values to presence or absence were also assessed. Results: The study shows that the extent to which prevalence affects model performance depends on the modelling technique and its degree of success in capturing dominant environmental determinants. It also depends on the statistic used to measure model performance and the probability threshold method. The response based on K generally preferred models with medium prevalence. All performance measures were least affected by prevalence when the probability threshold was chosen to maximize predictive performance or was based directly on prevalence. In these cases, the responses based on AUC, CA and NMI generally preferred models with small or large prevalence. Main conclusions: The effect of prevalence on the predictive performance of species distribution models has a methodological basis. Relevant factors include the success of the fitted distribution model in capturing the dominant environmental determinant, the model performance measure and the probability threshold selection method. The fixed probability threshold method yields a marked response of model performance to prevalence and is therefore not recommended. The study explains previous empirical results obtained with real data.
40801916|Aim: To assess the spatial patterns of forest expansion (encroachment and densification) for mountain pine (Pinus uncinata Ram.) during the last 50 years at a whole mountain range scale by the study of different topographic and socioeconomic potential drivers in the current context of global change.
40205739|Aim: To provide accurate but parsimonious quantitative descriptions of clines in cranial form of red colobus, to partition morphological variance into geographical, taxonomic and structured taxonomic components, and to visually summarize dines in multivariate shape data using a method which produces results directly comparable to both univariate studies of geographical variation and standard geometric morphometric visualization of shape differences along vectors. Location: Equatorial Africa. Methods: Sixty-four three-dimensional cranial landmarks were measured on 276 adult red colobus monkeys sampled over their entire distribution. Geometric morphometric methods were applied, and size and shape variables regressed onto geographical coordinates using linear and curvilinear models. Model selection was done using the second-order Akaike information criterion. Components of variation related to geography, taxon or their combined effect were partitioned using partial regresssion. Multivariate trends in dinal shape were summarized using principal components of predictions from regressions, plotting vector scores on maps as for univariate size, and visualizing differences along main axes of dinal shape variation using surface rendering. Results: Significant clinal variation was found in size and shape. Clines were similar in females and males. Trend surface analysis tended to be more accurate and parsimonious than alternative models in predicting morphology based on geography. Cranial form was relatively paedomorphic in East Africa and peramorphic in central Africa. Most taxonomic variation was geographically structured. However, taxonomic differences alone accounted for a larger proportion of total explained variance in shape (up to 40%) than in size (20%). Main conclusions: A strong cline explained most of the observed size variation and a significant part of the shape differences of red colobus crania. The pattern of geographical variation was largely similar to that previously reported in vervets, despite different habitat preferences (arboreal versus terrestrial) and a long period since divergence (c. 14-15 Myr). This suggests that some aspects of morphological divergence in both groups may have been influenced by similar environmental, geographical and historical factors. Cranial size is likely to be evolutionary more labile and thus better reflects the influence of recent environmental changes. Cranial shape could be more resilient to change and thus better reflects phylogenetically informative differences.
40405791|Aim Niche-based distribution models are often used to predict the spread of invasive species. These models assume niche conservation during invasion, but invasive species can have different requirements from populations in their native range for many reasons, including niche evolution. I used distribution modelling to investigate niche conservatism for the Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus Skuse) during its invasion of three continents. I also used this approach to predict areas at risk of invasion from propagules originating from invasive populations. Location Models were created for Southeast Asia, North and South America, and Europe. Methods I used maximum entropy (MAXENT) to create distribution models using occurrence data and 18 environmental datasets. One native model was created for Southeast Asia; this model was projected onto North America, South America and Europe. Three models were created independently for the non-native ranges and projected onto the native range. Niche overlap between native and non-native predictions was evaluated by comparing probability surfaces between models using real data and random models generated using a permutation approach. Results The native model failed to predict an entire region of occurrences in South America, approximately 20% of occurrences in North America and nearly all Italian occurrences of A. albopictus. Non-native models poorly predict the native range, but predict additional areas at risk for invasion globally. Niche overlap metrics indicate that non-native distributions are more similar to the native niche than a random prediction, but they are not equivalent. Multivariate analyses support modelled differences in niche characteristics among continents, and reveal important variables explaining these differences. Main conclusions The niche of A. albopictus has shifted on invaded continents relative to its native range (Southeast Asia). Statistical comparisons reveal that the niche for introduced distributions is not equivalent to the native niche. Furthermore, reciprocal models highlight the importance of controlling bi-directional dispersal between native and non-native distributions.
30137870|Aim To analyse the effects of nine species trait variables on the accuracy of bioclimatic envelope models built for 98 butterfly species. Location Finland, northern Europe. Methods Data from a national butterfly atlas monitoring scheme (NAFI) collected from 1991-2003 with a resolution of 10 x 10 km were used in the analyses. Generalized additive models (GAMs) were constructed for 98 butterfly species to predict their occurrence as a function of climatic variables. Modelling accuracy was measured as the cross-validation area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver-operating characteristic plot. Observed variation in modelling accuracy was related to species traits using multiple GAMs. The effects of phylogenetic relatedness among butterflies were accounted for by using generalized estimation equations. Results The values of the cross-validation AUC for the 98 species varied between 0.56 and 1.00 with a mean of 0.79. Five species trait variables were included in the GAM that explained 71.4% of the observed variation in modelling accuracy. Four variables remained significant after accounting for phylogenetic relatedness. Species with high mobility and a long flight period were modelled less accurately than species with low mobility and a short flight period. Large species (>50 mm in wing span) were modelled more accurately than small ones. Species inhabiting mires had especially poor models, whereas the models for species inhabiting rocky outcrops, field verges and open fells were more accurate compared with other habitats. Main conclusions These results draw attention to the importance of species traits variables for species-climate impact models. Most importantly, species traits may have a strong impact on the performance of bioclimatic envelope models, and certain trait groups can be inherently difficult to model reliably. These uncertainties should be taken into account by downweighting or excluding species with such traits in studies applying bioclimatic modelling and making assessments of the impacts of climate change.
3697526|Aim: To quantify the regional-scale spatio-temporal relationships among rainfall, vegetation and fire frequency in the Australian wet-dry tropics (AWDT). Location: Northern Australia: Cape York Peninsula, central Arnhem, central Kimberly, Einasleigh Uplands, Gulf Fall Uplands and northern Kimberley. Methods: Monthly 'fraction of photosynthetic active radiation absorbed by green vegetation' (fAPAR) was decomposed into monthly evergreen (EG) and monthly raingreen (RG) components using time-series techniques applied to monthly normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) data from Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) imagery. Fire affected areas were independently mapped at the same spatio-temporal resolution from AVHRR imagery. Weather station records were spatially interpolated to create monthly rainfall surfaces. Vegetation structural classes were derived from a digitized map of northern Australian vegetation communities (1:1,000,000). Generalized linear models were used to quantify relationships among the fAPAR, EG and RG signals, vegetation structure, rainfall and fire frequency, for the period November 1996-December 2001. Results: The fAPAR and EG signals are positively correlated with annual rainfall and canopy cover, notably: $EG_{closed forest} > EG_{open heathland} > EG_{open forest} > EG_{woodland} > EG_{open woodland} > EG_{low woodland} > EG_{low open woodland} > EG_{open grassland}$. Vegetation height and fAPAR are positively correlated, excluding the special case of open heathland. The RG signal is highest where intermediate annual rainfall and strong seasonality in rainfall coincide, and is associated with vegetation structure as follows: $RG_{open grassed} > RG_{woodland} > RG_{open forest} > RG_{open heathland} > RG_{low woodland} > RG_{open woodland} > RG_{low open woodland} > RG_{closed forest}$. Monthly RG tracks monthly rainfall. Annual proportion of area burnt (PB) is maximal where high RG coincides with low EG (open grassland, several woodland communities). PB is minimal in vegetation where both RG and EG are low (low open woodland); and in vegetation where EG is high (closed forest, open heathland). Conclusions: The RG-EG scheme successfully reflects digitally mapped tree and grass covers in relation to rainfall. RG-EG patterns are strongly associated with fire frequency patterns. PB is maximal in areas of high RG, where high biomass production during the wet season supports abundant fine fuel during the dry season. PB is minimal in areas with high EG, where relatively moist fuel limits fire ignition; and in areas with low EG and RG, where a relative short supply of fuel limits fire spread.
30134094|Aim: To describe broad-scale geographical patterns of body size for European and North American amphibian faunas and to explore possible processes underlying these patterns. Specifically, we propose a heat balance hypothesis, as both heat conservation and heat gain determine the heat balance of ectotherms, and test it along with five other hypotheses that have a possible influence on body size gradients: size dependence, migration ability, primary productivity, seasonality and water availability. Location: Western Europe and North America north of Mexico. Methods: We processed distribution maps for native amphibian species to estimate the mean body size in 110 x 110 km cells and calculated eight environmental predictors to explore the relationship between environmental gradients and the observed patterns. We used least squares regression modelling and model selection approaches based on information theory to evaluate the relative support for each hypothesis. Results: We found consistent body size gradients and similar relationships to environmental variables within each amphibian group in Europe and North America. Annual potential evapotranspiration, a measure of environmental energy, was the strongest predictor of mean body size in both regions. However, the contrasting responses to ambient energy in each group resulted in opposite geographical patterns, i.e. anurans increased in size from high-to low-energy areas in both continents and urodeles showed the opposite pattern. Main conclusions: Our results support the heat balance hypothesis, suggesting that the thermoregulatory abilities of anurans would allow them to reach larger sizes in colder climates by optimizing the trade-off between heating and cooling rates, whereas a lack of such strategies among urodele faunas would explain why these organisms tend to be smaller in cooler areas. These findings may also have implications for the role of climate warming on the global decline of amphibians.
3697464|Scale, the scale dependency of patterns and processes, and the ways that organisms scale their responses to these patterns and processes are central to island and landscape ecology. Here, we take a database of studies in island ecology and investigate how studies have changed over a 40-year period with respect to spatial scale and organisms studied. We demonstrate that there have been changes in the spatial scale of islands studied and that there is taxonomic bias in favour of vertebrates in island ecological studies when compared to scientific publications as a whole. We discuss how such taxonomic bias may have arisen and discuss the implications for ecology and biogeography.
30137820|Aim: To test the hypotheses that seamounts exhibit high rates of endemism and/or species richness compared to surrounding areas of the continental slope and oceanic ridges. Location: The south-west Pacific Ocean from 19-57 S to 143-171 E. Methods: Presence/absence museum data were compiled for seamount and nonseamount areas at depths between 100 and 1500 m for the Ophiuroidea (brittle-stars), an abundant and speciose group of benthic invertebrates. Large-scale biogeographical gradients were examined through multivariate analyses at two spatial scales, at the scale of seamounts (< 1 of latitude/longitude) and regions (5-9). The robustness of these patterns to spatially inconsistent sampling effort was tested using Monte Carlo-style simulations. Levels of local endemism and species richness over numbers of samples were compared for seamount and non-seamount areas using linear regressions. Non-seamount populations were randomly generated from areas and depth ranges that reflected the typical sampling profile of seamounts. Results: Seamount ophiuroid assemblages did not exhibit elevated levels of species richness or narrow-range endemism compared with non-seamount areas. Seamounts can exhibit high overall species richness for low numbers of samples, particularly on seamounts supporting a dense coral matrix, but this does not increase with additional sampling at the rates found in non-seamount areas. There were relatively few identifiable seamount specialists. In general, seamount faunas reflected those found at similar depths in surrounding areas, including the continental slope. Seamount and non-seamount faunas within the study area exhibited congruent latitudinal and bathymetric species turnover. Main conclusions: Seamount faunas were variable for ophiuroid faunal composition, species richness and narrow-range endemism, reflecting their environmental diversity and complex history. The continental slope was also variable, with some areas being particularly species rich. Broad geomorphological habitat categories such as 'seamounts' or 'continental slope' may be at the wrong scale to be useful for conservation planning.
40205680|Aim: The C and crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) pathways are adaptations to compensate for high rates of photorespiration and water and carbon deficiency. This is the first attempt to compare the relative abundance of C vs. C + CAM species in temperate and subtropical grasslands across a latitudinal gradient in central Argentina. We predict that under the same rainfall regime, C + CAM plants will have larger soil coverage in highly saline soils than in neighbouring non-saline ones. Location: Data were taken from three phytogeographical provinces in the Santa Fe province of Argentina: Chaquenian, Pampean and Espinal. Methods: The salinity of the soil was estimated through aqueous solution conductivity. The proportions of species belonging to C/C2084 + CAM photosynthetic pathways were compared among halophyte and non-halophyte communities with a
40405757|Aim: To map and assess the breeding distribution of emperor penguins (Aptenodytes forsten) using remote sensing. Location: Pan-Antarctic. Methods: Using Landsat ETM satellite images downloaded from the Landsat Image Mosaic of Antarctica (LIMA), we detect faecal staining of ice by emperor penguins associated with their colony locations. Emperor penguins breed on sea ice, and their colonies exist in situ between May and December each year. Faecal staining at these colony locations shows on Landsat imagery as brown patches, the only staining of this colour on sea ice. This staining can therefore be used as an analogue for colony locations. The whole continental coastline has been analysed, and each possible signal has been identified visually and checked by spectral analysis. In areas where LIMA data are unsuitable, freely available Landsat imagery has been supplemented. Results: We have identified colony locations of emperor penguins at a total of 38 sites. Of these, 10 are new locations, and six previously known colony locations have been repositioned (by over 10 km) due to poor geographical information in old records. Six colony locations, all from old or unconfirmed records, were not found or have disappeared. Main conclusions: We present a new pan-Antarctic species distribution of emperor penguins mapped from space. In one synoptic survey we locate extant emperor penguin colonies, a species previously poorly mapped due to its unique breeding habits, and provide a vital geographical resource for future studies of an iconic species believed to be vulnerable to future climate change.
40205678|Aim: Climate changes are thought to be responsible for the retreat and eventual extinction of subtropical lauroid species that covered much of Europe and North Africa during the Palaeogene and early Neogene; little is known, however, of the spatial and temporal patterns of this demise. Herein we calibrate ecological niche models to assess the climatic requirements of Laurus L. (Lauraceae), an emblematic relic from the Tethyan subtropical flora, subsequently using these models to infer how the range dynamics of Laurus were affected by Plio-Pleistocene climate changes. We also provide predictions of likely range changes resulting from future climatic scenarios. Location: The Mediterranean Basin and Macaronesian islands (Canaries, Madeira, Azores). Methods: We used a maximum-entropy algorithm (Maxent) to model the relationship between climate and Laurus distribution over time. The models were fitted both to the present and to the middle Pliocene, based on fossil records. We employed climatic reconstructions for the mid-Pliocene (3 Ma), the Last Glacial Maximum (21 ka) and a CO-doubling future scenario to project putative species distribution in each period. We validated the model projections with Laurus fossil and present occurrences. Results: Laurus preferentially occupied warm and moist areas with low seasonality, showing a marked stasis of its climatic niche. Models fitted to Pliocene conditions successfully predicted the current species distribution. Large suitable areas existed during the Pliocene, which were strongly reduced during the Pleistocene, but humid refugia within the Mediterranean Basin and Macaronesian islands enabled long-term persistence. Future climate conditions are likely to re-open areas suitable for colonization north of the current range. Main conclusions: The climatic requirements of Laurus remained virtually unchanged over the last 3 Myr. This marked niche conservatism imposed largely deterministic range dynamics driven by climate conditions. This species's relatively high drought tolerance might account for the survival of Laurus in continental Europe throughout the Quaternary whilst other Lauraceae became extinct. Climatic scenarios for the end of this century would favour an expansion of the species's range towards northern latitudes, while severely limiting southern populations due to increased water stress.
2997829|The relationship between climate and vegetation was investigated along a Mediterranean-Temperate boundary in central Italy. The study area is a transition zone between the Temperate (Eurosiberian) and Mediterranean regions and has an altitudinal range of almost 1750 m. Ordination and cluster analysis were used. The results did not show any sharp boundary but a climate-vegetation mosaic ranging from upper mountain thermotype and lower hyperhumid ombrotype with Fagus sylvatica L. woodlands at higher altitudes, to meso-Mediterranean thermotype and lower subhumid ombrotype with Mediterranean maquis and Quercus ilex L. woods on the coast. Six phytoclimatic groups are distinguished and described in terms of climatic parameters, vegetation types and morphological and chorological traits. These parameters indicate a change without sharp discontinuities between groups. The Mediterranean to Temperate transition in this Tyrrhenian sector is broad and includes most of the study area.
2665327|Quantification of forest carbon sources and sinks is an important part of national inventories of net greenhouse gas emissions. Several such forest carbon budgets have been constructed, but little effort has been made to analyse the sources of error and how these errors propagate to determine the overall uncertainty of projected carbon fluxes. We performed an error analysis for estimates of tree volume and volume change determined by repeated measurements of permanent sample plots for the South-eastern United States as a step toward assessing errors in the carbon budget constructed by the USDA Forest Service. Error components recognized were: sampling error for sample plot selection; measurement error for tree height and diameter; and regression error for tree volume. Most of the propagated error in volume and volume change estimation was due to sampling error. Error estimates depended on the size of the area examined (single state to region) and the degree to which tree growth and recruitment balanced mortality and harvesting. Approximate regional 95% confidence intervals were 3 455 073 000  39 606 000 (1.1%) m<sup>3</sup> for current growing-stock volume, and 10 616 000  4210 000 (39.7%) m<sup>3</sup> years<sup>-1</sup> for growing-stock volume change. These methods should be useful in further analysis of the sources of error and overall uncertainty in national efforts to quantify carbon fluxes associated with forests and land cover dynamics.
3697418|Aims: To determine the shape of global species-range size distributions, the influence on these of island species, threatened species and patterns of latitudinal variation in range sizes, and the fit to logit-normal distributions. Location: Global. Methods: We take the spatial distributions of the raptors and owls of the world as exemplar data sets, document the shapes of their species-range size distributions, the influence of particular groups of species and of latitudinal variation in range sizes on these shapes, and the fit of these distributions to a variety of models. Results: The global species-range size distributions of both raptors and owls are extremely right skewed on untransformed axes. They are not lognormally distributed, as has commonly been stated for species-range size distributions, nor logit-normally distributed as has been suggested might be the case. For raptors, departures from either a lognormal or a logit-normal are little mitigated by excluding groups of species that might be thought to distort the observed species-range size distribution, nor by the latitudinal gradient in geographical range size. For owls, the effects of excluding island and threatened species are more marked, with the fit of the species-range size distribution to a lognormal or a logit-normal becoming much closer. Conclusions: A simple general description of the shape of species-range size distributions remains elusive. This constitutes a significant constraint on the development of theory as to how they are determined. Whilst in principle the fit of any given mechanistic model can be tested against one or more empirical data sets, whatever their form, a simple general mathematical description of species-range size distributions would make the process of rapidly testing the appropriateness of mechanistic models more straightforward.
40801849|Aim: To understand the relative contributions of environmental factors, dispersal limitations and the presence of sperm donors in determining the distribution of the Amazon molly (Poecilia formosa), a sperm-dependent unisexual fish species of hybrid origin. To explore niche similarities and/or differences between the hybrid and parental species. To evaluate whether large-scale abiotic factors can explain a successful introduction of both P. formosa and Poecilia latipinna.
2997833|The number of primate species and genera on thirty-one south-east Asian islands west of the Wallace Line, including Sulawesi, is highly significantly related to surface area of the islands, as expected, but the z value (slope) of each relationship is low (0.21 for species). No association exists between number of taxa and distance to nearest mainland, or to nearest larger island. Excluding the non-Sunda Shelf islands only negligibly changes the relationships. A significant correlation exists between island size and median taxon's body mass, with taxa of 10 kg or more occurring on only the two largest islands. Hence, the primate community changes greatly with island size. The existence of several genera, but no congeners, on small islands, and a checkerboard distribution of the two nocturnal genera (Nycticebus and Tarsius), hints at interspecific competition as a cause of extinction. It is suggested that for comparative purposes, genera/area analyses might be more useful than species/area analyses, because genera are more taxonomically stable, perhaps more comparable across deeper taxa, and might be a better indication of degree of variability.
3877779|Aim: We analyse regional patterns of woody plant species richness collected from field data in relation to modelled gross photosynthesis, P
3697624|Aim: We assess the importance of three relevant and readily obtainable life-history traits (dispersal syndrome, stem height and growth form) and biogeographical origin (European vs. non-European) on the local and regional abundance of over 400 exotic plant species across eight Mediterranean islands. Location: The Mediterranean islands of Lesbos, Rhodes, Crete, Malta, Corsica, Sardinia, Majorca and Minorca. Methods: We adopt two abundance criteria for each exotic species: the proportion of islands in which the species occurs (regional abundance), and a qualitative estimate of species abundance within each of five islands (local abundance). Subsequently, we assess the relationship between local and regional abundance, as well as the role of key life-history traits on both regional and local abundance. These analyses were undertaken separately for the European exotics and the non-European exotics. Results: Only 10.9% of the species occur on more than four islands, and only four species are present on all eight islands. Both local and regional abundances were higher for the non-European than the European species. Local and regional abundances were positively correlated, particularly for exotics with non-European origins. Wind-dispersed species tended to have higher regional abundance than species dispersed by other means but this trend only occurred for local abundance on two islands - Corsica and Majorca. Neither a species' growth form nor its stem height explained trends in regional or local abundance. Conclusions: Although wind-dispersed exotics are more widespread in the Mediterranean, plant life-history traits appear to play a lesser role in invasion success than area of biogeographical origin. In general, exotic species of non-European origin were more abundant at both local and regional scales. Invasion patterns should be interpreted at both local and regional scales, but the stochastic nature of biological invasions may limit deterministic interpretations of invasion patterns, especially if islands are studied in isolation.
30137987|Aim: Soil resource heterogeneity is linked to several ecological processes including invasion of woody species into grasslands. Studies from the temperate zone have demonstrated greater soil heterogeneity beneath woody vegetation than beneath grasslands. Woody species have a more widespread and coarser root system than herbaceous species, and may have a competitive advantage in relatively heterogeneous soils. We tested the global generality of greater soil heterogeneity beneath woody vegetation. Location: Global. Methods: We used data from published literature for soil nitrogen and carbon heterogeneity from paired woodland and grassland sites around the world. Results: Woodland and grassland soil heterogeneities from paired observations were strongly correlated. There was, however, significant geographical variability in the relationship. Soils were more heterogeneous in woodlands than grasslands in temperate areas, but the opposite was true for tropical habitats. Grassland soils were more heterogeneous at lower than higher latitudes. Woodland soil heterogeneity did not vary with latitude. Main conclusions: The previously described high soil heterogeneity in woody vegetation compared to grasslands holds only for temperate regions. Consequently, the relationship between soil resource heterogeneity and vegetation type is dependent on the study region. Macroecological studies should test the generality of relationships between soil and vegetation at the global scale.
