10.2307/2997587|Bermuda is the northern latitudinal limit for mangroves, but communities are diverse and productive. Two pollen diagrams from the largest mangrove area show vegetation changes over the last 5000 years. From 5000 to 2100 years ago this was a marsh wetland, and pollen evidence is also shown of the dryland endemic forest before colonisation of Bermuda. Establishment of mangroves has only occurred in the last 3000 years, when sea-level rise slowed from 26 to 7 cm/100 years. Flotation experiments indicate that propagules could readily colonize from the Caribbean, and evidence both of cooler climate during the glacial and that none of Bermuda's many endemics utilize a mangrove habitat suggests that mangroves have had discontinuous presence in Bermuda through the Late Pleistocene. This study shows that mangrove ranges may be more plastic than was previously thought, subject to availability of habitats rather than dispersal capability.
10.2307/2997712|Several international conventions and agreements have stressed the importance of the assessment of forest biodiversity. However, the methods by which such assessments can be made remain unclear. Remote sensing represents an important tool for looking at ecosystem diversity and various structural aspects of individual ecosystems. It provides a means to make assessments across several different spatial scales, and is also critical for assessments of changes in ecosystem pattern over time. Many different forms of remote sensing are available. While lately the emphasis on laser scanner and synthetic aperture radar data has increased, most work to date has used photographs and digital optical imagery, primarily from airborne and spaceborne platforms. These provide the opportunity to assess different phenomena from the landscape to the stand scale. Remote sensing provides the most efficient tool available for determining landscape-scale elements of forest biodiversity, such as the relative proportion of matrix and patches and their physical arrangement. At intermediate scales, remote sensing provides an ideal tool for evaluating the presence of corridors and the nature of edges. At the stand scale, remote sensing technologies are likely to deliver an increasing amount of information about the structural attributes of forest stands, such as the nature of the canopy surface, the presence of layering within the canopy and presence of (very) coarse woody debris on the forest floor. Given the rate of development in the technology, even greater usage is likely in the future.
10.2307/2997789|Our ability to predict the likely impact of environmental change depends on our understanding of process and pattern in a landscape. Remote sensing has a critical role to play in achieving this understanding and yet conventional classificatory analyses limit the ecological value of information derived from remotely sensed data. This paper examines a strategy to characterize semi-natural heathland vegetation from near-ground level remotely sensed data. Remotely sensed data were related to variations in species composition along a vegetation continuum, and displayed the potential to represent important characteristics of vegetation ecotones.
10.2307/2997509|The influence of ecological factors on diet variation in Tyto alba is studied, and their biogeographical significance is assessed. The results show that bioclimatic and biogeographical factors, such as altitude, latitude, and longitude, have a greater importance than habitat factors, like vegetation mosaics, where there is a significant geographical element, such as a mountain barrier. The results also indicate that microhabitat factors are of importance.
10.2307/2997714|Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis (DCCA) was used to describe the relationship between savanna environments and vegetation community composition in the Orinoco Basin. TWINSPAN derived three major types of savanna vegetation, each with its own floristic and physiognomic features. The first group reflected a plant association with species of Trachypogon occurring in moderately infertile soils with low water availability and high bulk density. This group is distributed mostly on hilltops and dissected plains of the northern Orinoco savannas. The second group has the highest species diversity in habitats occurring in the northern Orinoco with extremely infertile soils. The third group, on the other hand, has a considerable number of species belonging to the Leguminosae and Cyperaceae families and linked to the habitats of the eastern Colombian savannas with the highest soil water availability, a shorter dry season and higher precipitation. The regional analysis of the Orinoco savannas suggests edaphic controls to be important. Changes in the underlying geology have affected topography and soil formation, which results in variation in water and nutrient status. The moisture regime and hydrological features are acting as the major regional determinants, while nutrient levels and distinctive surface soil properties provide the subregional determinants. The local boundary, at any given site, is strongly determined by nutrient shortage and acidity. Also, biogeographic and floristic considerations were taken into account to explain differences in species composition.
10.2307/2997395|We present data on the geographic, latitudinal and climatic ranges of 819 species in the large Australian tree genus Eucalyptus L'Herit. The distribution of geographic range sizes is highly skewed, with 68% of species having ranges that cover less than 1% of the continent and only 3% of species having ranges covering more than 10%. The mean range size is 1.5% of the continent and the median 0.5%. At each latitude there is a wide scatter of geographic and latitudinal range sizes. Rapoport's rule, that range size increases with increasing latitude, was not supported. Mean range size peaks in the 20-25<sup></sup>S latitudinal band; this pattern is affected by the shape of the continent but is not simply a consequence of it. Climatic range size, expressed in terms of mean annual temperature and rainfall, also peaks at about 25<sup></sup>S. The mean, median, and frequency distribution of range sizes of arid zone species is similar to that of mesic species. Eucalypt species diversity is highest in the 30-35<sup></sup>S latitudinal band; once again, this pattern is not simply a consequence of the shape of the continent. The frequency distribution of range sizes in the two main eucalypt suballiances, Symphyomyrtus and Monocalyptus, are not significantly different, although Symphyomyrtus contains all the species with range sizes covering more than 6% of the continent. Symphyomyrtus species tend to occupy drier sites than Monocalyptus.
10.2307/2997700|The goods and services that mangrove forests provide to society are widely understood but may be too generally stated to serve as useful guidelines in decision-making. Understanding the differences between fringe, riverine, and basin forests may help to focus these guidelines and to determine the best use of a particular forest. Fringe mangroves are important primarily for shoreline protection. Riverine forests, which are likely to be the most productive of the three types of forests, are particularly important to animal and plant productivity, perhaps because of high nutrient concentrations associated with sediment trapping. Basin forests serve as nutrient sinks for both natural and anthropogenically enhanced ecosystem processes and are often important sources of wood products. Exploitation of a forest for one particular reason may make it incapable of providing other goods and services.
10.2307/2997457|Individuals of the gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus (Daudin)) seem not to orient their burrows in particular directions, within populations, except where topographic relief influences them to do so. This result suggests that burrow orientation pattern might be expressed on a scale larger than that of the individual population, one that encompasses regularities in topographic relief. We determined the orientations of more than 3,500 gopher tortoise burrows throughout Florida. These burrows tend to be oriented more often in the primary (E, S, W, N) compass directions than in the secondary (NE, SE, SW, NW) directions. We suggest that the best explanation for this finding is that the man-made and natural topographic features in Florida that influence orientation are themselves often oriented in the primary compass directions. Burrow orientation pattern in the gopher tortoise appears to be expressed on a relatively-large scale.
10.2307/2997669|A synopsis of lichens collected in 1990 from Laguna San Rafael, Parque Nacional `Laguna San Rafael', southern Chile, is presented, together with information on habitats where they are important components of the vegetation. Lichens are suggested as potential indicators of both short-term and longer term environmental changes in the area, and their biogeographical and ecological importance is briefly discussed.
10.2307/2997745|A study has been conducted on an alpine river deeply changed by human interventions. Using hydrological, geomorphological and phytoecological methods as well as historical reconstruction, the metamorphosis of the river and the causes of changes are discussed. The example of the river metamorphosis shows that the floodplain is composed of patches in close juxtaposition. The concepts of `space-time' and `series' is introduced to understand the particular dynamics of patches in an environment dramatically disturbed by man. In addition, the interest of such an approach for floodplain management is highlighted.
10.2307/2997526|Traditionally, mountain environments have been viewed as supporting only `simple' ecosystems, because there is generally a marked decrease in the number of species of organisms with increasing altitude. However, the high degree of spatial complexity of mountain landscapes suggests that mountain ecosystems should be very complicated. Here both directions of thought are explored. By reference to a number of case studies in which flies of the family Syrphidae (Diptera) serve as the primary models, the following argument is developed. First, `simple' communities of flies on mountain meadows may be affected by environmental changes caused by skiing, grazing intensity and other forms of human land use. These effects are not reflected by measures of `species diversity', but rather the life strategies (specialist, generalist, etc.) of the insects. Second, even with simple species assemblages, the difficulties inherent in defining the spatial limits of ecological communities in mountains are great. Consideration of an `ensemble' of mosaic patches, defined at a scale relevant to the organisms, is more realistic than examination of species assemblages within particular `human-defined' patches. Third, the complexity of the borders between patches in a mosaic may be just as important in determining species assemblage structure as patch content. Fourth, in a changing climate, mountain ecosystems are likely to be vulnerable to changes in the form and complexity of the microclimatic mosaic as well as to overall changes in average climatic conditions.
10.2307/2997352|Comparisons are made between the faunal communities of the Lake Eyre South islands and the mainland. The low species diversity on the islands is unlikely to result from lack of dispersal opportunities. Rather, a response to a series of ecological factors is implicated. The nature and size of the island habitats preclude some species, and the temporal dynamism of mound spring habitats limits the endemic spring biota. Competition or predation may have prohibited the establishment of other species. Suppression of predation upon painted dragons and house mice may have allowed these species to exist at very high densities. This supports other work which suggests that maintenance of high densities of the principal predator in an ecosystem may favour species which are preferentially hunted by secondary predators.
10.2307/2997773|The international political economy of tropical rainforests related to their perceived role in global climatic change has to be set against real national and local political economies. These political economies involve socially driven biophysical responses with economic and social costs whose magnitude and distribution need to be known if policy formulation for improvement of living conditions is to succeed. Spatial linkages between changes and social costs, such as the downstream impacts of logging, need to be established, but before that can be done it is necessary to distinguish the effects of natural processes from those induced by people. In Malaysia logging or ground clearance increases river sediment yields by two to fifty times. Individual estimates may be unreliable indicators of the overall effects of change. However, the modifications to rivers as a result of raised sediment loads are increasing year by year. Site-based studies of the effects of both logging and shifting cultivation help to improve the data base for policy making and also indicate the efficiency of reduced impact logging and agroforestry techniques.
10.2307/2997507|The Bermuda oceanic islands are comprised mainly of lithified dunes (i.e. calcareous eolianites) which formed during Quaternary sea-level regressions. This short communication considers the vegetation history of Bermuda in relation to these dune-building episodes. At 32<sup></sup>N, Bermuda is the northernmost limit of most frost-intolerant subtropical vascular plant species in the northern hemisphere. The global cooling that caused the Quaternary glacial periods and also the lowering of sea level, may have led to the local extinction of Bermuda's subtropical interglacial floras. Located >900 km from the nearest continental source area, the filling of the vacated niches on Bermuda by long-distance dispersal may have involved low frequency events requiring more than 6000 years. The result would have been a very sparse vegetative cover during the dune-building episodes which would explain why the Bermuda eolianites reach elevations greater than 60 m above the present-day sea level. This hypothesis is supported by: (1) the absence of reliable fossil evidence for vegetation interfering with, or interbedded within, the eolian deposits; and (2) preliminary palynological analyses of the clay-rich fossil soils intercalated between the eolianite formations which have revealed pollen that does not appear to correspond to the existing native flora of Bermuda.
10.2307/2997527|This paper develops a multi-scale approach to the analysis of the influence of immigration and extinction on community structure of non-volant mammals on montane forest islands of western North America. Patterns were studied at three ecological scales (species richness, community nestedness and distributions of individual species) and four spatial scales (intra-archipelago, archipelago, interarchipelago and regional scales) to investigate the influence of scale on our ability to perceive patterns and assess causality in biogeography. Consistent with Brown's relaxation hypothesis, community structure of mammals of the Great Basin mountains appears to have been strongly influenced by extinction. Species richness and community nestedness of these mammals were significantly associated with area (P<0.01), but not with isolation (P>0.30). Analyses conducted at finer scales, however, suggested that these communities may also be influenced by immigration. In the northern portion of the Great Basin, where immigration filters are less severe, richness tended to decline with isolation, and community nestedness was as strongly associated with isolation as it was with area (P = 0.090). Analyses of distributions of eight species occurring on between five and thirteen montane forests in the Great Basin (entire archipelago) revealed that the distributions of three species were significantly (P<0.01) associated with both isolation and area. Distributions of four other species were associated with just area, while that of the remaining species was independent of area and isolation. Species richness and community nestedness of mammals in the American Southwest archipelago were significantly associated with isolation and with area (P<0.01). Of the seven species included in analyses of distribution patterns, three were significantly associated with both isolation and area, two with just area and two with just isolation. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that, in comparison to the Great Basin, immigration occurred more often for mammals of the American Southwest and its effects are more obvious at coarse, as well as fine ecological scales. Species richness and nestedness of mammals in the Cordillero-Madrean Region were more strongly associated with isolation than they were with area. Of six species occurring within seven to fourteen montane forests in this region, the distribution of one was significantly associated with both area (P = 0.043) and isolation (P = 0.004), while distributions of the remaining five were significantly associated with just isolation (P<0.001). These results indicate that montane forest islands of western North America are complex systems, isolated by a heterogeneous mix of immigration filters. Distributions of the component species are determined by interactions between system and species characteristics that influence immigration and extinction. The effects of immigration and extinction should be most evident for the fine-scale ecological patterns, i.e. patterns in distributions of individual species. As the spatial scale broadens, however, the influence of these fundamental, biogeographic forces becomes evident for more species and at coarse ecological scales, involving not just patterns in insular distributions, but patterns in nestedness and richness as well.
10.2307/2997730|As an introduction to the special issue on European floodplain forests, this paper reviews the fundamental hydrological and geomorphological controls on floodplain biodiversity and river-forest interactions. The role of the energy/slope gradient and channel conditions (including number of channels) can be seen as critical in determining the nature and dynamics of floodplain woodland and biodiversity. These factors also control the processing of materials and nutrients in forested floodplains. The biogeochemistry of floodplain forests is complicated by multi-dimensional interactions between substrate, hydrology and vegetation which include longitudinal interactions (up and downstream), and vertical interactions (e.g. between channels and banks and live and dead-water zones). All of these factors complicate the application of the river continuum concept as do natural variations caused by geomorphological inheritance and multiple channels. The distribution and status of European floodplain woodlands and the history of floodplain forests in the British Isles are briefly outlined. Lastly the paper considers the possibilities for the partial afforestation of some British Floodplains and the potential environmental benefits.
10.2307/2997764|Tropical rain forests may be viewed from many different angles and so there are many different perceptions: for example, commercial, political, indigenous, Western, scientific and populist. This paper focuses perforce on scientific perceptions. It is of necessity a personal view. The paper aspires to represent the way science has seen these forests, and how this perception has evolved through time in the context of Southeast Asia.
10.2307/2997540|A model is presented for predicting the global distribution of family diversity in natural terrestrial vegetation. The model assumes that three primary mechanisms determine diversity: the capacity to survive the absolute minimum temperature of a site, the ability to complete the life cycle in a given length and warmth of the growing season, and the capacity to expand leaves in a defined regime of precipitation and vegetation transpiration. The model is tested for present-day vegetation and shows good agreement with observations from local floras. The sensitivity of family diversity to global environmental change has been tested by applying different combinations of greenhouse warming scenarios (+ 3<sup></sup>C,  10% precipitation,  2 xs CO<sub>2</sub> concentration) to all vegetation types. About 50% of the floristic regions of the world exhibit a reduced diversity with a 3<sup></sup>C increase in temperature. Diversity is further reduced by a 10% decrease in precipitation. A doubling of the CO<sub>2</sub> concentration may be equivalent to an increase in precipitation of 10-20% through its capacity to reduce transpiration.
10.2307/2997586|Palaeoecological insights have had only a limited impact on modern ecological thinking, and tend to be used in an unsophisticated manner. Recent successes in correlating tree diversity with contemporary climate and, in particular, energy, have led to claims that explanations for tree diversity based on historical processes or events are superfluous. However, diversity-energy correlations are strong only at regional scales, and fail to predict diversity at small plots within latitudinal bands, or between continents. Moreover, tree diversity cannot have responded to global glacial-interglacial energy fluctuations because plant species cannot evolve that rapidly nor, in most areas of the world, can migration plausibly adjust regional floral diversity. Thus contemporary climate or energy, while yielding excellent correlations with plant diversity, has no explanatory power. Palaeoecological studies show that cycles of forest migration, fragmentation, reduction, and re-expansion are forced by glacial-interglacial climate cycles at high to mid latitudes. These in turn reduce opportunities for habitat specialization, rapidly eliminate species that remain rare throughout a glacial-interglacial cycle, and promote genetic continuity between populations. The result is increasingly impoverished regional floras with increasing latitude, and hence the latitudinal tree species gradient. Contemporary climate regimes act as a surrogate for the sum total of past climatic states and their effects on diversity, and hence the strong regional climate correlations with tree diversity.
10.2307/2997336|This study employs bioclimatic, floristic, phytosociological and physiographical data to develop a phytogeographical division of the Peruvian coast based on the results of two multivariate analyses: the UPGMA classifies the data and the Principal Coordinates Analysis groups them. The Peruvian coast territories were classified into two subkingdoms (Caribeo-Amazonico and Andino-Patagonico), two regions (Caribena and Andina), two provinces (Pacifica and Limeno-Ariquena), five sectors (Tumbesino, Sechurense, Limeno, Iqueno and Arequipeno), and two subsectors (Arequipeno and Tacneno). The Limeno-Ariquena province, sectors and subsectors are novel to Latin America phytogeography.
10.2307/2997805|The exploitation of cloud forests by the Aztec empire was studied using information from codices describing the Aztec tribute system. Large quantities of sweet gum (Liquidambar styraciflua) resin were harvested and transported in various forms to the Aztecs. Surprising quantities of feathers from several species of birds were also delivered. Judging from the quantity of resplendent quetzal (Pharomachrus mocinno) feathers indicated, the yearly harvest was at least 620, and may have been as high as 31,000 quetzals. We suggest that many cloud forests and associated flora and fauna may have been disturbed considerably over many hundreds of years.
10.2307/2997699|Mangrove species richness was surveyed in relation to soil water content and soil water salinity along the Adelaide River floodplain during the late dry season. Twenty two species of mangrove were identified, four of which have not been recorded previously from the Adelaide system: Acanthus ebracteatus, Avicennia integra, Rhizophora apiculata, and R. lamarkii. Species richness was minimal in areas experiencing prolonged exposure to extremes of either freshwater or hypersaline conditions (regardless of whether those conditions are products of the river salinity regime and/or pronounced seasonal cycles of waterlogging and drying), and maximal in areas where moderate salinities and high soil water contents prevail in the late dry season. Three ecophysiological hypotheses are suggested which might provide mechanistic bases for understanding local variation in species richness along natural salinity gradients.
10.2307/2997813|A sectorization of the Iberian Peninsula has been obtained on the basis of Helicoidea species distributions. The distributions were analysed by multivariate methods with several qualitative indices, applied to the matrix obtained by dividing the study area into 113 squares of 100 x 100 km. Dendrograms were obtained by the agglomerative procedure UPGMA. The analysis identified five biogeographical provinces subdivided into subprovinces and sectors. They are as follows. (1) Basque-Pyrenean-Catalonian province, with seventy-nine species and divided into the sectors Basque Septentrional, Basque Meridional, Pyrenean and Catalonian-Provenzal. This province seems to be a contact area between the three malacofaunistic groupings of western Europe. (2) Province of Castilla la Vieja, with thirty-six species and divided into Northern and Southern sectors. (3) Mediterranean province, with sixty-seven species and divided into the sectors of Ebro Valley, Levantine and Baleary. This province is characterized by species of Mediterranean affinities but also contains some species of Septentrional affinities because this province includes the north of the Iberian mountain range, which constitutes a very important refuge area for several species of septentrional origin. (4) Province of Extremadura-La Mancha-Andalusia, with forty-six species and divided into the subprovinces of Extremadura-La Mancha-Andalusia and Almeria (represented by only one square). The first subprovince is divided into the sectors of Andalusia-La Mancha and Extremadura-La Mancha. (5) Lusitanian province, with fifty-six species, divided into Galician-Asturian, Portuguese and Duerense sectors, and characterized by species of Lusitanian and Mediterranean affinities.
10.2307/2997377|Macroscale (continental) patterns of vertebrate species richness have been related to a variety of climatic and historical influences. However, within North America and Britain, empirical evidence suggests that climatic energy is most significant. In this analysis, I examine mesoscale patterns of vertebrate species richness within the U.S. State of Wyoming. I test the generality of the species-energy hypothesis in explaining richness at this scale using high-resolution environmental datasets and a geographic information system (GIS). Results provide little evidence to support the hypotheses that mesoscale species richness of vertebrates follows a linear relationship with climatic energy or a hump-shaped relationship with primary productivity. By contrast, vertebrate richness within Wyoming is most strongly associated with variability in vegetation and other aspects of environmental heterogeneity over a range of sampling grains. This result underscores the benefit of protecting a maximum diversity of vegetation and habitat types for biodiversity conservation.
10.2307/2997683|We sampled the lizard fauna of twenty-two small islets fringing the Pacific island of Guam and used these data to shed light on the processes responsible for present-day diversity. Habitat diversity, measured by islet area and vegetation complexity, was significantly correlated with the number of species found on an islet. However, islet distance and elevation were not significant predictors of diversity. Distribution patterns were slightly different for the two major families in our sample, Scincidae and Gekkonidae: skinks needed larger islets to maintain a population than did geckos. Presence/absence patterns were highly and significantly nested, and population density was correlated with the number of islets on which a species was found. An area cladogram was poorly supported and showed no faunal similarity between nearby islands. These patterns indicate that extinctions on most islets were due mostly to non-catastrophic, long-acting biological causes. The presence on the islets of species extirpated on Guam and the lack of significant nestedness on islands with greater maximum elevation highlight the impact that predators (primarily brown treesnakes) can have. Our findings also show that small reserves will not suffice to protect endangered lizard faunas, and that the islets may serve as a short-term repository of such species until snake-free areas can be established on Guam
10.2307/2997413|(1) An analysis was made, using the method of logistic regression, of the local distribution pattern of amphibians in potential breeding habitats in northern Bavaria. Habitat parameters (altitude, pool area, amount of pool area covered by emerged macrophytes, etc.) seemed to be of minor importance in predicting the presence of a certain species. (2) As habitat fragmentation into different breeding pools increased, the probability that a species occupied a particular habitat also increased. (3) It is suggested that habitat fragmentation decreases the extinction and/or increases the colonization probability in a potential breeding habitat.
10.2307/2997445|Patterns of tree species richness were examined in two peninsular-shaped extensions of tropical riparian forest in savannas of Belize and Venezuela. These two forest peninsulas are approximately 1.5 km and 15 km in length respectively. The number of tree species  10 cm dbh was enumerated in samples taken along each peninsula between the base, at the point of connection to a larger forest, and the tip. There is no significant relationship between the number of species and the distance from the peninsula base at either site when the effect of area is held constant. The results of this investigation do not provide any evidence that peninsular isolation affects tree species richness in these forests. The lack of a peninsular effect in both of these different forest systems suggests that habitat peninsulas should not automatically be rejected as potential refugia simply on the basis of their shape.
10.2307/2997650|Based on distributional data of species of twenty-one South American genera of Rhytirrhinini (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), historical relationships of the five provinces herein assigned to the Andean subregion, namely, Paramo, Patagonian, Puna, Central Chilean, and Subantarctic, were investigated through a combined biogeographic approach. A track compatibility analysis led to recognition of two generalized tracks, which share their first portion (Subantarctic and Central Chilean provinces), which is here identified as a node. From the Central Chilean province, one track continues to the north (Puna and Paramo provinces), and the other to the east (Patagonian province). A parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE) indicates that the cladistic sequence of area fragmentation is: (Paramo (Patagonia (Puna (Central Chilean, Subantarctic)))). It is proposed that these results reflect the progressive depauperation of the Austral biota, and show that the Subantarctic and Central Chilean provinces are its richest (less depauperate) remnants, and that the other provinces have become successively isolated biotic portions.
10.2307/2997601|Measurements were made of the percentage cover, biomass and species-richness of cryptogamic epiphytes growing upon mature Phillipia phillipia stands in the ericaceous (upper montane) forest of the Rwenzori Mountains, Uganda. Macrolichens, especially Usnea spp., dominated the upper canopy, while a range of large cushion-forming hepatics (e.g. Chandonanthus, Herbertus, and Plagiochila species) dominated the lower canopy. The distribution of cryptogams was largely controlled by light intensity and phorophyte age. Detailed studies of a felled Phillipia revealed twenty-nine epiphyte species (two algae, fourteen bryophytes, eleven lichens and two ferns). The forest appears to be moderately species-rich with a small number of species providing a large proportion of the cryptogam biomass. Total biomass of the epiphytes was close to 1 tonne ha<sup>-1</sup>, representing about 10% of the above-ground standing crop. Concentrations of N, P and K in the epiphytes were estimated as 10, 1, and 3 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> respectively. The lichens and bryophytes contained about 2% and 8% respectively of the total aboveground nutrients. Microclimate measurements below the forest canopy demonstrated constant high humidity with suboptimal radiation. Air temperature below the canopy averaged 7.6<sup></sup>C (range 4-9.5<sup></sup>C) during a 10-day period, and increased slightly with canopy height. Evaporation below the forest canopy showed a significant decline as altitude increased from 2300 to 3600 m.
10.2307/2997736|Within ten floodplain forest fragments of the Alno-Ulmion complex situated near the rivers Weibe Elster and Saale in Central Germany, the mycocenosis was investigated from 1993 to 1995 on the basis of fruiting body phenology. The major part of the mycocenosis is formed by saprophytic species, which are important for the fast degradation of organic material in the floodplain forests. In areas where forestry has left dead trunks and branches of trees, lignicolous species form the main feature of the fungal communities. Ectomycorrhizal fungi, which are important elements of the mycocoenosis of other temperate forest types, are represented in these systems by specialists, bound to typical ectotrophic plants within floodplains or to regular disturbance. Relatively few ectomycorrhizal species were found. They are known mainly within agaricoid taxa, which are represented by species with mostly small ephemeral fruiting bodies and their fruiting bodies occur with very low abundance within the floodplains. Other potential as yet unknown ectomycorrhizal partners might be found among corticoid taxa, which are numerous, but in many cases their ecology is unknown. Hypogeous fungi like truffles, might be another possibility as they were found within these floodplains in the last century.
10.2307/2997637|The Sanxia, or Three Gorges Dam, was formally approved by the National People's Congress in April 1992. As the world's largest dam, the project has attracted a considerable amount of attention. This article looks at the background to the project and the arguments surrounding construction and financing. Approval of the Sanxia project was expedited by the Tiananmen Incident of June 1989 and the massive flooding on the Chang (Yangtze) River during the summer of 1991. Advocates of the dam admit that there are still some technical uncertainties. Given the fact it is highly unlikely that the dam will serve its purported functions of flood control, energy generation, navigation improvement, and increased water supply, the Chinese would be wise to avoid the irreparable ecological damage and the economic risk from such another grandiose project. Instead of a large dam, smaller scale projects and basic conservation measures are likely to have more positive environmental, economic, and political consequences.
10.2307/2997793|Wildlife habitats in the United Kingdom are both limited, and severely threatened by development. Legislation on Environmental Assessment (EA) offers opportunities for ecological considerations to be taken into account in the planning and design of new developments, but the ability to quantify potential ecological impacts has been hampered by the complexities of dealing with large volumes of spatially referenced data. Linear developments such as roads present particular problems for ecological assessment, because they often affect many habitat types and exert influences at a range of scales. This paper describes an approach to the ecological assessment of proposed road developments based on systematic spatial analysis of the relationship between roads and selected categories of land cover derived from satellite imagery. The impacts of two hypothetical route options on the distribution and area of these categories are assessed both in relation to each other and to regional baseline conditions, in order to estimate cumulative impacts of road development in the region. Local and regional impacts are quantified in terms of land-take and habitat fragmentation for those categories considered most important for nature conservation: broadleaved woodland and lowland heathland. The results of the study suggest that remotely sensed land cover data, in conjunction with a geographical information system (GIS), can be used to improve the effectiveness of ecological assessment techniques for certain habitat types at the landscape level. By developing cost-effective methods for ecological assessment of route options, it is hoped that ecological considerations can be incorporated into the design and planning process for new road developments at an earlier stage, making it possible to avoid cumulative loss of vulnerable habitats at the regional level, and to incorporate effective mitigation measures into the design of preferred options.
10.2307/2997569|The post-glacial history of Pulsatilla vernalis and Daphne cneorum in Bitcherland is reconstructed by using a phytosociological study of their current habitat. These two species form part of the mesohydric heathland association Daphno cneori-Callunetum. This plant community is characterized by the co-existence of a group of sub-atlantic species and a group with continental affinities in which the two species are found. The presence of this same continental floristic assemblage in the sandy pinewoods of Peucedano-Pinetum of central and oriental Europe leads to the conclusion that D. cneorum and P. vernalis constitute relict species from the Boreal Period in the Bitche region. During this period, the climatic climax of the area should have consisted of pine forests having approximately similar vegetation to the current easteuropean Peucedano-Pinetum association. The global warming which followed this period caused the replacement of this association of pine forests by an oak association, Luzulo-Quercetum, repressing the semiheliophilic species, among them P. vernalis and D. cneorum, to the clearings and edges of these oak forests. These two species were then able to colonize the secondary heaths, created by the over-exploitation of forests since the Middle Ages. The development of intensive forestry practices in the XIX century has caused the regression of these two species, which nowadays are found only in the military grounds in Bitche.
10.2307/2997533|Small litterfall was collected at monthly intervals for 3 years from traps in two evergreen lowland rain forests, a lower montane (shola) forest, and a moist deciduous forest in the Western Ghats of Karnataka, India. The range of the mean annual total small litterfall (in t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) was 11.6-13.9 and that for leaf litterfall was 8.4-10.6 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. The lowest values were for the moist deciduous forest and the highest for the lower montane forest. In all cases there was a seasonality of the litterfall with high weights during the dry season. The chemical composition of the litterfall showed generally high concentrations, which did not differ greatly between plots, and which reflected the similarly high soil nutrient status in all the plots. The moist deciduous forest had the highest leaf litterfall concentrations of phosphorus, potassium and calcium and the least of nitrogen. The small litterfall mass is much higher than that reported earlier for forests in nearby areas of the Ghats by Rai & Proctor (1986b) and the differences from the present study are not easy to explain.
10.2307/2997783|Visits of about 1 h duration were made to Anak Krakatau in July 1993 during an eruptive episode which began in October 1992 and lasted until August 1993 (activity was renewed in March 1994). The island's height had increased by over 80 m, to some 280 m, and its area had been increased substantially. The valley between the old inner and outer cones had been filled by lava in the north, and received a substantial flow, almost to the rim, in the south. Lava flows overspilling the rim of the outer cone has obliterated large areas of vegetation cover, including a number of study areas, and extended into the sea over the N beach (extensively), the NE Foreshore, and the western end of the S beach. Ash-fall had been considerable and had affected the biota of Anak Krakatau differentially. Several plant and animal species appeared to have been little affected, whilst others, particularly plants of the shrub, herb and ground layers, appeared to have been seriously affected. Several plant species, however, showed signs of regrowth.
10.2307/2997465|Strong environmental awareness, and a commitment to environmental management and control, is a legacy in contemporary Zimbabwe from pre-independence days. Widely recognized today as crucial for both local and global sustainable development, such commitment, however, is not without criticism, much of which is illustrated by an analysis of the contemporary implementation of environmental policy to control the cultivation of public land in Harare. The need to streamline environmental policy and its infrastructural support is illustrated, and a more balanced policy approach, fed by further research, is called for, that is more accommodative to social, economic and environmental implications, for stable development to be achieved.
10.2307/2997396|In Kenya humid lowland forests occur in the Lake Basin at the edge of the Guineo-Congolian forest block and along the coast with an extended arid belt in between. From distributional records of the forest termite Schedorhinotermes lamanianus (Sjostedt) we suggest that, during humid periods in the past extensive forests existed along rivers, which may have allowed forest species to cross the arid gap along the easterly drainages. Termitophile tineids of the genus Paraclystis live exclusively within nests of S. lamanianus. We found P. divisus in the Lake Basin. However, despite intensive sampling in the Coastal Province, we only recorded P. integer in all investigated colonies. This suggests that the faunal crossroads along rivers were not open to all species during wetter periods in the past.
10.2307/2997719|The leaf-mining moth Phyllonorycter leucographella was first discovered in the British Isles in 1989. Since then its range has steadily expanded and in March of 1993 it occupied an area of some 13,400 km<sup>2</sup>. The spread of the moth was used to assess the possibility of obtaining geographical range information from the general public by an appeal through the mass media. A press release resulted in wide coverage in the media leading to over 200 responses from the public. The range maps constructed from this information were compared to that established by a systematic survey covering the main range of the moth. The information obtained from the public led to an underestimate of total range, but to a good estimate of the area in which the moth exists at high density. One centre of invasion some distance from the main distribution of the moth was identified. In all but one case the host plant was correctly identified; however, over half the leaves submitted did not contain mines. Valuable supplementary information was obtained by appeals to special interest groups (naturalists and the horticultural trade) while a directed appeal to a small number of schools was unsuccessful.
10.2307/2997589|Analysis of the faunal composition and diversity of Mapimi dung beetle communities indicates that, while much poorer than those near the edges of the Chihuahuan desert, they may possibly have been even more so in the recent past, since at least four of the six captured species were introduced recently into North America. While their overall diversity and composition appear explicable in terms of historic and topographic factors, the regional variation in these communities between sample sites is argued to be a function of the interplay of the environmental requirements of the species and the quantity and quality of trophic resources available.
10.2307/2997651|Morphometric patterns of Africanized honey bees and their relationship with climatic variation from forty Brazilian localities were investigated using a set of multivariate analyses. There is a strong canonical correlation between morphometric and climatic data, suggesting that adaptation and natural selection are occurring. However, both morphometric and climatic data were spatially autocorrelated and causal explanations can be wrong if the influence of space is not removed. In this paper, we removed this effect using a Canonical Trend Surface Analysis (CTS). We then recomputed the canonical correlation between the two sets of data using the residuals of each CTS. The results of this procedure, which we called space-free canonical correlation, show no significant relationship between morphometric and climatic data. Instead, other explanations for morphometric variation of Africanized honey bees were considered. The historical records of the migration of these bees, together with spatial analysis of morphological and molecular data suggest that the most parsimonious explanation is related to a demic diffusion process.
10.2307/2997682|We used pollen analysis to evaluate the dynamics of sclerophyllous arboreal taxa during the last 16,000 years. Quercus ilex type pollen and, to a lesser degree, other sclerophyllous elements (e.g. Olea and Phillyrea) have been documented during the Lateglacial in the majority of the sequences obtained in continental territories in the north of the Iberian peninsula, as well as in the eastern coastal/sub-coastal area in the Cantabric region. During the Late-glacial and the Holocene, sclerophyllous elements became widespread in many areas of the north Iberian peninsula (the Sil, Duero and Ebro depressions and the southernmost slopes of adjacent mountains), with the smallest pollinic representation of these taxa being for the most septentrional areas (coastal/sub-coastal territories and the northermost slopes of the Cantabrian-Atlantic Mountains). During these periods, there is no indication of the presence of Quercus ilex pollen in the northwestern territories, which would explain the absence of this species in the present-day landscape. Despite the widespread distribution that sclerophyllous elements have maintained during the last 16,000 years, they have never attained a predominant role in the landscape, having a smaller representation, both during hotter and colder phases, than deciduous forests, pine forests and mixed forests.
10.2307/2997393|Tactics for conserving biodiversity in fragmented communities have been preoccupied with how to preserve intact and unchanged remnants of the original communities. I suggest that this objective is probably unrealistic for the small fragments that will comprise most elements of future systems, and propose that conservation needs to concern itself more with species preservation in the entirely new situations that these small-fragment systems provide. The inherent flexibility of most plants, the possibility that many plant communities are un-saturated, and limited data from a few long-isolated community fragments, provide some cause for cautious optimism in this endeavour. The latter data suggest that large numbers of plant species can coexist in small fragments, albeit in combinations and structures that may seem `unnatural' in the context of continuous communities; I suggest that a refocusing of research on these as new systems, rather than as microcosms of pre-existing continuous systems, is needed.
10.2307/2997427|Continued increases in the global atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration have been predicted from current and projected rates of fossil fuel burning. Understanding the response of stomatal density as an important ecophysiological parameter controlling the productivity of vegetation is essential if the role of plants in the global carbon budget are to be predicted. Experimental exposure of plants to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> regimes in controlled environment chambers can only indicate immediate, phenotypic, short-term responses. The investigation of fossil leaves of extant species growing under the different atmospheric conditions of the last glacial and deglacial transition, when evidence from an Antarctic ice core (Barnola et al., 1987) indicates CO<sub>2</sub> levels markedly different from preindustrial levels, provides one means for eliciting long-term plant responses to changing CO<sub>2</sub> regimes. We have prepared cuticles from Quaternary leaf fossils, from which stomatal density and index can be calculated. Our preliminary results give promise of extending the record of stomatal density response back at least 10,000 years.
10.2307/2997571|The puna desert of the high Andes of South America is the second most extensive high altitude desert in the world, after the high altitude desert of SE Central Asia. Compared with the latter, which apparently holds only three species of true desert birds (sensu Cowan, 1996), from a larger list of fourteen desert species for the Caspio-Central Asian desert as a whole, the puna desert is richer in desert birds, having twenty species. The reasons for the higher bird species richness of the puna desert, compared to the lower species richness of the high altitude deserts of Central Asia, may include both (1) spurious differences in species numbers due to differences in the definitions of `desert species', and (2) `true' biological differences due to the different biogeographical histories of these two regions.
10.2307/2997394|The climate change experiment (CLIMEX) uses a large greenhouse to investigate the responses of an entire undisturbed boreal forested catchment to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> (560 ppm) and temperature (+3<sup></sup>C in summer and +5<sup></sup>C in winter) treatments. In July and September of the first season of treatment the two dominant tree species, Pinus sylvestris and Betula pubescens, and the ground shrub Vaccinium myrtillus all showed an increase in leaf photosynthetic rates relative to the plants growing in the control section of the greenhouse and in an outside reference catchment. Stomatal density of needles of P. sylvestris, and leaves of B. pubescens and V. myrtillus decreased under CO<sub>2</sub> enrichment and temperature increases relative to the controls. Gas exchange and stable carbon isotope measurements will be made in future growing seasons to investigate whether acclimatory adjustments in plant metabolism occur-a critical issue affecting the carbon balance of these ecosystems.
10.2307/2997791|The Countryside Survey 1990 has produced an assessment of the land cover and flora of Great Britain. Three different techniques were adopted for collecting information, namely field survey and the analysis of aerial photography and satellite imagery. The project aimed to integrate the different strengths of the three systems to provide specific details of landscape structure and patterns, and a synoptic overview of Great Britain. Two key elements which allowed the systems to be linked are the ITE Land Classification and Geographical Information Systems (GIS). The Land Classification, structured around the Ordnance Survey (OS) National Grid at l km resolution, subdivides Great Britain into thirty-two biogeographic strata allowing data collected on the ground to be aggregated for different regions. GIS are used in the production of land cover maps and statistics for sampled areas. The satellite Land Cover Map (LCM) can be expressed using the same projection and scale so that the information can be combined. A Countryside Information System (CIS) has been developed to present and overlay sampled and census data. The CIS handles censused data registered to the National Grid and data sampled using the ITE Land Classification as a stratification. The paper discusses the methods and advantages of combining data from different sources.
10.2307/2997816|A new set of questions are considered about the possible importance of mycorrhizal fungi to Quaternary plant migrations. Data on Holocene migrations of European tree taxa are considered suggestive of a possible effect caused by slower migration of large-spored below-ground fruiting arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi compared to more mobile ectomycorrhizal fungi. The importance of fossil fungal spores in testing such ideas is stressed. Mycorrhizal migration may be the rate-determing step in some plant migrations.
10.2307/2997375|In 1978, Mares and Rosenzweig assessed seed removal rates by granivores at a site in the northern Monte desert of Argentina, and concluded that granivory in South America is `much depressed'. In this study, spatial and temporal patterns of seed removal by small mammals, ants, and birds in the central Monte desert were analysed, and results compared with data available from other arid zones of the world. Ants were found to be the most important granivores in spring-summer, while birds were more important in autumn-winter. No differences were found in seed removal rates between microhabitats in winter, but in the summer both ants and birds removed more seeds from under the canopy of shrubs and trees than from exposed microhabitats. The impact of ants appeared to be lower in South America than in other continents, but removal by birds at the study site was only exceeded in North America, and removal by mammals only in North America and South Africa. Results indicate that granivory in South America is not abnormally depressed. Instead, current data suggest that seed removal in North America is exceptionally high, and that low levels are actually the norm for most arid zones.
10.2307/2997532|The physical environment of the Sringeri area in the Chikmagalur District of Karnataka is described and attention is drawn to the high rainfall (4000-6500 mm), its extreme seasonality, and the low minimum temperatures. The soils in the plots and elsewhere in the Western Ghats are shown to be very nutrient rich. Three forest types were selected and for each, a 1 ha plot was set up in a putatively primary area and another in an area which had been lightly logged. The forest types were related to those previously described and mapped in the Western Ghats and the trees in them were described by the point-centred quarter method. The forests were all relatively species poor (for trees  10 cm dbh) for tropical rain forests. The differences between the logged and unlogged forests was relatively small and there is good evidence that the forests regenerate well after logging. The importance for conservation is stressed of even small examples of primary forest, which may be too small to have been included in recent forest maps.
10.2307/2997414|Environmentalists have focused attention for a number of years on the environmental and human impact of large dams. In Thailand the proposal to build the Nam Choan Dam elicited strong opposition from a vocal coalition of environmentalists and other 'concerned citizens'. Of particular worry was the impact that the dam and its associated reservoir might have on the contiguous Huai Kha Khaeng and Thung Yai wildlife sanctuaries. Such was the effectiveness of the opposition arrayed against the government that the dam proposal was postponed indefinitely in March 1988. This paper examines the arguments mobilized by both the proponents and Opponents of the Nam Choan Dam, and asks whether it presages the beginning of an effective environmental movement in Thailand and in South-East Asia more generally.
10.2307/2997570|Climate changes induced by doubling atmospheric greenhouse gas (2XGHG) concentrations are expected to affect the distribution of global vegetation and thereby, the amount of carbon it stores. The role of the terrestrial biosphere as a source or sink for carbon during climate change is critical: if increased GHG concentration and warming enhances carbon storage, thereby reducing atmospheric concentrations, the climate changes would also be ameliorated. If instead, carbon storage is reduced, the warming could induce a positive feedback to further increase atmospheric concentrations already on the rise from burning of fossil fuels. Differing climate-defined static vegetation classifications have been used to project biome distributions for climates induced by 2XGHGs. These projections assume that species extirpation and invasion will track perfectly distributions of climate variables and they predict enhanced terrestrial carbon storage. However, theoretical calculations and palaeoecological evidence suggest an alternative, more realistic simplifying assumption: trees will be extirpated but will not invade new territory before 2XGHG climate is attained. We projected global terrestrial carbon under future climates using both assumptions. Simulated terrestrial carbon under delayed immigration decreased 7 to 34 Pg from modern values in contrast to increases projected under instant migration in this and earlier model exercises.
10.2307/2997435|The species-area curve has been used to link the biological with the geographical. Larger areas of land would seem to contain more species as a result of both the effect of sampling (i.e. more samples are taken to represent larger areas) and ecological processes (i.e. island biogeography theory and hypotheses relating to habitat diversity, successional development, species-energy, target-area, incidence function, small island habitat and disturbance). Unfortunately, the species-area curve is usually interpreted as though it was due entirely to ecological processes when it could be due largely to sampling. Modelled and real data (for forests in Ghana) demonstrated that while the effect of both ecological processes alone and sampling alone increased species number with area, only ecological processes could be expected to increase the number of species per unit area. These results suggest that before a species-area curve could be used as an indicator of ecological processes the effect of sampling on the species-area curve must first be removed.
10.2307/2997458|Morphological variation was studied among 209 pouched mice (Saccostomus campestris, Peters, 1846) from 104 localities in the southern African subregion. Climatic variables for these localities were generated using a climatic surface model developed with data from existing meteorological stations. These estimates of temperature, rainfall and seasonal variability were strongly correlated with latitude, so that the different climatic factors covaried. External measurements (body, tail and ear length) and body mass were strongly correlated with condylo-basal skull length which was taken as a more reliable measure of body size. Geographical variation in body size was significantly correlated with latitude, temperature and seasonality although these correlations appeared to be largely the result of a positive relationship between size and rainfall. In contrast, temperature apparently had little effect on morphology as there were no clear correlations between temperature and the size of appendages (tail or ear length). Rainfall might be more important than ambient temperature as a factor influencing body size in small fossorial and semi-fossorial mammals which spend most of their lives in warm subterranean microhabitats. Meanwhile, the smaller body size of pouched mice from localities with lower rainfall may represent an adaptation to reduce total energy requirements in arid and semi-arid areas where primary production and food availability is low.
10.2307/2997590|Exotic species introductions are one of the major threats to biodiversity worldwide. Exotic species can be conspicuous, and their spread is often correlated with human activity. The rapidity of the Dreissena invasion in North America and its economic impacts provide a unique opportunity to study the invasion process. Trailered boating traffic may be the most important vector for the transport of zebra mussels among unconnected bodies of water. Therefore, knowing the activity patterns of boaters should allow us to predict the explicit regional-scale pattern of geographic spread. We used the results of a large boating survey conducted by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources to estimate the volume of boating traffic between waters known to contain zebra mussels (Great Lakes) and inland Wisconsin waterbodies. We found, (1) the most probable source of zebra mussels entering Wisconsin is Lake Michigan, (2) the most probable destinations are in eastern Wisconsin, and (3) geographic proximity to a source population and overall boater use are poor predictors of probability of invasion. Attention to human activity patterns may help predict the spread of other invading taxa.
10.2307/2997510|Functional characters are rarely taken into account in most vegetation classification systems. Ignoring these characters represents a major shortcoming when the dynamic aspects of ecosystems need to be recorded. In this paper we define vegetational and environmental units mainly from functional characters of the vegetation (namely the seasonal dynamics of the ANPP or of the green biomass), and we propose for these units the name of Biozones. The above-mentioned functional characters are derived from satellite images. To illustrate our biozones, we discuss the biozones of central Patagonia, using spectral data of the AVHRR/NOAA satellite.
10.2307/2997713|This paper reports on a multivariate analysis of a large data set on the occurrence of 900 vascular plant species in over 1500 localities in the Southwest Finnish archipelago, which was collected by the Finnish botanist Ole Eklund. Four major types of islands are distinguished as to island size and degree of human impact. Subdivisions are based mainly on contrasts between the presence or absence of limestone in the bedrock, and of wetlands. The major floristic gradients could be related to the following factors: (1) decreasing island size and degree of human impact and increasing maritime influence; (2) increasing occurrence of limestone; (3) a trend from open habitats with high insolation to forested habitats; and (4) increasing amount of wetlands and rock pools. For the floristic characterization of island types a system of socio-ecological species groups was developed based on Ellenberg's indicator figures for the flora of Central Europe. The old controversy, as to the explanation of the distribution of plant species in the archipelago, between Palmgren (`dispersal is the limiting factor') and Eklund (`environmental differentiation is decisive') is discussed and related to the scale of observation. Our results suggest that environmental differentiation is of prime importance, but on the local scale the species composition of islands may be partly governed by dispersal processes.
10.2307/2997739|In the context of riparian wetlands restoration, the cryptogam floras of different alluvial areas of the Rhine were analysed in relation to their location within the hydrographic network. Three study sites were chosen for their particular hydrographic characteristics. The first has been totally disconnected from the Rhine since 1970 and is fed only by groundwater, the second is partly connected, and the third is flooded almost every year. Bryophytic vegetation is already very differentiated between the sites. Connection to the Rhine appears to provide eutrophic conditions that influence waters and soils and generates geomorphological processes such as silt settling and thus influences moss communities. Disconnection is characterized by oligotrophization processes that influence the composition of the flora and which lead to drying-up of the forest climate which is detrimental to the epiphytic cryptogams. The data obtained specify the ecological typology that will be considered in the management plan of the Rhine nature reserves. They provide indicators of the impacts of planned flooding projects which may enable optimization between the influence of the river and conservation of the phreatic streams which currently provide important refuges for many taxa which occurred previously in the high quality waters of the Rhine at the turn of the century.
10.2307/2997782|Desert precipitation is often highly variable both between and within years, frequently being described as `unpredictable'. Biogeographers and ecologists interested in the effects of desert climate on life history strategies, community structure and species diversity and composition have used a wide range of methods to describe and quantify this variability. However, descriptions and analyses of the temporal variability of climate should logically be based on a common analytical framework: the statistical components of a time series. The widely used and often unqualified term `unpredictable' encompasses both the irregular and seasonal components of such a series. Within this framework I describe a suite of illustrative and quantitative tools for the description of climate using data from the varied deserts of Oman.
10.2307/2997337|An asynchronously coupled atmospherebiome model was used to assess the biogeophysical interaction during the mid-Holocene, 6000 years before present. The model determines its own land surface conditions and can, therefore, predict quasi-equilibrium changes in global vegetation patterns. For the mid-Holocene, the coupled model simulated a northward shift of savanna up to 20<sup></sup>N into the Sahara which in turn amplified the response of the atmospheric circulation to changes in the Earth's orbit during the Holocene. Moreover, in the simulation, most of the western part of the Sahara appeared to be vegetated by xerophytic woods/shrub and warm grass, while the eastern part remained a desert. The simulated vegetation distribution agreed better with palaeobotanical reconstructions than results from the same model, but omitting vegetation-atmosphere interaction.
10.2307/2997372|The worldwide extinction of large terrestrial mammals in the late Pleistocene has been attributed to climate change, overkill by human populations colonizing new continents, or some combination of these two processes. Lack of precision in chronologies for human colonization and megafaunal extinction suggests that the role of overkill will be difficult or impossible to resolve from the archaeological and fossil record. In this study, we used a simple two species predator-prey model to examine the population density and hunting efficiency of a colonizing Aboriginal population necessary for overkill to have led to extinction (equilibrium density = 0), of a range of different sized megafauna (250-1000 kg bodyweight) inhabiting an hypothetical tract of north Australian Eucalyptus savanna. We referred our modelling to this region because estimates of contemporary Aboriginal population density arguably set an upper limit for those occurring during the Pleistocene, and data are available on harvesting rates of large introduced mammals such as buffalo. Modelling results indicated a compensatory trade-off between the effect of Aboriginal population density and hunting efficiency (measured as the rate of effective search for prey) on equilibrium megafauna densities. The modelling also demonstrated that although intrinsic rate of population increase and density at carrying-capacity for mammals increase with declining body size, smaller megafauna would have been more readily exterminated than larger megafauna because they would have been harvested at a higher rate to satisfy the demand for meat. However, while at contemporary Aboriginal densities it appears plausible that over-harvesting could have affected the fate of smaller megafauna (<250 kg), hunting efficiencies required to drive medium (500 kg) and larger (1000 kg) sized megafauna to extinction appear unrealistically high. This conclusion would be reinforced if Aborigines were able to switch prey at low megafauna density, a contingency not considered in our model. Collectively, these results suggest that for overkill to have driven medium to large marsupial megafauna extinct in the northern Eucalyptus savannas, Aboriginal densities must have been considerably higher than contemporary levels, or Aboriginal hunters astonishingly efficient. Alternatively, climate change in the late Pleistocene may have played an important role in the extinction of Australian megafauna.
10.2307/2997447|Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) is the dominant boreal tree in Fennoscandia, but important aspects of its Holocene history are unknown. Subfossil wood fragments underneath living subalpine clonal groups and in a tree-less mire in the Scandes Mountains of Sweden now firmly demonstrate that spruce grew here as early as c. 8000 BP. That is more than 5000 years before inferences of local presence have been made from pollen data. Recurrent speculation of migrational lags can now be refuted in favour of a climate-plant equilibrium prevailing throughout much of the Holocene. After adjustment for glacio-isostatic land-uplift, the tree-limit has retreated about 120 m in altitude since 8000 BP in response ultimately to climate cooling. In contrast, the range-limit remained almost stable. The relatively late east-west progression of Picea as a regional dominant in northern Fennoscandia during the Holocene is inferred to relate to various ecological effects of decreased climatic seasonality, foremost increased snow cover. The results provide new perspectives on Fennoscandian palaeoecology and the method of vegetation reconstruction from pollen analysis in general.
10.2307/2997493|Assuming that stress (in particular climatic) is the norm in nature, postulated future global climatic changes focus attention on stress resistance. Studies of outlier populations and those at forest edges indicate that extinctions and replacements of rare rain forest species of the insect Drosophila are likely following quite small increases in temperature/desiccation stress. Under both generalized climatic change and localized habitat disturbance, this means that biodiversity would be reduced by a combination of extinctions of stress sensitive specialist species and their replacement by more resistant generalist species. It is suggested that Drosophila species have a role as biological indicators of habitat change which is emphasized by their close associations with the floristic characteristics of rain forests.
10.2307/2997548|Global patterns of potential natural vegetation were simulated for present and last glacial maximum (LGM) climates. The LGM simulation showed good agreement with available evidence, most importantly in the humid tropics. Simple calculations based on these simulations indicate that terrestrial carbon storage increased by 300-700 Pg C after the LGM. The range is due to uncertainties in the mean carbon storage values for different biomes, and in the amount of carbon in boreal peats. These results are consistent with the global change in ocean <sup>13</sup>C, inferred from measurements on benthic foraminifera, reflecting the increased storage of isotopically light carbon on land.
10.2307/2997681|This survey of the literature on the ecological effects of roads and traffic revealed many articles published over many years in peer reviewed journals. There has also been a growing number of reports on the ecological effects of roads produced by government authorities. Whereas few reports have been published on assessing the ecological impacts, there has been a rapidly growing number of reports on methods for mitigation. Gaps in research include the effects of heavy metal accumulation and the processes and effects resulting from habitat fragmentation. There is a need to assess the effectiveness of underpasses and tunnels and the nature and functioning of buffer zones. A literature database has been assembled and is being updated.
10.2307/2997743|Riparian trees in the catchment of the Great Ouse, in eastern England, were studied through aerial photography of floodplain segments and field survey of river banks. Field boundary and riparian trees made up between 53 and 78% of all floodplain trees, and riparian trees by themselves made up between 25 and 53%. Tree density in the floodplains was least where arable agriculture was the predominant land use. Despite their relative importance to overall tree cover, actual riparian tree frequency was low, ranging from zero to 120 mature trees per km of river bank. The commonest trees species were Salix fragilis (with S. alba in urban and semi-urban stretches), followed by Fraxinus excelsior. The commonest shrubs were Crataegus monogyna and Sambucus nigra. In the urban stretches, additional planted trees of importance were Populus canescens and Salix babylonica. Few tree species appeared to be regenerating adequately. Scrub development (e.g. of Prunus spinosa and Rosa canina) is indicative of natural succession in response to reduced riverbank maintenance over the past 15 years. There is no evidence that re-creation of floodplain forests of `semi-natural' character could come from foci of riparian trees. A policy of developing continuous woody plant cover in headwater streams, more spaced mature trees in middle reaches, and mosaics of wet woodland in lower reach washlands, is advocated.
10.2307/2997437|A 3 year research project in Thailand on lichens as indicators of environmental change in tropical forests was undertaken in protected areas where monitoring for long-term changes is now set up. Sites were selected in Huay Kha Khaeng, Doi Suthep and Doi Inthanon in deciduous dry dipterocarp and evergreen forests where phanerogamic diversity and fire history is known. Through collection and analysis of lichen and environmental data, the association of lichens with tree species and forest type, and the use of lichens as indicators of recent changes in forest history, is demonstrated. Factors affecting the lowering of lichen biodiversity are discussed, in particular the effects of fire on the constituent phanerogamic and cryptogamic communities.
10.2307/2997557|Patterns of past fire incursions and tree falls were documented in a tropical riparian forest. Fire-scarred trees were concentrated on gentler slopes near the savanna:forest boundary, while tree fall sites were of highest frequency on convex upper valley slopes. Most tree falls were in a down-slope direction while the remainder were concentrated in directions that suggested an origin in extreme winds of atypical orientation. Tree species response to these two forms of disturbance was evaluated by assuming that the zones identified were inherently more disturbance-prone, and comparing the tree populations within and beyond the areas identified. Fire incursions had a larger measurable effect in augmenting species richness: 19% of species evaluated were significantly more abundant in burned zones, while only 8% of those evaluated were more abundant in tree fall zones. This difference is tentatively attributed to fire having a larger proximal effect on tree species recruitment as well as a spatially more persistent pattern of occurrence. Observations made at sites of recent fire incursion indicated that this caused little tree death or canopy opening but eliminated seedlings, saplings, litter and root mats: it thus created new seedbed conditions without the high light levels that would promote herbaceous establishment. Both disturbances play an augmentative, rather than exclusive, role in promoting species coexistence in these forests: they provide a varied micro-environment for seedling establishment but their patchy distribution ensures that disturbance-sensitive species can persist elsewhere in the forest patch.
10.2307/2997766|Ideally, social forestry programmes and philosophies are intended to involve local people in the management and distribution of forest resources. In practice, the structures of social forestry programmes are influenced by political, economic and cultural factors at national and local levels. When social forestry programmes entail the reallocation of access to forest resources on state lands, power relations are particularly influential. As the case of the Java Social Forestry Program illustrates, powerful social forces that have shaped historically the national forest management agency and the social structures of forest-based villages have distorted social forestry ideals. When their traditional management tools are unable to curb deforestation and the social processes causing deforestation, forestry agencies may be persuaded to implement social forestry policies. Changes in forestry programmes and the orientation of social forestry are inevitably subject to local negotiation and renegotiation. The outcomes of negotiation, however, are dependent on the structures of power relations both before and after implementation of new policies.
10.2307/2997648|The predominant geophysical theory for the origin of Central America proposes that, in the Cretaceous-Paleocene, the Caribbean Plate migrated from the Eastern Pacific to the Western Atlantic. As it did so, it supposedly pushed the original Central American archipelago eastward to form the Antillean chain. This would have left an oceanic gap between the Americas that lasted some 60 million years. Palaeontological and neontological research now indicate that a variety of terrestrial and freshwater animals must have been able to disperse between North and South America during the time of the oceanic gap. The disharmonic composition and apparent later origin of the antillean faunas suggest that the Greater Antilles-Aves Ridge was not available as a dispersal corridor in the Cretaceous-Paleocene. Work on the Cretaceous marine bivalve fauna indicated the gradual development of a terrestrial Central American barrier during that Period. By the latest Cretaceous, the faunas of the eastern and western sides appear to have become well separated. This suggests an in situ formation of Central America, probably as the result of interaction between the Caribbean, Cocos, and Nazca plates. This theory is consistent with the evidence of terrestrial dispersals, marine bivalve separation, and the relatively old age of the Central American biota.
10.2307/2997769|This paper assesses Philippine forest resource policies in the Marcos and Aquino governments in the context of its role in national development efforts. The assessment takes into account the history and socio-politico-economic dynamics underlying rapid forest resource exploitation and utilization in recent years. These dynamics serve as an important context against which Philippine forest resource depletion and degradation can be viewed. Forest resource policies in both governments are then evaluated from the standpoint of environmental economics and political ecology/economy perspectives. This policy review is then translated into specific policy recommendations.
10.2307/2997426|Increasing greenhouse-gas concentrations in the atmosphere are expected to produce maximum warming in high latitudes, displacing the potential boreal forest zone of the northern hemisphere far to the north. We analyse the implications of this shift for forest composition and biomass dynamics across the present-day boreonemoral zone in Scandinavia, using a forest succession model that includes a generalized disturbance regime and realistic climatic effects on species' regeneration and growth. Temperature increases in the range of 2-4 K in summer and 5-6 K in winter, typical of simulated CO<sub>2</sub> doubling effects, force the boreonemoral zone >1000 km northward from central Sweden where dominance passes from Picea (spruce) to Fagus (beech), Quercus (oak) and Pinus (pine) over 150-200 years. Simulated increases of 175-250 mm in annual precipitation are required to counteract drought, which would otherwise reduce forest biomass and increase the representation of the more drought-tolerant species. The simulated forest dynamics are the net result of individualistic responses of species to different aspects of climate, modulated by successional processes that are on the same time scale as human impacts on climate.
10.2307/2997429|Within a karst study area with a Holocene record of contracting vegetation cover, an experiment was established to observe over 10 years changes in the position of interfaces between patches of sward vegetation and bare limestone pavements. Findings suggested a continuance of vegetation contraction, but showed up marked annual variation in the rate of contraction. Attempts to correlate annual variation in the position of interfaces with weather parameters, and with indices of vegetation growth (tree ring thickness and farmland grass growth) largely failed. Implications for the management of the study area as part of a National Park are examined.
10.2307/2997787|Natural disturbance has considerable ecological significance, and within woodlands tree-falls significantly change environmental conditions. The spatial characteristics of canopy gaps influence regeneration dynamics, and species diversity and distribution. In this study imagery from a Compact Airborne Spectrographic Imager (CASI) was analysed to produce a vegetation cover map for a range of types of deciduous woodlands. This map was used to delineate canopy gaps in these areas. A raster-based GIS was used to derive a range of measures to describe the spatial characteristics of canopy gaps, in order to infer the relative ecological status of different types of deciduous woodland. For the study sites, spatial characteristics have been used to derive information on: (1) gap creation mechanisms: large gaps are created by progressive enlargement rather than instantaneously by a catastrophic event; (2) regeneration dynamics: semi-natural woodlands have large gaps susceptible to pioneer invasion and small gaps for climax regeneration, plantations have only small gaps; (3) species diversity and distribution: semi-natural woodlands have high potential genetic variability, high probability of persistence of gap species, and a high potential to support 'edge' species, the opposite is the case for plantations. The combination of airborne remotely sensed data and GIS technology holds great potential for ecological studies of woodlands. This approach provides a spatial framework on which to base future pattern-process studies, and the GIS-based output is valuable for environmental management purposes. The analysis of multi-date imagery in this way should provide a basis for monitoring woodland dynamics.
10.2307/2997649|The paper deals with urban ecology as a biological science and applies some of the topics of general importance in ecology to the special conditions found in towns and cities. I consider whether cities should be treated as one integrated ecosystem, or as an assemblage of various ecosystems. In contrast to the holistic, organismic concept of the ecosystem as a new hierarchical level of organization and as an evolving whole which guides the development of the species, I follow the methodological definition of Tansley (1935), who defined ecosystems as `mental isolates' for `the purpose of study'. According to Evans (1956) ecosystems can be defined at every level of the biological organization, at the level of the organisms, populations or communities. The introduction of species from other biogeographical regions is a worldwide phenomenon, but the proportion of successfully established introduced species is higher in cities than in rural or forest areas. This is due to numerous colonizing species which fit the anthropogenous habitats. Due to unequal rates of immigration and extinction of species, urban habitats show an imbalanced turnover of species. Another special feature of urban ecology is man-induced disturbance, which initiates the colonization of disturbed or newly created habitats. According to the type of substrate and the availability of diaspores there may be both primary, secondary or intermediate types of succession. Besides disturbance, the main component for structuring communities is biological interactions. In this paper I discuss some aspects of competition, predation and mutualism. The special feature of higher species' richness of cities compared with ecosystems in the countryside can be explained by the high habitat diversity of urban and industrial areas. Although some components which contribute to the complexity of communities, such as competition, are of minor importance in various urban habitats, there may be communities of high complexity. I also consider community characteristics such as stability and productivity. Since most urban communities are in a state of inequilibrium, theories of stability based on equilibrium are inadequate for urban ecosystems. The productivity of the `ecosystem city' mainly depends on the area of unsealed open space and the successional stage of the plant communities of the various habitats.
10.2307/2997568|The phenologies of trees with temperate and tropical historical phytogeographical affinities were recorded during 60 months (1990-1994) in a lower montane forest (1300 m a.s.l.) in Veracruz, Mexico. The objective was to determine phenological patterns and their relation to climate for both deciduous and broadleaved-evergreen species. Leaf fall, leaf flush, flowering, and fruiting were recorded for 107 individuals belonging to twelve deciduous and twelve broadleaved-evergreen species. Phenological stages were scaled from 0 to 4 (referring to the proportion of each tree in a phenophase), and averaged monthly as a phenological index. Phenological periodicity was analysed as a nonmetric time-series using measures of predictability, constancy, and contingency. The climate is mild with a dry-cool season (November-March), a dry-warm season (April-May), and a wet-warm season (June-October). Foliar phenological patterns differed between deciduous and evergreen species. Deciduous species dropped leaves during the dry-cool season and leaf drop was negatively correlated with minimum temperature; leaf flushing occurred during the dry-cool and dry-warm seasons and was positively correlated with maximum temperature. In general, broadleaved-evergreen species continually dropped and flushed leaves throughout the year. Flowering and fruiting patterns did not differ between leaf habits. Mean flowering peaks occurred between February and May, but each individual species had a different annual peak. Fruiting occurred in the dry-warm and wet-warm seasons. Three species were distinct in their fruiting phenologies, Styrax and Meliosma exhibited supra-annual patterns, and Hedyosmum fruited most of the year. For several species, fruiting and minimum temperature were positively correlated. Factors other than abiotic ones (e.g. biotic interactions and phylogenetic relationships) may be involved in the phenological patterns observed and they should be investigated.
10.2307/2997531|The distribution of informal settlements in the south-eastern Cape coastal region and the types of impacts on the vegetation were assessed Natural vegetation adjacent to some of these settlements was sampled by means of the Braun-Blanquet and point-centred quarter methods. Informal settlements in the south-eastern Cape coastal region exist at Port Alfred, Kenton-on-Sea, Jeffreys Bay, Plettenberg Bay and Knysna. Population numbers of these settlements vary from 180 to 4796 people. Five vegetation types are being impacted. The collection of firewood was found to be the most important impact. Other impacts include footpaths, the collecting of medicinal bark or muti, solid waste pollution and soil erosion. It was also found that the extent of impact is a function of distance away from settlements.
10.2307/2997716|Fish scales from the sediment of Allamuchy Pond, New Jersey, USA, indicate that fishes were present in the pond within 400 years of the time of the first deposition of organic material, at  12, 600 years BP. The earliest of the scales, from a white sucker, Catostomus commersoni, appears in sediment dated 12,260220 years BP. Presence of scales in sediment deposited before 10,000 years BP indicates that Atlantic salmon, Salmo salar, sunfish, Lepomis sp., and yellow perch, Perca flavescens, were also early inhabitants of the pond. The timing of the arrival of each of these fishes suggests that they migrated out from Atlantic coastal refugia. A minnow scale, referred to Phoxininae, was also retrieved; it could not be matched to any cyprinid currently found in northeastern North America. The species present historically in this pond are from five families found currently in ponds throughout the North-east and suggest that the lentic palaeo-environment was similar to present midelevation or high-latitude lentic systems.
10.2307/2997558|The dipterocarp savanna forests of Manipur State, India, comprise the western limit of a formation spread over the whole of mainland South-East Asia. This paper reviews the past literature on these forests, and discusses key points of interest.
10.2307/2997567|The distinctness of the conditions in the water bodies of the tropical wet-and-dry climatic zone is demonstrated by a survey of the adaptations employed by the plant and animal species to survive the seasons unfavourable to their activity. The species filling common niches in the water bodies of this zone on different continents are compared. Unmistakable phylogenetic relationships among the species filling common niches in various parts of the world can be recognized. Through comparisons of the activity and distribution of 104 species, the adaptations of the biota to the seasonal changes were found to be generally similar to those of the biota in the temperate zones in that both must produce dormant stages during the same months each year. The inherent instability of the aquatic ecosystem encourages the development of very fast growing organisms with high rates of recruitment and very unstable but resilient populations. As a consequence of their characteristic population dynamics, the impact of intercontinental introductions of aquatic species inhabiting this zone are found to be more likely to cause severe biotic disturbances than similar introductions of species adapted to other climatic zones.
10.2307/2997721|Large-scale whole ecosystem experiments will become increasingly important for predicting and testing hypotheses of complex ecosystem responses to global change. The Climate Change Experiment (CLIMEX) uses a site with an entire undisturbed boreal-forested catchment enclosed within an existing very large scale (1200m<sup>2</sup> ground area) greenhouse. In the forthcoming year temperature will be increased stepwise to +3<sup></sup>C in summer, +5<sup></sup>C in winter and the atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentration enriched to 560 ppm which together simulate future changes in global climate and atmospheric composition predicted by GCMs. Plants growing within this low nutrient ecosystem are strongly dependent upon mycorrhizal associations for nutrient uptake and rates of nutrient uptake. Therefore it will provide an important test of current ideas concerning how mycorrhizas might modify plant responses to global change. We describe predictions of community phenology and gas exchange at the CLIMEX site; in the latter case the effects of including and excluding rates of on nutrient supply are considered. The results are discussed with reference to the opportunities presented by CLIMEX to reveal important aspects of the physiological responses of boreal ecosystems to global change.
10.2307/2997697|Malaysian mangroves harbour a high diversity of benthic invertebrates, including polychaetes, gastropods, brachyurans, and sipunculids. In three sites at different points in the forest harvest cycle at Matang, the density and biomass of epifaunal taxa was found to be greatest in mature Rhizophora apiculata Lamk. forest, intermediate in a 15-year old stand, and lowest in recently cleared forest. The pattern in infaunal taxa was found to be different, with the greatest density and biomass in the recently cleared site. A number of diversity indices highlight the low diversity of epifaunal taxa in the recently cleared site, perhaps a consequence of the drier substrate surface in the absence of a tree canopy.
10.2307/2997741|There is limited information about the role of floodplain forests in maintaining aquatic biodiversity. Preliminary data from two European floodplain forests are presented: the Gearagh in southern Ireland and the Litovelske Pomoravi in the Czech Republic. The Litovelske Pomoravi contains a community constrained by moderate water quality but including some sensitive taxa probably maintained by the refuge value of habitat heterogeneity. Most importantly however, due to its past and present active channels, the Litovelske Pomoravi contains a variety of temporary ponds with a regionally unique fauna. The Gearagh, with good water quality and habitat heterogeneity, contains a high taxon richness in stable channels. In each case, preservation of the forest is essential for survival of the overall biodiversity and each, in a different way, provides a pointer for the aquatic benefits which could accrue from forest restoration elsewhere in Europe.
10.2307/2997353|Dynamic global vegetation - biogeochemistry models are required to predict the likely responses of the terrestrial biosphere to anticipated future global environmental change and for improved representation of an active vegetation surface within general circulation models of the Earth's global climate system. Testing the predictions of such models is essential to their development prior to use in a predictive capacity. The climate change experiment (CLIMEX) has exposed an entire catchment of boreal vegetation to elevated CO<sub>2</sub> (560 ppmv) and temperature (+ 3<sup></sup>C in summer, + 5<sup></sup>C in winter) for the past three years and has a considerable archive of pre-and post-treatment measurements of both CO<sub>2</sub> and water vapour fluxes of the vegetation, catchment runoff and soil nutrient status. These data have been used to test the predictions of the University of Sheffield dynamic global vegetation model (SDGVM) for the same site using historical records of climate as input. Comparisons of observations and predictions at the scale of individual leaves and whole ecosystems are generally favourable, increasing our confidence in the application of the model to forecasting the responses of the terrestrial biosphere to various global change scenarios. The SDGVM has been used to predict the future responses of the ecosystem at the site into the year 2003AD. The results indicate rather small changes in leaf area index and catchment runoff but quite large increases in net primary productivity. The model predictions are now open to testing further as the CO<sub>2</sub> and temperature treatments continue in the CLIMEX greenhouse.
10.2307/2997600|The spatial and temporal occurrence of large grassland fires (>2008 ha) in the Intermountain West was examined for the period 1980 through 1995. Results suggest that these fires are largely predictable through space and time. Of the 360 large fires, 339 occurred within eight regions as defined by clustering of fires within physiographic boundaries. These regions were characterized by their abundance of exotic annual grasses and flatter terrain that provided continuous fine-fuel conditions that promoted fire spread. Temporally, the likelihood of a large fire is correlated with summer moisture conditions (Z-index values) in the year preceding that of the fire that are either near-normal or wetter. Conversely, <20% of all the large fires occurred when the previous summer's Z values were below normal. This may be explained by enhanced fine-fuel build-up enabled by mesic conditions, causing increased biomass in the following summer and thus increasing the incidence of large fires. Moisture conditions in the summer in which the large fires occurred appeared to have less influence on the likelihood of those fires.
10.2307/2997598|Given the rapidity of global environmental change and the growing ambiguity of the term `biodiversity', I argue that there is an urgent need to move away from a narrow focus on biological diversity when considering anthropogenic impacts on the biosphere. Rather, an intellectually rigorous global ecology needs to be developed because planetary health requires management of entire ecosystems and the maintenance of biogeochemical cycles. This global perspective must be easily understood by all for it to achieve the same political status as `biodiversity'.
10.2307/2997814|Sheltered and exposed rocky shores were sampled on the Otago Peninsula (east coast of South Island, New Zealand) and Keppel Bay (northeast coast of Australia). There were no significant differences between these temperate and tropical shores in the following general features: species richness, Shannon diversity index, percentage cover of sessile animals, algae or bare space. Nor did the Shannon diversity index and percentage cover of algae differ between wave exposures, but species richness was greater on sheltered shores while the percentage cover of sessile animals and percentage of bare space were significantly greater on exposed shores. The density of oysters was significantly greater on tropical shores but did not differ between wave exposures. The density of barnacles was greater on exposed shores but not significantly different between tropical and temperate locations. The greatest density of macroinvertebrates, and of mussels, occurred on exposed temperate shores while the density of predatory gastropods was greatest on sheltered tropical shores. The density of grazing gastropods (not including littorinids) was not significantly different among categories of shores. When the relative abundances of ten guilds were analysed by nonparametric multivariate analysis, groups of shores representing each of the four categories of location and exposure differed significantly from each other. These results contradict some conclusions in the literature regarding the nature of tropical and temperate rocky intertidal assemblages. They also indicate that tropical communities are not necessarily more diverse than temperate ones.
10.2307/2997327|Residual vegetation cover was mapped over an extensive area of the west-central Sahel using Landsat MSS imagery from the 1986/87 and 1989/90 dry seasons. Results showed that major impacts decreasing the availability of range were the increase in area of windblown sand and the development of erosional features. Increases in millet and sorghum cultivation also severely decreased range availability. These factors combined appeared to be reducing the residual range cover at a range of 5-9% per year.
10.2307/2997466|Problems of defining a desert bird species are discussed. An ecogeographic, rather than evolutionary, definition is considered more useful. A listing of desert bird species should aid the hunt for avian adaptations to deserts. The Caspio-Central Asian desert is delimited and briefly described. An annotated list of the fourteen desert bird species that occur there is presented, based on the existing ornithological literature. Three of these species do not occur in the Saharo-Sindian desert. Remarkably few of the world's avian species may be desert birds.
10.2307/2997737|The diversity of the vegetation communities appearing in six floodplain sites of national importance along the Sarine River is presented. The site of Rossens, which is the most diverse, has been chosen to apply the methodology of the integrated synusial phytosociology which considers several spatio-temporal organization levels. The synusiae of seven phytocoenoses are described. Using floristic and ecological comparisons, their integration in higher organizational levels (tesela, catena) is discussed.
10.2307/2997549|A survey conducted among freshwater anglers indicated that during the 1980s Perca fluviatilis L. rapidly invaded the middle and lower reaches of the Murray River, Western Australia. This exotic species was previously confined to the upper reaches of the river system for almost 70 years. The invasion appears to have been accomplished mainly through downstream diffusion, but some translocation may also have taken place. Failure to colonize the middle and lower river prior to the 1980s may have been due to competitive exclusion by trout. In addition, downstream dispersal by perch was probably favoured by increasing upstream salinities and assisted by a major summer flood. The high fecundity, flexible behaviour, and physiological adaptations of P. fluviatilis to the receiving environment fit it well into the model of Arthington & Mitchell (1986) of successful fish invaders. The invasion of the Murray River by redfin perch is an example of how a change in environmental circumstances can lead to a sudden and rapid expansion in the range of a species of previously limited distribution.
10.2307/2997744|A programme for the re-introduction of the European beaver in to the Litovelske Pomoravi, Danube (Morava) river basin is described. Beavers were released in to prepared artificial lodges in 1991 and 1992. The programme appears to have been successful to date, population growth has started and new sites have been colonized.
10.2307/2997788|A major goal for environmental scientists is to gain an improved understanding of the state and dynamics of the Earth's forested regions and their interactions with biogeochemical cycles at regional to global scales. Consequently, there is a need for the acquisition of accurate, quantitative estimates of biophysical and biochemical properties of forest ecosystems. Over regional to global scales remote sensing provides the only practical means of collecting such data. These data can be used to drive environmental ecosystem simulation models which attempt to predict ecosystem properties of interest (e.g. carbon storage, photosynthesis) that are not measurable directly by remote sensing techniques. Estimates of forest biophysical and biochemical properties within the Tywi forest plantation, central Wales, are derived from polarimetric synthetic aperture radar data and fine spectral resolution optical/infrared remotely sensed data. These are used to drive the Forest BGC (BioGeochemical Cycles) environmental simulation model. The preliminary results from a three-stage analysis are presented. These include (i) the comparison of stem carbon production estimates from model simulations with data acquired in the field, and (ii) the relationships between stem biomass and leaf area index, and remotely sensed data.
10.2307/2997468|In this study we demonstrate that there is a significant variation in mean leaf area of Rhizophora mangle L. along a latitudinal gradient (15<sup></sup> N to 24<sup></sup> N) in Mexico, and that this variation is significantly correlated with latitude and total annual precipitation per site. Mean leaf area of R. mangle and total annual precipitation increase significantly from north to south along the latitudinal gradient (<sup>2</sup> = 56.57, n = 27, P<0.001; <sup>2</sup> = 15989.96, n = 27, P<0.001, respectively). There is a significant negative association between latitude and mean leaf area, and between latitude and total annual precipitation (both, r<sup>2</sup> = -0.5, n-27, P<0.001). Correlation between total annual precipitation and leaf area is not as strong (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.3, n = 27, P<0.01). Our results show that mean leaf area of R. mangle increases significantly as latitude decreases and precipitation increases, but it seems improbable that it would increase continuously if we should continue the latitudinal gradient up to the equator. This is probably due to the combined effect of energy optimization and moisture maximization year-round, the nonlinear temperature gradient between the equator and the poles, and to geographical heterogeneity (e.g. proximity of mountain ranges, or warm or cold ocean currents).
10.2307/2997752|This study was initiated to examine the feasibility of using aerial and satellite remote sensing to detect the presence of the ericaceous shrub Kalmia angustifolia L. on disturbed black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S.P.) sites in central Newfoundland. Two separate classification schemes were designed to include kalmia and other major cover types such as black spruce, alder, non-kalmia cutovers and wetlands. Discrimination revealed that kalmia could be detected and mapped with an accuracy of 96% using the aerial remote sensing data. Over larger areas, kalmia was discriminated-in wetlands, cutovers and burns-with 82% accuracy using the satellite imagery.
10.2307/2997446|The species-area curve relates the number of species (S) present within a sample to the area (A) of the sample, usually by the power function S = CA<sup>z</sup>. Values of S may include zero, since this is within the normal range of variation of S. It seems likely that because logarithmic transformation is frequently used to estimate the species-area relationship, samples with S = 0 have often been excluded from analysis because log(0) is undefined. Such censorship of the data can be expected to bias both C and z. In this paper I show that in calculating the parameters of the species-area relation, some authors have erred by excluding islands for which S = 0. I also draw attention to an alternative model of the species-area relation that is suitable for data containing samples with S = 0.
10.2307/2997734|The Rhine in the French alluvial plain has been deprived of the main parts of its flooded areas. One of the consequences is the high level of nitrate in groundwater due to intensive agriculture except under forested areas. The purpose of this study is to show the role played by the forest ecosystem in influencing groundwater quality in relation to the hydrological regime, vegetation and soil characteristics. Phosphate and nitrogen levels in groundwater are compared in three forested sectors. Two are on a calcareous substrate, one of which is still flooded with summer high waters, whereas the other has not been flooded for 30 years. The third sector is on a decarbonated substrate which is flooded with high water in winter or early spring. In all the sectors phosphate, nitrate and ammonia are very low in the groundwater as compared to the surface water. Nitrate concentrations in groundwater differ widely between the three forested sites, whereas ammonia and phosphate remain relatively constant. Nitrate levels were the lowest in the sector with silty/clayey soils, whereas they were largely influenced in the loamy soil by hydrological conditions, whether flooded or not.
10.2307/2997694|This paper reviews the presence of many types of spatial and temporal heterogeneity in mangrove systems, evaluates the significance of this heterogeneity, and asks if there are appropriate and useful means to generalize across scales and to incorporate this heterogeneity into models of ecosystem function. Genetic variation manifests itself at organizational scales from branches to populations (encompassing hierarchical spatial scales from centimeters to kilometres), with phenotypic differences in physiological and morphological traits that influence the diversity of mangrove associates and ecosystemlevel processes. Protocols for censusing mangrove diversity and for characterizing ecosystem-level functional parameters must account for intra- and inter-specific differences within mangrove stands, the phenomenon of species zonation within swamps, and physiognomic differences among swamps in order to generate data that are amenable to spatial modelling. Identification of meaningful taxonomic units and functional groups as well as appropriate landscapelevel metrics to describe mangroves may simplify this strategy. Moreover, mangroves vary in time as well as space. Just as mangrove communities differ temporally in terms of their disturbance and colonization history, successional status, and geomorphological age, so, too, will ecosystem-level functional parameters vary over tidal cycles, seasons, and stages of stand development. Such temporal variation must be accounted for in comparative studies of swamps. Mangrove community diversity and ecosystem function should be quantified on congruent scales appropriate to detecting correlation, and manipulative experiments must be devised at appropriate scales to test for causality.
10.2307/2997469|Natural fires are assumed to occur in tropical forests and lightning is the most probable cause. However, while fires of man-made origin are widespread and have had an impact on past and present forest dynamics, no natural fires in moist tropical forest appear to have been documented. In October 1993, a large forest tree in the Lope Reserve, Gabon, burnt as a result of fires ignited by lightning. The circumstances of the fire are described and its implications discussed.
10.2307/2997639|A unique set of climatic data from Korea displays significant climatic fluctuations over the last 2000 years. From these, it may be determined that a major cold phase, similar to those experienced in China and Japan, occurred between 1001 and 1400 AD, notably earlier than the `Little Ice Age' in Europe. The vegetational response to these climatic fluctuations is difficult to determine in detail at present, though some decline in thermophilous taxa is noted.
10.2307/2997746|The key factors determining the ecology of large rivers and their adjacent floodplains are extent, duration and dynamics of the hydrological connectivity between the two compartments, both via surface flow and groundwater flow. This hydrological connectivity has been strongly reduced in all large European rivers due to regulation and damming. The present paper discusses the scientific background in planning a restoration strategy for the free-flowing stretch of the Danube in Austria. As a first step in this conservation strategy, which is within the framework of the `Alluvium Zone National Park', a large-scale pilot project has been developed to restore the hydrological and ecological integrity of the river-floodplain system. In order to assess the progress towards the project's ecological objectives, various limnological variables (functional descriptors) are to be monitored.
10.2307/2997806|Several misconceptions in a recent paper (Wilson, 1991) comparing dispersal biogeography, vicariance biogeography, and panbiogeography are presented and discussed.
10.2307/2997715|Leaf lifespans of five dominant shrub species, belonging to the Asteraceae (Compositae), were determined at a high elevation paramo site (4060 m a.s. l) in Ecuador. Although climatic conditions in this cold, aseasonal environment appear to be quite constant year-round, leaf half-lifes of shrubs varied by nearly an order of magnitude (27 to 21 7 months). Foliar nitrogen concentration was negatively correlated with leaf lifespan, while leaf mass per unit area (LMA) increased with increasing lifespan. It appears that persistence in this high-elevation environment is not related to particular leaf traits or habit (e g long-lived, evergreen leaves). In fact, results of a mini review suggest that tropical, high elevation shrubs have leaf traits intermediate to those attributed to evergreen/deciduous leaf habits. Observed leaf traits also challenge recent models that assume that maximization of net carbon gain is the primary determinant of leaf longevity. Rather, the predominance of a particular leaf lifespan is the result of a number of physiological factors related to the leaf carbon balance, such as carbon gain, construction and maintenance costs and duration of the growing season, but also and perhaps more importantly, herbivory, architecture, soil nutrient status, evolutionary history and biogeography.
10.2307/2997339|Peltogyne gracilipes Ducke (Caesalpiniaceae) occurs as a monodominant tree on and around Maraca Island, Roraima, Brazil, on a range of soils. This paper describes the broad boundary between Peltogyne-rich forest (PRF) and a forest (PPF) with few individuals of this species. The work is part of an attempt to explain the causes of the PRF, and to test if the boundary is moving. Three parallel transects (180 x 20 m) were located across the boundary of one of the PRF stands. Peltogyne trees ( 30 cm dbh), saplings and seedlings were more abundant in PRF than in PPF. The soil data showed that the soils are fairly acid, sandy, and nutrient-poor. There were no large edaphic differences at the boundary, although Mg was higher in PRF. There is some evidence that the PRF is extending into the PPF.
10.2307/2997751|A supervised classification methodology was proposed for use with Landsat Multispectral Scanner (MSS) data in the creation of a fire fuel type map of the forest and land cover types in Wood Buffalo National Park in Northern Canada. Four Landsat MSS images (three acquired in July 1991, one acquired in August 1990) were coregistered, mosaiced and radiometrically corrected to generate a single database within the image analysis system. The locations of 440 field sites were identified on the imagery and used to generate discriminant statistics and as core training data for a supervised Bayesian classification technique. Maximum likelihood decision rules were employed to produce a spectral classification map which was approximately 74% correct when checked against the field sites in ten classes within the confidence interval of 66.93-80.77% at the 99.9% level. The raster-based output map was employed in a quadtree-based GIS and combined with meteorological information as input into the Canadian Forest Fire Behaviour Prediction System.
10.2307/2997740|This paper compares the plant species richness and distribution of two flowing water systems located in functional alluvial forests subject to different hydrodynamics. The study areas are located in the Alsace Rhine floodplain and the braided and anastomosed sector of the upper Rhine. The substrates, through which substantial flows of groundwater occur, are calcareous Rhine gravels, 200 m deep in places. The first sector selected consists of two lateral side arms which are connected to the Rhine and receive highly mineralized bicarbonated waters (conductivity of 500-1000 S cm<sup>-1</sup>). The second sector is connected to the river Ill, the main tributary of the Rhine in the Alsace floodplain. This sector receives inputs of more acidic waters and of sediments from the Vosges mountain, and the waters are less highly mineralized (conductivity of 250-600 S cm<sup>-1</sup>). The waters of both sectors are classified as eutrophic to hypertrophic. Comparison of the aquatic macrophytes of the flowing waters near the Rhine and the side arms located in the Ill forest shows that the former has greater species richness (43 versus 25 species), greater biomass, as estimated by percentage cover, and a more complex structure (4-5 versus  3 strata). Plant community structure and diversity are closely related to habitat variability and in turn to the hydrological conditions and fluvial dynamics. In order to maintain the floristic and phytosociological diversity of these ecosystems, it is necessary first to preserve the fluvial dynamics which create and maintain the variation of habitats.
10.2307/2997603|Climatic conditions are not symmetrical about the cartographic equator as has been assumed by some biogeographers, but rather are centered about 3.4 degrees north, the true meteorological equator. This means that `pear-shaped' patterns in biodiversity that have been observed for some taxa (i.e. greater species richness per unit latitude south compared to north of the equator) are even more remarkable in that they operate opposite to the climatic trend in asymmetry. Data compilations and empirical syntheses relating gradients of species richness or productivity to climatic data should be adjusted to compensate for latitudinal differences between the cartographic and meteorological equators.
10.2307/2997374|The distributional range of Quedius pellax Smetana stretches along the Pacific Coast of North America from southern California north to southern British Columbia. This area is characterized by its humid climate and the relatively low summer and high winter temperatures. Within its distributional range Q. pellax is confined to dense forest habitats where extreme temperatures are lower than in open sites. Females of Quedius pellax were found to reproduce during autumn and winter months. Under controlled laboratory conditions development of the pre-imaginal stages (eggs, 1-3 larval stages, pupae) occurred in a narrow temperature range of 5-15<sup></sup>C. Under short day conditions (SD 8/16) preimaginal development lasted 355d at 5<sup></sup>C, 125d at 10<sup></sup>C, and 81d at 15<sup></sup>C. Under long day conditions (LD 16/8 at 15<sup></sup>C) the pre-imaginal development was shortened to 68d. The accelerated development was mainly due to the photoperiodic sensitivity of the third larval stage. Theoretical thermal thresholds for development were found to be at 1.8<sup></sup>C under short day and 4.2<sup></sup>C under long day conditions.
10.2307/2997790|Species distribution limits are related to climate variables. Distribution limits are therefore likely to change as the climate changes. A correlative model is constructed relating the British distribution of Himantoglossum hircinum (L.) Sprengel to monthly soil moisture deficits on a 40 km grid. A mask of soils which appear suitable for H. hircinum is constructed on a 10 km scale from a 1 km scale soils dataset. A dynamic model, DISPERSE, is introduced which combines the constructed correlative models with population dynamics and dispersal. DISPERSE is parametrized so that the number of populations of H. hircinum remains stable if the climate does not change. A climate scenario is introduced to DISPERSE which is a re-run using the parameters set above to determine whether the species will spread as the climate changes.
10.2307/2997371|Ecosystems of the Mediterranean Basin are suggested as model regions for global change research, particularly in relation to the importance of land use changes. The large body of preexisting ecological knowledge should facilitate progress on complex issues relating to interactions among multiple drivers of global change, including climate, atmospheric, land use and socio-economic changes. Four research areas appear as priorities in relation to pressing needs for prediction: (1) fire regimes and effects; (2) feedbacks from the land to the atmosphere; (3) water availability and quality; and (4) changes in ecological diversity. We summarize current knowledge and present future directions for research in these areas. While a number of the topics outlined as priorities are presently addressed by ongoing studies, some of the future challenges will lie in appropriate coordination and synthesis of that research. We suggest that this structuring effort could serve as an example to be applied in other MTEs and across MTEs.
10.2307/2997326|The busy Karoo rat Otomys unisulcatus F. Cuvier is phylogenetically constrained by a stenothermic physiology, but has managed to exploit the semiarid Karoo environment through the development of behavioural adaptations. The most important of these is the construction of a large nest of sticks and twigs, which provides a physiological refuge as well as a refuge from predators. This nest is vulnerable to destruction by fire and we hypothesize that the nest building strategy is only viable in the absence of frequent burning. The available evidence on the incidence of fire in the Karoo supports this hypothesis, and we suggest that the low incidence of fire may be an important factor in the evolution of the Karoo biota.
10.2307/2997720|Following rumours that foxes had been introduced to the Isle of Man, a survey of a stratified random sample of 100 census squares distributed throughout the island revealed that fifty-one had signs of foxes. The squares revealing signs were spread widely throughout the island. However, the process of colonization was not complete in that unoccupied squares appeared equally suitable for foxes. The censused squares were classified according to a landclass system developed by the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology. Five landclasses are well represented on the island, and foxes were not distributed randomly amongst them. During summer the foxes' principal prey were rabbits (with wood mice and brown rats being of secondary importance). The numbers of rabbits also varied significantly between landclasses. It seems likely that at least 100 adult foxes, and probably between 200 and 400 inhabited the island in 1990. This introduction poses a potential threat to the conservation of populations of rare ground nesting birds which have previously been largely free of terrestrial predators.
10.2307/2997771|The following paper examines economic aspects of tropical deforestation in South East Asia, focusing mainly on the role of tropical timber production. Current evidence suggests that the levels of deforestation in the region may not be optimal but `excessive' from an economic point of view. Important values are lost, some perhaps irreversibly, when closed forests are `opened up', degraded or cleared but there is insufficient accounting for these foregone benefits in land use decisions. The problem is exacerbated by policy distortions that effectively subsidize activities that lead to deforestation. Although forest clearing for agriculture is the main source of tropical deforestation in the region, timber production also has a direct impact through the removal of trees and damage to the remaining forest area, as well as an indirect impact through opening up and improving access to the forests for land-clearing activities. Pricing, investment and institutional policies for forestry actually work to create the conditions for short-term harvesting by private concessionaires and, in some instances, even subsidize private harvesting at inefficient levels. The under-pricing of stumpage values also means that the wrong signals over resource scarcity are given as old growth forests are depleted. The result is that forest-based industrialization becomes out of synche with long term economic development and deforestation patterns. A major thinking of forestry and agricultural policies in the region is required if South East Asian countries are to manage the `natural capital' inherent in their tropical forests in an efficient and sustainable manner.
10.2307/2997638|A Nouelia insignis community has been found recently in Hutiaoxia Gorge in the Henduan Mountainous Region, Southwest of China. The community grows in the low area close to the river, between 1750 and 1850 m, extending 8-10 km along the gorge. N. insignis itself is an early primary form of the Compositae, and a relict plant of the Tertiary, as well as one of China's endemic species. The community is distinguished by its floristic composition, community ecology, and biogeography. The origin of the N. insignis community is probably of great antiquity; its classification position within the vegetation of China is reviewed.
10.2307/2997695|Numerous factors affect the distribution of mangrove plants. Most mangrove species are typically dispersed by water-buoyant propagules, allowing them to take advantage of estuarine, coastal and ocean currents both to replenish existing stands and to establish new ones. The direction they travel depends on sea currents and land barriers, but the dispersal distance depends on the time that propagules remain buoyant and viable. This is expected to differ for each species. Similarly, each species will also differ in establishment success and growth development rate, and each has tolerance limits and growth responses which are apparently unique. Such attributes are presumably responsible for the characteristic distributional ranges of each species, as each responds to the environmental, physical and biotic settings they might occupy. In practice, species are often ordered by the interplay of different factors along environmental gradients, and these may conveniently be considered at four geographic scales-global, regional, estuarine and intertidal. We believe these influencing factors act similarly around the world, and to demonstrate this point, we present examples of distributional gradients from the two global biogeographic regions, the Atlantic East Pacific and the Indo-West Pacific.
10.2307/2997753|Logistic regression models are becoming widely used for modelling plant and animal distributions, but most studies ignore the spatial arrangement of the data and its effect on the models. One method of including this spatial information is presented, with reference to the distribution of Oxyria digyna (L.) Hill (mountain sorrel) in Britain. The advantages and disadvantages of explicitly modelling the autocorrelation in the data are discussed.
10.2307/2997376|The presence or absence of the grayling butterfly, Hipparchia semele (L.), on British and Irish islands has been studied using logistic regression and discriminant analysis. Two subgroups of islands, one classed as having records of vagrant H. semele and the second occurring beyond the range margin for the species in northern Britain, appear as outliers in plots for the three variables island area, isolation and source population size. Although inclusion of the subgroups does not affect the significance of parameter estimates, they do substantially influence explained variances and the classification of individual islands. On the basis of the three variables listed, resident populations of the butterfly on both subgroups of islands are shown to be improbable. When the variables are considered individually, resident H. semele populations are predicted for islands with vagrants as a function of isolation and for those beyond the range margin as a function of area. However, in both cases colonization is unlikely, limited by resources in the former case and by environmental conditions in the latter. The implications for island and metapopulation studies, which focus on patch occupancy, is that both habitat quality and the breeding status on patches should be assessed for the calculation of parameter estimates.
10.2307/2997508|Two hypotheses on the richness of Indonesian gall-forming species were studied: the plant family size hypothesis, and the plant family geological age hypothesis. Plant family size was the factor best correlated with galling species richness (r<sup>2</sup>=0.77, P<0.0001). Contrary to the expected in the plant family geological age hypothesis, many young plant taxa supported the highest numbers of galling species.
10.2307/2997528|Orthodox approaches to the dynamics of ecosystems and socio-cultural systems assume a one-way transition from an initial to a final state. Recent critiques, however, suggest more than two possible states, each a stage in a never-ending sequence of transitions. In the orthodox view, ecosystems and sociocultural systems are simple (predictable, equilibrium-seeking, linear); in the critical view, they are complex (unpredictable, far from equilibrium, non-linear). The aim of this paper is to test these two hypotheses by examining the responses of the human inhabitants of mountain regions to the changing environments in which they live. The conceptual framework is based in Cultural Theory, which posits a complex plurality of states, defined in terms of four `myths of nature', each embodying a different set of assumptions about stability and change in nature. They can be described as Nature Benign (cf. individualism, neo-classical economics); Nature Ephemeral (cf. egalitarianism, the precautionary principle, Georgescu-Roegen's entropy principle, Schumacher's dictum `small is beautiful'); Nature Perverse/Tolerant (cf. hierarchies, statutory regulation, sustainable development); and Nature Capricious (cf. fatalism: `why bother?'). This conceptual framework is applied to `typical' Himalayan villages, the institutional systems in a `typical' Swiss Alpine village, and the past seven centuries in the Swiss community of Davos. It is concluded that a simple model of unidirectional change does not explain the variety of institutional responses to either the biophysical or the socio-economic surprises which such mountain communities experience; a requisite variety of diverse institutional responses to surprise is always necessary.
10.2307/2997705|A preliminary description of the likely impact of the greenhouse effect on the ecology of the Northern Territory, Australia, is presented. By using the results of a regional model (CSIRO4) of greenhouse-induced climatic change, the possible pattern of the climate in the Northern Territory for the year 2030 is described. Some of the ecological consequences of this change are discussed. These ecological impacts include vegetation changes in the tropical `Top End' of the region due to coastal inundation; the possibility of alterations to the current agricultural crops near Darwin, and further extreme climatic conditions for the semi-arid and arid rangelands in the south of the Territory. It is argued that further integrated research with regional climatic modelling, field ecology, and land use dynamic modelling using a geographical information system (GIS) is required to understand the ecological impact of greenhouse warming in the Northern Territory.
10.2307/2997747|An `expert-system' evaluation of the ecological condition of the rivers of the Morava catchment shows that the majority of river sections flowing through industrial or agricultural landscapes are in a very poor ecological condition. Agriculture is the primary factor behind the clearing of the original floodplain forest and is most significantly implicated in the degradation of rivers and their aquifers. The importance of forests for preserving the optimum ecological condition of river ecosystems is stressed. One of the main concerns of river restoration should, therefore, be the recreation of forest along the riverbanks as similar as possible to the original forest type.
10.2307/2997428|In a new profile pollen and spores have been analysed near the actual front of the Rutor Glacier, 2510 m (Aosta Valley, Italy). The profile gives evidence of the following sedimentary phases: glacigenic during Preboreal- Boreal (clay, silt), limnic at the transition Boreal/Older Atlantic (gyttja), telmatic-terrestric during the Older Atlantic (Cyperaceae peat), glacigenic during the Younger Atlantic (moraine), terrestric at the transition of Younger Atlantic/Subboreal (peat), and glacigenic during the Subboreal (moraine). The organic sedimentation started at 8270 BP (Boreal). The peat bog growth began in 6735 BP (Older Atlantic) and ended in 6055 BP. During the Younger Atlantic the peat bog was covered by the glacier (advance during the Piora I-Stage). The peat-forming period between 6735 and 6055 BP represents the optimal phase of warm and dry climate, with a timber-line situated 200-300 m higher than that of today and with the highest pollen influx values. During this time the subalpine larch, the stone pine forest, the montane fire, and the lime formations developed. The amounts of pollen influx are as follows: peat 6795 per cm<sup>3</sup> yr<sup>1</sup>, gyttja 1457 per cm<sup>3</sup> yr<sup>1</sup>, and clay only 14 per cm<sup>3</sup> yr<sup>1</sup>. The rates of growth for peat are 0.5 mm per year and for gyttja only 0.08 mm per year. The Holocene climate optimum lasted between 8300 and 6000 BP. The averae July temperature was 1.5-3<sup></sup>C higher than that of today. There is a certain amount of evidence of late-glacial and mid-Holocene glacier extensions and contractions, of which the oscillations are well documented.
10.2307/2997670|For a century, foresters have been attempting to expand the conifer forests of a rugged southern California mountain range by planting both native conifers, of which there are thirteen species, and non-natives, of which forty-five species have been tried. Planting began as an early project in ecological restoration under the mistaken belief that the chaparral, which blankets the lower slopes, had replaced forest destroyed by logging, burning, and sheep grazing. By 1910 it had become evident that general afforestation of the chaparral belt was out of the question, but wide-spread conifer planting has been carried on in burns, along roadsides, and around campgrounds. Species introduced from nearby regions, and from climatically similar distant regions, have often grown well where protected from competition and wildfire. None, however, has invaded native vegetation adjacent to planting sites. The situation contrasts sharply with the overwhelming exotic invasions in other Californian vegetation formations. Implicit in the conifer introductions was the hypothesis that conifer species diversity in the San Gabriels had been limited by geographic isolation. The failure of any non-native species to naturalize suggests that barriers to dispersal were irrelevant and that diversity of the local conifer flora was ecologically controlled.
10.2307/2997599|In this paper we compare results from two vegetation surveys carried out immediately before (1969-72) and c. 25 years after the controversial impoundment of a water-storage reservoir within the Upper Teesdale National Nature Reserve (NNR) in northern England. The comparison reveals significant changes in grassland composition on a hill adjacent to the reservoir. Several environmental changes may have occurred at Widdybank Fell during the last c. 25 yr and caused these vegetation changes. We have identified five environmental factors that are likely to have changed over this period: grazing pressure, acid deposition, atmospheric deposition of major nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus), regional climate and local climate as a result of a `lake effect' of the reservoir. We have examined the evidence available in each case. The records of change for these various factors leads us to conclude that, whereas factors other than local climate may account for changes in bryophyte components of the grasslands, none of the other factors can account for observed changes amongst the vascular plants. A major component of the vegetation changes observed can only readily be accounted for by an alteration in local climate as a consequence of the influence of the reservoir. This has important implications for future assessments of the environmental impacts of planned reservoirs. The impact of such local climate changes also calls into question assertions about global climate changes and the extent of their likely impacts, and provides insight into the conservation problems that arise from such changes.
10.2307/2997397|Data on species richness of terrestrial isopods (Oniscidea) from central Aegean islands (Greece), together with previously published data sets from other taxa and areas, are critically analysed under the basic premises of ecological biogeography. Habitat diversity seems to be the most important determinant of species richness for Oniscidea, although the relation to area is also significant. Comparison with other data sets demonstrates that the best fit model of the speciesarea relationship is case-specific and usually not unique, since the assumptions for appropriate use of any particular model (logS/logA, S/A or S/logA) cannot be satisfied by all species richness data sets, and since confidence limits around regression coefficients are usually broad for the relatively limited sizes of island groups. The values of slopes and intercepts of the species-area regression lines seem to be statistical artefacts that encompass the effects of several intervening factors, such as the data set size and range, and should be checked accordingly before any biological statements about differences between taxa or island groups can be made.
10.2307/2997459|The bird populations of sixteen small isolated woodlands were enumerated and their patterns of abundance and species richness were analysed in relation to both between-patch (patch area, isolation, shape) and within-patch (habitat physiognomy) structure. The distribution of birds was found to be primarily related to landscape structure represented by an underlying gradient of habitat fragmentation. Three main patterns of avian patch occupancy were identified: woodland species, edge species and ubiquitous species. These patterns were explained due to the effects of landscape structure acting on individual populations consistent with metapopulation models. Numbers of woodland species declined over the fragmentation gradient whilst numbers of edge species increased. Patterns of avian distribution at the regional landscape were related to those at the broader national scale and results support the hypothesis that British mainland woodland bird distribution could be explained due to the effects of fragmentation.
10.2307/2997706|The paper describes HABITAT, a procedure for delineating an environmental envelope bounding all sites where the presence of a species has been recorded and for deciding whether and to what degree any candidate location can be regarded as part of that envelope. The HABITAT procedure uses (a) mathematical programming and (b) computer induction to choose a minimal set of environmental parameters for dimensioning and describing the envelope where presence of a species has been recorded. It disaggregates this envelope into a number of sub-envelopes, each describing, in terms of simple functions of environmental (e.g. soil, climate) parameters, the presence of the species with a degree of accuracy or confidence specific to the sub-envelope. The results of the procedure can be translated into geographic space for mapping. HABITAT is demonstrated using Australia-wide climate data and data on kangaroo distributions.
10.2307/2997731|This paper examines the causes of the high biodiversity of wooded alluvial floodplains. Multiple-channel floodplain forests have high ecotone/area ratios as a result of long stream lengths of channel banks and the presence of gravel/sand bars and palaeochannels. There is evidence that the multiple-channel state is a natural state for northwest European floodplains prior to deforestation and channelization. One of the last semi-natural forested floodplains in Europe, the Gearagh in southwest Ireland, illustrates the processes which maximize floodplain biodiversity. Of particular importance are structural factors including windthrow which increases microtopographic variation and adds irregularity to river morphology. The complexity of the system allows the co-existence of organisms with rather different ecological requirements, an example being invertebrates characteristic of both lowland and upland rivers. The system is characterized by interactions between biological and geomorphological processes with channel pattern and functioning being partially controlled by ecological processes which further increase the diversity of this relatively stable homeostatic system. It is argued that through the re-creation of multiple channels, floodplain diversity can be appreciably increased and maintained. This approach is compatible with the use of floodplains for flood storage and could therefore be a component of flood relief schemes.
10.2307/2997768|This paper examines the social and political implications of deforestation and forest colonization in Thailand. After a brief history of forest colonization in the country, a study is made of the relationships between market economics and national development, and an assessment is made of the importance of these relationships for our understanding of the political ecology of Thailand. Detailed consideration is given to the emergence of land laws and their significance for colonization. The paper ends with a summary of the contrasting views of peasants, NGOs. and academics.
10.2307/2997781|Singapore's evolution to a city state has involved the removal of 95% of the original tropical rain forest cover, leaving only a total of 2700 hectares under primary and secondary forest. This area in the centre of the island is protected as water catchment and nature reserves in spite of intense pressure for development. The paper describes the utilization of thermal imagery recorded by the Landsat Thematic Mapper for the mapping of forest canopy temperature in Singapore's forested nature reserves as an indication of ecological conditions as they relate to forest microclimate. Landsat digital data were converted to surface temperature in degrees Celsius and input into a vector Geographic Information System for overlay with existing data layers representing high forest, water bodies, and a digital elevation model (DEM), enabling the examination of the spatial characteristics of forest canopy temperatures. The spatial patterns are observed to correspond to ecological parameters which have relevance for forest conservation assessment. Thus the main environmental factors affecting canopy temperature appear to be topology, aspect and soil moisture availability.
10.2307/2997559|An example of relic ridge-and-furrow is shown to affect plant population structure in an ancient meadow. Discriminant analysis indicates a highly significant difference in the communities of the ridges and furrows, the distribution of species such as Trifolium repens* being strongly related to the microtopography. With comparatively little difference in soil chemistry, the controlling factor appears to be the soil water regime. However, at this site, the comparative wetness of the furrows is not related to the height of the water-table, nor to inter-flow from the upstanding ridges as has been presumed to be the case elsewhere. It is shown that differences in the structure and, thereby, in the pore size-distribution of ridge and furrow soils produces a difference in the moisture-release characteristic. These differences are attributed to long-term soil settlement and the erosional translocation of soil from ridges to furrows, as well as to the increased bioturbation associated with earthworm activity in the moister furrow soils.
10.2307/2997733|This paper considers problems associated with the artificial flooding of floodplain forests in an industrial region in central Germany. During the past eight centuries river regulation has reduced flooding to an extent dependent on local conditions. The lack of flooding has caused a new pedo-hydrological regime. Typical tree mixtures in the floodplain forests of oak, ash, elm and maple have changed over the last 120 years so that ash and maple now dominate. Sediments of the rivers Weibe Elster and Mulde were found to be contaminated by industrial pollutants, especially with heavy metals such as Cd, Zn, Co and Cr. Atmospheric pollution and the deposition of dust and gas contaminated by heavy metals over the last 100 years have been responsible for serious soil contamination. There is a danger of the migration of these heavy metals through the floodplain sediments and soils into groundwater. Artificial flooding is one method of re-introducing natural conditions to floodplains and their forests. Our investigations of the migration behaviour of contaminants, using sequential leaching procedures, have demonstrated that a high proportion of the stored heavy metals in the meadow loams is soluble and highly mobile. The release of heavy metals in the soils depends on the pH-value and grain size of the soils as well as precipitation and climatic conditions. The mobility of the heavy metals increases with rising acidification of the soils. Despite decreasing atmospheric deposition in the region of Bitterfeld and reduced deposition of basic flue ashes after the year 1990, increased mobilization of metals in the flood loams is likely to take place. The migration of these chemicals to groundwater is likely to be increased by water infiltrating from artificial flooding. Artificial flooding may therefore have previously unforeseen negative consequences.
10.2307/2997742|This study summarizes the history, former management, sites and plant communities of the Dutch riverine woodlands as revealed by a nationwide forest ecosystem classification project. In this integrated historical ecological research, knowledge of forest history has proved to be an important tool for elucidating the variety and development of the present day riverine forest ecosystems. In The Netherlands, riverine forests have been scarce for many centuries. For a long time the riverine woods mainly consisted of intensively managed willow coppices, many of which survive near the mouths of rivers. Further upstream most present-day woodlands consist of willows which have sprung up recently. The classification of present-day Dutch riverine woodlands is based on the integration of site types and vegetation types. The riverine forest sites have been differentiated mainly on the basis of flooding characteristics and geomorphological processes. Fifteen vegetation types belonging to the Salicion albae and Ulmion carpinifoliae alliances have been distinguished on the basis of differences in the species composition of the natural vegetation. Factors such as forest management, succession and sedimentation cause riverine forest ecosystems to develop from one type to another. This process is illustrated by a case study of the Colenbrandersbos.
10.2307/2997588|Coarse woody debris and standing dead trees play a crucial role in biodiversity and the functioning of forest ecosystems. Little information is currently available concerning the amount and distribution of coarse woody debris in Swiss forests, and little is known about the relative abundance of lying dead trees and standing dead trees in managed and unmanaged forests. In this study, data were collected from eleven sites in order to assess the volume and the decay stages of coarse woody debris and of standing dead trees. There were substantial differences in deadwood volume between sites, but sampling variability was high. The amount of dead wood found in the study sites was substantially smaller than the estimated amount from studies in virgin forests and in the range of values found for other managed and unmanaged forests in Europe. Most of the dead wood material belonged to young decay states. As expected, there was more dead wood in unmanaged than in managed stands, and in mature stands as compared with young stands. In particular, most unmanaged stands had significantly more standing dead trees than most managed stands, indicating that, in Switzerland, diseased and dead trees are removed by salvage cutting.
10.2307/2997684|This study is a comparison of the spontaneous vascular flora of five Italian cities: Milan, Ancona, Rome, Cagliari and Palermo. The aims of the study are to test the hypothesis that urbanization results in uniformity of urban floras, and to evaluate the role of alien species in the flora of settlements located in different phytoclimatic regions. To obtain comparable data, ten plots of 1 ha, each representing typical urban habitats, were analysed in each city. The results indicate a low floristic similarity between the cities, while the strongest similarity appears within each city and between each city and the seminatural vegetation of the surrounding region. In the Mediterranean settlements, even the most urbanized plots reflect the characters of the surrounding landscape and are rich in native species, while aliens are relatively few. These results differ from the reported uniformity and the high proportion of aliens which generally characterize urban floras elsewhere. To explain this trend the importance of apophytes (indigenous plants expanding into man-made habitats) is highlighted; several Mediterranean species adapted to disturbance (i.e. grazing, trampling, and human activities) are pre-adapted to the urban environment. In addition, consideration is given to the minor role played by the `urban heat island' in the Mediterranean basin, and to the structure and history of several Italian settlements, where ancient walls, ruins and archaeological sites in the periphery as well as in the historical centres act as conservative habitats and provide connection with seed-sources on the outskirts.
10.2307/2997494|A comparison is made between three main schools of biogeography, namely migrationist biogeography, vicariance biogeography, and panbiogeography.
10.2307/2997698|Prior to the early 1900s, there were no mangroves in the Hawaiian Archipelago. In 1902, Rhizophora mangle was introduced on the island of Molokai, primarily for the purpose of stabilizing coastal mud flats. This species is now well established in Hawaii, and is found on nearly all of the major islands. At least five other species of mangroves or associated species were introduced to Hawaii in the early 1900s, and while none has thrived to the degree of R. mangle, at least two have established self-maintaining populations (Bruguiera gymnorrhiza and Conocarpus erectus). Mangroves are highly regarded in most parts of the tropics for the ecosystem services they provide, but in Hawaii they also have important negative ecological and economic impacts. Known negative impacts include reduction in habitat quality for endangered waterbirds such as the Hawaiian stilt (Himantopus mexicanus knudseni), colonization of habitats to the detriment of native species (e.g. in anchialine pools), overgrowing native Hawaiian archaeological sites, and causing drainage and aesthetic problems. Positive impacts appear to be fewer, but include uses of local importance, such as harvesting B. gymnorrhiza flowers for lei-making, as well as some ecological services attributed to mangroves elsewhere, such as sediment retention and organic matter export. From a research perspective, possible benefits of the presence of mangroves in Hawaii include an unusual opportunity to evaluate their functional role in coastal ecosystems and the chance to examine unique or rare species interactions.
10.2307/2997661|This article stems from the results of a wider study to examine the agroforestry potential of selected indigenous tree and shrub species in southeastern Nigeria. The study was carried out in two selected villages situated in areas with different vegetation types. The article presents an inventory of those trees mentioned in an extensive questionnaire survey carried out in both villages, and a discussion of the importance of trees and tree products in the rural economy. It will be seen that the value of trees as a whole, and of particular species, is viewed differently in each village.
10.2307/2997604|Biotic mixing is becoming very wide-spread from human activities and is recognized as a potential threat to native biodiversity. In theory, species-area curves can be used to predict the ultimate biodiversity loss and homogenization occurring from faunal mixing. One way to test this empirically at coarse spatial and temporal scales is to quantify past episodes of faunal mixing in the fossil record. Analysis of diversity changes following the origin of the Isthmus of Panama indicates that marine biodiversity change was similar to that predicted by species-area patterns: the isolating effects of the Isthmus produced a roughly 45-60% increase in total biodiversity in the Atlantic and Pacific regions nearby. Conversely, if the isolating effects of the Isthmus were to disappear through the Panama Canal and other human activities, a decrease of about 31-38% of current species diversity might be expected. Extrapolation of these results to global scales indicate that global marine species diversity may decrease by about 58% if worldwide biotic mixing occurs. This supports previous estimates based on terrestrial biotas that predict global decreases from 35 to 71%, with a mean decrease of 55%.
10.2307/2997624|Analysis of three sub-scene areas (850 km<sup>2</sup>) showing natural rangeland response to drought in south-east Botswana was undertaken using Landsat MSS imagery. A plot through MSS7 and MSS5 data space revealed that small zones with high species diversity showed high NIR (near infra red) and low red band values. Samples taken from the subscene area showed a range in species diversity which appeared to relate to the intensity and/or frequency of range use.
10.2307/2997767|The forests of Sarawak, Malaysian Borneo, are today the scene of a bitter struggle between native peoples trying to maintain their land rights and the timber industry intent on felling their forests for profit. Denied other means of redress, the natives have flung up barricades across the logging company roads to prevent the takeover of their ancestral lands, while politicians have sought to crush native resistance through mass arrests and by invoking national security laws. As this study reveals, the roots of this crisis go right back into the colonial era, when the economic, legal and administrative machinery of oppression was first established. Having lost control of their traditional trade, the natives became `pirates', legitimate targets for the British Navy's gunboats. Once their resistance had been crushed by force of arms, their political organisations were co-opted and their initiative subdued by a benign paternalistic administration. Progressively denied effective rights to their lands, it was not long before the natives became `squatters' on State land. After independence the subordination of native rights and interests to external economic and political powers intensified. Top-down development policies have continued to deny popular participation and even the creation of National parks has made them into `poachers'. Intensive logging, hydropower projects and plantations are progressively taking over larger and larger areas of native land, through a process of development that is dominated by clientelistic political structures controlled by the indigenous elite. Today, 25 years after Sarawak received its independence, the native peoples remain the victims of an political economy that is undermining their very existence.
10.2307/2997765|This paper explores aspects of forest management in colonial Burma. After the first Anglo-Burmese war (1824-26), the British initially exploited the teak forests of Tenasserim under a system of laissez-faire forestry. However, the rapid depletion of this resource led to a new approach following the second Anglo-Burmese war (1852) based on the creation of reserved forests dedicated to longterm timber production. As the first case study illustrates, forest officials sought to exclude fire from these forests, believing that fire retarded teak growth. In the process, they imposed restrictions and obligations on villagers, who, in turn, resisted such control through the illegal use of fire, village complicity, labour strikes or slowdowns and incendiarism. If such resistance disrupted forest management, it was ultimately adverse scientific evidence that led to the curtailment of fire protection after the First World War. In the second case study, the related efforts of forest officials to persuade shifting cultivators to plant teak under the taungya forestry system are traced. However, cooperation was only achieved after much conflict. Moreover, in the 1930s, growing scientific doubts about the system in a broader context of economic retrenchment led to its demise. The third case study addresses the politics of non-teak forest management through an analysis of cutch regulation. Efforts to manage the production of cutch, a water extract of the sha (Acacia catechu) tree used for tanning and dyeing purposes, were weakened by inter-departmental differences. But they were also thwarted by the resistance of peasants, traders and shifting cultivators. Such resistance formed part of a broader dynamic of control and resistance that characterized forest management in colonial Burma, but which resonates with political and ecological meaning even today.
10.2307/2997659|The Holocene tree-limit history in the Scandes Mountains, Sweden is inferred from subfossil wood remains of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.), mountain birch (Betula pubescens Ehrh. ssp. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman) and grey alder (Alnus incana (L.) Moench). Corrected for glacio-isostatic land upheaval, the data indicate a linear 165 m elevational retreat of the pine tree-limit throughout the past 8000 years. The average rate of the process was 20 m per millennium. In contrast, the tree-limit of birch, and to some extent grey alder, seems to have advanced altitudinally during the early- and mid-Holocene. These opposing performances of xeric pine and mesic broadleaved deciduous species are suggested to be consistent with the orbital forcing mechanism (Milankovitch theory) of climate change. Further support was obtained by converting the pine tree-limit retreat to thermal decline (lapse rate 0.6<sup></sup>C/100 m), which yields a cooling trend amounting to 0.12<sup></sup>C per millennium. This is the same value as predicted by Berger et al. (1990) for astronomically forced Northern Hemisphere cooling since the Holocene thermal maximum and during 55,000 years from the present.
10.2307/2997492|High local densities of tropical forest plant species have been found in riparian forests of Belizean and Venezuelan savannas. Soil and light-intensity heterogeneity within the forests is limited and species co-existence may be mediated more by specialized disturbance regimes than by micro-habitat specialization. Provided that this local diversity is complemented by high regional diversity within these systems, they could provide plausible refugia for tropical forest biotas during arid climatic phases. The results demonstrate that a reduced species density is not an inevitable consequence of forest fragmentation, and have important implications for the future conservation of tropical forests.
10.2307/2997523|The steep environmental gradients of mountains result in the juxtaposition of diverse vegetation associations with narrow ecotones because life zones are compressed. Variation in geologic substrate, landforms, and soils, in combination with steep environmental gradients, create habitat diversity across spatial scales from 10<sup>6</sup> ha to <10 m<sup>2</sup>. This leads to higher biodiversity in a smaller space than in landscapes with less topographic variation. Mountains are often considered to be refuges for biological diversity at the regional scale, although variation in landscape features creates refuges at a fine scale as well. Mountains should also be considered a source of biological diversity, because they provide the germplasm for migration into lowland areas following glacial recession. Many taxa are distributed over a broad range of elevations and habitats, which maximizes the potential to respond to environmental perturbations. Reorganization of species distribution and abundance as a result of climatic change may be impacted considerably by human-caused fragmentation of landscape features, especially at lower elevations. This paper uses palaeoecological and biogeographical data to investigate the spatial and temporal vegetation dynamics of a steep maritime range, the Olympic Mountains (USA). The role of resource management in protecting vegetation in a fragmented landscape is discussed, with emphasis on how to address uncertainties such as climatic change.
10.2307/2997792|To date, Northern Ireland is the only part of the United Kingdom to adopt the CORINE land cover approach--as part of an all-Ireland project for the EC. The land cover classification of the island, derived from Landsat TM imagery, at a scale of 1:100,000 is held in an ARC/INFO database. The EC intend that the land cover database should inform their environment and regional development policies and should be widely available. The project was led by the Ordnance Survey of Ireland, organized in several phases and sub-contracted to co-ordinated teams drawn from government and universities. The project is outlined and its successes and problems discussed, for example (i) a Mediterranean bias in the CORINE nomenclature, (ii) lack of clear rules to define classes, (iii) the need for Level 4 subdivisions to avoid broad generalizations (pasture and peat bog) and (iv) lack of mixed natural vegetation classes. These problems are discussed through examining the application of CORINE classes to agriculture, forest and semi-natural areas, and wetlands in the north of Ireland.
10.2307/2997795|Many biogeographical properties mustbe entered into raster-based geographical information systems (GIS) as samples. For example, properties of vegetation such as biomass, species abundance and species distribution, and of soils such as organic content, must be sampled discretely and it is these sample data that are entered into and manipulated within the GIS. Kriging, an optimal technique for linear unbiased estimation, can be used to design an optimal strategy to sample the property of interest in the field and subsequently to map the property withknown minimum or kriging error within the GIS environment. Once the data are in the GIS kriging can be used to estimate optimally at any location and over any support or cell as and when necessary. Optimal sampling strategies were designed for mapping the percentage cover of a crop of spring barley, estimating the mean biomass of a grassland and mapping the reflectance of a grassland measured with a field radiometer.
10.2307/2997373|For the first time, Holocene macroremains (cones and wood) of Larix sibirica Ledeb., radiocarbon dated between 8700 and 7500 BP, have been recovered from two sites in the Scandes Mountains of Sweden. The sites are separated by >300 km and lie in the present subalpine and low alpine belts, respectively. Existing pollen-stratigraphical records have not suggested the presence of Larix in the Holocene beyond its present range, i.e. >1000 km to the east in Russia. Hence, the pollen analytical method should be used more cautiously when inferring subcontinental-continental biogeographical dynamics. It appears that Larix immigrated rapidly by longdistance jump dispersal soon after the deglaciation. The same pattern has emerged for Picea abies (L.) Karst. and some thermophilous broadleaved tree species. This might be a more general mechanism for tree spread during the early Holocene. Step-wise migration and migrational lags could be quite unimportant elements within tree palaeobiogeography. This increases the prospects for interpretation of longterm and large-scale changes in plant cover performance in terms of expansion/decline relative to climatic change. Today, Larix sibirica prospers in continental climates with extremely cold winters, thus it is reasonable to infer that early-Holocene winters in western Fennoscandia could have been similar to, or slightly colder than those of today. This contention conflicts with previously published simulations using General Circulation Models, pollen-climate response surfaces and other retrospective devices, which suggest a strongly oceanic climate with winters >2<sup></sup>C warmer than present.
10.2307/2997794|Changes in the intensity of agricultural land-use have been examined in a mountain environment in the Sierra Nevada, Andalucia. The land-use changes have occurred in response to rural depopulation and other factors since 1950 and have manifested themselves as a deintensification and sometimes abandonment of irrigated terraces which were extensively cropped as recently as the 1970s. The pattern of deintensification and consequential environmental impact is described for one municipio, Trevelez. Ecological changes have been consequent upon the intensity of grazing and the collapse of irrigation systems. These changes have been assessed by rapid appraisal and the implications for the agricultural landscape are identified. Classification techniques using Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) data have allowed estimates to be made of the areal cover of deintensification.
10.2307/2997467|We present data on the climatic ranges of 819 species of Eucalyptus L'Herit in Australia, in terms of mean annual temperature and rainfall. 53% of species currently have ranges spanning less than 3<sup></sup>C of mean annual temperature, with 41% having a range of less than 2<sup></sup>C, and 25% with less than 1<sup></sup>C. 23% of species have ranges of mean annual rainfall that span less than 20% variation. Unless current projections greatly overestimate future climate change in Australia, within the next few decades many eucalypt species will have their entire present day populations exposed to temperatures and rainfalls under which no individuals currently exist. While we recognize that the actual climatic tolerances of many species are wider than the climatic envelope they currently occupy, the data indicate that if even a moderate proportion of present day boundaries actually reflect thermal or rainfall tolerances, substantial changes in the tree flora of Australia may be expected.
10.2307/2997602|The latest butterfly species numbers for sixty-seven West Indian islands and South Florida are presented. Estimating the species richness of insular faunas is rarely straightforward and the difficulties are discussed in the context of West Indian butterflies. The data are considered minimum estimates because the number of species overlooked is still likely to exceed the number of vagrant and extinct species accidentally included. With this caveat in mind, the species-area relationship is examined. The correlation between island area and species richness was first described for West Indian butterflies by Eugene Munroe in 1948. Despite an additional fifty-seven data points, today's species-area regression (slope, z = 0.20; intercept, c = 1.06) is not significantly different from that observed in 1948 (z = 0.26; c = 0.80). To our knowledge, butterflies have the flattest species-area regression reported for any West Indian taxon. The possible implications of the species-area relationship for the biogeography of West Indian butterflies are discussed.
10.2307/2997623|A monitoring technique using lichen communities as bioindicators of the effect of fire in the tropical forests of Thailand is proposed. Fire and other abiotic factors influencing the presence of these lichen communities are discussed. Brief background information of lichen collections known to date from Thailand is given. Forest types and their associated lichen species are also described.
10.2307/2997325|Mobility and massive population fluctuations in response mainly to a highly variable climate are pervasive features of the wildlife of both the monsoonal and the arid halves of the Northern Territory, Australia. These characteristics defy the adequate conservation of these species in a conventional system of formal reserves, and pose substantial problems for reserve design. We argue that protection of the still extensive natural vegetation outside the reserve system will be vital for the persistence of mobile species in this landscape.
10.2307/2997671|The effect of corridor width on dispersal speed was examined in an animal which is repelled by unfavourable habitat at the corridor's edges. Using data on the movement pattern of the land snail, Arianta arbustorum, from a natural population, we simulated snail dispersal over periods of 120 days in corridors of different widths and in an unlimited plane. In corridors, we assumed that snails which reached the edge of the favourable habitat chose a new direction for moving the remaining part of the daily distance within the corridor (this behaviour was observed under natural conditions). The simulations showed that snail dispersal decreased with decreasing corridor width and never reached distances recorded in unlimited planes. This result is supported by field data. The finding that dispersal is inhibited in corridors is discussed in the context of conservation biology.
10.2307/2997804|The species richness of terrestrial isopods at several altitudinal zones on three mountains of continental Greece was investigated in order to document the effect of elevation on this animal group. Species richness decreases with altitude, and at the same rate on all three mountains. The faunal similarity among altitudinal zones is inversely related to species density (total number of species present at each mountain), but is not related to latitude. Species density is constrained by environmental harshness, but is also influenced by historical factors. The faunal composition of the three mountains shows that these historical factors are crucial for the patterns of species distribution across elevational gradients found today, and are unified under the general concept of altitudinal effects.
10.2307/2997807|Crisci & Morrone (1992) commented on a summary by Wilson (1991) (of the three major schools of biogeography. There seems to be no substance in any of their `criticisms'.
10.2307/2997525|Montane butterfly densities and species assemblages vary widely over space and through time. This variation is partially driven by variation in weather and climate, at spatial scales ranging from local habitats to regional ecosystems, and over time spans of days to centuries. We present case studies that illustrate how climatic variation affects individuals, population densities and species' ranges, and species distribution patterns at the regional level. Present patterns at all scales are neither spatially nor temporally static, even in the absence of directional anthropogenic climate change. The observed patterns allow us to sketch the broad outline of expected changes in population densites, species distributions and butterfly community composition under anthropogenic climate change. We conclude that the fragmented habitats found in montainous areas will exacerbate the effects of climate change on population densities and species' survival, and that relatively sedentary species require closer attention from conservation biologists.
10.2307/2997817|Primary forest was studied at 530 m altitude at 27<sup></sup> 31' N and 96<sup></sup> 24' E in the Himalayan foothills in a plot at Haldibari in the Namdapha Tiger Reserve in Arunachal Pradesh in northeast India. The forest had all the structural attributes of the Lowland Evergreen Rain Forest Formation including frequent buttressing, large woody climbers, and a predominance of trees with leaves in the mesophyll and macrophyll size categories. It was species rich with at least 116 large (>10 cm dbh) tree or liana species in a 1 ha plot. The species affinities were tropical and included two species of Dipterocarpaceae, Dipterocarpus macrocarpus and Shorea assamica, which together accounted for 6.9% of the measured individual trees. The type of forest at Namdapha has the highest known latitude for what is certainly Lowland Evergreen Rain Forest although the Formation may extend to 28<sup></sup> 28' N in China.
10.2307/2997815|In this paper we examine the influence of geographical and land-use factors on breeding bird species richness in small woods within farmland. In many European agricultural landscapes, small woods represent the major component of semi-natural habitat available to wildlife. We used census data (for woods of up to 15 ha) from six study areas in four countries (The Netherlands, U.K., Denmark and Norway) to construct species-area relationships for woodland birds. An additional relationship for Sweden was obtained from the literature. Species richness, and the parameters of the species-area relationships, were then related to the latitude, longitude and percentage woodland cover of each study area. Overall, species richness across all woods in each study area declined with increasing latitude; the proportion of resident species also declined, but that of migrants increased. Numbers of migrant species also increased with increasing woodland cover. Both the slopes and intercepts of the species-area relationships declined with increasing latitude. Thus not only were fewer species available to colonise individual woods at higher latitudes, but the return in terms of species richness for a given increase in area was also less than at lower latitudes. From the species-area relationships, the numbers of species expected to breed in woods of 1 ha and of 15 ha decreased from 13 and 21, respectively, in The Netherlands (latitude 51.7<sup></sup>) to 7 and 13, respectively, in Denmark (latitude 56.3<sup></sup>). Other factors influencing species richness on both local and geographical scales are discussed.
10.2307/2997748|Most of the Swiss floodplains of national importance are embanked. This paper describes the impacts of embankments built early this century on the soil and vegetation along a pre-alpine river. Embanking is responsible for selective retention of material (here calcareous alluvium). The variation in the quality and quantity of the alluvium is the main factor determining soil diversity. The morphological and the physicochemical properties of the soil are linked to original geomorphological position (island, old channel, distance from the embankment, etc.). The large variation in the soil is associated with a low diversity among the plant communities: from a phytosociological point of view, most of them no longer have the status of a floodplain community. Their isolation from the alluvial dynamics changes the physical conditions and speed of evolution of both the soil and the vegetation. This study shows the different kinetics of vegetation and soil following human impact.
10.2307/2997340|Contemporary evolution of forest margins was studied on the middle section of the Ubaye, a gravel bed river of the Southern Alps. A recolonization of the valley flat by Pinus sylvestris which began around 1920-1925 is described. This forest expansion was accompanied by a reduction of active channel area and by local changes in geomorphological pattern, shifting from braided to meandering. This biometamorphosis, explained by the decrease of coarse bedload and peak flows, was primarily related to human activities-watershed reforesting and torrent control, abandonment of agro-pastoral activities-perhaps naturally reinforced by the end of the Little Ice Age climatic degradation. Moreover, spatial variations of forest-channel contact are also shown on the scale of a few decades, for the period of 1945-1990. These variations were also apparently controlled by hydrology and bedload. Management of these floodplains, characterized by complex, dynamic and fragile ecosystems, is discussed.
10.2307/2997772|The logging of the tropical rainforests in the East Malaysian state of Sarawak has been one of the most contentious and widely debated issues of recent years. International conservation and environmental organizations, journalists, film-makers and local pressure groups have been extremely successful in attracting publicity for their cause and for placing such matters as global environmental change and rainforest clearance firmly on the world agenda. Needless to say, the criticisms of the Malaysian governments' policies and actions with regard to logging have been met by a robust response from Malaysian officials and politicians. This paper does not seek to judge in favour of one or the other position. It sets rainforest clearance in a local, national and international political economy context and demonstrates the complex reasons for logging in Sarawak. By so doing it is hoped to encourage a measured dialogue between Malaysian policy-makers and their critics, in place of the rather emotional debates on the tropical timber industry which have been most prominent up to now.
10.2307/2997351|Vegetation samples collected along altitudinal transects through the treeline ecotone in the central Scandes Mountains, Norway, were used to analyse the relationships between species diversity, species turnover and the performance of the tree layer. The study area has a long history of extensive grazing by domestic animals. The floristic composition showed a continuous change along the boreal-alpine gradient. The number of species was more or less constant throughout 600 altitudinal m centred around the treeline, and the floristic similarity between neighbouring altitudes did not show any abrupt changes at any particular altitude. The treeline position (Betula pubescens Ehrh.) spanned 190 altitudinal m (range 980-1170 m a.s.l.). The number of trees and the basal area each decreased continuously with increasing altitude from 300 altitudinal m below the treeline. The number of birch saplings also decreased from c. 150 m below the treeline towards higher altitudes. Viable, but browsed populations of birch were present along the whole length of all transects, irrespective of aspect and geological substrate, with saplings present up to summit positions at 420 altitudinal m above the treeline. Due to browsing by sheep, mean sapling height at all altitudes above the treeline was 0.2 m. The results are discussed in terms of land use and climate change. It is concluded that future vegetation responses to diminished grazing pressure are likely to override responses forced by changing climate. Such responses could easily be misinterpreted as being governed by climate change, rather than by changes in land use.
10.2307/2997444|Methods for modelling distributional change over time of birds in a heterogeneous environment are illustrated using data from northeast Scotland. Ten species of bird that are currently undergoing changes in their range are selected to demonstrate the methods. Habitat suitability is estimated using bird presence/absence data at one particular time as the dependent variable, and by carrying out a logistic regression in which the covariates are principal component scores obtained from environmental data. It is assumed that some environmental variables are available at the same resolution as the bird distributional data, while others are available at higher resolution. A two step procedure is used, to allow estimation of habitat suitability at the higher resolution. Future distributions are predicted by fitting a spatio-temporal model to successive distributions obtained from atlas studies using maximum likelihood. Under this model, the probability of future site occupation is assumed to depend on habitat suitability of the site and on its effective distance from occupied sites at a previous time point. Effective distance is assumed to depend both on the actual distance between sites and on the suitability of habitat between the sites. Confidence limits for the predicted range of each species and estimated probabilities of extinction are obtained using bootstrap methods.
10.2307/2997685|Results of 3 years of pollen trapping on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, are presented. Minimum pollen dispersal distances are estimated for the most abundant pollen taxa. Dispersal distances for some taxa appear to be as low as 5m, while for other taxa at least 50% of the trapped pollen had travelled more than 40m. No consistent pattern of spatial variation was reflected in the pollen rain, however, samples close to large canopy gaps had exceptional abundances of `disturbance' taxa. A preliminary analysis of the representation of canopy components indicates that as much as 19% of pollen caught in the traps was derived from large tree species.
10.2307/2997660|The number of vascular plants recorded so far is 1204. Species of gymnosperms and vascular cryptogams is low (3 spp. and 19 spp. respectively). Families Poaceae (201 spp.), Asteraceae (98 spp.), Fabaceae (81 spp.) and Euphorbiaceae (39 spp.) are amongst those which have the highest number of species. There are ninety-three endemic species (7.7%), of which fifty-seven (4.7%) occur in southern Oman. Biogeographically, the southwest region of Oman falls in the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism, the central part in the Saharan regional subzone, the western part in the Saharo-Arabian regional subzone and the northern part in the Nubo-Sindian local centre of endemism.
10.2307/2997693|Direct, manipulative experiments can yield important insights into the role of biodiversity in ecosystem function, but they are intrinsically limited when it comes to aspects of this relationship that emerge over long temporal and large spatial scales. Natural experiments with model systems can be a powerful complement to direct, manipulative experiments, especially where the processes that regulate biodiversity have no more than modest direct impacts on ecosystem function. Mangrove ecosystems on continental land masses and isolated islands offer unusual potential as natural experiments for biodiversity and ecosystem function studies, largely because sites with similar physical environments can have clear contrasts in the diversity of the dominant autotrophs. These contrasts provide a starting point for exploring the role of species diversity of higher plants in modulating biogeochemical functions (e.g. production, nutrient cycling), ecological functions (e.g. habitat for organisms in different tropic levels), and anthropogenic functions (e.g. maintenance of fisheries, management of sediments), on a range of time scales.
10.2307/2997436|This study concerns the vegetation of New Zealand salt meadows. Large area differentiation of New Zealand sea marshes is characterized by a few dominating halophytes chiefly Sarcocornia quinqueflora, Juncus maritimus var. australiensis and Avicennia resinifera and reflects microclimate conditions. There is also notable micro-area differentiation of salt marsh, with low vegetation carpets alternating with tall meadowlike vegetation. The vegetation of the salt marshes has changed in the last 200 years. Numerous exotic species have found new habitats and formed independent plant assemblages. A plant sociological articulation of New Zealand's salt marshes has been attempted for the first time, with twenty associations and communities proved by a table of continuity.
10.2307/2997776|The rapid expansion of agriculture in Thailand has meant that today the frontier in farmland expansion has been reached. Mirroring the expansion of farmland, the area under forest has declined from 53% of the total land area in 1961 to perhaps as little as 15%. This has had important implications for the manner in which farmers own and use the forest resource. This paper sketches out traditional patterns of exploitation before examining modern patterns of use. With growing land and forest scarcity brought on by rapid population growth and an intensifying pressure of needs, Thailand's wildlands have become an increasingly exclusive, restricted access resource. They have also become impoverished as their exploitation has intensified, leading farmers to use forests and other wild areas in new ways. An understanding of the manner in which forests are used by farmers and the effects that the processes of development are having upon patterns of use are crucial to understanding the current and future status of Thailand's threatened wildlands.
10.2307/2997796|In response to predictions of mass extinctions in the twenty-first century, birds can play a critically important role in identifying key sites for biodiversity conservation. The BirdLife Biodiversity Project has mapped the distributions of all the world's restricted-range bird species and identified the areas where they are concentrated. Re-analysis of project data originally published in 1992 has led to the identification of 218 'Endemic Bird Areas' (EBAs), defined as areas supporting two or more species with ranges of less than 50,000 km<sup>2</sup>. Point locality data for a total of 2649 such restricted-range birds were mapped using GIS to identify these areas. A large series of regional maps and six tables present the project findings in outline, and details of revisions to the original analysis are provided. In total, EBAs occupy a mere 4.5% of the Earth's land surface, and contain 73% of all globally threatened birds; research to date indicates a high congruence of endemism between birds and other life-forms, so that it is reasonable to propose that EBAs should be used as guides to general centres of endemism. Identifying refugia, the use of GIS and remote sensing, and exchange of information between biogeographers are three ways to continue this work towards a global map of biodiversity.
10.2307/2997803|Much of the argument about the existence or nonexistence of centres of origin has been focused on the marine East Indies. During the past 10 years, considerable new information has become available. Patterns suggesting historic dispersals from the East Indies have been described. It is now apparent that there is, in several animal groups, an increasing trend in average generic age from the East Indies outward. Paleontological studies have revealed significant onshore to offshore evolutionary trends during much of the Phanerozoic. Antitropical and other disjunct patterns in the Indo-West Pacific suggest that the extinction process often begins in the East Indies and spreads outward. Widespread Indo-West Pacific species, that possibly originated in the East Indies, occasionally surmount biogeographic barriers to colonize adjacent regions. The biogeographic patterns described are compatible with, and provide support for, the centre of origin hypothesis. Successful evolution, which results in the formation of new phyletic lines, takes place in the nearshore waters of centres of origin. From such centres, new species, which may eventually give rise to new higher taxa, spread out both vertically and horizontally. As they spread vertically, they replace older forms from the mid- and outer shelf and eventually from the slope. As they spread horizontally, they replace their more generalized, peripheral relatives, leaving as evidence the historic dispersal and age patterns which have been noted.
10.2307/2997566|`Concrete' (=local) biotas (floras/faunas) are considered here as the lowest level of floral/faunal organization of the biota. Each concrete biota consists of all species encountered in all habitats within a certain area around a basic locality. Thus, it may be expected that concrete biotas reflect both local ecological conditions and regional history of the flora/fauna. Concrete biotas can be regarded as elementary units which may be studied with respect to the factors affecting species composition at the local scale, and hence, may be considered as a `bridge' between the traditional floristics/faunistics and ecology.
10.2307/2997812|It is unlikely that ice age climates of the Amazon were sufficiently arid to fragment the forest as required by the Haffer refugial hypothesis. However, glacial Amazon climates were colder and had reduced CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations that would have had their strongest effects on the biota in the elevated areas stipulated to have been refugia. If local endemicity of butterflies or birds records Pleistocene speciation, this is because glacial climates provided cool, CO<sub>2</sub> starved islands in a sea of continuous forest.
10.2307/2997350|Vegetation plays a part in controlling climate and in turn responds to climatic change. Therefore, projections of future climates must include the responses of vegetation, both in terms of function and distribution. Unfortunately, assessments of future climatic impacts on vegetation are still considered with equilibrium vegetation models-models which exclude processes involved in vegetation dynamics, such as succession and disturbance. The commonly held view that future spatial changes in temperature will outstrip the potential for species to migrate has no theoretical underpinning, particularly as the important processes of disturbance and tolerance of climatic change are not included. In order to assess the appropriate rates of vegetation change it is necessary to implement dynamic vegetation models. Such models are now being completed but provide their own problems associated with the inclusion of poorly understood processes and with methods of testing.
10.2307/2997338|It has been reported that the Juniperus procera woodlands of the Asir Highlands of Saudi Arabia are exhibiting widespread decline. A detailed survey from 1850m to 2800m altitude in Raydah Reserve shows that this decline is occurring at the lower elevations of the juniper range, with unhealthy trees, relatively poor production of berries and male cones, and widespread tree death below 2400-2500 m. At higher altitudes the woodland is generally healthy. This altitudinal pattern of woodland condition is very similar to that already documented for the Juniperus excelsa subsp. polycarpos woodlands of northern Oman. Pathogens do not appear to be responsible for the observed decline. In a multiple regression model for Raydah, altitude and, to a lesser extent shelter from the sun, explain most of the variation in woodland condition. The zone of transition from a healthy to an unhealthy woodland in Raydah is coincident with the lower altitudinal limit of foliose lichens, suggesting that woodland decline is related in some way to climate. Four possible hypotheses are proposed for the decline, all involving climate changes, but at differing spatial and temporal scales.
10.2307/2997524|This paper presents a method to project quantitatively the possible impacts of climatic change on mountain forests at high temporal (annual cycle), spatial, and qualitative resolution. It allows linkage from global scenarios simulated by climate models through local climatic scenarios to stand-specific forest models. The method was applied to four representative sites in the Alps using the CCC-GCMII climate model, a statistical procedure to downscale GCM-output to the regional scale, and the forest patch model ForClim. Sharply contrasting forest responses were observed within short distances under the same 2xCO<sub>2</sub> scenario of radiative forcing. While some forest simulations produced only small changes in tree species composition, others produced major changes even to the point of a complete disappearance of the forest. In some cases new species assemblages emerged without any analogue under present conditions. The results suggest that some mountain forests are sensitive to a 2xCO<sub>2</sub> global change, and that human assistance may be required to help forests to adapt. The proposed method made good use of existing data, integrated current understanding, and appears sufficiently flexible and general to assess impacts of climatic change on any mid to high latitude forests in accordance with IPCC guidelines.
10.2307/2997775|By agreement between the Royal Geographical Society, London, and the Universiti Brunei Darussalam, a 14-month joint project has been mounted in 1991/92 to elucidate baseline environmental data required for the management objectives of the newly established Kuala Belalong Field Studies Centre, Temburong District, Brunei Darussalam. Core research topics were allocated to five British graduate students, supplemented by independent projects conducted by some seventy biologists, geographers and others, within the overall theme of tropical biodiversity and its ecological background. Future prospects point toward the development of a national park in this area.
10.2307/2997541|An analysis was carried out of the distributions of Hawaiian gammaridean Amphipoda of the families Aoridae and Melitidae to determine (a) whether there was a correlation between perceived dispersal potential and extent of endemicity, and (b) whether the biogeographic affinities of the two families differed. A new application of PAE is developed and applied to all families of gammaridean Amphipoda from the Indo-Pacific and Caribbean to attempt to interpret the history of space occupancy by lineages. Resulting PAE cladograms suggest a shift in the biogeographic relationships of Hawaii from the eastern Pacific and Caribbean in the past to the south west and central Pacific in modern times.
10.2307/2997696|Understanding differences among fringe, riverine, and basin zones in mangrove forests may assist mangrove scientists in clarifying the relationships between tree distributions and environmental characteristics, and may assist resource managers in designing appropriate management policies for these important wetlands. This study examined differences in soil redox potential and porewater salinity as well as in characteristics and distribution of hardwood mangrove trees among these zones on the island of Kosrae in the Federated States of Micronesia. Neither porewater salinity nor soil redox potential differed significantly among the three types of forests. High annual rainfall (5000-6000 mm/year) and, perhaps, high rates of groundwater flow and surface runoff, may buffer these forests from extremes in salinity. Zonation of trees was not readily apparent, with Sonneratia alba J. Smith, Bruguiera gymnorrhiza (L.) Lamk., and Rhizophora apiculata Bl. dominant in volume and/or density in all three zones. Tree heights were significantly shorter in fringe forests than in basin forests. Growing conditions appear to vary among the three zones, but other environmental characteristics may be responsible. Data on regeneration patterns suggest that resource managers should restrict harvesting in fringe and riverine zones and attempt to increase regeneration of S. alba in basin zones where large gaps are formed.
10.2307/2997511|Two satellite images were acquired from the SPOT High Resolution Visible (HRV) Multispectral Linear Array (MLA) sensor in 1990 and the Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) sensor in 1985 for a mountainous region in southwest Yukon Territory, Canada. These data were classified using a maximum likelihood decision rule and a new three-stage classifier designed specifically for analysis of mountain environments. Classification results improved from approximately 74% correct when using satellite sensor data alone to 85% correct using the satellite sensor data with geomorphometric variables extracted from a digital elevation model. Further refinement to approximately 88% correct were obtained with the new classifier. The resulting image maps were used to interpret the extent of changes in vegetation cover resulting from fluctuations in river systems and ground-water regimes.
10.2307/2997774|The recovery of the world economy since the fifties and corresponding economic development in Malaysia has put extreme pressure on the natural forest and land resource and outstripped Sarawak's capacities to maintain sustainability. Sarawak reacted in the early nineties by developing an integrated approach to improvements in forestry research and forestry practice towards designing and implementing sustainable management and conservation of the forest resource. Obstacles are formidable, but, if and when they are overcome, Sarawak will have regained its position as one of the major trail-blazers in rain forest management and will have changed its forest industry from a sunset to sunrise industry.
10.2307/2997735|Within river corridors, the distribution of plant species and communities is heavily influenced by hydrological and geomorphological processes. Furthermore, the vegetation can have a direct influence on the detailed character and rate of hydrogeomorphological processes. This paper reviews such interactions at a variety of spatial scales ranging from vegetation gradients across entire floodplains from hillslope to river channel, to the local influences of bank vegetation and in-channel accumulations of woody debris.
10.2307/2997738|Greenhouse experiments were conducted to study the response of Alnus incana to a variety of water table treatments in two different sediment types from the Drac and Isere Rivers in the Rhone River Basin, France. The aim was to establish which water regimes promoted greatest growth rates following germination. The apparatus used (known as a `rhizopod') consists of a central water well connected to sixteen soil-filled tubes of 1.2 m height. Design modifications included a pump system attached to each rhizopod allowing automatic and different water-table drawdown rates to be applied, and insertion of tensiometers to monitor soil suctions during the experiment. The drawdown rates applied to the five rhizopods used in the first experiment were: 3 cm/day; 3 cm/day + weekly application of 1 cm rainfall; 1 cm / day; 0.5 cm/day; and 0 cm/day. The highest growth rates were measured in well-drained sandy loams experiencing water level decline rates of 1 cm/day and 3 cm/day. These high growth rates correspond with soil suction values of between 80 and 110 centimetres of water. Lowest growth rates were experienced in soils remaining wet for more than 7 continuous days or in coarse sandy and gravelly soils which experienced water level decline rates of  1 cm/day.
10.2307/2997732|Spatial variations of flow are described and explained within the forested margins of three Rhone river tributaries during floods that occurred in 1992, 1993 and 1994. Observations were made on the scale of riparian forest corridors with cross-sectional analysis, and also on the scale of vegetation units located in the upstream reaches of floodplain channels using a 4000 m<sup>2</sup> sampling plot. The study of floodplain cross-sections does not always confirm relationships between flow depth and altitude or distance from the sampling point to the active channel. Orientation of flow slope varies too much from one site to another and often within each site. Water can flow from the river channel into the forest and vice versa. Floodplain channels characterized by a flow depth higher than flow depths observed in neighbouring forests laterally supply their margins. On the vegetation patches of the Mollon site (Ain river), flood overflows are affected by a line of coarse woody debris (CWD) which changes location from year to year. Thus, position, orientation and form of floodplain microchannels varied from one year to the next. Floodplain vegetation can be described as a patchwork influenced by overbank flows, which are in turn affected by floodplain topography, vegetation hydraulic roughness, and by the supply and orientation of CWD. An interactive relationship thus exists between discharge and the forest. This relationship gives rise to a great variety of biogeomorphological processes which may be interpreted as pertinent indicators of the lateral connectivity of forested floodplain rivers.
10.2307/2997780|A single male Chymomyza procnemoides, Wheeler, a drosophilid fly native to North America was captured in a forest near Budapest, Hungary in 1990 (Papp, 1992). It was among a group of four other Chymomyza Czerny species, including a second Nearctic Chymomyza species, C. amoena (Loew). Chymomyza amoena was first reported in Europe in 1975 and has spread rapidly. The ecology and behaviour of these two Nearctic species are compared to assess the probability that C. procnemoides will become established and expand its range in the Old World.
