41712005|In 1968 and 1973 in southwestern Idaho, 275 Uta stansburiana were collected. Uta occupies low hills with rocky outcrops and flat sparse vegetation consisting of the following shrubs: Artemisia tridentata, Grayia spin osa, Atriplex confertifolia, Chrysothamnus nauseosus, and Atriplex canescens. Emergence from hibernation occurs from mid-March to early April and the first yolked follicles appear in early April, with oviducal eggs present in late April. Testicular cycle begins with the emergence of males, and spermatozoa are produced from April through July. Uta reaches sexual maturity in one year at a SVL of 40.0 mm in males and 43 mm in females. Overall clutch size is 3.75 eggs (1-2 clutches per year). Fat body size at emergence is not known, but what is present shows a decline in males and females until July, when a substantial increase occurs. Sex ratios are about 1:1 in all months and seasons except June 1968, according to chi-square analysis.
41712758|In both field and greenhouse studies, cyanobacteria and cyanolichens of cold-temperate deserts often enhance growth and essential element uptake by associated herbs. That effect is associated with better seedling establishment and larger seedlings. The following are possible mechanisms for these effects: (1) the microbiota concentrate essential elements in available forms in soil surface layers, (2) the microbial surface covers are usually darker colored than the soil itself and produce warmer soils during cool seasons when soil water is most available, (3) the gelatinous sheaths of several cyanobacterial genera common on alkaline deserts contain chelating compounds, and (4) conditions that favor persistent microbial growths on soil surfaces also favor maintenance of larger populations of microorganisms that form mycorrhizal and/or rhizosheath associations with seed plants. There is evidence that associated animals maybe nutritionally benefited by the enhanced mineral content of forage plants growing in well-developed cyanobacterial crusts.
41712853|June sucker (Chasmistes liorus) spawned in the Provo River, Utah, over a 2-wk period in early June during both 1987 and 1988. Emergent larvae emigrated from the river to Utah Lake over a 2-to 3-wk period. Drift into the lake peaked between 1200 and 0400. During daylight hours, emergent larvae tended to occur in pools. Peak emergence of larval drift was approximately 1.2 larvae/m during late June in 1987 and 1988. Recruitment failure of June sucker is not due to reproductive failure.
41711731|The least chub, Iotichthys phlegethontis (Cope), a relict fish in Utah, spawned successfully under laboratory conditions.
41711609|The floristic composition of Navajo National Monument is presented. The flora of the monument consists of 293 species of vascular plants, representing 177 genera and 66 families. The species are scattered throughout 12 plant communities found within the monument. The flora is dominated by forbs (60 percent), followed by shrubs (16 percent), grasses (12 percent) and trees (5 percent). Betatakin canyon exhibits the greatest floristic richness with 223 species being represented and 123 species found only in that area. This is due primarily to two factors: (1) the greater variety of habitats available in the area, and (2) the much longer time the area has been protected from grazing and other manmade disturbance.
41712512|Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus columbianus) and Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) leks were compared in an area of sympatry in south central Wyoming. Sharp-tailed Grouse leks had more (P < .05) shrub cover, taller shrubs, more forb, grass, and shrub species, and less visibility than did Sage Grouse leks. Reduction in shrub cover or the diversity of herbaceous species could potentially have greater influence on the use of lek sites by Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse than by Sage Grouse in areas of sympatry in Wyoming.
41712804|Five species of Naididae (Ophidonais serpentina, Uncinais uncinata, Arcteonais lomondi, Dero (Dero) digitata, and Slavina appendiculata) and six species of Tubificidae (Tasserkidrilus harmani, Aulodrilus limnobins, A. pluriseta, A. pigueti, A. americanus, and Branchiura sowerbyi) are reported for the first time from Washington. T. harmani, A. pigueti, and A. americanus are also new to the fauna of the western United States. Descriptions and distribution ranges are provided for the new records. A checklist of the freshwater species occurring in Washington is presented.
41712069|Mesembrioxylon stokesi, sp. nov., from the Lower Cretaceous Cedar Mountain Formation of Utah is described and compared with other species of Mesembrioxylon. Mesembrioxylon stokesi is similar to Aptian members of this genus in having a combination of wood parenchyma and septate tracheids. This lends some support to the Cedar Mountain Formation being partially Aptian in age.
41712264|Nineteen study sites were established in areas infested with saltcedar bordering Utah Lake in central Utah. Saltcedar cover on the sites averaged 57% but varied widely from community to community. Seventeen soil factors were measured relative to the stands studied. Cover of saltcedar was regressed against the different soil factors, but no patterns were detected. Saltcedar functioned equally well at all levels of each gradient studied and appeared able to accommodate wide variations in all factors studied. It is suggested that saltcedar has evolved a general-purpose genotype that contributes to its being a vigorous and troublesome weed. Criteria as to why it is such an aggressive weed are listed.
41711341|The 736 scorpions representing nine species collected in Utah, listed in order of greatest to least abundance, are Vaejovis boreus, V. utahensis, Anuroctonus phaeodoctylus, V. confusus, Hadrurus spadix, V. becki, V. wupatkiensis, H. arizonensis and Centruroides sculpturatus. Centruroides sculpturatus, H. arizonensis, V. becki, V. confusus and V. wupatkiensis are reported from Utah for the first time. Vaejovis boreus is the most widely distributed of the Utah scorpions. Vaejovis boreus and V. confusus occur in both the Great Basin and the Colorado River Basin. Centruroides sculpturatus, Hadrurus arizonensis, H. spadix, V. wupatkiensis, and V. utahensis occur only in the Colorado River Basin, whereas Anuroctonus phaeodactylus and V. becki are confined to the Great Basin. Anuroctonus phaeodactylus, V. boreus and V. confusus occur from the southern to the northern border of the state. Both males and females were taken from May through October, with greatest numbers in May, June, and July. Females were taken in greater numbers than males. This may be related to their mating habits during the collecting periods, and does not necessarily indicate other than a 1:1 ratio in normal populations. Morphological variations associated with distribution were distinguishable in two of the species collectedAnuroctonus phaeodactylus and Vaejovis boreus. The mean and standard error computed for the carapace, preabdomen, postabdomen, and telson on these two species indicate a significant morphological variation in the size of the preabdomen between the northern and southern populations.
41713118|Most ornithological literature for Utah reports the status of the Merlin (Falco columbarius) as rare or scarce. Only the most recently published checklists (Behle and Perry 1975, Behle et al. 1985) record it as uncommon. Likewise, a 1998 printed checklist (Utah Ornithological Society 1998) lists it as uncommon. Also misrepresented in the literature are the status and distribution of the 3 rather distinct subspecies, each of which occupies dissimilar habitats during the breeding season. We made random observations of Merlins in northern Utah beginning in the 1950s and then studied them continuously between 1992 and 1997 in Utah County, Utah. During the 1992-1997 period, we were able to clearly allocate 95 males and 76 females to subspecies, including within our count 58 falcons trapped (some fitted with radio telemetry). The winter habitat in which they occurred was categorized as either urban (mainly dense residential area) or rural (agricultural lands, dairy farms, or scattered homes). There was a statistically significant ( < 0.001) difference in habitat use, with the boreal forest-breeding F. c. columbarius frequenting urban areas 68% of the time, and prairie parkland-breeding F. c. richardsonii frequenting rural habitats 78% of the time.
41712270|Petrified wood specimens from the Dakota Formation of Utah are here described as Agathoxylon lemonii . This new species is characterized by having distinct growth rings, araucarian tracheary pitting, resin plates or plugs in its tracheids, abundant axial parenchyma, low uniseriate rays and 14 small, slightly bordered pits with circular to oval included apertures per crossfield. This is the first report of petrified wood from the Dakota Formation of the western United States and the first record of Agathoxylon from North America.
41711525|The genus Stenogonum Nutt. (Polygonaceae) is reestablished and distinguished from Eriogonum Michx. with which it has been synonymized since 1853. The genus, as outlined here, differs from Eriogonum in having two whorls of three foliaceous bracts surrounding the flowers instead of the normal, united tubular involucre. Stenogonum contains two species, S. flexum and S. salsuginosum; they are restricted primarily to the Colorado Plateau of Wyoming southward through eastern Utah and western Colorado to northwestern New Mexico and adjacent northern Arizona. Both species are illustrated and their respective ranges mapped.
41712134|Important bee species inhabiting the study area are listed, including those observed and collected foraging on Astragalus monoensis, a California rare plant. The significance of each species as a potential pollinator is assessed, based on frequency of occurrence in collecting, observed and published host plant records, and morphology. Three pollinator categories are proposed: observed and/or collected on the plant, probable visitors, and possible visitors. New host plant records for these species are listed. Current sheep grazing practices in the A. monoensis habitat endanger pollinators in four ways: (1) destruction of potential nest sites, (2) destruction of existing nests and contents, (3) direct trampling of adult bees, and (4) removal of food resources. Exposure of the major bee species to each of these factors is assessed utilizing experimental data and published information.
41712452|Measurements taken at three-year intervals between 1977 and 1985 of channel morphology and vegetation cover between sections inside and outside a cattle exclosure showed that channels increased in depth and width on all plots. Tree canopy cover decreased significantly between 1977 and 1985, but changes in density of trees and shrubs and herbaceous cover were small. Exclusion of cattle use did not prevent channel erosion or deterioration of vegetation; rather, changes were attributed to a wildfire in the headwaters and subsequent storm events that temporarily upset the dynamic equilibrium of the stream.
41712727|Southwestern Idaho desert shrub-bunchgrass rangeland is being invaded by fire-prone exotic annuals that permanently dominate the landscape following wildfires. This study was undertaken to describe diets of Townsends ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendii idahoensis) at four study sites with varying degrees of exotic annual invasion to determine if the squirrels could utilize high proportions of exotic annuals in their diets. Townsends ground squirrels were collected in March and May of 1987 and 1988, and stomach contents were analyzed using a microhistological technique. Grasses comprised 37-87% of Townsends ground squirrel diets at the four sites. Native species, especially Sandbergs bluegrass (Poa secunda), winterfat (Ceratoides hnata), big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) and six-weeks fescue (Vulpia octqflora) constituted 7-96% $\left( {\bar x = 47.2\% } \right)$ of the diet, whereas exotic species, especially cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), tumbleweed (Salsola iberica), and tansymustards (Descurainia spp.) made up 4-68% $\left( {\bar x = 48.0\% } \right)$ of the diet. At each site 2-4 species comprised > 90% of the diet. There was no apparent correlation between the importance values of exotic species at a site and their importance in Townsends ground squirrel diets.
41711737|Ten individuals from each of four tree species were selected, and their associated understory and adjacent open-area communities were sampled for both environmental and vegetational parameters, including light intensity, pH, litter depth, soil depth, and percentages of exposed rock, litter cover, living cover, shrubs, forbs, grasses, and annuals. The four tree species were ponderosa pine, Rocky Mountain juniper, Gambel oak, and snowbrush ceanothus. The study site was in the lower Uinta Mountains about 10 miles east of Kamas, Utah. Correlations among the various biotic and abiotic parameters were examined. The interplay of these factors in differentiating the understory and open-area communities is discussed.
41712077|The county by county distribution of the tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) and night snake (Hypsiglena torquata) in Idaho from previous reports is presented. This is augmented and expanded from recent findings.
41716187|A native California perennial grassland was sampled for grasshopper populations. The grassland is managed for the preservation of the native perennial bunchgrass, Nassetta pulchra Hitch. Grasshopper density, biomass, diversity, and richness were measured from July 1993 to October 1994. Average density of all grasshoppers was 2.30 hoppers/m (0.66 s) for 1994 (June through August). Overall forage consumed for 1994 was 140 kg/ha, suggesting that grasshopper populations exist at economically damaging levels. Grasshoppers do not appear in the grasslands until late spring, after annual grasses have set seed. Biomass of grasshoppers peaks in July when adults are predominant. Both grasshopper density and biomass were higher in 1993 than in 1994, and a total of 5 species were found throughout the study. Melanoplus sanguinipes Fabricus dominated the acridid communities and accounted for more than 95% of the individuals.
41713134|Our objective was to clarify the effects of 10 identified variables on snipe activity (winnowing and calling) by demonstrating correlations between the variables and snipe activity. We monitored snipe at 2 study areas in southwestern Montana and northwestern Wyoming at all hours of the day and night during the 1996 and 1997 breeding seasons. We measured 10 variables at established points along transects that were situated through the middle of each study site (8 study sites total). A total of 1200 monitoring periods were conducted throughout the course of this study. Effects of each factor on snipe activity were considered by examining general trends in each factor's graphical representation. Our results identified 6 factors (season, time of day, lunar cycle, solar radiation, wind speed, and temperature) that are associated with snipe activity. Snipe were most active early in the breeding season during 2 twilight periods during the first and last quarters of the lunar cycle. Low solar radiation levels, wind speeds, and temperatures were also most ideal conditions for snipe activity. All 6 factors should be considered when attempting to detect, survey, or estimate snipe populations.
41711813|A spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) was taken at Mickey Springs, 28 km northeast of Andrews, Harney County, Oregon. This represents a 225 km range extension and a new record for Oregon.
41712696|Late Quaternary-age arthropods were recovered from dry cave deposits and packrat middens located in the Grand Canyon, Canyonlands, and Glen Canyon region of the Colorado Plateau. This Quaternary data resource has not been analyzed before from the Colorado Plateau national parks. Radiocarbon dates on the various deposits containing arthropods range from 1510 to 30,660 yr B.P. The fossil assemblages yielded 57 identified taxa of insects, arachnids, and millipedes, including 15 taxa taken to the species level. The information from the fossil insect record of the Colorado Plateau is not yet sufficiently detailed to permit precise paleoenvironmental reconstructions. However, preliminary conclusions suggest a cooler, moister climatic regime during the late Wisconsin glacial and a mosaic of vegetation types, such as grassland and shrubby communities, unlike the present vegetation at the localities.
41711436|Behavior and activity of the rodent bot fly, Cuterebra tenebrosa Coquillett, was studied at a natural aggregation site in central Washington. Daily flight activity extended from 1700 hr to 2030 hr (PDT) beginning in mid-July of 1970 and 1971. The peak of flight activity, in August, was followed by a decline in activity through September. Male flies aggregated on the vertical faces of basalt cliffs, where they awaited females. Daily activity reached a peak at temperatures of 30-35 C. Eggs were laid in rock crevices without regard to the proximity of Neotoma wood rat hosts. Developing fly pupae were found in litter in wood rat tunnels in basalt cliffs.
41712397|Benthic macroinvertebrates were collected during the ice-free season (1 July-20 October) over a five-year period from a chain of alpine lakes and intervening streams in the Green Lakes Valley (3,347-3,615 m) in Boulder County, Colorado. A list of taxa was developed for 1981 and 1982, with taxonomic additions for 1983-1985 and comments on community structure, seasonal and elevational changes in species abundance, and noteworthy occurrences. A total of 111 taxa was collected, of which 84% occurred in streams, 58% being exclusively lotie. Dipterans composed 73-81% of total abundance in streams. The littoral benthic zone of lakes was predominantly trichopterans and dipterans, 44-60% and 24-39%, respectively. Numerically important organisms in various lakes and streams were chironomids, simuliids (particularly Metacnephia), oligochaetes, and the bivalve Pisidium casertanum. An isolated lake and its outlet stream, with unique characteristics, were the sole locations of Gammarus lacustris (Amphipoda) and Glossiphonia complanata (Hirudinea). Manipulated lowering of a lake along the main drainage exposed abundant and luxuriant colonies of the bryozoan Fredericella sultana. This organism was found on 43% of all rocks sampled, a preponderance heretofore unknown for this, or any, ectoproct in alpine or arctic lakes.
41711644|Additional specimens of Eridiphas slevini from Baja California del Sur are reported and discussed and the first specimen from Baja California del Norte is reported. Specimens from San Marcos Island are distinguished from mainland stock with the description of the new subspecies E. s. marcosensis.
41711622|The morphometry of four Idaho species of Cottidae were compared. Pectoral ray counts allowed separation of Cottus beldingi and C. confusus from C. bairdi and C. rhotheus but not from each other. Preopercular armature also allowed identification of the same two groups of two species. Palatine tooth development generally allowed separation of each species as did body prickle development. Body ratios involving caudal peduncle depth allowed separation of C. rhotheus and C. bairdi. Development of lateral lines allowed differentiation of C. rhotheus from the other three species. A key was developed based on the combination of characters studied.
41712384|The ability to measure leaf area and biomass on a plant community basis has many important ecological applications. These include quantification of gas exchange, use of water resources on the site, nutrient pools, and construction of models simulating production and resource allocation. To test a nondestructive technique for estimating leaf area and leaf biomass of western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis Hook.), sapwood area and basal circumference were evaluated as predictors of total leaf biomass and leaf area. Nineteen trees, ranging in size from 9.0 to 263 cm in circumference, were destructively sampled. The entire leaf biomass was harvested and measured, and regression equations were developed. Both sapwood area and basal circumference significantly (P < .01) correlated with projected leaf area and leaf biomass (r values = 0.98).
41712421|Aquatic macroinvertebrate populations inhabiting reaches of a stream within areas excluded from livestock grazing for a decade were markedly different from those in grazed areas when density, biomass, biotic condition indices, and mean chi square indices of the two populations were compared. Increased densities and biomasses of more tolerant forms of macroinvertebrates were observed in grazed reaches. Because pretreatment data were not available, differences in macroinvertebrate populations and relative tolerances of taxa in grazed and ungrazed areas could be as easily attributed to linear changes in stream habitat as to removal of domestic livestock. Results of this study have implications for the design of future research on the effects of livestock grazing on stream environments and biota: (1) baseline/pretreatment information is prerequisite, and (2) the study should take a watershed (ecosystem) approach.
41712498|Snake Creek Burial Cave (SCBC), east central Nevada, is a unique paleontological deposit. The cave is the first natural trap excavated in the Great Basin and one of the few localities describing a valley-bottom community. The recovery of extinct Camelops sp. (camel) and Equus spp. (horse), in addition to radiometrie dates, indicates at least some of the deposits to be of late Pleistocene age. Eight mustelid species have been identified from SCBC, including three species not previously reported from the late Rancholabrean of the Great Basin: Mustela nigripes (black-footed ferret), M. nivalis (least weasel), and Guio guio (wolverine). A review of late Pleistocene deposits indicates that there are more species of mustelids recovered from Snake Creek Burial Cave than from any other locality in the Great Basin.
41711591|A nesting population of Ferruginous Hawks (Buteo regalis) at the eastern edge of the Great Basin in west-central Utah was studied for three nesting seasons, 1972-1974, during which time a significant decline in jackrabbit numbers occurred. The total number of hawks and nesting pairs varied throughout the study. In 1972, 16 pairs occupied territories and only 1 pair failed to nest. By 1974, however, only 5 pairs and 2 single birds occupied territories. The number of young fledged ranged from 31 in 1972 to 3 in 1974. The nesting phenology of the Ferruginous Hawk and the reproductive period of black-tailed jackrabbits are clearly correlated. Of the jackrabbit remains collected from hawk nests, 90 percent were from rabbits younger than 13 weeks. The decline in hawk numbers is thought to be directly correlated with a drop in the jackrabbit population.
41711823|Reproduction in L. pyromelana infralabialis Tanner is reported. Eggs were measured and weighed and incubation time and hatching reported. Hatchlings were measured and weighed, and feeding was observed.
41712616|The status of the name Oxytropis borealis DC. is reviewed as it applies to North American plants. A summary of the infraspecific taxa is presented, and several nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Oxytropis borealis DC. var. hudsonica (Greene) Welsh; O. borealis var. sulphurea (Pors.) Welsh; O. borealis DC. var. viscida (Nutt.) Welsh. One new taxon, Oxytropis borealis DC. var. australis Welsh, is described from Utah and Nevada, USA.
41713005|Tylobolus utahensis Chamberlin, the only representative of the genus occurring in the southwestern deserts, ranges from central Inyo County, California, to the western periphery of Kane County, Utah. This distribution roughly corresponds to the northern limit of the Mojave Desert ecosystem and is also shown by the milliped Piedolus utus Chamberlin (Spirobolida: Atopetholidae) and the centipede Theatops posticus (Say) (Scolopendromorpha: Cryptopidae). Tyhbolus fredericksoni Causey, ostensibly from Douglas County, Kansas, is designated a "nomen dubium" and disregarded pending collection of fresh material; Narceus gordanus (Chamberlin) is deleted from South Carolina and Tennessee. Tybbolus uncigerus (Wood) occurs north of the Columbia River in Klickitat County, Washington, and Hiltonius thebanus Chamberlin is referrable to Onychelus Cook in the family Atopetholidae.
41712692|We have adapted techniques developed for the extraction of DNA from formalin-fixed, paraffin-imbedded human tissues for use on preserved fish tissues. DNA was successfully extracted and the d-loop region of mitochondrial DNA was amplified with the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The sequences of the amplified DNA from preserved and modern samples were identical. These techniques were also applied to fin tissue treated with a variety of preservatives. Extraction of DNA from ethyl alcohol and air-dried fin tissues gave yields equivalent to those from frozen tissues. Extraction of DNA from preserved museum specimens of rare or extinct taxa could significantly increase the scope of systematic and phylogenetic studies. Similarly, extraction of DNA from fin tissues provides a nonlethal sampling strategy allowing biochemical systematic analyses of rare or endangered taxa.
41712927|Trachytes kaliszewskii, n. sp., is described from the Great Basin, Utah, USA. SEM photography illustrates morphological detail. An annotated list is included of currently recognized species of the genus Trachytes, with comments on their distribution and habitat characteristics.
41712668|This paper addresses how habitat manipulations in a black sagebrush (Artemisia nova) -dominated area, John's Valley of southern Utah, affected resident desert rodent populations. Rodents studied included the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus), Great Basin pocket mouse (Perognathus parvus), sagebrush vole (Lagurus curtatus), Orel's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii), and least chipmunk (Eutamias minimus). The experimental design involved analyses of treatment and control (nontreatment) plots rather than pre-and posttreatment of all plots. Habitat manipulations emphasized cutting of shrubs (rotobeating), treatment of plants with a herbicide (2,4-D), and reseeding with a mixture of grasses, forbs, and shrubs. Posttreatment trapping indicated the deer mouse was the most abundant rodent in treatment and control plots. Data indicate the prescribed habitat treatments had no significant negative affects on the deer mouse demes on the control or treatment plots. Habitat treatments may have negatively impacted recruitment in pocket mice. Least chipmunks were not captured in plots treated by rotobeating. Our habitat manipulations may have contributed to interspecific competition in this rodent community through the reduction of both food and cover.
41712882|Seven fish species were found in the Bitter Creek drainage of southwest Wyoming, but only speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus), flannelmouth sucker (Catostomus latipinnis), and mountain sucker (Catostomus platyrhynchus) were indigenous. No relationships were found between fish standing stocks and habitat features, but species richness was related to elevation and stream width. No fish were found above an elevation of 2192 m. Only the most downstream study reach had more than three species present. Two indigenous species, speckled dace and mountain sucker, and a nonnative species, fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas), were predominant fishes in the drainage. These three species withstand intermittent stream flows that are common in the drainage.
41711459|Distributional data are presented for 30 species of New Mexico Plecoptera including 8 species new to the state list. Previously, many of the included species were known from a single location in the state. A revised checklist of 46 confirmed species is presented for the state.
41712370|Allelic variation at 21 of 39 electrophoretically resolved enzyme loci was used to examine patterns of geographic differentiation and population structure in six allopatric samples of Eutamias dorsalis. Coefficients of genetic similarity for paired combinations of E. dorsalis samples ranged from 0.955 to 0.975, except for one population that was 0.900. Conservative genie divergence among five populations is proposed to be the result of relatively recent isolation events. High positive FIS values and chi-square analyses confirm a significant excess of homozygotes at several loci at the five localities for which sample sizes were statistically adequate. This may be partly attributable to inbreeding, a Wahlund effect, linkage disequilibrium, posttranslational modification, or some combination of these; but at present some of these alternatives cannot be excluded in favor of a single explanation. Some samples were collected across altitudinal gradients of over 800 m, suggesting that a Wahlund effect may be the most likely explanation for low levels of heterozygosity in these populations.
41712018|Twenty-two species of winter emerging Plecoptera were collected in New Mexico from 1979 to 1982. Distributional records are given for 13 that are new state records, including 2 new species, and 9 previously reported species.
41712376|Avian use of scoria outcrop habitats was compared to use of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.)/grassland habitats. Outcrop habitats exhibited higher species richness, total population density, density of lark sparrows (Chondestres grammacus), and density of rock wrens (Salpinctes obsoletos). Western meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta) and vesper sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) were more abundant in sagebrush/grassland habitats than in scoria outcrops. Habitat relationship models indicated that the unique plant community and structural diversity provided by the scoria outcrops were correlated with increased avian use.
41712302|Sequence and timing of epiphyseal fusion of the postcranial skeleton of Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis canadensis) was examined. Ages up to four years can be determined. Slight differences were found in the time of fusion between males and females. These do not prevent determining the age of a skeleton within a period of two or three months, an accuracy comparable to existing techniques that involve tooth eruption schedules, horn annulations, or incisor cemental annulations.
41711675|Ecological and community relationships of 10 different plant communities in the Uinta Basin, Utah, where Eriogonum corymbosum was found to grow were studied and described. Each community was sampled to determine the amount of ground cover, percent composition, frequency, and density of participating species. Physical site factors, viz., soil texture, total soluble salts, pH, cation exchange capacity, and amounts of calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium were determined. The 10 communities were compared to determine the degree of similarity between them. Correlations between individual plant species and measurable characteristics of the community were attempted. Evidence is presented that the distributional patterns of some species are related to these measured characteristics. Eriogonum corymbosum, Chenopodium leptophyllum, Atriplex confertifolia, Stipa comata, Artemisia tridentata, and Agropyron smithii showed correlation to both vegetational and edaphic factors of the community. Total vegetative cover increased from desert to mountain in the Uinta Basin. As the vegetative cover increased, soil depth also increased. Eriogonum corymbosum decreased in importance in the higher elevation communities. Eriogonum corymbosum was studied taxonomically, which demonstrated the presence of a previously undescribed variety. It is suggested that E. corymbosum var. corymbosum, found generally in the desert areas of the basin, is composed of a series of ecotypes that inhabit shallow soils and prefer communities that show high degrees of disturbance, little competition, fairly high levels of soluble salts in the soil, and are found at elevations below 5500 feet. Eriogonum corymbosum var. erectum, on the other hand, does best in communities above 6000 feet that show less disturbance than the desert areas, have deeper soils, and low levels of soluble salts.
41712990|Observational data from spring and fall 1996 and spring 1997 for the region near Muleg, Baja California Sur, Mexico, are summarized in tabular form. In addition, new or noteworthy data for 17 species are annotated to provide clarification of previously published records. A uniquely plumaged bird, too far south for a female American Robin (Turdus migratorius) in basic plumage and too far north for the endemic "San Lucas" Robin (Turdus migratonus conflnis) and intermediate in coloration between the two, was recorded. Range expansions are documented for several species including European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris), Anna s Hummingbird (Calypte anna), Western Meadowlark (SturneUa neglecta), White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chichi), and White-fronted Goose (Anser albifrons). Least Grebes (Tachybaptus dominicus), a species of concern which is apparently declining in numbers, and Belding's Yellowthroat (Geothlypis beldingi), a species endemic to Baja California Sur, were observed in the freshwater marsh during all 3 study periods.
41712549|The population dynamics of litter and foliage arthropods in undisturbed and intensively managed sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) and bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata) habitats in southeastern Wyoming were assessed by the measurement of density and the determination of indices of diversity, richness, and evenness. Brush management consisted of either mowing to a 20-cm stubble or applying the herbicide 2,4-D butyl ester. A total of 63 arthropod species were found in foliage and 150 species in litter. Mowing and herbicide applications resulted in significant changes in the density of 16 of the 46 major arthropod foliage species and 56 of the 70 major litter species. Diversity increased, except in Hymenoptera and Coleoptera, in both mowed and herbicide-treated foliage. In foliage, richness generally increased in all orders following mowing, and evenness tracked diversity. In litter, the diversity of Coleoptera decreased following mowing and herbicide application in Collembola, Homoptera, and Diptera. Evenness followed diversity in trends in both treatments. Soil arthropods were absent in this habitat before and after treatments.
41713111|The overwhelming majority of bird species in the Great Basin region are found in riparian habitats. However, most previous research on the impact of change in habitat condition through degradation on these bird communities failed to account for the large intersite differences in both habitat type and extent of degradation. We examined songbird communities in 4 riparian habitat types (meadows, willow-, birch-, and aspen-dominated forest stands) during summers 1994 (last year of a 7-yr drought) and 1995 (following the 6th wettest winter recorded) in the Toiyabe Mountain Range of central Nevada. Habitat degradation significantly influenced bird species richness in riparian areas, but the impact was dependent upon habitat type. While meadow bird communities were affected adversely by habitat degradation, with significant drops in species richness on degraded sites, bird species richness in forested riparian habitats was consistently greater on degraded sites. Data for the 6 most common species seen during our study indicated that degradation may have influenced distribution of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia), but habitat type was the best predictor of abundance for House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon), Red-naped Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus nuchalis), Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus), and Brewer's Blackbirds (Euphagus cyanocephalus). Avian species diversity in meadow habitats may be linked to moisture levels during specific times of the year. Diversity increased during the pre-migratory period of the dry year (1994) when compared with that of the breeding season, but was unchanged in the wet year (1995).
41712656|Of the 13 lakes in the central Wasatch Mountains with tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) populations, salamander mass mortalities occurred in four seepage lakes that experienced extensive lowering of the water levels during the summer. The largest of these lakes, the oligotrophic Desolation Lake, was studied to determine the cause of the mortality phenomenon. The recurrent annual mass mortality involved both breeding adults and young-of-the-year. Rate kinetics suggest that mortality rate doubles with a fivefold increase in the number of aquatic young salamanders. The proximate cause of the mass mortality was identified as a bacterium, Acinetobacter sp. Desolation Lake and a seepage lake that did not experience the mass mortality were studied for the presence of Acinetobacter. Both lakes experienced two bacteria cycles: the first in early summer involved gram-positive bacteria, and the second in late summer involved gram-negative bacteria (mostly coliform bacteria and Acinetobacter). The mass mortalities were associated with the late-summer gram-negative bacterial bloom, and Acinetobacter was found in large numbers in Desolation Lake. Algae, as well as other photosynthetic plants, were not present in large numbers. Since these lakes are growth-limited with respect to nitrogen and not with respect to phosphate, and since Desolation Lake had extensive lowering of the lake level during the summer, the biological cycle of the lake is proposed to be due to atmospheric and sheep-produced nitrogen products within the watershed. In this unstable lake system, bacteria are primarily responsible for incorporation of nitrogen in the food chain. The timing of the cyclical events depends on total winter precipitation.
41711850|Stems bearing egg masses of the western tent caterpillar (Malacosoma californicum), collected in Arizona and northern New Mexico during 19771980, had mean diameters between 2.9 and 4 mm. Mean lengths of the egg masses were consistently between 11 and 14 mm.
41712785|Cover types and vegetative characteristics (e.g., grasses, forbs, shrubs) used by female Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) during summer were compared with available habitat on two study areas in southeastern Oregon. Broodless hens, which constituted 114 of the 125 (91%) radio-marked hens studied, selected big (Artemisia tridentata subspp.) and low sagebrush (A. arbuscula) cover types at both study areas. At Hart Mountain, broodless hens did not select specific vegetative characteristics within cover types. However, at Jackass Creek, forb cover was greater (P = .004) at broodless hen sites than at random locations. Differences in habitat use by broodless hens between study areas were associated with differences in forb availability. Broodless hens used a greater diversity of cover types than hens with broods. Broodless hens gathered in flocks and remained separate from but near hens with broods during early summer. By early July broodless hens moved to meadows while hens with broods remained in upland habitats.
41711577|Four Texas Spiny Softshell Turtles (Trionyx spiniferus emoryi) were collected near St. George, Utah. This represents a range extension of 65 km northward into Utah from Nevada.
41711724|Gila boraxobius is a dwarf species of cyprinid endemic to a thermal lake in southeastern Oregon. Despite a relatively depauperate fauna and flora in the lake, 24 food items were found in intestines of G. boraxobius. Ten of the 24 foods, including six insects, were of terrestrial origin. The relative importance of food items fluctuated seasonally. Diatoms, chironomid larvae, microcrustaceans, and dipteran adults were the primary foods during spring. In summer, diatoms decreased and terrestrial insects increased in importance. During autumn important foods were terrestrial insects, chironomid larvae, and diatoms. Diatoms and microcrustaceans increased in importance during winter. Chironomid larvae were of importance in winter, when the importance of terrestrial food items decreased substantially. Similar food habits were observed between juveniles and adults, except that adults consumed more gastropods and diatoms and juveniles consumed more copepods and terrestrial insects. Gila boraxobius feeds opportunistically with individuals commonly containing mostly one food item. Fish typically feed by picking foods from soft bottom sediments or from rocks. However, fish will feed throughout the water column or on the surface if food is abundant there. Gila boraxobius feeds throughout the day, with a peak in feeding activity just after sunset. A daily ration of 11.1 percent body weight was calculated for the species during June. A comparison of food habits among G. boraxobius and populations of G. alvordensis during the summer shows that all are opportunistic in feeding, but that G. boraxobius relies more heavily on terrestrial foods.
41712877|Carbon isotope discrimination () was measured for leaves of Atriplex confertifolia along a salinity gradient in northern Utah. Over this gradient, the variation of  values was high for a C species, and the  values were positively correlated with salinity in both years of the study. Of the possible explanations for this pattern, the  results are consistent with the notion that salinity induces an increase in the bundle sheath leakiness of these C plants.
41712083|Many bristlecone pines in the White Mountains, California, are members of multistem clumps. We propose that these clumps have arisen by multiple germinations from seed caches of Clark's Nutcracker, as occurs in several other pine species. The commonness of nutcrackers and their caching of singleleaf pinyon seeds in the study area provide supporting evidence. Other vertebrates appear unlikely to be responsible for the stem clumps. Seed burial may be required to establish regeneration on these adverse sites where bristlecone pine attains great longevity.
41712116|The Common Loon, White Pelican, Double-crested Cormorant, recurvirostrids, and most grebes, waterfowl, gulls, and terns have become more abundant in Uintah County, Utah, since 1937 (Twomey 1942) due to the establishment of Pelican Lake and adjacent water bodies and the ponds and marshes at Ouray National Wildlife Refuge and Pariette Wetlands Wildlife Management Area. The incidence of herons, egrets, thrushes, nuthatches, and icterids has generally remained about the same since 1937. Diurnal raptors have largely declined in abundance in the desert region of Uintah County since Twomey's (1942) study. Plovers, sandpipers, phalaropes, and the White-faced Ibis were generally less common in 1977-1982 than in 1937, perhaps chiefly due to their displacement from wintering grounds by human population expansion and agricultural and industrial development. The incidence of owl species remains constant. Most flycatchers, swallows, warblers, vireos, orioles, and emberizids have diminished in number since 1937, probably because of the shrinkage of their winter habitats in Latin America and the southwestern U.S. The Blue Grosbeak and Black-throated Sparrow were not recorded in Uintah County in 1937 but were found there during this study and may represent a range extension northward since 1937. The Blue-gray Gnatcatcher is more common now than in 1937 due to the northward extension of its range. The Starling and Rock Dove and, more recently, the Common Grackle, Great-tailed Grackle, and Cattle Egret have invaded Uintah County due to the expansion of their ranges. It is not clear why the Pine Siskin, House Finch, and most corvids are presently less common than in 1937.
41712539|An extant, indigenous desert tortoise population is reported from the cape region of Baja California Sur, Mexico. This population is described and figured as a new species, Xerobates lepidocephalus, distinct from all other North American tortoises including Xerobates agassizii, X. berlandieri, Gopherus flavomarginatus, and G. polyphemus. Xerobates lepidocephalus, or the scaly-headed tortoise, whose range is known only from an extremely small area in the gulf-drainage mountains just south of La Paz, appears to be a peninsular relict whose closest living relative is probably X. agassizii. However, carpal bone affinities connote a close relationship between X. lepidocephalus and the Oligocene species X. laticunea from Wyoming and Colorado, suggesting that the former species may be one of the more primitive contemporary tortoises of the Xerobates lineage. Such evidence indicates that X. lepidocephalus is not of vicariant origin resulting from the formation of the cape of Baja California. Scaly-headed tortoises likely ranged, and may yet be discovered, in other medium-elevation mountain ranges of the cape.
41711510|Metacercariae of Apatemon gracilis (Rudolphi 1819) (Trematoda: Strigeidae) were found to encyst primarily in the posterior half of their leech hosts (Helobdella stagnalis, Placobdella parasitica, Erpobdella punctata) in numbers of from 1 to 13 larvae per cyst. Presumably the posterior localization of these larvae in their leech hosts is determined by the host's behavior in response to cercarial penetration. It is possible also that leeches may become infected by ingesting snail tissues containing mature cercariae.
41712159|Vegetation patterns in relation to slope position were studied on four foothill knolls in the Castle Cliffs area of Washington County, Utah. Study plots were established at four different slope positions: ridge top, upper slope, lower slope, and floodplain. Exposed rock was highest on the ridge top; exposed soil was highest on the floodplain; soil depth increased downslope. Plant life form varied with respect to slope position. Grass, annuals, and cryptogamic crust cover was highest on the ridge top and shrubs were most prominent on the midslope. Forb cover gradually increased downslope. Succulents were restricted to the ridge top or floodplain. Species distribution was distinct and strongly correlated to slope position. Two sets of congeneric species showed strong patterns of niche separation. The vegetation of the slopes is highly distinct at the ridge top and floodplain and grades toward the midslope from both ends.
41712396|We conducted a greenhouse study in which 'Hobble Creek' mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana) seeds were planted at various depths in soil to determine the optimal planting depth. Results showed that the optimal planting depth is 5 mm or less.
41712197|A new genus, Stenolidia, and new species, S. magna (type species), are described and illustrated. Stenolidia from Guyana is the fifth genus in the tribe Tinobregmini and the third that has come to light since the tribe was revised in 1975.
41716172|On 5 July 1981, 13 adult Colorado squawfish were found in spawning condition at river mile 16.5 in the Yampa River, a major tributary to the Green River. An investigation was undertaken to quantitatively describe this section of the river to gain insights on the spawning requirements of this endangered species. The substrate at the suspected spawning site was cobble with large interstitial spaces devoid of organics, silts, or clays. It appeared that larvae of several fish species utilized these cobble areas and the associated voids. Diurnal sampling indicated that larval drift occurred between 0100 and 0125 hours. Substrate size also appeared to be a dominant factor in fish distribution. Feeding intensities of these fish corresponded to macroinvertebrate drift.
41712798|Burrows of small mammals can impact a variety of soil processes including organic turnover, aeration, and mineralization rates. The structure of burrows, depth, length, and complexity can influence the extent of the impact burrows have on soil processes. Soil properties, in turn, are thought to affect burrow structure. To increase our understanding of burrow-soil dynamics, we compared maximum depth, total volume, total length, volume: length ratio, and complexity of burrows of five small mammal species with bulk density and soil texture in multiple regression analyses. Burrows of Wyoming ground squirrels (Spermophilus elegans) were deeper, longer, and more complex as percentage of silt and clay increased and percentage of sand and bulk density decreased. Average maximum depth of montane vole (Microtus montanus) burrows increased as soils became sandier. Length and volume of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) burrows increased with increases in bulk density and percentage of clay. Volume, length, and complexity of kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii) burrows were greater in soils with higher amounts of clay and silt. Townsend's ground squirrel (Spermophilus townsendii) burrows did not appear to be affected by the soil properties measured.
41712780|In a greenhouse experiment, effects of nitrogen form and concentration on productivity and dry matter allocation differed between two species native to semiarid ecosystems of the Great Basin. Aboveground production of green surface area and of dry matter were consistently enhanced by increased nitrogen for the rhizomatous grass Elymus lanceolatus, but not for the bunchgrass Oryzopsis hymenoides. These differences were likely due to inherently low growth rates of O. hymenoides. Aboveground dry matter allocation also differed between the two species. O. hymenoides had more leaves per tiller with increased nitrogen, whereas leaf size but not number increased for E. lanceolatus. Furthermore, increases in tiller density with increased nitrogen for E. lanceolatus were almost three times greater than those for O. hymenoides. E. lanceolatus, but not O. hymenoides, was sensitive to the form of nitrogen supplied to the plants. When NH-N was the only form of nitrogen supplied, high concentrations of NH-N inhibited aboveground production of E. lanceolatus.
41711563|Beetles of Trypophloeus populi attacked green bark of unhealthy aspen (Populus tremuloides) and hastened the death of the tree. Beetles of Procryphalus mucronatus favored dead bark and were of little significance in the death of the aspen. These two beetle species were distinguished from each other by their primary galleries, eggs, larvae, larval mines, and mating behavior. In T. populi, there were three larval instars and one to one and one-half generations per year; only larvae overwintered, and the eggs of the first generation were present by mid-July. In P. mucronatus, there were two larval instars and one and one-half to two generations per year; both larvae and adults overwintered, and the first eggs of the new season were present by late May.
41712287|Named as new is Sclerocactus schlesseri Heil & Welsh. The taxon is described and its relationships discussed.
41712403|Occurrence of agonistic behavior patterns in Spermophilus beecheyi at a concentrated artificial food source was studied. Our data from 851 encounters are compared with previously published information from unmanipulated populations. Eight new behavior patterns (rump block, kick, forward shove, pounce, displacement grooming, circle fight, roll fight, and boxing fight) are described.
41711480|A five-year study of Belding ground squirrels was conducted at high altitude in the Sierra Nevada. Body weight and body length varied seasonally depending upon the fat depletiondeposition cycle, age, and sex. Adult males tended to be heavier arid longer than adult females, particularly in the last half of the active season. A similar pattern was present in yearlings. Yearling squirrels were often distinguishable from adults on the basis of body size. Mean body weights were greater in adults throughout the season, and mean body lengths were greater in adults through the first half of the season. Adults also had larger internal organs than yearlings at the beginning of the season. In liver and heart this difference was sustained. Sex ratios in adults and in yearlings were 1:1 but there was considerable spatial and temporal asymmetry in distribution of the sexes. Males tended to live in areas peripheral to lush meadows occupied by females and young.
41711661|Recent efforts to integrate phytoseiid predators in pest (mite) management programs for apples have been somewhat successful and economical in several fruit growing areas of North America. Convenient descriptions and reviews of the literature for species which have been collected from Utah are provided to stimulate further local work. Seven species of Amblyseius and five Typhlodromus are described (none new), with notes provided concerning their respective geographic distributions and biologies.
41712460|A synecological study of sagebrush-dominated rangelands was conducted on the Humboldt National Forest, northeastern Nevada, between 1983 and 1986. A total of 372 relatively undisturbed sites were sampled for both vegetation and soil parameters, with 35 grass, 39 shrub, and 140 forb species identified. Plant species production data were used to develop a hierarchical, floristic-based community type classification with TWINSPAN. Seventeen sagebrush community types were identified in this analysis and named by their dominant shrub and grass species. The dominant sagebrush species of the community types are Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (5 community types), A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis (3 community types), A. tridentata ssp. tridentata (2 community types), A. arbuscula (3 community types), A. nova (3 community types), and A. longiloba (1 community type). Multivariate analysis revealed that all community types contain significantly different plant species compositions. Shrub species are more effective in discriminating between community types than grass species, which, in turn, are more effective than forb species.
41711851|Ten fully stocked pinyon-juniper stands contained a total of 73 species in the understory, but the number of understory species in any one stand was moderately low (x = 20). On each stand, species of at least five different plant groups were present in the understory (shrub, perennial grass, perennial forb, annual grass, or annual forb). A perennial grass, Sandberg bluegrass (Poa sandbergii), and a group of annual forbs with relatively high cover and constancy among stands appeared best adapted to coexist with the pinyon-juniper overstory. The proportion of total plant cover was greater on tree-associated microsites (duff and transition) than in the interspace between trees because of the greater surface area of the former in most stands. The transition microsite was the most favorable for understory species and provided understory cover in disproportionately greater amounts than the area it occupied.
41711771|Antelope bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata) is a preferred browse species that is susceptible to decreases in population density due to fire. The reduction in density of this species due to fire was determined by sampling areas within and adjacent to the burn. The 1975 burn caused a significant reduction in the population density of bitterbrush. It was also determined that rate of growth was lower for plants within the burn.
41712953|Species-environment relationships were determined for filter-feeding macroinvertebrates from 55 Rocky Mountain stream sites to establish species distribution patterns. Species abundance and 20 environmental variables were measured at each site with species-environment relationships determined using canonical correspondence analysis and stepwise multiple regression. Results suggest that the distribution of several taxa was strongly related to upstream-downstream environmental gradients. Arctopsyche grandis abundance increased with stream size (width and depth) and decreased with increasing turbulence (Reynolds number). Brachycentrus abundance also increased with stream size (depth). Hydropsyche abundance increased with increasing baseflow. Parapsyche elsis abundance demonstrated negative correlation with depth, Froude number, and conductivity. Taxa followed previously reported patterns, partitioning habitat according to stream size. Arctopsyche grandis, Brachycentrus, and Hydropsyche were found in larger (3rd-to 6th-order) streams, while Parapsyche elsis was observed in small headwater (1st-and 2nd-order) streams. Other filter-feeding taxa such as Simulium, Pisidium, and ostracods exhibited little or no apparent habitat partitioning among stream sites.
41711554|Studies were undertaken to examine the degree of divergence in four populations of pika in Colorado. Separation of blood proteins was accomplished utilizing acrylamide-gel disc electrophoresis. Separate analyses of variance were carried out for the relative mobilities of two of the transferrins (designated RM and RM), the mean relative distance diflFerence of the two tranferrins (DM), and the density of the most prominent albumin () and transferrin () bands. Although the four populations were characterized by a general similarity of the gel patterns, both interpopulational and sexual variations were observed. Variations between the sexes had to do with the amounts of protein, not with differences in protein mobility. The only significant populational differences were found in reference to density and DM. The interpopulational differences may serve as an indicator of populational divergence that has not been indicated by standard morphological characters. The significant patterns of variation observed in the blood proteins of the four populations studied may reflect a lack of gene flow between isolated populations.
41713098|Triglochin maritima L. (arrow grass), an herbaceous perennial in the family Juncaginaceae, is widely distributed in inland and coastal salt marshes of North America Triglochin maritima seeds from a population growing in a salt marsh at Faust, Utah, were germinated at 4 temperature regimes (12-h night/12-h day, 515C, 525C, 1020C, and 1525C) and 5 salinities (0, 100, 200, 300, 400, and 500 mol m NaCl) to determine optimal conditions for germination and level of salt tolerance. Ungerminated seeds were returned to distilled water after 20 d to determine whether seeds could recover from salinity treatments. Maximum germination occurred in distilled water, and increases in NaCl concentration progressively inhibited seed germination. No seeds germinated at concentrations higher than 400 mol m NaCl. A temperature regime of low night (5C) and high day (25C) temperature yielded maximum germination; all other temperature regimes significantly inhibited seed germination relative to this optimum. Recovery of germination was highest at 525C and lowest at 515C. Recovery of seed germination when seeds were transferred to distilled water from salt solutions was highest at 525C (72%) for seeds exposed to the 500 mol m NaCl pretreatment and significantly reduced at other temperature regimes. The recovery germination response indicates a synergistic inhibitory interaction effect on germination when seeds were exposed to high salinities at suboptimal thermoperiods.
41712851|Experimental manipulations and observations in one population of Gentiana newberryi Gray flowers over 2 years showed significant variation in seed production relative to pollinator and soil water availability. When pollinators were rare, there was a significant relationship between number of bees present and number of mature seeds produced, and supplemental hand cross-pollination (xenogamy) did improve seed set in Gentiana newberryi Gray. When pollinators were abundant, supplemental hand cross-pollination did not increase seed set. Self-fertilized seeds (autogamy) germinated at the same rate as cross-pollinated seeds. Seed production in unvisited flowers is probably limited anatomically and is not influenced by the type of fertilization. There was a significant relationship between soil moisture and flower size in G. newberryi, with larger flowers found in wetter areas.
41712128|New synonymy in Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Camptocerus opacicollis (Eggers) (= Camptocerus aquilus Wood), Cladoctonus corumbensis (Eggers) (= Hoplitophthorus bolivianus Wood), Cladoctonus interruptus (Eggers) (= Hoplitophthorus sentus Wood), Cnemonyx errans (Blandford) (= Ceratolepis barbatus Schedi), Cnemonyx flavicornis (Chapuis) (= Cnemonyx vianai Schedi), Cnesinus dividuus Schedi (= Cnesinus dryographus Schedi, Cnesinus laevicollis Schedi), Cryptocurus spinipennis Schedi (= Hyloperus caudatus Browne, Hyloperus bicornis Browne), Dendrosinus ater Eggers (= Dendrosinus hirsutus Schedi), Hylesinus aculeatus Say (= Hylesinus imperialis Eichhoff), Hylesinus cordipennis Lea (= Hylesinus papuanus Eggers), Hylesinus macmahoni (Stebbing) (= Hylesinus alternans Schedi, Leperisinus fraxinoides Beeson, Leperisinus fraxinoides Schedi), Hylesinus niligrinus Eggers (= Trogloditica robusta Schedi), Phloeosinopsoides triseriatus (Schedi) (= Xylechinus papuanus Schedi), Phloeotribus scarabaeoides (Bernard) (= Phloeotribus americanus Dejean), Scolytogenes darwini Eichhoff (= Nigritus similis Eggers, Nigritus major Eggers, Scolytogenes cryptolepis Schedi), Scolytodes notatus Eggers (= Hexacolus pseudobicolor Eggers, Hexacolus subparalleus Eggers, Hexacolus pelicerinus Schedi), Scolytopsis puncticollis Blandford (= Scolytopsis argentinensis Schedi, Scolytus bruchi Schedi, Scolytopsis toba Wichmann), Tomictis piniperda (Linnaeus) (= Blastophagus khasianus Murayama), Xylechinus spathifer Schedi (= Pteleobius lomatiae Schedi). Species new to science are described as Acanthotomicus ipsimorphus (Costa Rica), Acrantus opimus (Indonesian New Guinea), Bothrosternus hirsutus (Venezuela), Cnesinus discretus (Venezuela) Cnesinus minor (Costa Rica), Corthylus trunacatus (Peru), Hylurgus indicus (India), Pachycotes minor (Australia), Phloeosinopsoides pumilus (Papua New Guinea), Xylechinosomus pilosus (Brazil).
41712157|Basic aspects of photosynthesis were investigated in white rubber rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus nauseosas (Pallas) Britt. ssp. albicaulis), a common C deciduous shrub native to arid regions of the western U.S. Under favorable field conditions, net photosynthesis (Pn) ranged from 36 to 73 mg CO dm  hr , which is relatively high for a woody species. The leaves from the actively growing flowering shoots exhibited higher Pn than those on the vegetative shoots. Pn also varied according to the age of the leaves and the location of the plants. Pn did not light saturate even at quantum flux densities (QFD) equivalent to full sunlight. The light compensation point was relatively high (ca 100 mol.m.S), perhaps due to the presence of a tomentose vestiture on the leaf surface. At high QFD's, the stomatal conductance was high (ca 520 mmol  m.S) for a woody species. RUBP-carboxylase content of the leaves ranged from 20 to 22 mg per gram F. W., which is similar to that found in most C crop species. These results suggest that rabbitbrush is able to maintain high rates of Pn , at least under nonstressed conditions.
41712924|We surveyed historic collecting localities in south central Arizona during July, August, and September 1993-94 to determine the presence of 3 little-known Sonoran Desert anurans, Bufo retiformis, Gastrophryne olivacea, and Pternohyla fodiens. All 3 species were present at most historic localities visited under appropriate conditions (following rainfall in July and August). Pternohyla fodiens was restricted to San Simon Wash and associated tributaries in south central Pima County. Gastrophryne olivacea ranged from Vekol Valley in extreme southern Maricopa County south to the Mexican border, and southeast near Tucson and Nogales in Pima and Santa Cruz counties. Bufo retiformis occurred over the widest area, from southern Rainbow Valley in Maricopa County southwest to the vicinity of Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, and southeast to the vicinity of Tucson and Sasabe in Pima County.
41712467|Patterns of change in the woody vegetation (trees and shrubs) of the riparian communities of three streams draining the slopes of the Pine Valley Mountains in Washington County, Utah, were examined. Thirty-nine study sites were established adjacent to the streams along an elevational gradient where vegetation, plant population, and species data were taken. Vegetation and species patterns varied with respect to elevation and geographical location. Vegetation of the high-and low-elevation areas was distinctly different, while that of the mid-elevations was transitional to both. Geographical patterns showed a north-south transition in vegetation between the Mojave and Great Basin deserts. Size-class distribution curves for 11 tree species showed varying degrees of survival with respect to age and location. Root sprouting was highly important in the reproductive effort of six of the trees. Species distribution patterns followed transriparian and intrariparian gradients within the riparian community.
41712511|A biosystematic study on the Gerridae of Idaho was undertaken to clarify and describe the taxonomy, species distribution, and biology of this aquatic hemipteran family. Three genera and 7 species were collected in the state. Keys to three genera and 10 species are provided. General descriptions, diagnoses, and distributional ranges are given for species occurring within and adjacent to Idaho.
41712206|Monotropa hypopithys L., rarely collected in Colorado, was taken five times during 1984. Coupled with previous collections, it is now known from 10 Colorado counties. The cool, moist August of 1984 may have contributed to its apparent ubiquity.
41711444|Astragalus iselyi and A. stocksii are described as new species. The former is from the La Sal Mountains of Grand and San Juan counties in eastern Utah, and the latter is from the Henry Mountains in eastern Garfield County, Utah. Yucca toftiae is described as new from materials collected along Glen Canyon in San Juan and Kane counties, Utah.
41711965|The Pyramid Lake Lahontan cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki henshawi) population was sampled on a monthly basis from November 1975 through December 1977. A subsample of 676 trout, stratified by fish size and lake habitat, provided biological data. The entire population is presently derived from hatchery production, stocked at lengths of approximately 75 to 300 mm. Peak annulus formation occurs in March and April, followed by the period of maximum growth. Scale patterns illustrate a variable growing season. Maximum growth in length is in the first three years of life; after that males begin to grow faster than females. Males attained a greater age in our sample; i.e., the oldest male was seven years old compared to six years for females. The Pyramid Lake Lahontan cutthroat trout exhibit nearly isometric growth. The legal sport fishery removed <20,000 adult fish in 1977 (>380 mm); other decimating factors are poorly understood. No evidence of the following diseases or pathogens was found in the Pyramid Lake population, presuming a carrier incidence of 2 percent at the 95 percent confidence level: infectious pancreatic necrosis, infectious hematopoietic necrosis, viral hemorrhagic septicema, bacterial kidney disease, enteric redmouth, furunculosis, whirling disease, blood fluke; however, 7 of 235 (3 percent) adults sampled at the Marble Bluff fish way were positive for furunculosis. Small trout feed primarily on Zooplankton and benthic invertebrates; cutthroat trout >300 mm are piscivorous, feeding almost exclusively on tui chub (Gila bicolor). The spawning migration of Pyramid Lake cutthroat trout to the Marble Bluff egg taking facility in spring 1976 and 1977 peaked in April and May. Females mature at three or four years (352-484 mm), and males mature at two or three years (299-445 mm). Mean diameter of mature eggs is 4.51 mm; both ovum size and fecundity are a function of fish size. Fecundity ranges from 1241 to 7963 eggs, with a mean of 3815. Lahontan cutthroat trout comprise <2 percent of the numerical relative abundance and <7 percent of the total fish biomass. Distribution patterns vary on a seasonal basis, with maximum activity during late fall and winter. Management objectives are presented and recommendations are discussed.
41711754|Hanging gardens and wet wall habitats have been studied for the past several years in many arid regions of the Intermountain West. One unusual large wet wall habitat in Zion National Park was found to be covered with a mucilaginous red-colored growth of the filamentous gliding bacterium Thioploca ingrica Visloukh. This is the only habitat we have examined where the predominant matrix-forming organism was a bacterium rather than an alga.
41712569|A four-year study of five populations has revealed influences on seed production and seedling establishment of the Southwest riparian tree Juglans major. Germination is abundant after production of large seed crops (masts), but masts are produced infrequently. Within years, germination is stimulated by summer rains, enabling seedlings to establish on riparian terraces as well as streambanks. Traits such as capacity for dormancy during summer drought allow some seedlings to survive on terraces, but abundant rainfall is essential for high rates of seedling success. Ranges of moisture tolerance vary among seeds collected from different populations, suggesting that ecotypes may exist between riparian sites with dissimilar moisture regimes. Population-based differences are associated, in part, with differences in seed size.
41712724|Medusahead is another in the extensive list of annual herbaceous species to invade the temperate desert rangelands of the Great Basin. Medusahead is not preferred by large herbivores and apparently is not preferred by granivores. Herbage of this annual grass enhances ignition and spread of wildfires. Medusahead is highly competitive with the seedlings of native species and is probably the greatest threat to the biodiversity of the natural vegetation that has yet been accidentally introduced into the Great Basin. Despite the obvious biological disruptions that are associated with medusahead invasion, the species offers a wealth of opportunities for students to examine the mechanism by which this species is so successful. Students of evolution, plant physiology, and ecology may find this species to be an excellent model for colonization.
41711598|A variety of amphibian, reptilian, avian, and mammalian hosts were used in experimental development of Posthodiphstomum minimum. Results of this study indicate that the organs of reproduction (testes and ovary) as well as the vitelline gland and egg underwent host-induced morphological variations. Due to the lack of host specificity of P. minimum as well as the overlap of reported egg and body sizes of species of Posthodiphstomum, it is apparent that several reported species are not valid.
41712100|Eight species previously unreported for Wyoming are listed. A range extension is noted for Erigeron humilis, and Cymopterus bipinnatus is verified as occurring in Wyoming.
41711544|A new species of Suctobelba, S. tumulata, and a new genus and species, Parisuctobelba septenia, are described from collections of oribatids taken in coal strip-mining spoil banks near Hayden, Colorado. The new species are compared with members of the family from North America and Europe. The new genus is differentiated by a smooth, narrowed sensillum and seven pairs of genital setae., Taxonomic and ecological data are also discussed.
41711462|Eumeces capito Boucourt, 1879, is a senior synonym of Eumeces xanthi Gnther, 1889. No exception to application of the Law of Priority is recommended in this case. The type locality of E. capito as originally published ("La cte oriental des Etats-Unis") is erroneous. Undoubtedly the correct locality is China, but it is not restricted at present.
41711861|Height-diameter (basal or canopy) relationships for Juniperus scopulorum trees taken from wet and dry sites were quite different, but total aboveground weight-diameter relationships for trees taken from the two sites did not differ. It is shown that log total weight (kg) = approximately 1.7 + 2.26 log basal diameter (cm) = -2.55 + 2.98 log canopy diameter (cm). Though the first relationship (r = 0.98) is stronger than the second (r = 0.80), the canopy diameter-weight relationship may be useful for estimating tree weights from aerial photos. Root-shoot ratios for wet site trees 5, 12, and 31 cm in basal diameter were 37, 27, and 26 percent, respectively.
41713083|A baseline study was conducted on an 83-km free-flowing reach of the Snake River between Swan Falls Dam and the Idaho-Oregon border. The research had 2 components: (1) field characterization and inventory of existing riparian flora, vegetation, and environment (soils, topography, streamflow), and (2) determination and mapping, using a geographic information system, of historic changes in riparian vegetation based on a time series (193839, 1957, 1969, 1987) of aerial photographs. The flora was diverse, with 185 species of vascular plants identified, 63 of which were exotics. Vegetation was structured vertically along the riverbank gradient into lifeform-defined habitat types: emergent, riparian shrub-forb, tree, transitional grass-shrub, and upland. Riverbank seepage, probably of agricultural origin, blurred zonation patterns on some sites and added species to the overall flora. Upstream-downstream differences existed in the physical characteristics and vegetation of river subreaches. Coverage of riparian woodland, island riparian and total riparian vegetation, and area of islands increased since the 1930s, with the greatest changes in the 19691987 interval. Possible contributing factors were (1) significant declines in annual minimum flows since the 1950s, (2) decreases in peak flows following completion of Swan Falls Dam and some upstream dams since the 1920s, (3) introduction and spread of exotic tree species (Elaeagnus angustifolia and Tamarix spp.), and (4) possible effects of intensive agriculture on river sediment load and soil nutrients. The introduction and proliferation of purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria) could have considerable future effects on vegetation-channel dynamics in the middle Snake River.
41712211|Relationships of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) to livestock grazing were studied from 1973 to 1983 on the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge and the Fort Belknap Indian Reservation in northeast Montana. A total of 154 prairie dog colony sites was examined, and most were in association with livestock watering sites and/or areas where the topsoil was disturbed by human activity. Roads and cattle trails were found in 150 of the prairie dog colonies. Prairie dog colonies were found to be located significantly (p < 0.001) closer to livestock water developments and homestead sites than randomly located points. Observations showed cattle to occur significantly (p < 0.05) more on quarter sections with prairie dog colonies as opposed to quarter sections without prairie dog colonies. Forage utilization at one prairie dog colony was estimated at 90% by midsummer. Prairie dogs consumed about a third of the vegetation, with grasses the predominant forage class used.
41711948|Understory vegetal response was found to significantly increase with the degree of thinning in an early regenerating, dense stand of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta). The value of the increased vegetation for deer and elk was determined to be important through comparisons with known dietary and habitat preferences.
41712468|Collections from several scattered western localities have (1) extended the ranges in Nevada of two sagebrush vole fleas, Oropsylla bacchi johnsoni and Megabothris clantoni princei, (2) provided a second record for Utah of the rarely collected flea, Delotelis telegoni, and (3) included additional examples of unusual and seldom reported host-flea relationships for the area.
41712098|We recorded the occurrence of hip glands in a population of montane voles (Microtus montanus) in southeastern Idaho. Sexual maturity was positively associated with the presence of hip glands in both males and females. Significantly more males than females possessed hip glands. Males and females with hip glands were significantly heavier than individuals without glands. The possible function of hip glands in scent marking, aggression, and population fluctuations is discussed.
41712111|Prescribed burning of Texas wintergrass (Stipa leucotricha Trin. & Rupr.) communities reduced soil water contents for two to six months, and additional reductions occurred when the subsequent crop of cool-season grasses and forbs began growth. These soil water reductions occurred despite reduced plant production following burning. Soil water reductions were greater at 15 to 45 cm depths than in the upper 15 cm and greater following spring burning. Soil temperatures were higher on burned plots for most of the first year following burning.
41712283|Nitrogen-fixing bacteria, as demonstrated by the acetylene reduction method; yeasts, and actinomycetes were found in feces of mammals collected from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, to the North Carolina-Tennessee border. The mammals, representing four orders and 19 species, occupy a wide variety of habitats and may play an important role in dispersing microorganisms vital to the ecosystem.
41711595|Geographic variation in plumage color between populations of Contopus sordidulus is minor. The differences in color between the races described by Burleigh (1960) is largely the result of postmortem color changes of museum skins. Variation in wing chord and length of tail between samples does not support recognizing additional races of C. sordidulus. Contopus virens is monotypic. The relationships between sordidulus and virens is unclear.
41716168|Fifteen widely separated sites within the pinyon-juniper woodlands of the Great Basin were cleared of trees. Understory response was recorded for 2 to 4 years. The array of postharvest plant assemblages were classified into one of four phytosociological groups using discriminant analysis. Pre-and postharvest plant assemblages from the same site appeared in the same phytosociological group, which indicates postharvest response could be predicted from the preharvest plant assemblage. Initial postharvest response appears cyclic in nature, and cycles are controlled by both residual plants and the rapid immigration of shrub species. Perennial plant density generally declined following tree harvest, but the fewer remaining plants produced significantly more cover than in preharvest stands.
41711461|A study was made of the soil mites from under different vegetative types near a coal-burning power plant in the Yampa Valley near Hayden, Colorado. The following new species of oribatids were found: Zygoribatula apletosa n.sp., Multoribates haydeni n.sp., Paraphauloppia cordylinosa n.sp., Passalozetes moniles n.sp.
41711802|Seven large caves in the Uinta Mountains, Utah, were surveyed for their invertebrate faunas. Thirtyeight species were found, and 30 of these are typical cave inhabitants. Dptera are the predominant group. Caverestricted species are an amphipod, two diplurans, and possibly a Rhagidia mite. The caves were probably uninhabitable in the past glacial because of severe periglacial environmental conditions, and the faunas have moved into the present cave sites since deglaciation of the Uintas.
41711810|The hypothesis that temperature influences the toxicity of copper to thermophilic Cyanophyceae was tested in a laboratory study with Synechococcus lividus. This thermophile was tested at copper concentrations from 0 to 200 ug/l, and temperatures from 40.0 to 50.0 C. It was found that an interaction between increased copper and temperature significantly decreased the rate of carbon assimilation, chlorophyll content, and photosynthetic efficiency.
41712311|Observations were made on the behavior of a captive herd of Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus). Comparisons in general behavior patterns were made between captive and wild deer. Similar behavior was exhibited by captive and wild deer. Captive deer (as well as other species) may be useful for study of certain behavioral aspects of their wild counterparts.
41711865|The previously unknown female of Phafocropsylla hamata Tipton & Mendez is described and an allotype is designated. A key is provided to aid in distinguishing females of this genus.
41712812|Pollen grains of plants with well-defined flowering seasons may persist on insects through episodes of dormancy, such as hibernation. When readily recognizable and possibly confounding taxa can be excluded, these pollen grains can serve as direct evidence of life-history phenomena that are notoriously difficult to verify in the field. Pollen of the autumn-flowering composite Chrysothamnus nauseosus was used to demonstrate that the common montane skipper, Hesperiajuba, hibernates as an adult in the Sierra Nevada. This is the first demonstration of adult overwintering in a temperate-zone hesperiid and may represent the smallest butterfly known to overwinter in a cold climate.
41712303|Between 1983 and 1985, 97 mottled sculpin, Cottus bairdi Girard, were examined from five collection sites in central Utah for parasites. Eight different species of parasites were observed, representing seven genera of Protozoa (Plistophora, Myxidium, Myxobolus, Ichthyophthirius, Trichodina, Apiosoma, Eimeria) and one genus of Nematoda (Rhabdochona) . The highest number of parasites was found in sculpin from the Provo River near residential areas, while the lowest number was recorded from Hobble Creek, a nearby pristine area. A complete list of parasites for C. bairdi with literature citations is presented. Each observed parasite is discussed emphasizing pathogenesis to the host.
41711261|Four species of lizards (Uta stansburiana, Callisaurus draconoides, Cnemidophorus tigris, and Dipsosaurus dorsalis) were studied at Saratoga Springs, Death Valley National Monument, California, during their seasons of activity. Effects of the environment on activity, and on seasonal and diel changes in body temperature were observed. The lizards were found to respond differently to the environmental factors of air temperature, substrate temperature, black-bulb temperature, wind, rain, and cloud cover. Temperature is the factor primarily affecting activity in all species. Seasonal acclimatization of Tb is suggested in Uta and Dipsosaurus. Diel thermal lability is shown in Uta, Callisaurus, and Cnemidophorus. The species appear to be effectively partitioned within the thermal environmental factors studied.
41711627|Two Onychomys torridus longicaudus Merriam were captured at a site 22 miles W Winnemucca, Humbolt Co., Nevada. This record extends the known range of O. torridus 165 km to the northeast.
41712045|An understanding of the mechanisms of phytoplankton species interaction is dependent on a precise knowledge of what species exist within the community. The centric diatoms of Lake Tahoe, California-Nevada, which are often the dominant component of the phytoplankton community, are presented in both light and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) photographs. Specific attention has been given to initial cell forms of CycloteUa stelligera Cleve and Grunow and C. comta (Ehrenberg) Ktzing through the aid of the SEM.
41712615|Mortality of nontarget small mammals was determined after application of three black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) rodenticide treatments (prebaited zinc phosphide, prebaited strychnine, and strychnine alone) in western South Dakota. Immediate (September 1983) and long-term (September 1983 through August 1984) impacts on deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) relative densities were evaluated, and the three rodenticide treatments were compared for efficacy. The three treatments had no significant ( < .10) immediate impacts on deer mouse relative densities, although zinc phosphide did lower them; that impact was not, however, long term. Long-term impacts of the two strychnine treatments were variable, with an increase in deer mouse densities with the strychnine only treatment. Overall, comparisons among the three treatments indicated that zinc phosphide was more effective than either strychnine treatment in reducing deer mouse densities.
41711941|Presented herein is an index to approximately 800 authors of vascular plant names of Utah. A standardized abbreviation is presented for each author. These are listed alphabetically. Following each abbreviation is the full name and birth and death dates (where available) of each individual. In some cases the date of publication is given when biographical information is not known.
41712036|Thelesperma pubescens Dorn is described as new to science from Uinta County, Wyoming.
41712215|Samples of pupfish from Crystal, Marsh, and Point of Rocks springs, Ash Meadows, Nevada, were examined to determine the subspecific identity of Cyprinodon nevadensis presently inhabiting Crystal Spring. Meristic and morphometric analyses indicate that Crystal Spring is inhabited by C. n. mionectes . The presence of this subspecies is most likely explained by their precarious survival in the spring's outflow after they were eliminated by transplanted largemouth bass in the spring pool, and their subsequent reestablishment throughout the spring system after the extirpation of the bass.
41712252|The Fish Creek Springs tui chub, Gila bicolor enchila, is present in large numbers throughout its native habitat in spite of extensive man-caused habitat disturbance. This subspecies occurs further downstream in Fish Creek than previously reported.
41712074|In vitro digestibility was determined for 13 accessions of Kochia prostrata. Vegetative samples were collected in February and April. No significant differences in digestibility were detected due to month sampled or among accessions. The mean in vitro digestibility of the 13 accessions was 32.2% of dry matter digested. The accessional range was from 20.2 to 38.0% of dry matter digested.
41712754|Spatial heterogeneity in visually similar sites under Utah juniper canopy in Colorado National Monument was examined. Sample sites were arranged in a transect 24 m long, such that distances between samples were 0.013 m, 0.03 m, 1.0 m, 12 m, and 24 m. Twenty-five taxa of algae were observed, mostly belonging to Cyanophyta. Algal density varied by more than an order of magnitude within the 46 samples examined. The coefficients of variation for each distance class were very similar, demonstrating that algal patchiness can be as significant on a scale less than 0.013 m as it is on a scale of 24 m. Goodalls random pairing analysis of spatial pattern supported this conclusion by indicating that the minimal area for sampling soil algal crust populations at this site was equal to or less than 0.013 m. Because of the microscale heterogeneity in algal communities in this study, we recommend that future researchers take composite samples if they wish to quantify algae of microbiotic crusts.
41712297|Ten new species of Docalidia are described and illustrated. These are pennyi, gracilitas, zanoli, triquetra, paracrista, convexa, setacea, and caterva from Brazil and vesica and vella from Peru. A key to males of 37 species described since the last revision of the genus is included. The number of known species is now 116, making Docalidia the largest teruliine genus.
41711521|An investigation was made of Elymus simplex to evaluate the current taxonomy and cytology. The study included herbarium specimens from Wyoming and Colorado and population samples from the type location in Wyoming. The most important taxonomic characters noted are numbers of spikelets per node, lemma awn length, and habitat. The chromosome number of E. simplex is reported as 2n=28. E. simplex is a distinct species and should not be confused with E. salina, from which it differs morphologically.
41712160|Invasion of plant species onto recently exposed beaches of Mono Lake, California, was documented. Three vegetation zones were evident on these beaches. The first was formed entirely of annual species. The second was composed of annuals mixed with salt grass, and the third was formed entirely of salt grass. Stabilization of these beaches was accomplished by the aggressive growth of salt grass rhizomes.
41711642|Introductory topics include "The High Altitude Environment," "Ants Recorded from High Altitudes," "Adaptations of Ants," "Mountain Ants of North America," and "The Mountains of Nevada." A Nevada mountain ant species is defined as one that inhabits the Coniferous Forest Biome or Alpine Biome or the ecotone between them. A table gives a taxonomic list of the mountain ants and shows the biomes in which they occur; it also indicates whether they occur in lower biomes. This list comprises 50 species, which is 28 percent of the ant fauna we have found in Nevada. Only 30 species (17 percent of the fauna) are exclusively montane; these are in the genera Myrmica, Manica, Stenamma, Leptothorax, Camponotus, Lasius, and Formica. The article concludes with "Records for Nevada Mountain Ants." All known records for each species are cited. For each record we give first the county, next the mountain range, then the peak (or other local feature), and finally the elevation.
41712328|Construction of a 10-MWe solar thermal power plant in Daggett, California, involved clearing and leveling 53 ha of desert land. Transient offsite effects of this construction were apparent as a reduced density of annual plants within 100 m downwind of the edge of the cleared area. Schismus arabicus populations recovered within four years, but Erodium cicutarium populations did not. The effects appeared to be related more to an interaction of seed-dispersal mechanisms with the large, open space than to the obvious sand movement and deposition associated with the clearing operations.
41711596|Based on a synthesis of recent work on distribution of mammals in Utah, the hierarchy of ecogeographic distributional units proposed by Durrant (1952) is reevaluated by numerical methods. Areographic faunal elements, distinguished on the basis of shapes of distributional ranges in North America, are identified. Relationships are shown between ecogeographic faunal units and areographic faunal elements, and their historical implications are discussed.
41711395|Artemisia arbusculo, A. longiloba, and A. nova are dwarf sagebrush species that occur extensively throughout the shrub steppe of northern Nevada. These species are similar ecologically in that they occupy habitats strongly influenced by edaphic factors. Nine major habitat types on which these shrubs are dominant are recognized in this region. The A. arbusculo habitat types are most prevalent in extreme northern Nevada. Southward, they generally become restricted to altitudes above the Pinus-Juniperus woodland zone. A single A. longiloba habitat type is described, occurring in northeastern Nevada. The A. nova habitat types are most prevalent in north central and east central Nevada. Four features appear consistently among soils of these habitat types: (1) shallowness, (2) high profile gravel volume, (3) presence of a clay B horizon close to the soil surface, and (4) presence of large quantities of mineral carbonates throughout profiles of most A. nova habitat types.
41713059|The historic range of the bison (Bison bison) on the Great Plains has been well documented. In Colorado the range of bison included both the eastern grasslands and higher-elevation ridges and mountain parks, up to an elevation of 3900 m. Based on the commensal relationship of the brood-parasitic Brown-headed Cowbird (Mohthrus ater) with the bison, we suggest that the cowbird had a larger historical elevational range in Colorado than previously known and consequently has had a long-term host-parasite relationship with high-elevation breeding songbirds.
41711982|Three new taxa are named and described: Thelesperma subnudum Gray var. alpinum Welsh, Townsendia jonesii (Beaman) Reveal var. lutea Welsh, and Townsendia montana var. caelilinensis Welsh.
41712502|An extensive study of larvae and adult Trichoptera of the Sagehen Creek basin, Sierra Nevada, California, USA, revealed 77 species representing 14 families and 41 genera. Twenty-six species were restricted to small water bodies (spring sources, seeps, spring streams, temporary ponds, and intermittent streams); 27 were restricted to Sagehen Creek, a second-order stream, and the mouths of two large spring streams. Similarity between species caught at black lights and those in emergence traps was 43%. There were two major peaks in adult emergence by species, midsummer and late summer-fall. A few species emerged during winter or throughout most of the year. The species composition of the community showed affinity with Oregon, the Great Basin, and the Rocky Mountains but very little similarity with the California Coast Range. Four of the most abundant species in the basin have very restricted distributions. Ecological separation of several groups of closely related species could be explained by major differences in larval habitats or by different emergence periods.
41711571|A general analysis of the populations of Crotaphytus wislizeni in the Great Basin is presented. A new subspecies, C. wislizeni maculosus, for the Lahontan Basin, Nevada, is described and comparisons of color pattern, some scale patterns, and skull measurements are presented.
41711825|Three specimens of Microdipodops megacephalus nasutus were captured in the Wassuk Mountains of western Mineral County, Nevada, which provide a second place of occurrence for the subspecies and a new altitudinal record of 2455 m for the genus. This is the first time this species has been found in the pinyon-juniper belt.
41712405|New replacement names for junior homonyms are presented as follows: Acanthotomicus tuberculifer for A. (Mimips) tuberculatus Schedl 1967, Chaetoptelius versicolor for C. (Acrantus) tricolor Schedl 1958, Hylesinopsis angolanus for H. (Aridiamerus) angolensis Schedl 1982, Hylurgops tuberculifer for H. tuberculatus Schedl 1947, Pseudothysanoes spinatifer for P. spinatus Wood 1956, Scolytodes aterrimus for S. ater (Hylocurosoma atrum Eggers) 1941, Scolytodes boliviensis for S. (Prionosceles) bolivianus Eggers 1928, Scolytodes brasilianus for S. (Hexacolus) brasiliensis Schedl 1935, Scolytodes discriminatus for S. discedens Eggers 1943, Scolytodes elongatissimus for S. elongatus (Hylocurosoma elongatum Eggers) 1943, Scolytodes gennaeus for S. genialis Wood 1978, Scolytodes laevigatulus for S. (Hexacolus) laevigatus Schedl 1962, Scolytodes laevicorpus for S. laevis (Hylocurosoma laeve Eggers) 1943, Scolytodes majus for S. major Eggers 1943, Scolytodes medialis for S. medius Eggers 1943. New synonymy is reported for Dactylipalpus niger Schedl (= D. unctus Wood), Dendroctonus armandi Tsai & Li (= D. prosorovi Kurenzov & Kononov), Sinophloeus porteri Brthes (= S. destructor Eggers). Species new to science include: Acacicis bicornis (New Guinea), Acacicis zeylanicus (Sri Lanka), Sphaerotrypes bengalensis (India), Sphaerotrypes costatus (North Andaman Island), Sphaerotrypes cristatus (Sri Lanka), Sphaerotrypes pentacme (Burma), Sphaerotrypes ranasinghei (Sri Lanka), Xylechinus ougeiniae (India), Xylechinus padus (India).
41711936|A spotted bat (Euderma maculatura) was picked up at the headquarters of Browns Park National Wildlife Refuge, Moffat County, Colorado, on 29 August 1981.
41711979|A revision of the sunflower family, Compositae (Asteraceae), is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 613 taxa in 100 genera. Keys to genera, species, and infraspecifc taxa are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and pertinent discussion. Many nomenclatural changes have been necessary to bring Utah composites into line with contemporary interpretations of the family. They include: Artemisia tridentata Nutt. var. wyomingensis (Beetle & Young) Welsh; Aster kingii D. C. Eaton var. barnebyana (Welsh & Goodrich) Welsh; Brickellia microphylla (Nutt.) Gray var. watsonii (Robins.) Welsh; Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Pallas) Britt.  var. abbreviatus (Jones) Welsh, var. arenarias (L. C. Anderson) Welsh, var. glareosus (Jones) Welsh, var. iridis (L. C. Anderson) Welsh, and var. nitidus (L. C. Anderson) Welsh; Cirsium arizonicum (Gray) Petrak var. nidulum (Jones) Welsh; Cirsium cahareum (Jones) Woot. & Standl.  var. bipinnatum (Eastw.) Welsh and var. pulchellum (Greene) Welsh; Cirsium neomexicanum Gray var. utahense (Petrak) Welsh; Cirsium undulatum (Nutt.) Spreng, var. tracyi (Rydb.) Welsh; Crepis runcinata (James) T. & G. var. glauca (Nutt.) Welsh; Erigeron speciosus (Lindl.) DC. - var. mollis (Gray) Welsh and var. uintahensis (Cronq.) Welsh; Gutierrezia petradoria (Welsh & Goodrich) Welsh; Gutierrezia pomariensis (Welsh) Welsh; Haplopappus racemosus (Nutt.) Torr.  var. sessiliflorus (Greene) Welsh and var. prionophyllus (Greene) Welsh; Haplopappus watsonii Gray var. rydbergii (Blake) Welsh; Lygodesmia grandiflora (Nutt.) T. & G.  var. arizonica (Tomb) Welsh and var. dianthopsis (D. C. Eaton) Welsh; Machaeranthera canescens (Pursh) Gray  var. commixta (Greene) Welsh, var. leucanthemifolia (Greene) Welsh, and var. vacans (A. Nels.) Welsh; Petradoria pumila (Nutt.) Greene var. graminea (Woot. & Standl.) Welsh; and Senecio spartioides T. & G. var. multicapitatus (Greenm. in Rydb.) Welsh.
41704204|A Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) was found dead at the west end of the Utah Uinta Mountains at approximately 11,000 feet. Rain, fog, and very low cloud ceilings reducing visibility to almost zero causing directly or indirectly the heron's death was postulated.
41712047|Of the eight most frequently collected spiders at a northern Utah study site, each of two species employed one of the following hunting strategies: pursuing, web building, jumping, and ambushing. Within each pair, size differences between species were substantial for all but the ambushers. The ambushers had different seasonal activity patterns, as did the web builders.
41711362|The nesting behavior of a small aggregation of the digger wasp Steniolia elegans near Fort Collins, Colorado, is described. The prey was found to consist primarily of bee flies (Bombyliidae), the egg being laid erect on the first fly placed in the cell. Nests were shallow, unicellular, and were closed at all times when the female was away.
41711956|The cyclical phenomenon of soft and hard formation of feces in desert black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californicus deserticola, Mearns) was investigated. Sixty-nine blacktails were shot between 0525 hours and 1508 hours over a 4-day period. The average age was 314 days for all black-tails. The large intestine was removed and linear measurements taken. Overall length of the large intestine averaged 163.3 cm; mean length of the colon was 51.5 cm and average length of the rectum was 111.8 cm. Moisture content for soft and hard pellets averaged 79.5 percent and 74.1 percent, respectively. Protein content of soft and hard pellets averaged 45.8 percent and 14.3 percent, respectively. The black-tails began the transition from hard to soft pellets as early as 0414 hours, and nearly all had completed the reverse transition by 1508 hours. Female black-tails began both early morning and afternoon transitions significantly later than the males. Reasons for the apparent sexual partitioning are proposed.
41712813|We quantified nest site characteristics, breeding densities, and migratory chronology of Long-billed Curlews at Great Salt Lake, Utah. The species is apparently declining in Utah, and little is know about their breeding ecology in the eastern Great Basin Desert. This study was designed to provide wildlife biologists with baseline data useful for their successful management. Curlews arrived in northern Utah in late March and generally departed by mid-August. Nest densities at Great Salt Lake ranged from 0.64 to 2.36 males/km. The habitat at curlew nest sites consisted of significantly shorter vegetation than nearby random locations (<tex-math>$\bar x = 5.7$</tex-math> versus 9.0 cm, respectively; P < .01). Nests tended to be located in small patches of vegetation near barren ground. Maintenance of relatively short vegetation appears to be important in managing curlew habitat. In addition, only 2 of 10 nests we monitored in 1992 were successful, with most lost to mammalian predators. Further research is needed to determine the impact of mammalian predators on curlew populations.
41711658|Diatoms from core samples obtained from the edge of Lily Lake, Summit County, Utah, were studied. Populations from each 15 cm of the core and niche metrics of the important species were analyzed. This study demonstrates four periods of history in the lake as mirrored by the diatom populations. The first period was mesotrophic and alkaline. This graded into an acidic, dystrophic period which in turn yielded again to a mesotrophic alkaline period. The most recent period can be characterized by a return to dystrophy.
41713009|The moss species Pseudocrossidium obtusulum (Lindb.) Crum & Anderson is reported for the state of Montana. Recent systematics of the genus Pseudocrossidium in North America is discussed.
41713132|We describe habitat characteristics of 8 small mammal species occurring in the Manti-LaSal National Forest in southeastern Utah. Thirty-seven grids across 7 vegetation types were sampled by live-trapping from May though October 1994 and 1995. Logistic regression models of habitat measurements correctly classified small mammal presence 36%-87% of the time. Except for 1 instance, 4 Peromyscus species present in a specific vegetation type were negatively associated with forb or grass cover. Microtus montanus was present primarily on mesas and was positively associated with tall tree and low shrub cover. Neotoma mexicana was present only in canyons and was found primarily in the pinyon-juniper (Pinus edulis-Juniperus osteosperma) vegetation type. Tamias spp. was present in all vegetation types. Our results allow better management of these species by providing greater understanding of their use of habitat within vegetation types.
41712132|Due to an error in printing quality of an earlier article, the distribution maps for the night snake (Hypsiglena torquata) and the tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) in Idaho are reprinted.
41711796|Eastern cottontail rabbits, Sylvilagus floridanus, introduced into Linn County, Oregon, in 1941, occupied 378.1 km in 1953, 637.7 km in 1970, and 1501.9 km in 1980. Hiatuses within the range were related to absence of adequate coverts on conifer-dominated ridge tops and in intensively cultivated areas. Flooding of riparian zones seven times during the first 12 years after introduction and three times during the 17-year interval between the first and second surveys (especially the devastating floods of December 1964 and January 1965) was believed to have retarded dispersal or periodically reduced the area occupied. Flood-control dams constructed between 1941 and 1968 on drainage systems that affect the area limited floods to two winters since 1965 and were believed responsible for cottontails extending their range within the county nearly two and one-half fold since 1970. The absence of burrow-constructing associated species was believed relatively insignificant in retarding dispersal. Removal of brushy coverts, particularly by agricultural practices, tended to increase the size of unoccupied areas within the 1970 range of the species.
41711600|Carebareia, n. gen., and its type-species, C. johnstoni, n. sp., are described. The genus Quadraseta Brennan, 1970, is redefined and a key to the 11 included species given. Four new species, Quadraseta tachirensis, holotype ex Akodon sp., Q. rotstieri, ex Proechimys guyannensis, Q. mirandae, holotype ex Oryzomys albigularis, and Q. falconensis, ex Sylvilagus floridanus, are described.
41712237|Ball Mountain is an isolated, mostly heavily forested peak reaching the subalpine zone (2,330 m) in eastern Siskiyou County north of Mt. Shasta, California. It supports a rich fauna of at least 68 butterfly species showing affinities to the faunas of the Trinity Alps and Eddies, the Warners, and the Cascades. Rare or endemic entities include Speyeria mormonia, Lycaena heteronea gravenotata , and melanic forms of Speyeria atlantis and Agriades "glandon." Several zones of intergradation or hybridization impinge on the fauna as well.
41711649|Two new species of Meringis are described. Meringis disparalis, n. sp., has been most commonly taken from Dipodomys merriami but has also been taken from D. ordii and Onychomys leucogaster. Collection localities include the counties of Dona Ana, Eddy, and Luna in southern New Mexico. Meringis facilis, n. sp., has been taken from D. ordii, several other rodents, and Sylvilagus audubonii. Collection localities include Crowley County, Colorado, and Bernalillo, Chaves, and Valencia counties in New Mexico. A key to the species of Meringis is given.
41712090|A total of 145 species of diatoms was collected from 13 sites in the Middle Fork of the Salmon River drainage, Idaho, USA. Achnanthes minutissima was the prevalent species with an importance index of 19.25. Cluster analysis revealed 2 main site groupings, sites above the entrance of Loon Creek and sites below. The entrance of Loon Creek (6th order) increases the Middle Fork of the Salmon River to a 7th order stream. Shannon-Weiner diversity values were generally high.
41712377|Ground beetles from Rotger's collection of Colorado specimens have been identified, principally by the author, and a faunal list of 161 species from 80 localities is presented. The list includes 35 species not previously recorded from Colorado. Comparisons are made with Armin's (1963) carabid list from Boulder County and the diversity of species along transects through four elevational zones from the plains to the alpine.
41713048|This article documents spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa Lam.) in 30 campsites and along 5 trails in the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness and assesses the role of disturbance and environmental factors in controlling infestation. Spotted knapweed was present in only 6 of 30 surveyed campsites and limited portions of all 5 trails that were sampled. All spotted knapweed in camps was below 1700 m elevation, in open canopy, and in areas with an opportunity class disturbance ranking of 3 or 4. Overall disturbance levels measured using U.S. Forest Service Site Impact Worksheets (SIWs) did not help predict occurrence of spotted knapweed, although bare mineral soil, vegetation loss, and development variables of SIWs provide some explanation of spotted knapweed presence or absence. There was no significant difference in knapweed frequency between areas used predominantly by horses and those used by humans within camps. Over 95% of spotted knapweed along trails was found within 0.5 km of the trailhead, occurred within 4.6 m of the trail, and had low reproductive potential. If the Bitterroot portion of the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness is representative of forested wilderness areas in the Northern Rockies, then the perceived threat of spotted knapweed to wilderness areas may substantially exceed the actual danger in many instances. Study findings indicate that managers should conduct surveys before initiating costly control measures in wilderness areas, that eradication may be a viable alternative when spotted knapweed numbers are this low, and that regulations promoting minimum-impact camping should reduce spotted knapweed infestation.
41712456|A revised list of the mosses of the Intermountain West, including all of Utah and Nevada and parts of surrounding states, is presented. Recorded are 342 species in 122 genera and 39 families in this region. Nomenclatural and taxonomic changes as well as floristic additions since the publication of Seville Flowers's book are included.
41712313|Artemisia tridentata/Symphoricarpos oreophilus and Symphoricarpos oreophilus/Artemisia tridentata plant associations were studied in northeastern Nevada. A 60-stand reconnaissance followed by a detailed study of 37 stands differentiated five important habitat types using an association table approach. Data reduction with DECORANA and TWINSPAN also described five plant associations that were differentiated by species occurrence and geographical distribution. All stands were found at elevations between 2,200 and 3,100 m in areas where snow accumulates and is late to melt. Stands are found on 15 families of soils that are relatively deep, often skeletal, dark colored, and productive. The dominant perennial grasses included Agropyron spicatum, Agropyron trachycaulum, and Festuca idahoensis.
41712000|A review of the ecological distribution and successional roles of lodgepole pine and trembling aspen in the Southern Rocky Mountains suggests that the two species have different strategies for occupying disturbed sites. Lodgepole pine's easily dispersed seeds and faster growth from seed in unsuppressed conditions allows it to colonize severe burns, even from remote seed sources. Aspen appears to compensate for ineffective development from seed by vegetative reproduction from durable root stocks, which promotes geographic persistence. Such persistence is achieved by the maintenance of a forest structure conducive to light surface fires, which stimulate suckering and retard conifer invasion, and by the accumulation of soil organic matter, which improves site nutrient retention and water availability.
41711572|A petrified wood related to genera of the family Myrtaceae was collected from the Deccan Intertrappean Series of India. On comparison with fossil woods of this family, it most closely resembles Syzygioxylon Ingle (1973). The specimen differs from described species of Syzygioxylon and, therefore, it is proposed as the new species Syzygioxylon chhindwarense.
41712760|Recovery rates of cyanobacterial-lichen soil crusts from disturbance were examined. Plots were either undisturbed or scalped, and scalped plots were either inoculated with surrounding biological crust material or left to recover naturally. Natural recovery rates were found to be very slow. Inoculation significantly hastened recovery for the cyanobacterial/green algal component, lichen cover, lichen species richness, and moss cover. Even with inoculation, however, lichen and moss recovery was minimal. Traditional techniques of assessing recovery visually were found to underestimate time for total recovery. Other techniques, such as extraction of chlorophyll a from surface soil and measurement of sheath material accumulation, were used and are discussed.
41711567|Extensive feeding experiments were undertaken to determine if physiological host specificity was a major characteristic of Posthodiplostomum minimum. This involved the feeding of experimentally infected sunfish livers containing metacercariae of P. minimum to amphibian, reptilian, avian and mammalian hosts. Host-induced morphological variations of adult P. minimum were shown to be associated with the genus and class of host employed as well as with the inherent variability of P. minimum exclusive of host factors. Morphological characters such as body size and shape and tegumental surface and spines are indicated as undergoing morphological variation. Of all the experimental definitive hosts used, avian and mammalian are the most suitable for normal development of P. minimum. Amphibian and reptilian hosts demonstrate marked variation in the adult worm development usually manifested by pronounced size decrease.
41712259|Pseudoxylechinus indicus is decribed as new to science from India.
41711822|Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. iridis was named from material taken in Sevier County, Utah.
41713088|Wetwood is a condition of Populus fremontii and other tree species characterized by staining and water soaking in the heartwood, bleeding from wounds and stem junctions, and leaf and branch dieback. A field survey indicated that wetwood symptoms were present in populations of Populus fremontii at all 17 riparian sites surveyed in Arizona. However, incidence and severity of bleeding symptoms varied within and among sites. Within sites, incidence and severity increased with tree size. In the smallest size class of trees (1-32 cm dbh), incidence (% of trees with wetwood bleeding symptoms) ranged among sites from 14% to 83%, and mean severity ranged from 1.1 to 2.6 (on a 5-point scale). Closer host spacing (i.e., greater density), more homogeneous stand composition, finer substrate texture, and channel instability all were significantly correlated with increased expression of wetwood symptoms. Bleeding symptoms also were significantly correlated with canopy effects. As the severity of bleeding symptoms increased, so did canopy decline independent of changes in host density.
41711829|Four observations made in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, indicate that coyote-badger associations are best considered as phoretic (accidental and nonobligatory) rather than a form of social symbiosis as has been previously suggested.
41712558|Wyoming lacks a rich molluscan fauna due to its considerable elevation, extremes of temperature, the short period between killing frosts, scanty moisture, and intermittent creeks. Recent mollusks found in the state total 42 genera (109 species), including 6 genera (23 species) of bivalves, 15 genera (42 species) of freshwater gastropods, and 21 genera (44 species) of land gastropods. Synonymy, the counties in which each species was collected, and habitat notes are given.
41711419|This revision discusses two closely related species of Plagiobothrys (Boraginaceae) found in the southwestern United States and central Chile. One of the two species, P. collinus, is composed of five varieties that range from southern California and western Arizona to central Chile in South America. The following new combinations are proposed: P. collinus var. cali fornicus, P. collinus var. gracilis, P. collinus var. ursinus, and P. collinus var. fulvescens. Detailed keys, synonymy, and descriptions are given for each entity.
41711855|A revision of the rose family, Rosaceae, is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 115 species and 9 varieties of indigenous and introduced plants in 35 genera. A key to the genera and species is provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and pertinent comments. Proposed as a new taxon is Crataegus douglasii Lindl. var. duchesnensis Welsh. New combinations include Potentilla concinna Richards var. bicrenata (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston; P. concinna var. modesta (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston; P. concinna var. proxima (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston; P. glandulosa Lindl. var. micropetala. (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston; P. ovina J. M. Macoun var. decurrens (Wats.) Welsh & Johnston; P. pensylvanica L. var. paucijuga (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston.
41712712|We studied summer habitat use by Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus columbianus) in western Idaho during 198385. Vegetative and topographic measurements were recorded at 716 locations of 15 radio-tagged grouse and at 180 random sites within the major vegetation/cover types in the study area. The mean size of summer home ranges was 1.87  1.14 km. Of eight cover types identified in the study area, individual grouse used the big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) cover type more than or in proportion to availability, the low sagebrush (A. arbsculo) type in proportion to availability, and avoided the shrubby eriogonum (Eriogonum spp.) type. Characteristics of the big sagebrush cover type that Sharp-tailed Grouse preferred include moderate vegetative cover, high plant species diversity, and high structural diversity. Grouse used areas of dense cover (i.e., mountain shrub and riparian cover types) primarily for escape cover. Compared with random sites, grouse selected areas with (1) greater horizontal and vertical cover, (2) greater canopy coverage of forbs typically decreased by livestock grazing, (3) greater density and canopy coverage of arrowleaf balsamroot (Bahamorhiza sagittata), and (4) greater canopy coverage of bluebunch wheatgrass (Asropyron spicatum) in the big sagebrush cover type in 1984 and the low sagebrush cover type in 1985. The importance of the native perennials arrowleaf balsamroot and bluebunch wheatgrass became apparent during a drought year when many exotic annuals dried up and provided no cover. Overall, grouse selected vegetative communities that were least modified by livestock grazing.
41711934|Thirteen of 265 deer (4.9 percent) from central Utah were positive for Elaeophora schneiden, and 180 (67.9 percent) were infected with Onchocerca cervipedis. The rate of infection for E. schneidert and O. cervipedis increased significantly with age of the host (chi-square of 17.5 and 15.5, respectively, p < 0.005). The lack of elaeophorosis in elk from the region is presumably due to the low density of the parasite in mule deer.
41712474|Additional records of the spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) from Inyo County and Shasta County, California, are reported. The latter record represents the northernmost locale for this species in California.
41711668|This is a compilation of tularemia research conducted in Utah, particularly at U.S. Army Dugway Proving Ground (DPG), Utah, and an evaluation of this information in relation to the current status of tularemia studies. A brief history of tularemia in Utah and a review of field and laboratory studies are included. Human cases of tularemia occur throughout Utah during all seasons of the year. An analysis of recent human disease reveals a concentration of cases in rural areas, with a greater seasonal occurrence in late summer and early fall.
41712205|The apple maggot, Rhagoletis pomonella (Walsh) is reported from Utah County, Utah, where it has adapted to sour cherries. It has been taken repeatedly from pheromone traps in the vicinity of hawthorn (Crataegus douglassii), but there are no Utah data that suggest it has adapted to apples.
41716180|Two roadside surveys were conducted for dwarf mistletoes parasitizing lodgepole pine and Douglas-fir on the Sawtooth National Forest, Idaho. One survey used variable-radius plots located less than 150 m from roads. The 2nd survey used variable-radius plots established at 200-m intervals along 1600-m transects run perpendicular to the same roads. Estimates of the incidence (percentage of trees infected and percentage of plots infested) and severity (average dwarf mistletoe rating) for both lodgepole pine and Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoes were not significantly different for the 2 survey methods. These findings are further evidence that roadside-plot surveys and transect-plot surveys conducted away from roads provide similar estimates of the incidence of dwarf mistletoes for large forested areas.
41711332|An examination of additional specimens of Crotalus lepidus from western Durango and the adjacent parts of Sinaloa and Nayarit have demonstrated the validity of Klauber's (1956) suggestion that a new subspecies may occur. The new subspecies (C. l. maculosus) is described and compared to other subspecies.
41712547|Semiweekly mark and recapture livetrapping was conducted July-October 1985 to determine the effectiveness of wheat treated with indomethacin, a prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor, to control the productivity of a wild population of montane voles (Microtus montanus) in southeastern Idaho. Before treatment, control (C) and experimental (E) groups, each on ca 0.3 ha, were statistically equal in population size (x  SD; C = 50  21, E = 45  14), adult female: male ratio (C = 1: 0.8, E = 1:0.7), juvenile: adult ratio (C = 0.16:1, E = 0.13:1), number of juveniles per 100 females (x  SD; C = 27  8, E = 21  18), and percentage of pregnant females (x  SD; C = 44  10, E = 46  17). After the 15-week experiment all population categories were unchanged for the control group and significantly (P .05) lower for the experimental group, which ended with a final population of (x  SD) 17  6, with 7  21 juveniles per 100 females and an 11  14% pregnancy rate.
41711729|The height of oak (Quercus gambelii Nutt.) stems was measured on several fire scars within the Uinta National Forest and vicinity and compared with the height of oak stems on adjacent, nonburned areas. A significant relationship exists between the recovery rate of oak after fire and elevation, with the recovery rate being greatest at low elevations. A trend also exists showing that recovery tends to be greater on south to westerly exposures than on north to easterly exposures.
41711683|The study evaluates growth variations in mixed stands of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco) and White Fir (Abies concolor Hoopes) from the Bighorn Ranch in northern Sanpete County, Utah. The study area lies 26 km southwest of Thistle, Utah. Tree-ring width, annual branch growth and needle length for the period 1970-1976 were obtained from Douglas-Fir and White Fir individuals distributed along an altitidinal and moisture gradient. Elevation ranged from 2257 m to 2500 m above sea level. Temperature and precipitation are shown to exert a significant influence on needle and annual branch growth and width of the annual rings. It was found that multiple correlation coefficients were always larger than the simple correlation coefficients. This suggests that the trees are responding to both temperature and precipitation. Annual branch growth is shown to be positively correlated with ring width and needle length. The influence of precipitation on growth is synchronized with 1 October-1 June precipitation. Best growth occurs in cool, moist years and at lower elevations.
41711413|The type-specimen of Glauconia boettgeri Werner, 1899, is consubspecific with L. h. slevini Klauber, 1931. The valid name of the Baja California Cape wormsnake accordingly is Leptatyphlops humilis boettgeri (Werner).
41711749|A new species of Hesperoperla is named from northern California. The adult male and female, nymph, and egg are described and figured. HesperoperL  hoguei adds a second species to this previously monotypic genus.
41712236|The generic concept of Paralidia Nielson, type-species, Coelidia plaumanni Linnavuori, is reelucidated after five additional new species were found in South America. These are described and illustrated. Four species, all from Brazil, include spinata, retrorsa, denticulata, and bispinosa . One species, singularis, is from Ecuador. A key to males of the six known species is also presented.
41713023|Discussed are relationships of the species within Astragalus section Conjuncti; A. conjunctus var. rickardii Welsh, Beck, & Caplow var. nov. is proposed.
41712135|Six subalpine snow avalanche paths studied in 1975 were revisited in the summer of 1983, with the purpose of examining geomorphic and vegetational change that may have occurred during this eight-year period. Repeat photography and field reconnaissance were used to assess vegetational and geomorphic change. Vegetational responses to avalanches were apparent on several of the avalanche paths, generally by an increase in brush cover. Geomorphic changes were not apparent, suggesting that avalanches need not be geomorphically effective to initiate substantial vegetative disruption.
41711496|The reproductive cycle in Belding ground squirrels was studied in the Sierra Nevada Mountains at two locations, one at 2,100 m elevation, the other at 3,000 m. Adults emerged from hibernation completely prepared physiologically for reproduction. Males tended to emerge slightly ahead of females and yearlings tended to emerge later than adults. Yearling females were fertile but produced smaller litters than adults, 4.48 vs. 6.31. Yearling males were infertile. They exhibited a slight seasonal cycle in testicular growth but did not reach sexual maturity. Testicular growth and spermatogenesis were incipient in many adults and in yearlings prior to hibernation.
41711528|New synonomy is proposed as follows: Metacorthylus Blandford (= Paracorthylus Wood), Corthylus spinifer Schwarz (= Corthylus tomentosus Schedl), Cryptocarinus brevicollis Eggers (= Cryptocarenus coronatus Wood), Dendrocranulus guatemalensis (Hopkins), n. comb. (= Dendrocranulus parallelus Schedl), Dendroterus mexicanus Blandford (= Conophthocranulus umbratus Schedl), Hypothenemus cylindricus (Hopkins) (= Hypothenemus guadeloupensis Schedl), Hypothenemus erectus LeConte (= Stephanoderes discedens Schedl), Hypothenemus javanus (Eggers) (= Stephanoderes pistor Schedl, Stephanoderes prosper Schedl), Xyleborus pseudotenuis Schedl (= Xyleborus tenuis Schedl), and Xyleborus villosulus Blandford (= Xyleborus coccotrypoides Eggers, villosus Schedl). Scolytodes punctiferus n. n. is proposed for Scolytodes punctifer Wood, 1971 (nec Wood 1969). The following species are named as new to science: Amphicranus argutus, A. fulgidus, A. micans, Pityophthorus inops, P. debilis, P. strictus, P. galeritus, P. sobrinus, P. laetus, P. lenis, P. conspectus, P. medialis (Costa Rica), P. perexiguus (Costa Rica and Panama), P. scitulus (Panama), P. costatulus, P. costabilis, P. detentus, P. nebulosus, P. melanurus, P. indigens, P. burserae, P. molestus, P. diligens, P. corruptus (Mexico), P. tenax, P. nugalis, P. minutalis (Guatemala), P. nemoralis, P. morosus, P. hermosus (Honduras), Araptus gracilens (Mexico).
41711940|The abundance and diversity of lizards in nine habitat types from Oregon were studied from May through October 1980. Eight species were from eight habitat types. The most common species were Sceloporous occidentalism Uta stansburiana, Sceloporous graciosus, and Cnemidophorus tigris. Phrynosoma douglassi was uncommon and Eumeces skiltonianus was not observed. Temporary streams in nonbasaltic areas were the most productive habitat in terms of lizard abundance but sagebrush areas were the most productive habitat in terms of species diversity. No lizards were recorded from grassland conversion areas. The conflict between a land management policy that emphasizes both vegetation conversion and conservation of present wildlife stocks is discussed.
41712162|Named as a new species from the House Range of Millard County, Utah, as Primula domensis Kass & Welsh.
41711608|Endangered and threatened plants of Utah are reevaluated. The lists are brought up to date, and species now known to be common are recommended to be removed from the proposed lists. Additional species are proposed to be added, including the new species, Astragalus montii Welsh.
41712097|Quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) stands were accidentally sprayed with 2,4-D in a sagebrush control program in western Wyoming in 1958. We visited the site during the summer of 1981 to evaluate the long-term effect on the aspen trees and the associated vegetation. Initially, some observers believed that the aspen had been "destroyed." Subsequent data indicate just the oppositeaspen stocking appeared to have been improved by the treatment. On two of the sampled clones, 22 years after spraying, there were approximately 17,000 more suckers/ha on the sprayed than on the unsprayed plots. These are adequate numbers to restock the site to pretreatment densities. Although undergrowth vegetation appeared to be changed as a result of the treatment, this cannot be attributed solely to the herbicide because heavy grazing, mostly by domestic livestock, has occurred on the grazing allotment. A similarity index was calculated between sprayed and unsprayed portions of the same aspen clones. Forbs were still less on the sprayed areas, whereas grasses were similar on the sprayed and unsprayed areas. Spraying apparently does not have as adverse an effect on aspen communities as some conservationists originally thought.
41712156|Seventy-three species of Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) are reported for Nevada. A key is provided for the identification of these species along with brief notes on their distribution in the state and elsewhere.
41712557|Thirty-seven chukars (Alectoris chukar), fitted with conventional poncho-type radio transmitters, were released on Antelope Island in Utah's Great Salt Lake. Twenty-seven removed their radios, averaging three days after release. The remaining 10 died from predation (average 15 days). Twenty-two chukars with pleated and six with harness ponchos were then released. Five of the pleated ponchos were removed (average four days), and 17 resulted in mortality (average two days). All six harness poncho-equipped birds were dead the following day. A consequential laboratory study comparing various attachment methods (conventional, pleated, harness, and "irreversible" flange poncho vs. bellystrap and wingstrap backpack) favored the wingstrap backpack. The effectiveness of 30 conventional ponchos and 30 wingstrap backpacks was compared on game farm chukars. Twenty-nine removed their ponchos within one day. One remained attached throughout the 30-day trial. All of the wingstrap backpacks remained attached with no apparent problems.
41711844|Samples from soils and other xeric substrates in Navajo National Monument, Navajo County, Arizona, were collected in 1978. After being moistened with deionized water for three days, these samples were analyzed for algae. Thirty algal taxa were identified. Five species of filamentous Cyanophyta comprised the majority of the biomass. Diatoms were ubiquitous in the soils although low in density. Diatom floras were very similar throughout the monument. Well-developed algal crusts were common in sites where grazing and excessive litter were absent.
41712164|Described is Sclerocactus blainei Welsh & Thorne, sp. nov. from Nye County, Nevada.
41712126|Utah Lake is a slightly saline ecosystem containing more than 700 algal taxa. During the past decade a total of 106 algal taxa has been found that has not previously been reported in this water. These new records are reported herein, together with a comprehensive listing of all algal taxa reported from Utah Lake to date.
41712114|Insect damage to second-year cones was generally not significantly different between crown levels, but was significantly different among areas and among trees within areas for Conophthorus, Megastigmus, and Cydia. Both cone length and width were not significantly different between lower and middle crown, but cone length was significantly greater in the upper crown. Seeds per cone ranged from 34 to 66, but the percent of sound seed per cone varied significantly according to the amount of insect damage.
41712770|Four populations of the spotted frog, Rana pretiosa, occur in western Bonneville Basin. Only the Tule Valley populations occupy aquatic habitats associated with warm (28C) and slightly saline (1700-2700 mhos/cm) springs. The spotted frog in Tule Valley breeds in cold-water portions of the peripheral wetlands, which exhibit maximum temperature variations (1-25C), maximum conductivity up to 3200 mhos/cm, and maximum pH values up to 9.7. Adult frogs are found in habitats with temperatures of 29C, conductivity of 4700 mhos/cm, and pH above 9.0 in the summer. The increased summer salinity and pH in frog habitats returns to lower values by the next breeding season due to underground recharge. Breeding in Tule Valley occurs earlier than in other Bonneville locations because of the warm-water sources. Spatial and temporal distribution of the spotted frog since the regression of Lake Bonneville 15,000 years ago and threats to present habitats are discussed.
41711728|Common mallow (Malva neglecta Wallr.) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum L. var. Ace 55) were compared as to certain characteristics: CO fixation properties, ribulose diphosphate carboxyl activities, (RuDPCase) photosynthesis, respiration, and compensation points. Significant differences in these factors were observed in all cases except dark respiration. Mallow enzyme (RuDPCase) activities were higher per unit of enzyme than those of tomato. The Mallow RuDPCase exhibited slightly higher activity at 5 to 25 C. Mallow leaves retained their capacity for photosynthesis and respiration after long periods of exposure to siibfreezing temperature. The cold adapted mallow had a higher CO compensation point, suggesting a lower efficiency for CO fixation. The results suggest that cold acclimation in common mallow affects photosynthesis but has little effect on respiration.
41713061|We used retrospective analyses to investigate cause-specific mortality and survivorship among 5 populations of mule deer (N = 168 telemetered animals) wintering in the western Great Basin during 1986-1994. These populations existed under similar environmental conditions, but survivorship functions differed among them. Monthly survival ranged from 0.964 to 0.990, and annual survival ranged from 0.643 to 0.884. The proportion of deaths attributed to prdation and malnutrition or anthropogenic causes did not differ among the 5 populations. Prdation was the leading cause of mortality; mountain lions were responsible for approximately 90% of the deer killed by predators. No difference existed among these populations in the proportion of telemetered deer that were killed by mountain lions, but proportionally more females than males were killed by these large felids. Prdation by mountain lions is the primary source of mortality and a widespread phenomenon among the populations of mule deer we investigated.
41716158|Described as a new species is Oreoxis trotten Welsh & Goodrich from Utah.
41711789|Erogonum divaricatum, an annual herb of clay slopes and flats in the Green and Colorado river drainage basin of the western United States, was found at the turn of the century in three locations in southern Argentina. The South American material was described in 1902 as a new species of Erogonum, E. ameghinoi Speg., and this name was the basionym for a new monotypic genus, Sanmartinia M. Buchinger, proposed in 1950. The species has not been rediscovered in Argentina, and the presence of the species in South America was probably the result of a long-distance dispersal event involving shore birds.
41712088|Nymphs of the type or other representative species of the 22 North American Perlodinae genera are comparatively described and illustrated for the first time. The first complete generic key for the subfamily incorporates recent nymph discoveries and revisions in classification. References to all previous nymph descriptions and illustrations and major life cycle and food habits studies are given for the 53 North American species in the subfamily, and a listing of species and their current distributions by states and provinces is provided for each genus. The previously unknown nymph of Chernokrilus misnomus is described and illustrated.
41712662|The kangaroo rat, Dipodomys deserti Stephens, was observed capturing and killing insects that were flying about an ultraviolet lamp. The white-lined sphinx moth, Hyles lineata (F.), and the carrot beetle, Bothynus gibbosus (DeGeer), were put into the cheek pouches and carried away from the collection area.
41712776|The purpose of this study was to determine whether the western rattlesnake (Crotalus virdis) aims its predatory strike at the head/thorax region of mice primarily on the basis of cues related to direction of prey movement. We hypothesized that when rattlesnakes strike at anesthetized, backward-moving mice, most strikes would be aimed at the forward-most-moving region, i.e., the posterior (abdomen/tail) region of prey. However, most mice were struck in the anterior (head/thorax) region, implying that the visual-infrared image of mice, rather than directional movement, guides the aim of predatory strikes.
41711506|Twenty-three species of spider mites (Tetranychidae) are recognized for Utah and Idaho; three of these are described as new: Bryobia neoribis, Pseudobryobia knowltoni, and Schizotetranychus agropyron. Eleven species of Tenuipalpidae are recorded.
41711442|Miloderes allredi, from Utah, and M. tingi, from California, are described as new to science.
41712187|The Pine Butte Fen, situated east of the Rocky Mountains in north central Montana, is a boreal, patterned peatland occurring in a relatively dry climatic region. It is one of the southernmost mires of its kind in North America. The vegetation communities present in the fen are described, and possible causes of vegetation patterning are discussed. The Pine Butte Fen is a minerotrophic fen with 93 species of vascular plants represented in an area of approximately 450 ha. Floristic similarities between the Pine Butte Fen and 11 other peatlands in North America reported in the literature are low. Similarity of this fen to other peatlands tends to decrease with increasing distance between the sites and decreasing pH of surface water at other sites. Possible causes for these trends and the floristic uniqueness of the Pine Butte Fen are discussed.
41711335|A lectotype designated for Bostrichus asperatus Gyllenhal resulted in the clarification of the status of Cryphalus Erichson and the removal of Trypophoeus Fairmaire from synonymy. All species described by A. D. Hopkins in Hypothenemus Westwood and Stephanoder es Eichhoff were reviewed. New synonymy included: Bostrichus asperatus Gyllenhal (= B. abietis Ratzeburg); H. birmanus (Eichhoff) (= H. maculicollis Sharp, S. perkinsi Hopkins, S. sterculiae Hopkins, S. psidii Hopkins); B. crudiae (Panzer) (= B. plumeriae Nrdlinger, Cryphalus hispidulus LeConte, S. differens Hopkins, S. paraguayensis Hopkins, S. polyphagus Costa Lima, S. uniseriatus Eggers, S. hivaoea Beeson, S. lebronneci Beeson); H. calif ornicus Hopkins (= H. tritici Hopkins); H. dipterocarpi Hopkins (= H. mangarivanus Beeson); H. erectus LeConte (= H. validus Blandford, S. puncticollis Hopkins, S. cubensis Hopkins); H. eruditus Westwood (= Cryphalus basjoo Niisima, Cosmoderes schwarzi Hopkins, H. bradfordi Hopkins, H. ferrugineus Hopkins, H. flavipes Hopkins, H. flavosquamosus Hopkins, H. heathi Hopkins, H. koebelei Hopkins, H. lineatifrons Hopkins, H. mali Hopkins, H. myristicae Hopkins, H. nigricollis Hopkins, H. parvus Hopkins, H. punctipennis Hopkins, H. sacchari Hopkins, H. tenuis Hopkins, H. webbi Hopkins, S. elongatus Hopkins, S. flavicollis Hopkins, S. pygmaeus Hopkins, S. subconcentralis Hopkins, S. unicolor Hopkins, H. intersetosus Eggers, S. erythrinae Eggers, H. dubiosus Schedl).
41711487|The status of 382 vascular plant taxa with distribution in Utah is presented. Some 66 species are possibly endangered, 198 threatened, 7 extinct, and 20 extirpated within the state; 4 species have questionable taxonomic status. Included in the list are nearly 225 species of endemic plants, many of which are among the possibly endangered, threatened, and extinct or extirpated plants. Bibliographic citations, type locality, status, and distribution by counties is included for each species or infraspecific taxon. Two new species are described: Psoralea pariensis and Eriogonum natum. One new name, Astragalus barnebyi, is proposed; and one new variety, Eriogonum umbel latum var. deserticum, is proposed. The following new combinations are made: Cycladenia hum ilis var. jonesii; Aralia racemosa ssp. bicrenata; Heterotheca jonesii; Hymenoxys depressa; Xanthocephalum sarothrae var. pomar iense; Thelypodium integrifolium var. complanatum; Thelypodium sagittatum var. ovalifolium; Arenaria kingii var. plateauensis; Psorothamnus thompsonae; Najas caespitosus; Oenothera gouldii; Eriogonum corymbosum var. revealianum; Penstemon humilis var. obtusifolius; Penstemon lentus var. albiflorus; and Viola purpurea var. charlestonensis.
41711463|Four decades of the author's records indicate that Spaniacris deserticola (Bruner) is confined within the periphery of the Colorado Desert. It is usually found, near or within a few hundred feet of sea level, marking the shore line of ancient Lake Cahuilla (except for the Dale Lake record). The preferred host plant is Coldenia palmeri growing on the lower fringes of bajadas, with C. plicata on drift sand being second in preference. Spaniacris can tolerate sand and rock temperatures of 60 C. (believed to be a maximum for Colorado Desert life). Mating takes place at that and lower temperatures. When they are disturbed while on the tops of host plants, their flight is low and direct and of short duration, and they come to rest on the torrid soil for long periods of time. The female, much larger than the male, can sustain the male in flight while mating. The study verified spatial longevity of Spaniacris at Indio, California, after approximately 70 years and for the Kane Springs area after 52 years.
41712226|Wintering mule deer showed differential browsing preference among 21 accessions of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) grown on gardens on three different mule deer herd ranges. The Hobble Creek accession of big sagebrush was significantly preferred over the other 20 accessions across all three sites and for all three years. Accessional preference means for the study period for all sites combined ranged from 28.3 to 57.5%. The data collected support the planned release of the Hobble Creek accession as a superior cultivar of big sagebrush for use on mule deer winter ranges. Plant coumarin content was primarily under genetic control, but site factors also had an effect. Assay for coumarin compounds is useful in determining subspecies of A. tridentata but not for precise prediction of mule deer browsing preference.
41711842|Zigadenus paniculatus is a toxic plant common on sagebrush foothills at middle elevations in the western United States. Plants produce several racemes from a single stalk. Flowering commences at the base of each raceme and proceeds upwards. The terminal raceme begins blooming first and is followed by lower racemes in sequential order. Flowers are markedly protandrous and incapable of autogamy. Observations do not support the idea that apomixis is a viable reproductive strategy. Plants are mostly self-incompatible; a few seeds were produced from geitonogamous hand pollinations. The pollen/ovule ratio was high, also suggesting outcrossing as the predominant mode of sexual reproduction. A self-incompatibility mechanism may have evolved because the movements of syrphid flies on the inflorescence render protandry alone insufficient to prevent some selfing. The probable presence of toxic substances in the pollen and nectar appears to have reduced the number of potential pollinator species but increased the flower constancy of those species capable of utilizing the floral rewards.
41712337|Fungal spores in the stomach contents and/or feces of 696 Peromyscus spp. showed that about half had eaten fungi: of 486 deer mice (P. maniculatus), 48%; of 160 white-footed mice (P. leucopus), 59%; of 40 canyon mice (P. crinitus), 12%; and of 10 pion mice (P. truei), 90%.
41712284|Observations are presented on 117 bird species seen in a 250-km area of northwestern Colorado adjacent to Utah and Wyoming. Three previously unreported species and seven status changes are listed for the Rangely, Colorado, latilong block.
41712504|Selenium is critical in livestock nutrition; forage can be either potentially deficient or toxic in this element. Selenium is accumulated in excessive amounts by a relatively few species of plants. Several of these plants, termed indicator species, occur in the western Great Basin; however, selenium toxicity is not a problem in Nevada for domestic livestock. The detection of marginal dietary deficiencies of selenium is of much greater economic importance to the livestock industry than an excess of this element. Selenium occurs as a trace element in the composition of various minerals. Selenium levels are very low in volcanic rocks of recent origin. Accumulations of this element require concentration through secondary dispersion and subsequent sedimentation. Therefore, excesses of selenium are usually associated with siltstone, sandstone, or other sedimentary rocks. Selenium is usually found in soils as selenate, a water-soluble mineral. The selenium concentration of plants is directly related to the selenate concentration in soil. In soils low in selenate, the ability of plants to accumulate selenium is similar. In soils with high levels of selenate, indicator species accumulate 10 times as much selenium as other species. The foliage of most indicator plants is generally avoided by grazing animals. Deficiencies in dietary selenium are associated with the occurrence of white muscle disease, retained placentas, and general unthriftiness of animals. Insufficient dietary selenium can be overcome through injection, intraruminal pellets, or supplementation with salt mixtures.
41713072|Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) brood-habitat use was examined during 1992 and 1993 at the Yakima Training Center in Yakima and Kittitas counties, Washington. During the 2 yr we followed 38 broods, of which 12 persisted to 1 August ($\bar x$ = approximately 1.5 chicks/brood). Food forb cover was greater at all brood locations than at random locations. Hens with broods in big sagebrush/bunchgrass habitat (Artemisia tridentata/Agropyron spicatum) selected for greater food forb cover, total forb cover, and lower shrub heights; broods in altered big sagebrush/bunchgrass habitats selected greater tall grass cover and vertical cover height; broods in grassland showed no preference for any measured vegetation characteristics. During the early rearing period (post-hatching-6 wk) each year, broods selected sagebrush/bunchgrass. Broods in 1993 made greater use of grasslands than in 1992 and selected grassland during the late brood-rearing period (7-12 wk). Broods selected for sagebrush/bunchgrass during midday, but 52% of brood locations in the afternoon were in grassland. Tall grass cover was greater at morning (0500-1000 h) and afternoon (1501-2000 h) brood locations than at midday (1001-1500 h) and random locations. Midday brood locations had greater shrub cover and height than morning and afternoon locations. Selection of habitat components was similar to the results of other studies, but habitat conditions coupled with a possible lack of alternate brood-rearing cover types resulted in low survival of chicks.
41712840|Populations of Purshia in central Arizona are intermediate in some characters between Purshia subintegra, an endangered species, and Purshia stansburiana, the common cliffrose. These intermediates may represent forms derived from a history of hybridization and introgression between the putative parent species. Morphological data were obtained from 216 pressed specimens of P. subintegra, P. stansburiana, and introgressed forms. Over 50 separate discriminant function analyses (DFA) and principal components analyses (PCA) were run on numerous combinations of raw and log-transformed data. The best variable suite, providing the clearest discrimination between groups, used log-transformed data on 15 morphological characters, but DFA post-hoc identifications were 90-100% correct with only 7 characters using raw data. DFA distinguished four separate nodes of variation. Two groups consisting of 122 P. subintegra and 29 P. stansburiana were easily discriminated in DFA and were distinguished in PCA as well. Introgressed forms were consistently identified in two much less well-defined groups of 46 and 19 specimens. Introgressed forms are not intermediate between the two supposed parents in some characters, appearing most similar to P. stansburiana in most measured characteristics. Principal distinguishing characteristics of the four groups are as follows: P. subintegrausually eglandular, has 0-2 leaf lobes and short hypanthia-pedicels; P. stansburianaalways abundantly glandular, has 4 leaf lobes and short hypanthia-pedicels; the introgressed form "Tonto" is usually eglandular, has 4 leaf lobes and long hypanthia-pedicels; the introgressed form "Verde" is usually glandular, has 4 leaf lobes and slightly shorter hypanthia-pedicels.
41712103|Burrows, hibernaculums, and nests of an exhibit colony of the Utah prairie dog, Cynomys parvidens, are described.
41712643|Habitat use and food selection data were collected for deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), montane voles (Microtus montanus), Ord's kangaroo rats (Dipodomys ordii), and Townsend's ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendii) near a sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata)/crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum) interface in southeastern Idaho. Significantly more captures occurred in the native sagebrush habitat than in areas planted in crested wheatgrass or in disturbed sites. Crested wheatgrass, a prolific seed producer, still accounted for over 30% of the total captures. Montane voles and Townsend's ground squirrels (during periods of aboveground activity) used the crested wheatgrass habitat throughout the summer, while deer mice and Ord's kangaroo rats exhibited heavy use after seed set.
41712430|Mean monoterpene content of singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla [Torr.] Frem.) litter from stands growing on two soil series was 340  310 ug/g air dry weight (adw). Individual monoterpene hydrocarbons suggested as potential allelopathic compounds occur in extremely small amounts, 0.5110 ug/g adw. Mineral soils contained 50 times less total terpene, 6.6 ug/g  4.8 adw, than the litter immediately above. Results suggest that allelopathic effects would more likely occur in litter than mineral soil. These findings are substantiated by previous reports of decreased emergence and growth of herbaceous species in pinyon litter but not mineral soil.
41712195|The early fall diet of Oregon blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus pallidus) from Wallowa County, Oregon, was determined from 145 crops obtained during 1981 and 1982. Of more than 50 plant and animal foods in the diet, short-horned grasshoppers (Acrididae), prickly lettuce (Lactuca sernola), yellow salsify (Tragopogon dubius), wild buckwheat (Eriogonum spp.), and snowberry (Symphoricarpos albus) occurred in 30% or more of the crops and collectively amounted to 68% of the diet by weight. Seven of the 12 most common foods were consumed differentially by the four sex and age classes of birds. Results indicated that blue grouse foraged in forest and grassland habitats.
41711511|Peat cores along transects of seven minerotrophic peatlands (fens) in the Sagehen Creek basin were made in 1972. The areas were all shallow, sloping peatlands from 67 to 206 cm in maximum depth. Cores from one fen contained layers of charcoal and clay that suggested fire followed by fen regeneration. Profiles from Mason Fen suggested that the peat mass was moving downslope, creating splits and ridges with surface pools at right angles to the slope. Comparison of a profile made in 1958 with 1972 showed further evidence of downslope mass movement and expansion of the surface area.
41712152|Five new species of Mexican Pityophthorus in the Juglandis group are described: P. ablusus (Hidalgo), P. costifera (Guerrero), P. cracentis (Morelos), P. desultorius (Puebla), and P. insuetus (Morelos). New locality or host records are given for P. costabilis Wood, P. costatulus Wood, and P. diligens Wood. Previously published keys are modified to accommodate these species.
41711400|Species described include: Microcorthylus demissus and M. invalidus n. spp. (Mexico); M. debilis and M. vescus n. spp. (Guatemala); M. pusillus n. spp. (Guatemala and Honduras); M. concisus and M. ocularis n. spp. (Costa Rica); M. inermis, M. lassus, and M. pumilus n. spp. (Costa Rica and Panama); M. dilutus n. spp. (Colombia); M. contractus, M. curtus, M. diversus, M. hostilis, M. umbratus n. spp. (Venezuela).
41712191|Eighty-four taxa in 30 genera of the parsley family, Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) are treated for Utah. Four of the genera with one species each that escape from cultivation are included in the key but not in the text. Keys to genera, species and infraspecifc taxa are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and pertinent comments. Proposed new taxa are Cymopterus acaulis (Pursh) Raf. var. parvus Goodrich and Lomatium scabrum (Coult. & Rose) Mathias var. tripinnatus Goodrich. New combinations include: Cymopterus acaulis (Pursh) Raf. var. fendleri (Gray) Goodrich and var. higginsii (Welsh) Goodrich; Cymopterus purpureus Wats. var. jonesii (Coult. & Rose) Goodrich and var. rosei (Jones) Goodrich; Cymopterus terebinthinus (Hook.) T. & G. var. petraeus (Jones) Goodrich.
41711427|Thirty-nine species of Coleoptera not previously reported for the Nevada Test Site are listed.
41711740|Clearcutting and selective logging effects on red-backed voles (Clethrionomys gapperi) and deer mice (Peromyscus manicuhtus) were studied (September-November, 1975; June-October, 1976) in Bridger-Teton National Forest, Wyoming. Five selective cuts (total 137 ha) removed 57 percent (range 34-74 percent) of the trees. One clearcut (9.6 ha) eliminate 84 percent of the trees. Soils remained mesic in selective cuts, but became xeric in the clearcut. Snap-trapping indicated that voles were most abundant on the unlogged and selectively cut mesic sites (76 percent of 408 captures), whereas deer mice were more common on the xeric clearcut (80 percent of 60 captures). Species composition remained unchanged on selective cuts following logging (77 percent voles of 256 captures), but changed from predominantly voles to mostly deer mice (80 percent of 60 captures) in the clearcut. Intraspecifc age and sex ratios, litter sizes, and morphological measurements were compared between logged and unlogged areas.
41712920|In this paper we evaluated traffic characteristics and vegetative and topographic features associated with mule deer kills on 3 highways (US 40, SR 32, SR 248) in northeastern Utah. We also compared number, and sex and age composition of roadkills to that of the living population observed during spotlight counts. From 15 October 1991 to 14 October 1993 we documented 397 deer roadkills: 51.6% were does, 18.9% bucks, 21.7% fawns, and 7.8% could not be classified. Sixty-seven percent of adult kills were 2.5 yr of age. Kill composition compared closely to spotlight counts. Of 1515 spotlighted deer, 65.2% were does, 8.9% bucks, and 25.9% fawns. Spotlight density and deer mortality were strongly correlated from summer 1992 through summer 1993 (r = 0.94). Traffic conditions, topographic features, and vegetative characteristics contributed to mortality levels. Roadkills were highest along US 40 (68% year 1, 55% year 2) where traffic volume and speed were significantly higher than along either state route. Large drainages intersected highways in 78% of designated kill zones. Roads adjacent to agricultural areas along all routes sustained the fewest highway mortalities. Percent cover was higher (40%) in kill zones than in other areas (29%).
41712032|Based on personal birding experience, interviews with local birders, written comments and responses to a preliminary check-list, and a review of state and federal agency records and the ornithological literature, a list of 333 species of birds known to occur in southwestern Idaho is presented. The preferred habitat, season of use, breeding status, and relative abundance of each species are given.
41712700|New synonymy in Scolytidae includes Cryphalus piceae (Ratzeburg, 1837) (= Cryphalus subdepressus Eggers, 1940), Gnathotrupes longiusculus (Schedl, 1951) (=Gnathotrupes ciliatus Schedl, 1975), Hypothenemus eruditus Westwood (=Stephanoderes communis Schaufuss, 1891). In Platypodidae the new name Platypus abruptifer is proposed as a replacement for the junior homonym Platypus abruptus Browne, 1986; type-species designations are proposed for the genus-group names Scutopygus Nunberg, 1966, Pygodolius Nunberg, 1966, Mixopygus Nunberg, 1966, Mesopygus Nunberg, 1966, Asetus Nunberg, 1958, Stenoplatypus Strohmeyer, 1914, Platypinus Schedl, 1939, Platyscapus Schedl, 1939, Treptoplatypus Schedl, 1939, Tesseroplatypus Schedl, 1935; previously unpublished specific synonymy is presented for Crossotarsus externedentatus (Fairmaire, 1849) (=Diapus talurae Stebbing, 1906), Crossotarsus terminatus Chapuis, 1865 (= Crossotarsus nicobaricus Beeson, 1937), Platypus abditus Schedl, 1936 (=Platypus transitus Schedl, 1978), Platypus rugosifrons Schedl, 1933 (=Platypus pretiosus Schedl, 1961), Platypus tiriosensis Reichardt, 1965 (=Platypus schedli Wood, 1966), Treptoplatypus multiporus Schedl, 1968 (=Platypus fastuosus Schedl, 1969).
41712997|Winter populations of raptors and scavengers were surveyed along 175 km of rural roads in Moffat County, northwestern Colorado. The survey began in 1988 and is currently continuing. Over the 7 yr of the survey reported here, we found Golden Eagles in high abundance ($\bar x$ = 5.8 km/eagle) compared to most studies in similar habitat. Bald Eagles were less abundant, but increasing compared to 20 yr earlier. American Rough-legged Hawks were in low abundance, probably due to the predominance of sagebrush habitat along the route. Northern Ravens were seen in low numbers in 4 yr. American Crows were seen in 2 yr. Black-billed Magpies were nearly as abundant ($\bar x$ = 6.5 km/magpie) as Golden Eagles and often scavenged with them. Magpie and Golden Eagle numbers were significantly correlated over the years of study. We conclude that northwestern Colorado is a significant overwintering area for Golden Eagles.
41712332|Burrows of the sagebrush vole (Lemmiscus curtatus) were analyzed by injecting them with expanding Polyurethane foam. Average mean depth  1 SE of four burrows was 12.5  2.6 cm. Tunnels were wider than high and flat on the bottom. Three of four burrows were nearly linear, with an average of five entrances. Burrows usually contained one nest made of Artemisia tridentata bark. No middens or communal nests were found. The burrow structure in sagebrush habitat suggests that sagebrush voles occur singly or in pairs rather than in colonies.
41716167|The combination Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. spiciformis (Osterhout) Goodrich & McArthur comb, nov. is made. This high elevation taxon was originally described at the species level and more recently has generally been treated as a form of A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana. The subspecies designation is supported by its parallel nature to the other A. tridentata subspecies and by its relatively widespread and locally abundant populations. Also, a new variety of A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana is proposed.
41711804|Time budget of free-living adult Spermophilus elegans differed significantly from that of juveniles in the Front Range of the Rockies during 1974-1975. No differences were found between males and females. Hour of day, day since emergence, air temperature, cloud cover, and presence of predators all correlated with the frequency of various components of the time budget.
41711556|Western jumping mice, Zapus princeps, were live-trapped during the summer of 1975 in an aspen forest in the Front Range of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Home range sizes were calculated using the exclusive boundary strip method, and it was discovered that males had larger home ranges (298-3315 m,  = 1743 m) than females (680-1275 m,  = 1041 m). Mean range length was 96.5 m for males and 78.5 m for females. Spatial relationships showed that females tended to be more territorial than males, based on the females' higher percentage of exclusive home ranges, greater distance between centers of activity, and more uniform spacing.
41712179|A general botanical inventory of a part of northwestern Moffat County, Colorado, resulted in the location of "remnants" of the presettlement vegetation spectrum that are largely unaltered by grazing, logging, or other recent human-related land uses. The 69 samples taken from these remnants were classified into 22 plant associations. Composition, structure, environmental location, geographical range, and response to disturbance are discussed for each association, and a photograph of each is presented. Seven of the 22 associations are apparently restricted to the study area. Restricted associations occur in the more extreme environments of the study area, such as on calcareous substrata or very xeric sites. More mesic sites along ephemeral creeks, on north-facing slopes, or on sandstones support plant associations that have much wider ranges, many of them extending across the northern Great Basin.
41712486|Two new genera and two new species of leafhoppers in the tribe Teruliini are described and illustrated. New genera include: Perspinolidia, type-species Perspinolidia peruviensis, n. sp., and Brevicapitorus, type-species Brevicapitorus elongatus, n. sp. Both genera are monobasic and occur in the Neotropical region.
41711752|Described as new to science are Abronia argillosa Welsh & Goodrich, from Utah and Colorado; Androsace alaskana Cov. & Standl. var reedae Welsh & Goodrich, from Kohlsaat Peak, Alaska; Lepidium ostieri Welsh & Goodrich, from Beaver County, Utah; Lygodesmia entrada Welsh & Goodrich, from Grand County. Utah; Pediocactus despainii Welsh and Goodrich, from Emery County, Utah; and Senecio toiyabensis Welsh and Goodrich, from the Toiyabe Range in Nye County, Nevada.
41712585|External morphological variation in the Lopidea nigridia "complex" of western North America was examined using principal component analysis and showed continuous variation among populations in most characters. External morphology did not parallel paramere structure and did not substantiate previously recognized species. There was little correlation between dorsal coloration and paramere structure. Cluster analysis (UPGMA) using paramere and color characters failed to group populations coded as the same species and also failed to group all specimens of any one population. The variation in structure of the parameres and vesicae among populations of the nigridia complex was no greater than the interpopulational variation of these structures in the congeneric species marginata Uhler. Lopidea nigridia Uhler is treated as a polytypic species comprising three subspecies: Lopidea nigridia nigridia Uhler, a fuscous-white form from the sagebrush steppe of the Great Basin and the chaparral of southern California; Lopidea nigridia serica Knight, a solid red form from the eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains from Alberta to Colorado and east across the northern Great Plains to southern Manitoba; Lopidea nigridia aculeata Van Duzee, a polymorphic form varying from solid red to fuscous red and white from the Cascade Mountains and eastern slopes of the coastal ranges of British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon, the Blue and Wallawa mountains of Oregon and Washington, and throughout the Coastal and Sierra Nevada ranges of California. The following new synonymies are created: Lopidea nigridia nigridia Uhler = Lopidea raineri Knight, Lopidea sculleni Knight, Lopidea rolfsi Knight, and Lopidea wilcoxi Knight; Lopidea nigridia aculeata Van Duzee = Lopidea nigridea hirta Van Duzee, Lopidea usingeri Van Duzee, Lopidea discreta Van Duzee, Lopidea fallax Knight, Lopidea yakima Knight, Lopidea audeni Knight, Lopidea eriogoni Knight, Lopidea calcaria Knight, Lopidea chamberlini Knight, Lopidea angustata Knight, Lopidea rubrofusca Knight, and Lopidea flavicostata Knight and Schaffner; Lopidea nigridia serica Knight = Lopidea medleri Akingbohungbe.
41712552|Great Salt Lake wetlands were inundated in 1983, displacing approximately 20,000 nesting waterfowl. Ten protected marshes in the Great Basin were surveyed for changes in numbers of breeding pairs of waterfowl during each of four years preceding Great Salt Lake flooding and four years following flooding. The hypothesized increase in numbers of breeding birds did not occur, indicating that flood-displaced waterfowl did not move into nearby suitable habitat to nest.
41712253|Ponderosa pine conelets in 10 stands on the Coconino and Kaibab national forests were observed periodically from July 1982 until they matured in September 1983. Abortion, ponderosa pine cone beetles (Conophthorus ponderosae Hopkins), and ponderosa pine coneworms (Dioryctria sp., probably Auranticella [Grote]) were the significant mortality factors. Cattle, tip moths, and squirrels rarely destroyed conelets or cones.
41711460|However "just" it might be to credit LeConte, 1828, with Siren intermedia, both Harlan, 1826 (not 1827 as often cited), and Barnes, 1826, antedate LeConte's proposal of the name. As the earliest, Barnes, 1826, stands credited with it. In analysis of precedent for these conclusions, types of taxonomic plagiarism (calculated vs. innocent, homoplagiarism vs. heteroplagiarism) and the distinctions between nomina nuda and nomina dubia are reviewed, giving examples of each category.
41711828|Winter crude protein content was determined for the current year's growth of 43 accessions of fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens) grown on a uniform garden. The crude protein level varied among accessions from 6 percent to 14 percent of dry matter. Individual plants (215) ranged from 5.3 percent to 17.1 percent. The mean winter crude protein level was 9.6 percent. Because these data were generated on even-aged plants, it appears that genetic variation plays an important role in determining the level of crude protein in fourwing saltbush.
41712436|Feeding sites of wintering sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) were located, one each in stands of three subspecies of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata: ssp. tridentata, basin; ssp. vaseyana, mountain; and ssp. wyomingensis, Wyoming). Evidences of differential use of plants within subspecies were observed. Whole leaves from fed-on and nonfed-on big sagebrush plants were examined for intrasubspecies chemical comparisons of crude protein, phosphorus, in vitro digestibility, and monoterpenoids. No significant differences were detected except for in vitro digestibility of Wyoming fed-on and nonfed-on big sagebrush and monoterpenoid content of basin big sagebrush. Nutritive content of all three subspecies was high, which may in part help to explain wintering sage grouse weight gains.
41711937|We record eight species of exotic fishes as established, reproducing populations in certain springs in Clark, Lincoln, and Nye counties, Nevada. These include an unidentified species of Hypostomus, Cyprinus carpio, Poecilia mexicana, Poecilia reticulata, a Xiphophorus hybrid, and Cichlasoma nigrofasciatum. Tifopia mariae, established in a spring near the Overton Arm of Lake Mead, and Tilapia zilli, established in a golf course pond in Pahrump Valley, are recorded for the first time from Nevada waters. Though populations of transplanted Gambusia affinis persist, other populations of Poecilia latipinna are apparently no longer extant. Cichlasoma severum, Notemigonus crysoleucas, Poecilia latipinna, and Carassius auratus were apparently eradicated from Rogers Spring in 1963.
41711866|Pygmy rabbits are reported for the first time in southwestern Wyoming. The range for this species is thus extended 240 km and 145 km from the nearest records in Idaho and Utah, respectively.
41712158|This study presents the first food habit assessment for the western whiptail lizard (Cnemidophorus tigris) in the shinnery oak-mesquite habitat (Quercus havardii-Prosopis glandulosa) of southeastern New Mexico. Short-horned grasshoppers, termites, antlions, beetles, and spiders formed the major portion of the diet during the four-year study. Discriminant analyses were used to evaluate annual, seasonal (monthly), and sexual variation. Incidental food categories were responsible for most of the annual and seasonal variation. Dominant foods varied little between months and years. Sexual variation was more evident; it may act to reduce intraspecific competition for food resources and may be associated with secondary sexual size dimorphism.
41712587|Observations of 23 dwarf shrews (Sorex nanus) at Fracas Lake in Arizona extend the range of this uncommon shrew northward on the Kaibab Plateau and provide further information regarding the ecology and habitat requirements of this species. Shrews were captured in a previously unreported habitat type (Rocky Mountain montane conifer forest; Brown 1982). This study illustrates the usefulness of intensive, long-term studies and faunal surveys using pitfall traps.
41712453|Cited are distribution records for Alaska of Cicuta bulbifera L. It was discovered growing in the Nowitna National Wildlife Refuge in north central Alaska in 1984 and again in 1987. An earlier record is also known from near Fairbanks.
41712031|New distributional records or the status for 33 species of birds that have occurred within Utah, adjacent southeastern portions of Idaho, or along the border of states surrounding Utah are reviewed. Four species, the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus), Great-tailed Grackle (Quiscalus mexicanus), and Common Grackle (Quiscalus quiscula), represent new Utah breeding records established within the past decade, and they are commented upon. One other, the Black-tailed Gnatcatcher (Polioptila melanura), may be breeding in Utah. The Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottes) may likewise be breeding in southeastern Idaho adjacent to Utah.
41711586|Biomasses of climax Rocky Mountain forests studied ranged from less than 50 to more than 300 tons/ha. Total biomass was approximately 1.5 times the biomass of normally merchantable boles. When compared with conventional bole harvest, the nutrient exports associated with harvest of all aboveground parts in these stands would apparently be at least three times higher for nitrogen, six times higher for phosphorus, four times higher for potassium, and three times higher for calcium.
41713050|Parasitic larval mites including Thyasides sphagnorum were collected from mosquitoes captured in New Jersey light traps over a period of 6 yr and from landings during 1 collecting season in Natrona County; Wyoming. Overall mite prevalence on mosquitoes was 0.42% and abundance was 0.76%. Prevalence on Aedes dorsalis was significantly greater than on other host species. Comparison of light trap data and landing data suggests that parasitized mosquitoes may seek blood meals more frequently than non-parasitized mosquitoes.
41711827|The Salt Creek pupfish, Cyprinodon salinus, is adapted to fresh water in aquaria.
41711361|In 1964, 135 male and 223 female Dermacentor andersoni Stiles were collected at 48 national forest recreation areas in Utah. Using guinea pigs immunological tests were performed on each of 62 samples to determine the presence of the Rocky Mountain spotted fever rickettsia. Thirteen of the samples (21 percent) were positive. These 13 samples contained 35 males and 34 females yielding an infection rate of at least 3.6 percent, assuming one infected tick was in each sample.
41712784|American marten (Martes americana) are medium-sized mammalian carnivores inhabiting forest communities across northern North America. Martens are susceptible to local extinction from habitat alterations, trapping, and other factors. We (RCL) developed a population model called VORTEX to estimate extinction probabilities for marten populations as a management tool. The model permits managers to simulate various levels of timber harvesting, commercial trapping, and other factors to estimate their effects on marten populations. This paper describes this model and illustrates its benefits by using marten data from the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem of northwestern Wyoming. Results are preliminary. Populations of 50 and 100 martens were simulated. The most optimistic scenario with populations of 100 individuals, no trapping, no logging, and no migrants showed a probability (66%) of surviving 100 years. Extinction probabilities were sensitive to immigration and emigration rates. Numerous scenarios were simulated and showed a range of results. Results of population viability analysis can be translated into area requirements if densities are known or can be estimated. In turn, various habitat patches and interconnecting corridors can be examined for their ability to support viable marten populations. Population modeling is invaluable to "adaptive management" of martens as well as other species.
41712542|The architecture of burrows of the white-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) is poorly known. For this reason and for comparative purposes, one recently active burrow of this species was excavated in southern Montana; the detailed methodology is described. Data were compiled on the dimensions of the 29.3 m of excavated passages, and interpretations of several features are discussed. A "turning bay," sleeping quarters, two hibernacula, and a maternity area are described, the last feature for the first time in print. In addition, we report Cynomys using their teeth to dig, also for the first time. Further, an inadvertent remodeling of the burrows is ascribed to normal animal traffic and appears to confirm a prediction based on late Pleistocene fossil burrows in Alberta.
41712824|Redband trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss gairdneri) were observed approximately every 2 weeks in an intermittent southwest Idaho stream between August and December 1991. Instantaneous daytime dissolved oxygen concentration and water temperature declined from 4.0 to < 2 mg/L and 17 to 2C, respectively, during this period. Redband trout declined from a maximum captured of 48 on 28 August to 1 on 8 November in one series of pools. As conditions approached hypoxia, trout exhibited little movement and positioned themselves in water just deep enough to cover their dorsal fin. High densities of speckled dace (Bhinichthys osculus) were also present in each pool until drying. The response of these fish to such extreme habitat conditions is probably a primary factor accounting for their distribution within arid landscapes.
41712551|A survey of terrestrial vertebrates was conducted at the Scotts Bluff National Monument (SBNM), Nebraska, to determine species composition, relative abundance, and distribution by habitat of the existing amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Various sampling methods were used to detect animal species richness and to estimate population densities. The seven major habitat types at SBNM contained 4 species of amphibians, 8 reptiles, 96 birds, and 28 mammals. The only endangered or threatened species observed was a dead bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus). The racer (Coluber constrictor) and prairie rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis) were the two most abundant snakes. The prairie falcon (Falco mexicanus) was a common raptor that nested in Scotts Bluff. Sympatric populations of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) appeared to be hybridizing. The riverine woodland contained the greatest number of fauna species with only 4% surface area of SBNM. Sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) and pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana), absent from the Monument, are two potential native species for reintroduction.
41712003|Seeds of 12 populations of Mimulus guttatus representative of the Wasatch Mountain ecotype were incubated for 17 months (one natural season plus a year) in five artificial climates found in phytotron studies to be important to the growth of the plants of that form of monkey flower. In all but the coldest climate, germination occurred promptly (3-8 days, on average), peaked during the first three weeks, and then tapered off gradually well into the second season. Generally, the amount and timing of germination was plastic, showing much the same range of responses in widely different climates both overall and for individual populations. However, in some cases, there were significant differences between populations indicative of polymorphism within the species. For example, germination was significantly slower, more variable, and less in amount the higher the elevation of origin of the populations. The responses of the population suggest the presence of both much plasticity and much polymorphism for germination characteristics in this form of M. guttatus.
41712171|A mark-recapture study of the short-horned lizard (Phrynosoma douglassi ) and the sagebrush lizard (Sceloporus graciosas) was performed from 1976 to 1977 in southeastern Idaho. Both species had mean cloacal temperatures of approximately 33 C. However, P. douglassi had more variable cloacal temperatures, particularly during morning and evening periods. This was caused by differences in sleeping sites chosen by the two species. Adults of both species were active from mid-April through late August, with peak activity in June. Juvenile P. douglassi displayed a seasonal activity pattern similar to that of adults. Juvenile S. graciosus were most active later in the year (August), when adults were disappearing. In both species, young-of-the-year appeared in early to mid-August. Adult and juvenile P. douglassi were active during all daylight hours and displayed no activity peaks, whereas young-of-theyear displayed a bimodal activity pattern. Adult and juvenile S. graciosus were active over all daylight hours but had peak activity between 1200 and 1500 h. Ants (Pogonomyrmex) were the lizard's principle prey. However, only young-of-the-year P. douglassi had activity patterns that paralleled that of ants on their mounds.
41712291|Seed rain was collected on six paired tree harvest and undisturbed plots in singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylh)-Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) stands. Approximately 14,600 seeds were collected during four years. Seed rain in undisturbed plots was similar to levels in mixed forest communities. Seed rain on harvest plots was similar to disturbed sites and grasslands. Seed rain levels reflect the current successional stage rather than the climax community type for the site. Seed rain increased in numbers and seed production per unit of plant cover following tree removal and especially on transition soil microsites. Only three to four of the plant species present on a site contributed greater than 10% of the total seed rain. Seed rain composition was similar on harvest and undisturbed plots (Jaccard Similarity Index Values = 47% to 67%) and explains in part the rapid reestablishment of predisturbance understory communities.
41711478|The seven species of Clinohelea known to inhabit North America are described and illustrated, and a key is provided for identification. Two species groups are recognized: the unimaculata group and the bimaculata group. Clinohelea longitheca and C. pseudonubifera are new. Clinohelea nebulosa (Malloch) is a synonym of C. curriei (Coquillett) NEW SYNONYMY.
41711856|Seasonal foods of coyotes (Canis latrans) inhabiting the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory site were examined using step-wise discriminant analysis. Significant differences (P < 0.01) were detected among seasons in food consumption by coyotes, where univariate statistical analysis failed to recognize differences. Recognition of seasonal changes in foods consumed by coyotes is essential to understanding coyote feeding strategies. The role opportunistic behavior plays in coyote food selection on the study area is questioned.
41712677|Herbaceous vegetation pattern and soil properties around individual Juniperus pinchotii Sudw. trees were studied on a grazed and a relict grassland in western Texas. Herb standing crop and soil samples were obtained under the canopy, at canopy edge, and beyond the canopy edge of three to five trees on each of four dates. Standing crop was lowest midway between the bole and canopy edge. Soil organic matter was highest under juniper canopies on both sites. Soil pH and P were not related to distance from tree bole on either site. Herbaceous pattern from under the canopy to canopy edge apparently depended primarily on individual tree size. However, trees had little influence on herbaceous vegetation pattern 3-5 m beyond canopy edge, a response attributed to distance-independent interaction between J. pinchotii and herbaceous vegetation. Given a shallow soil underlain by indurated caliche and tree densities ranging from 288 (relict size) to 2123 (grazed site) trees/ha, the interaction between J. pinchotii and herbaceous vegetation did not change over a distance of 3-5 m from tree canopy edge in our study area.
41712183|The taxa centering around Phlox austromontana Coville are revised. Named as a new variety is P. austromontana var. lutescens Welsh from eastern Garfield County, Utah. A new combination is provided as P. austromontana var. jonesii (Wherry) Welsh.
41712217|Stomach contents of 650 clouded salamanders (Aneidesferreus), collected monthly throughout the year from Curry County, Oregon, were examined. Samples from three age classes were involved: (1) 489 adults, (2) 131 juveniles, and (3) 30 hatchlings. Foods did not vary by sex, but did vary by age and by season. Hatchlings ate small items, particularly mites, springtails, flies, and small beetles. Juveniles fed mainly on flies, isopods (sowbugs), beetles, mites, and centipedes in winter; beetles, ants, and isopods in spring; ants and beetles in summer; and isopods, beetles, and ants in fall. Adults ate isopods and beetles as their major foods in winter, spring, and fall and isopods, ants, beetles, and earwigs in summer. Four species were exceedingly important as foods for these salamanders: an unidentified isopod, the snout beetle (Trachyphloeus bifoveatus), the European earwig (Forficula auricularia), and an ant (Lasius alienus).
41711989|Life forms and floral characteristics of plants at Arches National Park (desert communities), the Mt. Nebo complex, and a subalpine meadow in the Uinta Mountains (montane and subalpine communities) were compared. Characteristics observed were (1) life form, (2) longevity, (3) pollination system, (4) flower structure, (5) flower symmetry, and (6) flower color. Common families in each flora were also compared. Results showed that there is a significant overrepresentation of shrub species at Arches, and an underrepresentation of perennial forbs. Relative number of perennial forb species was significantly higher at Mt. Nebo and the subalpine meadow than at Arches National Park. Native annuals and wind-pollinated species were significantly overrepresented at Arches. Flowers with open structure that permit free access of most insects to nectar and pollen were overrepresented at Mt. Nebo and in the subalpine meadow. The distribution of flower colors also differs significantly among these ecologically contrasting floras, with yellow being best represented in the desert and white in the mountains.
41711351|A male indigo bunting (Passerina cyanea) and a female Say's pheobe (Sayornis saya) were taken at Salt Lake City, Utah on 20 May 1966 and 2 February 1966, respectively. Both birds are the northernmost records for Utah in the season in which they were taken.
41712170|Helminth parasites of white-tailed jackrabbits, Lepus townsendi, were surveyed from southern Wyoming and northwestern Colorado. A total of eight helminth species were identified, including two species of adult cestodes, Mosgovoyia pectinata and M. varabilis; three species of larval cestodes, Multiceps senalis, Taenia pisiformis, and Taenis sp.; and three species of nematodes, Dermatoxys veliger, Passalurus ambiguus, and a filariid, Micipsella brevicauda. In addition, eggs of an unidentified species of Nematodirus were found in pooled fecal samples. The cysticercus larva of Taenia sp. is a species new to science and will be reported elsewhere. Mosgovoyia varabilis and Micipsella brevicauda are new records for the white-tailed jackrabbit.
41712166|Twelve adult and five juvenile coyotes and 20 adult kit foxes were implanted with radio transmitters using relatively simple surgical procedures. Four foxes were successfully implanted in the field. None of the animals implanted exhibited noticeable behavioral effects, and no deaths were confirmed to result from implantation. Implants were attached to the peritoneum in adult coyotes and kit foxes and were left free-floating within the abdominal cavity of the coyote pups. Both procedures produced satisfactory results. Radio signals transmitted from implants had less range than those from traditional neck collar transmitters. Implants offered benefits unavailable with traditional collar transmitters: no external packaging to influence behavior, ability to radio monitor small or juvenile animals, and ability to acquire various physiological data on free-ranging individuals.
41711533|Presumed paludal and alluvial deposits in a small mountain basin in north central Utah have yielded the first terrestrial Pleistocene fauna from the state. Twenty-five mammalian and four nonmammalian species are present, most of which have not previously been reported as fossils from Utah. At 6,400 feet the elevation of this site is much too high to have been part of the Lake Bonneville deposition. Three mammals, Ovis, Symbos, and Bootherium, not existing in the present fauna, have been identified in the northern part of the state. They probably did not reach this area until later in the Pleistocene or else favored more rugged terrain. Previous reports of the Woolly Mammoth, Mammuthus primigenius, from Utah are considered to be in error. M. columbi is probably the represented species. A so-called giant bison, Bison ? latifrons, is represented in the fauna by relatively numerous specimens. The variation in size of these elements strongly suggests that the size range between the largest males and smallest females was much greater than previously assumed. Most faunal constituents and current topography suggest that the Late Pleistocene habitat at the fossil site was a marsh encircled by a brush-interrupted grassland. The rare remaining faunal components were evidently part of a distant wooded community. A slightly moister but no colder climate than the present one is postulated on the basis of the fauna. Radiocarbon dating establishes a time for the Silver Creek local fauna in excess of 40,000 YBP. The particular combination of extinct and extant species indicates a Late Sangamon to Early Wisconsin age.
41712232|An investigation of the diet of the Common Barn-owl (Tyto alba) on Antelope Island, Great Salt Lake, Utah, yielded four mammal species not previously known to occur on any island in the Great Salt Lake (Microtus pennsylvanicus , M. montanus, Ondatra zibethicus, and a Sorex sp.). Two other species, known from other islands, were added to the list of fauna of Antelope Island (Perognathus parvus and Reithrodontomys megalotis). The barn owl diet on Antelope Island was remarkably like that of barn owls feeding in farmlands adjacent to the Great Salt Lake despite major vegetational differences.
41711817|Germination results were obtained from seed stored in an open warehouse in Sanpete County, Utah, over a 15-year period for 18 shrub and 14 forb species. Seed viability was not appreciably affected for 14 species stored at least 15 years. Seed viability did, however, significantly decrease for two species stored 10 years, for five species stored 7 years, for seven species stored 5 years, for three species stored 4 years, and for one species stored only 3 years.
41712876|Calileuctra is proposed as a new genus in the family Leuctridae, with Calileuctra ephemera designated as the type species. All stages of Calileuctra ephemera are described. Calileuctra dohryi is described in the male and female stages. Both species inhabit the Mediterranean climatic region of California. A phylogenetic analysis of the genera in the family Leuctridae is given, which places Calileuctra near the genus Perlomyia.
41712446|Thirty-eight accessions of 20 taxa (species and subspecies) of Chrysothamnus from a range of environments were grown in a uniform garden. During mid-June, terminal and lateral leaves were removed, fixed, and processed for light-microscopy studies. Area and perimeter measurements of ink tracings of midleaf vein cross sections were measured using computer-scan techniques. Leaf area and perimeter were compared with vein perimeter and area measurements. Area and perimeter of these Chrysothamnus leaves varied in response to the environment at the collection location. Plants native to hot, dry conditions had small, thick leaves, whereas plants native to cooler, more mesic conditions had relatively large, thin leaves. Similarly, leaves with round veins were adapted to hot, dry environments and leaves with elliptical veins were adapted to cooler, more mesic environments. Both terminal (young) and lateral (older) leaves were sampled. Terminal leaves showed significant (p < .05) correlational responses to environmental parameters, whereas the lateral leaves, while fronding in the predicted morphological directions, did not generally show significant responses. The different responses of terminal and lateral leaves may have been due to canopy position and uniform environmental conditions of the garden. Leaves with large cross sections characteristically had large veins, and leaves with small cross sections characteristically had small veins. Large leaf cross sections were normally flat. Small leaf cross sections were normally round. Decreasing leaf size and increasing leaf thickness were correlated with aridity.
41712540|In this report emphasis is placed on the dorsal skull characters of the genus Spea and the three species, bombifrons, hammondii, and intermontana. Spea hammondii is a polytypic species with at least three subspecies, hammondii, multiplicatus, and stagnalis, each of which is described and the distribution indicated. Drawings and photographs of skulls are provided for each species, with hammondii and intermontana receiving special consideration.
41712267|A new species, Mentzelia (sect. Bartonia) cronquistii, subfamily Mentzelioideae, is described and a new combination, M. (sect. Bartonia) marginata (Osterhout) is made. These two species of the Colorado Plateau are closely related to each other, but their relationships to other species in section Bartonia are obscure.
41713003|We examined faunal affinities of the Raft River Mountains using stoneflies (Plecoptera) as indicators. This island-like mountain range is isolated from other major mountain ranges in the Intermountain West by low-elevation, arid regions. Thirty-seven species were recorded from collections made from 19 sites in the Raft River Mountains. Cluster analysis demonstrated the Raft River Mountain stonefly assemblage to be most similar to faunas of the Sawtooth and Wasatch mountains, and quite different from that of the Sierra Nevada. An analysis of the distribution patterns of each species, on a family-by-family basis, showed that the Raft River Mountains fauna consists mostly of species widespread in western North America. Most families were represented by at least 1 species whose distribution supports faunal affinities with regions to the north and west. Logistic regression of 6 long-distance dispersal factors against stonefly presenceabsence data did not support long-distance dispersal as a viable means of colonization for the Raft River Mountains. This suggests that stonefly distribution patterns may be attributed to expansion and subsequent vicariance of suitable stonefly habitats during Pleistocene climatic oscillations.
41712786|Food habits of Burrowing Owls (Speotyto cunicularia) were studied during the breeding seasons of 1990 and 1991 in central Colorado. Concurrent insect availability studies were conducted to determine selection for specific insect families. Analysis of 1445 castings indicated use of only one insect family, the carrion beetles (Silphidae), at a rate greater than expected based on availability in one year. Castings and prey remains showed different dietary components. Prey remains showed greater use of small mammals, moths, amphibians, and passerines, and castings indicated greater use of mice and beetles. Methodology in raptor food habits studies may therefore bias results.
41712196|Historically, two California Gull nesting colonies existed in Wyoming. In 1984 there were six breeding locations consisting of 10 different colonies that included approximately 7,273 nests. The increase in the California Gull nesting population in the state is probably a consequence of man-caused environmental changes that have resulted in the creation of additional breeding habitat and new food sources.
41712039|Plant macrofossils from packrat middens in two southeastern Utah caves outline development of modern plant zonation from the late Wisconsin. Allen Canyon Cave (2195 m) and Fishmouth Cave (1585 m) are located along a continuous gradient of outcropping Navajo Sandstone that extends from the Abajo Mountains south to the San Juan River. By holding the site constant, changes in the floral composition for a plot of less than one hectare can be observed, even if sporadically, over tens of millennia. At Allen Canyon Cave, Engelmann sprucealpine fir forest was replaced by the present vegetation consisting of pinyon-juniper woodland on exposed ridgetops and cliffside stands of Douglas fir, ponderosa pine, and aspen. Xerophytic woodland plants such as pinyon, plains prickly pear, and narrowleaf yucca arrived sometime in the middle Holocene between 7200 and 3400 B.P. At Fishmouth Cave, Utah juniper in Holocene middens replaced blue spruce, limber pine, Douglas fir, and dwarf and Rocky Mountain junipers in late Wisconsin samples. Disharmonious associations for the late Wisconsin occur only at the lower site with the xerophytes Mormon tea, plains prickly pear, and narrowleaf yucca growing alongside subalpine conifers. One possible explanation involves the late Wisconsin absence of ponderosa and pinyon pines from the Colorado Plateaus. Released from competition at their lower limits, subalpine conifers were able to expand into lower elevations and mix with xerophytic plants found today in understories of pinyon-juniper and ponderosa pine woodlands. Quantitative climatic estimates are derived for the late Wisconsin by applying vertical gradients for temperature and precipitation to the amount of vegetation depression. The Fishmouth Cave sequence indicates a minimum lowering of 850 m for blue spruce, limber pine, and dwarf juniper. A depression of at least 700 m for Engelmann spruce and alpine fir is suggested for the Allen Canyon locality. Use of conservatively low gradients for stations below 2080 m yields a 3-4 C cooling from present mean annual temperature and 35 to 60 percent more rainfall than today. Steeper gradients associated with more mountainous terrain suggest a 5 C lowering in temperature and up to 120 percent increase over modern precipitation.
41711396|New or additional records of six species of birds are reported for Utah: Red-throated Loon, Black-legged Kittiwake, Vaux's Swift, Blue Jay, Magnolia Warbler, and Rose-breasted Grosbeak. All are substantiated by museum specimens. Unless reported for the first time, other records for the state for these rare birds are summarized.
41711611|Five additional species of wood rotting basidiomycetes on Arizona junipers are described and illustrated. All cause a white rot of dead, fallen trees. Leptosporomyces juniperinus is proposed as a new species. Vararia fibra is reported from the United States for the first time.
41712093|Mining reclamation specialists and government regulators need sound criteria for judging when reclamation is complete and expensive bonds can be released. Values are given for five easily measured plant parameters that can be used for judging success on native species that are growing on semiarid grasslands and sagebrush lands.
41712781|Seedling size and survival in relation to summer drought were examined for Chrysothamnus nauseosus growing under field and greenhouse conditions. In the field, summer survival rates were less than 2% annually for the three years monitored. The effect of initial seedling height on subsequent survival was examined in both the field and greenhouse by grouping seedlings into live and dead categories on each census date and comparing the initial heights for seedlings in these categories. For a majority of the census dates, the initial height of surviving seedlings was greater than the initial height of those that subsequently died (significant differences ranged from 1 to 8 mm), indicating that seedlings that were taller at the initiation of the drought period had a higher probability of survival. In the greenhouse, taller seedlings had greater shoot and root biomass and rooting depth. Seedlings that are larger (i.e., taller and have greater aboveground biomass) in late spring appear to have a higher probability of surviving the summer drought due to greater rooting depth and hence increased access to moisture in deeper soil layers. Seed availability and safe sites for germination were probably not limiting since large numbers of seedlings successfully germinated in a patchy pattern during the study period. Seedling size and probability of survival were not related to either seedling density or the distance to nearest seedling neighbor. Survival through summer drought appears to be the main limitation to seedling recruitment in this population.
41712021|The Stansbury Mountains of north central Utah rise over 2000 m above surrounding desert valleys to a maximum elevation of 3362 m on Deseret Peak. Because of the great variety of environmental conditions that can be found in the Stansburys, a wide range of plant species and vegetation types (from shadscale desert to alpine meadow) exist there. This paper presents an annotated list of 594 vascular plant species in 315 genera and 78 families. The largest families are Asteraceae (98 species), Poaceae (71), Brassicaceae (33), Fabaceae (27), and Rosaceae (26). Elymus flavescens was previously unreported from Utah. Statistical comparison of the Stansbury flora with neighboring mountain floras indicates that the Wasatch Mountains lying 65 km to the east have probably been the primary source area for development of the Stansbury flora. Many lowland species, especially those inhabiting sandy areas, apparently have migrated to the area from the south.
41711869|Within the Craters of the Moon Lava Flow in southeastern Idaho are kipukas, islands of sagebrush habitat isolated by relatively barren lava. In 1979 I counted the number of species of plants, small mammals, and reptiles for a series of kipukas. The degree of isolation of a kipuka was not related to numbers of species found there; thus, these data do not support the equilibrium theory of island biogeography. For most of the study organisms lava is not a significant barrier to dispersal. Larger kipukas support larger numbers of species. For plants this relationship likely is a result of the increased topographic variety of larger kipukas, whereas for small mammal species minimum area requirements for maintaining populations are met only by larger kipukas. More distant kipukas showed increased density of small mammals, possibly as a result of reduced predation. Patterns of distribution in this ecosystem are best explained, not by any all-inclusive community mechanism, but through the agglomerative contributions of a variety of population and community functions.
41711454|Distributional data are presented for 13 species of Nevada stoneflies including eight species new to the state list. A checklist of 30 species confirmed for Nevada is included.
41711896|Western records for 27 species of Trichoptera are given; a majority of the records are from the Beartooth Mountains of northwestern Wyoming. In addition, examples of variation in the male genitilia of Limnephilus coloradensis (Banks) are figured and the female is described. Some comments regarding the larvae of Allomyia (Imania) are presented.
41712443|Listed in alphabetical order by author are 549 references to literature that describes the native vegetation of Montana. This updates the 1965 list of Habeck and Hartley. A keyword subject index is included.
41712138|The mean size of food and amount of food consumed by cutthroat trout from Palisades Creek in southeastern Idaho increased with trout length. Number of organisms of terrestrial origin, number of aquatic larvae, number of ants, and number of berries from redstem dogwood were related to trout length. The size range and number of taxa consumed increased with trout size, indicating that as trout get larger, they broaden their feeding menu. The minimum size of food consumed was relatively constant for all trout, but larger trout appeared to feed more from the stream bottom. Trout may have a minimum length of food, below which items cannot be detected as food. Other possible factors affecting the feeding of cutthroat trout are mentioned.
41711779|Kalsow Prairie, a mesic prairie remnant in central Iowa, was acquired by the state in 1949 and later established as a botanical reserve. This study concerns a complex of 14 potholes and adjacent drainage areas within the prairie. The potholes varied in depth and degree of fill and are thus useful in studies of plant succession. All 14 potholes exhibit zonation patterns. A total of 36 transects were taken in the various community zones. Canopy cover data were taken in every zone. The zones are ordinated into three-dimensional space as well as clustered. Interspecific association patterns are elucidated. A successional sequence is proposed.
41711564|Diets of townsend ground squirrels were quantified from the Arid Land Ecology (ALE) Reserve in eastern Washington.
41712722|Road track surveys were a poor index of cougar density in southern Utah. The weak relationship we found between track-finding frequency and cougar density undoubtedly resulted in part from the fact that available roads do not sample properly from the nonuniformly distributed cougar population. However, the significantly positive relationship (r = .73) we found between track-finding frequency and number of cougar home ranges crossing the survey road suggested the technique may be of use in monitoring cougar populations where road abundance and location allow the population to be sampled properly. The amount of variance in track-finding frequency unexplained by number of home ranges overlapping survey roads indicates the index may be useful in demonstrating only relatively large changes in cougar population size.
41712415|One hundred and one species of Odonata are recorded for Colorado, including 58 species of Anisoptera (of which 4 are new state records) and 43 Zygoptera (9 new state records). County records are indicated for each. Three major elements are recognized: predominantly eastern species occurring in the plains and mountain valleys east of the Rocky Mountains, Canadian Zone elements occurring principally above 2,440 m (8,000 ft) in the mountains, and Great Basin and western species occurring chiefly west of the mountains. The list is based primarily on the collections at Colorado State University and the University of Colorado, with additional records from the literature and from other collections.
41712739|We compared vertebrate populations between the two major islands (Paoha and Negit) in Mono Lake, California, and the adjacent mainland to further elucidate the mechanisms underlying island colonization. Deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) and montane voles (Microtus montanus) were captured on Paoha, but only deer mice were captured on Negit. In contrast, eight species of rodents were captured on the mainland. Overall rodent abundance on Paoha and the mainland was similar, but on Negit it was about three times greater than on Paoha or the mainland. Adult deer mice from Paoha were significantly (P < .05) smaller in most external body characteristics than mainland mice. Coyotes (Cams latrans) and one or two species of lagomorphs were observed on the islands and the mainland. No amphibians or reptiles were found on the islands; both occurred in low numbers on the mainland. Rafting and human transport are probable means of colonization for mice and voles. The occurrence of coyotes on the islands may have modified historic predator-prey relationships, and thus the population of rodents and lagomorphs
41711792|An alarm vocalization was identified in the pygmy rabbit. The call was composed of from one to seven syllables uttered in rapid succession. The syllables were complex tones with many overlying frequencies; the strongest occurred close to harmonic intervals at 4000 and 6000 Hz. In both laboratory and field conditions, the call seemed to be elicited by a potential predator and its use may be unique among leporids.
41712316|Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) was found parasitizing Pacific silver fir (Abies amabilis) in northern Siskiyou County, California. This is the first report of Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe on this host. Approximately 40% of the Pacific silver firs near heavily infected Douglas-firs were infected. The low level of infection on Pacific silver fir, unusually large swellings at the points of infection, and poor shoot production on infected branches indicate some degree of host-parasite incompatibility.
41713085|Studies of Great Basin faunas can provide information for landscape-level adaptive management by federal agencies and shed light on potential effects of climate change in continental interior landscapes. To provide such information, we characterized the butterfly fauna of the Toquima Range, a mountain range in the heart of the Great Basin with topography typical of the region. We also compared the butterfly fauna of the Toquima Range to that of the adjacent Toiyabe Range, which is more topographically complex and species rich but less representative of the Great Basin on the whole. We explicitly addressed the effects of area and water availability on butterfly species richness. Butterfly species presence data were compiled for 14 canyons and 1 peak in the Toquima Range. Data from 11 canyons that we inventoried systematically were amenable to statistical analysis. Eighty butterfly species (59 residents) have been recorded from the Toquima Range since 1935. By comparison, 99 species have been recorded from the Toiyabe Range. Mean canyon-level butterfly species richness was significantly lower in the Toquima Range than in the Toiyabe Range. This difference cannot be explained by differences in canyon size between the mountain ranges. Within the Toquima Range water availability seems to have a dominant effect on butterfly species richness. Between mountain ranges species richness is influenced by interactions among area, moisture, and topography. These data should assist managers in developing guidelines for conservation planning in the Great Basin.
41712056|Sixteen species of Tiger Beetles are listed for Idaho, along with the counties of occurrence for each species. Three species are placed in a checklist of Idaho species for the first time: Cicindela depressula depressula Casey, Cicindela parowana wallisi Calder, and Cicindela decemnotata decemnotata Say.
41711364|Gymnodamaeus plokosus and G. leurolomasus, n. spp., are described from soil at an ecological study site near Hayden, Colorado. Their relationship to allied species is discussed.
41711775|The presence of Crenichthys nevadae Hubbs is verified from 37.8 to 18.3 C in the Big Springs aquatic system.
41712463|A population of Penstemon pseudospectabilis M. E. Jones (Scrophulariaceae) on Cave Creek in Cochise County. Arizona, was used in an experimental test of reproductive fitness with three caging treatments: all flying pollinators excluded, hummingbirds excluded, and no exclusion. Twenty plants were chosen and three shoots on each used in the experiment. The flowers were 25.6 (s.d. = 1.5) mm long, the end diameter was 8.5 (s.d. = 1.0) mm, the tube opening was 6.5 (s.d. = 1.0) mm, and the greatest diameter, 75% distal from the receptacle, was 10.1 (s.d. = 0.8) mm (N = 59). Floral nectar contained 11.7% (s.d. = 2.9%) fructose, 13.8% (s.d. = 2.7%) glucose, and 74.5% (s.d. = 5.4%) sucrose (N = 74). There was some evidence, significant only for fructose, that nectar-sugar composition varies between morning and evening. Larger floral dimensions were correlated with lower sucrose and higher hexoses. Casual observation showed Xylocopa sp., small bees, flies, and hummingbirds to be visitors. There was no sign of nectar robbing. Five percent of flowers set seed with all pollen vectors excluded, 44% with hummingbirds excluded, and 63% with no exclusion. Seed set per fruit was 2 with all excluded, 23 with hummingbirds excluded, and 46 with no exclusion. Mean seed set on pollinated flowers was 60, with a range of 2 to 192. Multiple linear regression showed the fraction of fruit setting seed when hummingbirds were excluded to be related to larger flower diameters and shorter flowers. With no pollinator exclusion, fruits setting seed were related to larger diameters and nectar fructose. For seeds per fruit, multiple regression gave similar, but less clear, results. We conclude that P. pseudospectabilis is pollinated by both bees and hummingbirds, with other pollinators not to be excluded as possible contributors. We found no hard evidence of selective forces currently at work.
41712408|The Utah taxa of Equisetum were observed with the scanning electron microscope to test for taxonomic significance of stem morphology. The four Utah species of Equisetum were compared. Stem morphology was shown to be taxonomically significant in most cases. The hybrid E. x ferrissii, recognized in the literature as being extant in Utah but heretofore unrecognized in Utah herbaria, was shown to be present in the flora of the state.
41712986|Between May 1992 and April 1996, freshwater sponges (Porifera: Spongillidae) were collected at 24 sites, distributed among 6 sub-major drainage basins in western Montana, to determine the species present. Water samples also were analyzed from 16 of these sites and from 9 sites at which no sponges were detected to characterize sponge habitats chemically. Three species of sponges were identified: Ephydatia muelleri (Em), Eunapius fragilis (Ef), and Spongilla lacustris (Sl). A 4th type of specimen was present at 2 sites but could not be identified because of the absence of gemmules and gemmoscleres. At 46% of the sites containing sponges, more than 1 specimen type was present. Sponges were most commonly found near outlets of lakes, attached to sides or undersides of submerged rocks and logs. They appeared as encrusting (Em, Ef, Sl), lobate (Em), and fingerlike (Sl) growths, varying in color from light tan to green. Dimensions of the spicules varied greatly within each species and expanded previously recorded ranges. No factors limiting sponge distribution were identified, but ranges of conductivity (Em) and of silica (Em, Sl), calcium (Em), and magnesium (Em) concentrations were expanded beyond those reported previously.
41712165|Twenty-one areas in pinyon (Pinus monophylh )-juniper (Juniperus osteosperma ) woodlands burned by wildfire from approximately 1 to 60 years prior to sampling and adjacent unburned mature woodland stands were studied in Nevada and California to determine successional patterns and individual species responses to burning and to changing plant communities through time. One year after burning, all late successional woodland species were present in postburn plant communities except tree species. Increases in both cover and occurrence of annual and perennial forbs resulted in their dominance on early successional sites. Shrubs and annual grasses dominated midsuccessional sites, subsequently giving way to tree, shrub, and perennial grass dominance in late succession. North and east slopes generally supported high cover and occurrence of shrubs, perennial grasses, and perennial forbs, and south and west slopes generally supported high cover and occurrence of annual forbs and annual grasses. The ability to group species according to preferential occurrence on various aspects and successional stages can be used to predict plant community composition in time and space in the pinyon-juniper woodlands.
41713060|Chemical variability and biological communities of rock pools found in small desert drainage basins of Capitol Reef National Park were characterized over 8 mon in 1994. Neither flooding, drying, nor the presence or absence of surrounding vegetated wetlands had a great effect on chemical composition, which was very dilute and fluctuated somewhat in response to rain events. Neither flooding nor drying affected the composition of biological communities in the pools. Summer storms affected only a few drainages at a time, and only a few study pools of significant volume dried completely during the hot, dry summer. This suggests that only a portion of the Waterpocket Fold aquatic community is ever disturbed at a time, leaving undisturbed areas as a source of recovery. Pools bordered by vegetated wetlands always supported greater numbers of species throughout the year than those bordered only by bedrock, but the same taxa were found in both vegetated and bedrock pools. The rock pool fauna in Capitol Reef National Park appear to be resilient to climatic variability.
41712670|In 1987 the effects of arthropods on root: shoot ratios and biomass production were examined in southeastern Wyoming mountain shrub habitats that were undisturbed or had undergone conventional shrub management by mowing, burning, or herbicide application during the previous year. In habitats with and without shrub canopy, treatment with insecticides generally increased foliage biomass and consistently decreased root biomass, regardless of the shrub management practice. In open areas the effects of insecticide treatments on the root and shoot biomass were relatively greater in undisturbed plots than in any of the managed plots. With only one exception, the root: shoot ratio increased following application of insecticide.
41712186|Mapping units were developed based on landform, soils, and plant communities for the 40,000 ha of salt desert vegetation located below the maximum level of pluvial Lake Gilbert in Grass Valley, Nevada. Lake plain, beach, and bar features of the pluvial lake provide the dominant landforms. Fine textured lake sediments have produced saltand Na-affected soils. The distribution and structure of plant communities are related to depth of the groundwater table, fluctuations in this depth, and the salt content of the groundwater. Wind and water erosion combine to continually evolve new environments for colonization by plants in this ecosystem.
41711552|Fourteen North, Central, and South American Scolytidae have reached areas outside of America, namely Hawaii (5), Australia (3), Southeast Asia (2), Africa (7), Europe (1), and worldwide (1). The 44 species introduced into North and Central America have originated in South America (10), Southeast Asia (15), Africa (14), or Europe (7). Four North and Central American species have extended their ranges into new territory within this region. Most of the species that breed in the bole or roots of their host were imported more than a half century ago; those imported since 1950 breed mostly in seeds, pods, dry fruits, or small branches. Forty-five of the 62 species apparently can reproduce by means of facultative arrhenotokic parthenogenesis.
41712669|From 1984 through 1985 a study was made of the influence of a retained mine highwall on a wildlife community in south central Wyoming. Vegetation species richness and diversity were greater near the highwall compared with two adjacent sites 150 m in front of and behind the highwall. However, vegetation abundance (cover) was greater on the two adjacent sites. Small mammal abundance, richness, and diversity were greater on the highwall than on the two adjacent sites. Male bird abundance, richness, and diversity were greatest in front of the highwall (+50 m to +350 m) compared with the highwall and the area behind the highwall.
41712996|Totals of 101 native Yellowstone cutthroat (Oncorhynchus clarki bouvieri), 27 introduced lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush), and 40 introduced longnose sucker (Catostomus catostomus) from Yellowstone Lake, Wyoming, USA, were examined for eye flukes. Metacercariae of the trematode fluke Diphstomum were in vitreous humor and/or lens of 94% of Yellowstone cutthroat trout, 92% of lake trout, and 78% of longnose sucker. Longnose sucker had 7% prevalence of infection in both lens and vitreous humor of metacercariae, while Yellowstone cutthroat trout had 3% and lake trout 8%. Diplostomum spathaceum was in lens tissue of 5% of infected Yellowstone cutthroat trout and 93% of longnose sucker; Diplostomum baeri was in vitreous humor of 92% each of infected Yellowstone cutthroat trout and lake trout. Morphological characteristics indicate that a single species infected the lens of Yellowstone cutthroat trout and longnose sucker, while another species infected lake trout. Impacts of the parasite interchange between native and introduced fishes of Yellowstone Lake, Wyoming, are unknown but should be monitored each year.
41712944|Spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa Lam.) is a major rangeland and roadside weed of the northern Rocky Mountains. It is often found in plant communities dominated by Pseudoroegneria spicatum or Festuca idahoensis, but it rarely invades roadsides dominated by Bromus inermis Leyss. Aboveground biomass of the 3 grass species grown in mixture with Centaurea was compared to growth in monoculture at a range of nitrogen input levels. The results suggest that Bromus is capable of suppressing the growth of Centaurea with the degree of suppression increasing with increasing nitrogen levels. The 2 native grasses had no impact on Centaurea under the controlled environment conditions of this study.
41712988|From 1990 to 1992 we surveyed for Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) in 3 areas in Idaho: Salmon National Forest (SNF), Payette National Forest and adjacent Hells Canyon National Recreation Area (PNF-HCNRA), and Nez Perce National Forest (NPNF). We also collected and summarized information on all historic and modern records of Flammulated Owls in Idaho. Flammulated Owls were detected on 65% of 68 routes (2-16 km in length) surveyed at densities ranging from 0.04 to 1.25 singing males/40 ha. Owls were detected on survey routes as early as 10 May and as late as 23 July. Mean percent canopy cover estimated at owl locations on the PNF-HCNRA and NPNF study sites ranged from 52% to 64%, while shrub cover ranged from 16% to 21% and ground cover was 39% to 49%. Our surveys and summary of distributional records indicate that Flammulated Owls occur throughout the montane forests of Idaho in old or mature stands of open ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa), Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), and stands co-dominated by those 2 species. Fire suppression and timber harvest activity in ponderosa pine forests represent 2 main threats to the species' future security in Idaho. More research on the effects of various silvicultural treatments on Flammulated Owl populations is warranted.
41711612|A new record of Pinus longaeva D. K. Bailey in the Stansbury Mountains, north of the known range of the species, is reported.
41712899|Specimens of Oxytropis in the herbaria of The Natural History Museum and Royal Botanic Garden were examined to interpret their role in nomenclature. This is the first attempt at a systematic overview of specimens so important in understanding the genus as it occurs in North America. The review of specimens at BM and K during the present research has resulted in realignment of names of some of the taxa. Oxytropis campestris var. gracilis (A. Nelson) Barneby is recognized herein as being predated by O. campestris var. spicata Hook., O. sericea var. spicata (Hook.) Barneby is replaced by O. sericea var. speciosa (Torr. & A. Gray) Welsh comb, nov., and O. campestris var. terrae-novae (Fern.) Barneby is superseded by O. campestris var. minor (Hook.) Welsh comb. nov. One new taxon is proposed: Oxytropis deflexa (Pall.) DC. var. pulcherrima Welsh & A. Huber, var. nov. Lectotypes are designated for the following taxa: Astragalus retroflexus Pall., Oxytropis arctica R. Br., O. arctica var.  subumbellata Hook., O. arctica var.  uniflora Hook., O. campestris var.  speciosa Torr. & A. Gray, O. campestris var.  melanocephala Hook., O. campestris var.  spicata Hook., O. multiceps var. minor A. Gray, O. splendens Douglas ex Hook., O. splendens  richardsonii Hook., O. uralensis  subsucculenta Hook., and O. uralensis  minor Hook.
41713056|A conservation gap analysis was conducted for the Intermountain Semi-Desert ecoregion to assess the representation of land-cover types within areas managed primarily for biodiversity objectives. Mapped distributions of plant communities were summarized by land-management status categories. The total amount of land permanently protected in the ecoregion is <4%, and most types that are characteristic of the region have <10%. Of 48 land-cover types, 20 were found to be particularly vulnerable to potential loss or degradation because of low level of representation in biodiversity management areas and the impact of expected land-use activities. Gap analysis data and findings will be useful in providing a regional perspective in project impact assessment and future conservation planning within this ecoregion.
41712274|Described as a new breeding species is Clark's Grebe in Colorado and Nevada.
41711300|On 17 October 1970, the thermocline in the mixolimnion of Big Soda Lake, Nev., was located between 15 and 20 m below the surface. The chemocline was found to lie between 30 and 35 m depth. Significant dilution of the lake has occurred since 23 July 1933.
41711323|Twelve species of Mollusca are reported from the Fish Springs area in west central Utah, including Stagnicola pilsbryi (Hemphill, 1890). Most of the species are well known from Utah or the southwestern United States except S. pilsbryi, which is apparently endemic to Fish Springs.
41712438|Historically, one American White Pelican nesting area was known in Wyoming. In 1986 White Pelicans nested at four locations consisting of four different colonies and approximately 949 active nests. Nesting success was probably adequate for population stability at Pathfinder Reservoir from 1984 through 1986 and at Yellowstone Lake in 1984 and 1985, but insufficient there in 1986. White Pelican colonies at Bamforth and Cooper lakes most likely failed because of prdation. With the exception of the Yellowstone Lake colony, the future of White Pelican nesting colonies in Wyoming is uncertain. Current threats are human disturbance of nesting birds, prdation, and loss of habitat, including breeding areas and foraging sites.
41711457|Shore flies of the genera Coenia Robineau-Desvoidy and Paracoenia Cresson are revised, resulting in the description of two new subgenera of Paracoenia, Calocoenia and Leptocoenia, and of four new species, Paracoenia ampla, P. calida, and P. wirthi from California, and Coenia alpina from Labrador, Canada. Biological information on P. turbida and P. calida is given and die known distribution for each species is presented. P. paurosoma is reported from the Palearctic Region for the first time based on specimens from Sweden ; several new distribution records from North America are also included. Characters of the male postabdomen are used, and the male genitalia of each species are illustrated. Keys or references to all known species of these genera are included.
41711371|The reduction of Platypodidae and Scolytidae to subfamilies of Curculionidae by certain recent authors is questioned. Several fundamentally important anatomical characters that could not possibly have been derived from Curculionidae are cited. Platypodidae (including Coptonotidae) is recognized provisionally as a derivative of Scolytidae; Scolytidae, with subfamilies Hylesininae and Scolytinae (including Ipinae), is also recognized as a family. Protoplatypus, new genus, for P. vetulus, n. sp., a primitive platypodid from New Guinea, and Protohylastes, new genus, for Pr. annosus, n. sp., a primitive scolytid from Queensland, are described.
41711788|Hypsiglena torquata tiburonensis is described as new to science from Isla del Tiburon, Sonora, Mexico. Notes pertaining to other taxa in the genus are included.
41712936|A revised list of the mosses of the State of Wyoming is presented. Recorded are 315 species and varieties.
41711847|Summer food habits of coyotes (Canis latrans) were investigated on a 3100-km area in central Wyoming, divided into one deer-use area and five non-deer areas. Analysis of 404 scats (fecal samples) revealed an overall average of 63 percent occurrence of native ungulates, 63 percent leporids, 46 percent rodents, 14 percent livestock, and 11 percent birds. Pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) was the ungulate most frequently consumed, occurring in about 87 percent of the scats. Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) occurred in only 8 percent, and in 5 percent the native ungulate remains were not identifiable beyond order. This large percentage of big game in the diet is apparently unusual, because big game has been of minor importance in most coyote food-habit studies. The high incidence of leporids is consistent with other studies performed in arid intermountain areas. Although cricetines, especially deer mice (Peramyscus manicufotus), were trapped consistently in all habitats, months, and trapping areas, they were found in scats at a lower frequency than microtines and sciurids. This suggests a coyote hunting strategy that selected for the latter two groups.
41712581|The thermal equilibrium hypothesis predicts that aquatic insect body size/fecundity and, consequently, population density and biomass will be maximized in geographic areas or along altitudinal gradients where the thermal regime is optimal with respect to growth and development. Seasonal growth analyses of three mayfly species, combined with detailed thermal descriptions, were used to explore differences in body size and fecundity at three sites with similar elevations but different temperature regimes. Site 1 was located near the upper altitudinal distribution for each species, whereas sites 2 and 3 were located below a deep-release storage reservoir. The temperature pattern at site 1 had rapid seasonal changes, with a short summer and a long, freezing winter. Site 2 demonstrated gradual seasonal changes combined with winter warm and summer cool temperatures. Site 3 was intermediate with respect to seasonal change and winter harshness but had the highest maximum and mean annual temperatures. Mayfly development at site 1 was characterized by slow growth during the summer-autumn period, no growth during the winter, and a rapid increase during the spring-summer period. In contrast, growth at site 2 was continuous throughout the year, including the winter. Growth at site 3 was either continuous across sites or rapid during the spring-summer period, depending on the species. Based upon the interactions among temperature, body size, and metabolic costs, the thermal equilibrium hypothesis was successful at predicting body size and fecundity differences among sites. It was less successful at predicting variation in population density and biomass. Density-dependent and density-independent sources of mortality, including temperature, may interrupt the translation of higher fecundity into higher population density and biomass.
41712314|Cliffrose (Cowania mexicana var. stansburiana [Torr.] Jepson) community measurements were taken in central Utah. Data revealed a high between-site similarity of 78.5%. Soil analysis for sites showed most macronutrients, and some micronutrients, relatively low. Cover of cliffrose was found to increase with increases in soil magnesium (p  0.01). Plants growing on the sites have adapted life cycles to exploit moisture and nutrients during seasons of maximum availability. Prevalent species in the community were cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), cliffrose, madwort (Alyssum alyssoides), and bluebunch wheatgrass (Agropyron spicatum). Annual grasses were the most important life form to community composition; the second was shrubs. Ratios between soil nutrients and cliffrose tissue nutrients indicate active transport of some elements. Data indicated a steady decline in establishment of new cliffrose individuals on the sites since 1957. This lack of reproductive success is most likely due to a combination of factors but appears most influenced by the elevated levels of annual plants (mainly cheatgrass) on the sites. If the cliffrose communities in central Utah are to be maintained, special attention to their management must be considered and implemented.
41712207|The densities of singleleaf pinyon and Utah juniper trees in four diameter classes (1-9, 10-19, 20-29, and  30 cm) were measured on 522 plots of 1/10 ha each throughout the Great Basin. Density distribution patterns of pinyon and juniper varied with aspect, elevation, and eastern (EGB) versus western Great Basin (WGB) locations. On most locations north and, to a lesser extent, west slopes supported higher densities of pinyon than south and east slopes, with high relative densities of small diameter trees on north slopes and large diameter trees on west slopes. Pinyon densities were higher on EGB than on WGB sites and on higher elevation than on lower elevation sites. Juniper densities were higher on EGB than on WGB sites and on lower elevation than on higher elevation sites. Juniper densities on low-elevation WGB sites were higher on south and west aspects than on north and east, with higher relative densities in the 20-29 cm diameter class than in other diameter classes. On low elevation EGB sites, east and south slopes supported higher juniper densities than did north and west slopes, with comparatively higher relative densities in the 10-19 cm diameter class. Differences in relative densities between diameter classes were not significant among aspects on high elevation sites.
41712239|We characterize 14 trees used simultaneously and sequentially by breeding cavity-nesting birds in Wyoming cottonwood communities. Our descriptions can be used as a management resource to enrich the diversity of breeding assemblages of these bird species.
41711739|Hanging gardens are insular plant communities of the Colorado Plateau. This study examines hanging gardens in the Narrows, Zion National Park, Utah. The floristic similarity of gardens and the presence of species in classes of variables which characterize the habitat are disclosed. Although the gardens are isolated and dissimilar, the individual species are not restricted in the range of habitat found. Floristic dissimilarity cannot be attributed to differences in habitat. These results are compared to studies of hanging gardens in eastern Utah.
41711819|In 1979, the walnut spanworm defoliated a 1 ha bitterbrush seed orchard near Nephi, Utah. No seed was produced for two years thereafter due to feeding damage. Life stages were described and illustrated. The female is brachypterous and incapable of flight. First instar larvae readily drop on their silk threads and probably are dispersed by wind. The insect has one annual generation. Moths laid an average of 159 eggs per cluster in April; larvae began to appear in early May and matured by the first week of June. The pupal period extended from June until mid-April. The parasitic bombyliid, Villa faustina (Osten Sacken), was reared from pupae. In April 1980, shrubs contained an estimated average of 1044 eggs each. On 19 May, larvae averaged 1.9 per 7.5 cm of twig and were in the first and second instar. On 20 May the population was controlled by spraying with Sevimol-4. Other potential host plants, as determined from greenhouse tests, are rose, ceanothus, mountain mahogany, serviceberry, and willow.
41712680|Eight bobcat kittens were fitted with a specially designed harness system supporting a radio transmitter. These kittens were the youngest known to be radio-instrumented. This system was used successfully through two seasons, from June 1989 to January 1991. Litters of kittens were located soon after birth for weighing, marking, and aging (by tooth eruption). During the first year when kittens were at least eight weeks old and six weeks old the second year, attempts were made to radio-instrument kittens in each litter. This harness system allowed litters to be located periodically until their death or dispersal. We were able to collect important data during the most crucial and least known weeks of the lives of bobcat kittens.
41712265|Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) beds were studied in selected plant communities with the purpose of characterizing bedding sites. Six trends exist among the data: (1) deer appeared to prefer bedding under or near conifers, (2) most beds were found on or near game trails, (3) beds in xeric communities were located at higher altitudes and had less overhead cover than in mesic communities, (4) the percentage of uphill cover in xeric areas was greater than in mesic areas, (5) visibility was lower on the north and west sides of deer beds in both community types than on the south and east sides, and (6) the mean size of deer beds was the same in both xeric and mesic communities. These trends, as well as other tendencies in bed locations, are considered from the standpoint of deer thermoregulation and predator avoidance.
41712331|Twenty-five cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki) and eight longnose suckers (Catostomus catostomus) from Yellowstone Lake, Wyoming, were collected and examined for parasites in 1985. Cutthroat trout had at least six different species of parasites that included both protozoans and helminths. The greatest number of parasite species on one fish was nine. Parasites added to the known list for cutthroat trout from Yellowstone Lake, Wyoming, were: Myxosoma sp., Diphyllobothrium ditremum, Diphyllobothrium dendriticum, Diplostomum baeri, and Posthodiplostomum minimum. These data were compared with a previous survey (1971) and a checklist of parasites of cutthroat trout in North America. There are 17 species of parasites and two fungal species reported for cutthroat trout from Yellowstone Lake. Trichophrya catostomi, Diplostomum spathaceum, and Ligula sp. were observed in the small sample of longnose suckers.
41712007|Stomach contents of 33 hunter and trapper killed badgers, Taxidea taxus, from northeastern South Dakota were examined during the 1980-81 fur season. Mammal prey species made up the bulk of the ingested food, followed by plant materials. Approximately 40 percent of stomach contents were mammals, 35 percent were of plant origin, 10 percent were birds, 10 percent were insects, while the remainder was mostly inorganic materials. Little significant difference was found in variety of food items consumed by each sex. South Dakota badgers are opportunistic foragers in the wintertime when food is scarce. Individual food items are usually taken in quantity when encountered by badgers.
41712863|Monitoring diversity usually begins by estimating alpha diversity of a plant community on a specific site. The objectives of this study were to provide alpha diversity benchmarks and to determine whether rangeland community basal cover characteristics explained variation in diversity estimates. Plant and surface component cover percentages were estimated on 51 plots (representing four vegetation types) on the Lassen National Forest, CA. Each plot was sampled with 30 random, 102 basal point transects. Jackknife procedures were used to compute means and standard errors for Margalef's diversity index (Dm), which stresses species richness, and Simpson's index (Ds), which stresses species dominance. Within vegetation types, Dm and Ds did not rank all plots in the same order. Highest Dm values occurred with the most species. Highest Ds values occurred with comparatively few species but more uniform cover. With either index, average diversity declined from the meadow to grassland to open shrub-grass to timber-bunchgrass types. All possible subset regressions of diversity on the basal cover characteristics were computed. Portions of the variance accounted for by the best models were too low to allow prediction of Dm and Ds. The relation of alpha diversity to rangeland health is discussed.
41712756|The role of the cyanobacterium Microcoleus vaginatus in cold-desert soil crusts is investigated using scanning electron microscopy. Crusts from sandstone-, limestone-, and gypsum-derived soils are examined. When dry, polysaccharide sheath material from this cyanobacterium can be seen winding through and across all three types of soil surfaces, attaching to and binding soil particles together. When wet, sheaths and living filaments can be seen absorbing water, swelling and covering soil surfaces even more extensively Addition of negatively charged material, found both as sheath material and attached clay particles, may affect cation exchange capacity of these soils as well. As a result of these observations, we propose that the presence of this cyanobacterium may significantly enhance soil stability, moisture retention, and fertility of cold-desert soils.
41711809|Scats of sympatric red foxes and coyotes from the upper Snake River Plain of southeastern Idaho were analyzed for composition. Rodent remains in general and those of cricetid mice in particular occurred more frequently in scats of red foxes during all seasons of the year than any other food items identified. Scats of coyotes differed significantly in content from scats of red foxes during winter and contained primarily pygmy rabbit remains. In summer, remains of pygmy rabbits, sheep, ground squirrels, yellow-bellied marmots, arthropods, and vegetation were found more frequently in scats of coyotes and remains of cricetid mice occurred more frequently in scats of red foxes. Red foxes and coyotes generally consumed similar food items but in different proportions. Based on the location of scats that were collected, red foxes and coyotes largely used different portions of the study area. Reasons for the preferential usage of habitat are discussed.
41712068|A 36.9x10 m reservoir constructed on Huntington River, Emery County, Utah, resulted in changes in physical habitat, water quality, temperature, and flow regime. The greatest changes in physical habitat resulted from: (1) sediment additions from dam and road construction plus erosion of reservoir basin during filling; and (2) changing stream flow from a spring high runoff regime to a moderated flow regime. Elimination of spring nutrient concentration peaks and overall reduction of total dissolved nutrient availability in the river plus moderate reductions in pH were the most apparent water quality changes below the reservoir. Water temperature changes were an increased diurnal and seasonal constancy, summer depression, and winter elevation, generally limited to a 10-12 km reach below the dam. Physical and chemical changes altered macroinvertebrate community structure, with changes greatest near the dam and progessively less as distance downstream increased. Below the dam: (1) more environmentally tolerant taxa increased their dominance; (2) relative numbers of smaller sized individuals increased in relation to larger individuals; and (3) filter feeding, collector/gatherers, and scrapers gained an advantage over shredders. Insect taxa such as Rhithrogena robusta, Pteronarcella badia, and Ephemerella doddsi were eliminated from stream reaches near the dam, and other taxa such as Arctopsyche grandis, Chironomidae, and Simuliidae increased in numbers. Late spring to early summer egg hatch proved to be a disadvantage to Brachycentrus occidentalis, and B. americanus, with a fall hatch, was less impacted by altered river flow patterns. Macroinvertebrate taxa with small instar larvae present from late summer to early fall were negatively impacted by the unnaturally high July and August flows. The reservoir became a physical barrier to downstream larval drift and upcanyon and downcanyon immigration of adults, resulting in reduced numbers of several species above and below the reservoir.
41712719|Adaptive features of plants of the Great Basin are reviewed. The combination of cold winters and an arid to semiarid precipitation regime results in the distinguishing features of the vegetation in the Great Basin and Colorado Plateau. The primary effects of these climatic features arise from how they structure the hydrologic regime. Water is the most limiting factor to plant growth, and water is most reliably available in the early spring after winter recharge of soil moisture. This factor determines many characteristics of root morphology, growth phenology of roots and shoots, and photosynthetic physiology. Since winters are typically cold enough to suppress growth, and drought limits growth during the summer, the cool temperatures characteristic of the peak growing season are the second most important climatic factor influencing plant habit and performance. The combination of several distinct stress periods, including low-temperature stress in winter and spring and high-temperature stress combined with drought in summer, appears to have limited plant habit to a greater degree than found in the warm deserts to the south. Nonetheless, cool growing conditions and a more reliable spring growing season result in higher water-use efficiency and productivity in the vegetation of the cold desert than in warm deserts with equivalent total rainfall amounts. Edaphic factors are also important in structuring communities in these regions, and halophytic communities dominate many landscapes. These halophytic communities of the cold desert share more species in common with warm deserts than do the nonsaline communities. The Colorado Plateau differs from the Great Basin in having greater amounts of summer rainfall, in some regions less predictable rainfall, sandier soils, and streams which drain into river systems rather than closed basins and salt playas. One result of these climatic and edaphic differences is a more important summer growing season on the Colorado Plateau and a somewhat greater diversification of plant habit, phenology, and physiology.
41716178|Congress is currently evaluating the wilderness status of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) public lands in Utah. Wilderness areas play many important roles, and one critical role is the conservation of biological diversity. We propose that objectives for conserving biodiversity on BLM lands in Utah be to (1) ensure the long-term population viability of native animal and plant species, (2) maintain the critical ecological and evolutionary processes upon which these species depend, and (3) preserve the full range of communities, successional stages, and environmental gradients. To achieve these objectives, wilderness areas should be selected so as to protect large, contiguous areas, augment existing protected areas, buffer wilderness areas with multiple-use public lands, interconnect existing protected areas with dispersal and movement corridors, conserve entire watersheds and elevational gradients, protect native communities from invasions of exotic species, protect sites of maximum species diversity, protect sites with rare and endemic species, and protect habitats of threatened and endangered species. We use a few comparatively well-studied taxa as examples to highlight the importance of particular BLM lands.
41711350|A checklist of the aquatic macroinvertebrate species from the Provo River, Utah, was compiled from field collections and from literature sources.
41712271|Densities of passerine breeding birds were compared between four range pastures variously grazed by sheep over a 50-year period. The experimental pastures, located at the Desert Experimental Range in southwestern Utah, included three grazed and one ungrazed. Grazed pastures were each heavily stocked and grazed annually at one of three winter seasons (early, middle, or late). Important structural (physiognomic) and compositional differences existed in the vegetation of the experimental pastures. Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris [Linnaeus]), numerically dominant in the pastures, apparently responded to those differences. Black-throated Sparrows (Amphispiza bilineata [Cassin]) and Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianu s Linnaeus) were less common and found as breeding birds only in dry wash habitats. No significant differences were found between the pastures in estimates of total breeding bird populations, bird standing crop biomass, or bird species richness.
41712104|Presently, information pertaining to migration and daily movement patterns of big game in relation to overland conveyors or large diameter pipelines is sparse. A literature review showed that moose (Alces alces), caribou (Rangifer tarandus granti), reindeer, and dall sheep (Ovis dalli dalli) will pass beneath or over large diameter pipeline systems. But no information was found relative to big game crossing coal conveyor systems. Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) passage beneath an overland coal conveyor in Carbon County, Utah, was studied during spring 1981. Deer avoided crossing at underpass opportunities where the clearance was less than 50 cm. Clearances between 50 and 90 cm were selected for crossing. Deer passed beneath the conveyor during day and nighttime conditions and while the conveyor was either operating or idle. Recommendations are discussed for designing conveyors and pipelines to facilitate big game passage.
41712414|Published records of fleas collected from the northern grasshopper mouse, Onychomys leucogaster, indicate that these mice have a great deal of intimate environmental contact with other rodents or their burrows. Fifty-seven species of fleas have been collected from the omnivorous grasshopper mouse. The range of this mouse overlaps much of the distribution of plague, Yersinia pestis, in the western United States; and nearly one-half of the flea species collected from O. leucogaster are known to be of importance in the epizoology of plague. This article discusses the importance of the association of fleas with a hospitable secondary host in the maintenance and transmission of wild rodent plague.
41711641|During May through October 1976, samples of sheep pellets containing laboratory-reared, third-stage Haemonchus contortus larvae were placed on irrigated and nonirrigated pasture plots at Provo, Utah. Periodically thereafter, grass clippings, soil scrapings, and remaining pellets were collected and baermannized to determine their comparative survival from the two environments. Water was added to the irrigated plots in accordance with a weekly sprinkling regime designed to furnish sufficient moisture to maintain pasture grass in this semiarid region. Meteorologie measurements were collected daily from both irrigated and nonirrigated sections. During the year the nonirrigated section received a total of 131 mm of precipitation, whereas an additional 979 mm of water were added via sprinkling to the irrigated section. The monthly mean maximum temperature at soil surface under grass cover for the six-month study period on the irrigated section averaged 17.7 C less than on the nonirrigated section, and the corresponding soil moisture content remained 14.4 percent higher. A bioclimatograph of conditions on the nonirrigated section showed that none of the months during the year had levels of temperature and moisture which fell within the prescribed limits for optimum pasture transmission of H. contortus; on the irrigated section only October of the six-month study period failed to have suitable conditions for optimum pasture transmission. Larvae placed on the plots survived significantly longer and also in significantly greater numbers on the irrigated section, and irrigation enhanced the ability of larvae to migrate from pellets onto vegetation.
41712199|Six study sites were established in each of three community life form types (grass, forb, and shrub) containing as dominants or subdominants either C and/or C plants. Soil and vegetation samples were analyzed for total nitrogen, phosphorus, magnesium, calcium, potassium, sodium, zinc, iron, copper, and manganese. Discriminant analysis and analysis of variance statistics were used to evaluate differences in mineral content of soils and plant tissues. C plants in all study sites assimilated higher concentrations of potassium, iron, and calcium than did C plants. Forbs in all sites contained the highest concentrations of minerals, followed by shrubs and grasses.
41711647|A population of salamanders of the genus Ambystoma has been found at Grass Lake, Siskiyou County, in Northern California. A five-year study has established that the salamanders are reproducing successfully and may represent a relictual population of native amphibians. The Grass Lake area has a sparse human population, which may help to explain how this secretive amphibian could have escaped notice. Attempts to determine the taxonomic position of the Grass Lake salamander, through comparisons of body measurements and coloration with those of other western ambystomatids, were inconclusive. These comparisons suggest, however, a close relationship with the geographically most proximate subspecies, A.t. californiense Gray and A.t. melanostictum Baird. Grass Lake is near the midpoint of a gap area of approximately 800 km that separates these subspecies. Regardless of the origin of the population, it must now be listed as an established addition to the amphibian fauna of California.
41711860|Growth of juvenile American lobsters, Homarus americanus, raised in four semiopen culture systems, with daily water exchange rates ranging from 29 percent to 3.3 percent, was compared with growth in a completely closed system. Animals were fed a formulated pelleted ration, water quality factors were measured daily, and changes in concentration of nitrate, orthophosphate, and total organic carbon were monitored. Results of two 90-day trials indicate that growth increased in the system with the lower water exchange rates. Maximum growth occurred in the closed system.
41712315|The Ruby Range is a northern extension of the West Elk Mountains of west central Colorado. Composed primarily of sedimentary rocks, the range is heavily faulted and intruded by many dikes and sills. Eight study areas, selected as representative of the major topographic features of the range, were analyzed floristically. A vascular flora of 220 species in 111 genera and 35 families is reported. The phytogeographic distribution of the flora is primarily alpine and western North American. The flora of the Ruby Range shows a 74% similarity to the flora of the San Juan Mountains to the southwest.
41712454|Different insect trapping methods were compared weekly on recently burned and nearby unburned rangeland in the Great Basin of western Utah. Flight traps (or wing traps) collected the most specimens (total = 4,916 at burned site, 4,384 at unburned site) but represented the fewest species (no more than 11 spp./wk at either site); this method was not recommended because of difficulty in removing specimens from adhesive. Water traps amassed the next largest number of specimens ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 150.9  75.3 at burned site, 158.0  66.4 at unburned site) and the most species ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 21.6  6.4 at burned site, 35.1  4.5 at unburned site). The weekly collections from pitfall traps between the sites were significantly different (P < .05) in number of specimens ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 8.1  1.5 at burned site, 19.7  4.8 at unburned site) and species ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 4.7  0.6 at burned site, 9.5  2.0 at unburned site). Malaise traps were the most convenient. Black Malaise traps collected more specimens ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 99.8  19.4 at burned site, 90.6  16.4 at unburned site) and species ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 22.9  3.9 at burned site, 19.4  6.5 at unburned site) than white malaise traps (specimens: $\overline x $  SE/wk = 72.1  22.4 at burned site, 87.1  31.2 at unburned site; species: $\overline x $  SE/wk = 19.7  6.6 at burned site, 16.4  5.4 at unburned site), although this difference was not significant.
41712508|Proper quadrat and sample sizes for sampling species frequency vary among vegetation types. This study found 10  10-cm quadrats most appropriate for frequency sampling dry mountain meadows when using a single quadrat size. If large, broad-leaved forbs are of special interest, 25  25-cm, 25  50-cm, or 50  50-cm quadrats may be useful. One hundred 10  10-cm quadrats adequately sampled most common species at alpha = 0.20  10% frequency. In contrast, more than five hundred 0.29-m circular plots usually were needed to sample individual species yield at alpha = 0.20  20% of the mean.
41711992|Three fishes, two species of Gila, and an undescribed subspecies of cutthroat trout, are endemic to the Alvord Basin. Historically, the Alvord cutthroat trout, Salmo clarki ssp., inhabited the larger creeks of the basin but has been extirpated in pure form because of introgression with introduced rainbow trout, Salmo gairdneri. Gila boraxobius is restricted to the thermal waters of Borax Lake and its outflows in the northern part of the basin. This species is endangered because of alteration of its fragile habitat. The Alvord chub, G. alvordensis, is recorded from 16 localities throughout the basin, including springs, creeks, and reservoirs. Although G. alvordensis as a species is not in jeopardy, many populations are small and could be easily eliminated by habitat destruction or by the introduction of exotic fishes. Competition with exotic guppies, Poecilia reticulata, has extirpated the Thousand Creek Spring population of Alvord chubs. Both species of Gila are opportunistic omnivores, consuming primarily chironomids, microcrustaceans, and diatoms. The Borax Lake chub also consumed large numbers of terrestrial insects, but specialized feeding on molluscs was noted in the West Spring population of Alvord chubs. Borax Lake chubs spawn throughout the year; however, most spawning occurs in early spring. Borax Lake chubs mature at a small size, occasionally less than 30 mm standard length, and seldom live more than one year. Alvord chubs are typically much larger than the Borax Lake species and live at least into their fifth year.
41712250|Diets of the Common Screech Owl (Otus asio) and Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) from the Great Basin, Malheur County, southeastern Oregon, were studied. Although there was considerable overlap in the diets of these owls, there were differences related to habitat use.
41711582|The mustard family, Brassicaceae (Cruciferae) is revised for the state of Utah. Treated are 155 species and 44 varieties, including 37 species of introduced weeds or escaped cultivated plants. A key to the genera and species is included, along with detailed descriptions, distribution data, and pertinent comments for many of the taxa. Proposed new varieties are: Lepidium montanum Nutt. var. stellae Welsh & Reveal; L. montanum var. neeseae Welsh & Reveal; Lesquerelh hemiphysaria Maguire var. lucens Welsh & Reveal; Physaria acutifolia Rydb. var. purpurea Welsh & Reveal; and, Thelypodium sagittatum (Nutt.) Endl. in Walp. var. vermicuhris Welsh & Reveal. The following new combinations are made: Arabis confinis S. Wats. var. interposita (Greene) Welsh & Reveal; Descurainia pinnata (Walt.) Britt. var. paysonii (Detl.) Welsh & Reveal; D. richardsonii (Sweet) O. E. Schulz var. brevipes (Nutt.) Welsh & Reveal; Oraba asprella Greene var. zionensis (C. L. Hitchc.) Welsh & Reveal; Oraba densifolia Nutt. ex Torr. & Gray var. daviesiae (C. L. Hitchc.) Welsh & Reveal; Lesquerella alpina (Nutt.) S. Wats. var. parvula (Greene) Welsh & Reveal; Lesquerella kingii S. Wats. var. parvifolia (Maguire & Holmgren) Welsh & Reveal; Rorippa islandica (Oed.) Borbas var. gfafrra (O. E. Schulz) Welsh & Reveal; Thelypodiopsis divaricata (Rollins) Welsh & Reveal; Thelypodium integrifolium (Nutt.) Endl. var. affine (Greene) Welsh & Reveal.
41712393|Soil nematode populations were larger and more diverse in two grasslands than in three forests of the northern Rocky Mountains. As we moved from Festuca idahoensis grassland through progressively higher zones of vegetation dominated by Artemisia tridentata, Populus tremuloides, and Pseudotsuga menziesii, and then to Abies lasiocarpa forests, numbers of nematode genera declined from 31 to 26 to 20 to 21 to 13; numbers of individuals in the top 50 cm of the soil were 6.0, 5.3, 1.7, 1.5, and 1.6 million/m, and biomasses of nematodes in the top 50 cm of the soil were 0.83, 0.88, 0.58, 0.35, and 0.19 g/m. Biomasses of nematodes were often well correlated with root biomass as well as soil depth; of the nematodes in the 050-cm horizon, 38 to 70% were in the 020-cm layer. The effects of light grazing on nematode populations were small or nonexistent.
41712989|We used radio telemetry to describe nighttime movements and daytime den sites of pinyon mice (Peromyscus truei) in the White Mountains of California, 1991-1993. Characteristics of nighttime relocations and den sites for mice concurred with previously reported habitat-use information for the species and supported the claim that pinyon mice use multiple daytime sites. However, males and females were associated with different habitat characteristics at den sites, indicating differential microhabitat selection by the sexes, perhaps related to reproductive constraints on females. Pinyon mice also exhibited high variability in den site habitat use in the summer, but low variability in the fall and winter. The dens of male mice were farther apart than those of females, and home range areas averaged 2.9 ha (s = 4.27 ha) for 8 males, and 0.8 ha (s = 0.76 ha) for 7 females (overall $\bar x$ = 1.7 + 2.97 ha). These areas were larger than those reported for other species of Peromyscus. The combined effects of drought and reduced food availability may have contributed to the larger areas used.
41712671|Gilia tenuis Smith & Neese is a previously undescribed species from Emery and Sevier counties, Utah, apparently closely related to G. caespitosa Gray and G. subnuda Torr, ex Gray. It is distinguished from these species by its possession of a combination of characters including perennial, multicipital habit, lobed basal leaves, and small, pale blue flowers.
41712178|The checklist of vascular plants of Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area is presented based on field collections and herbarium specimens. The checklist treats 656 taxa from 73 families.
41712868|The genus Chrysothamnus (Asteraceae) contains 16 species. Recently, 4 species were transferred to Ericameria, and the remaining 12 were left in Chrysothamnus. The remaining species are now transferred to Ericameria as E. albida, E. depressa, E. eremobia, E. gramnea, E. filifolia (formerly C. greenei), E. humilis, E. linifolia, E. molesta, E. puhhella, E. pulchelhides (a fossil species), E. spathuhta, E. vaseyi, and E. viscidiflora. Section alignments are given, and some infraspecific combinations are also made.
41711555|Population estimates of fungi, bacteria, and actinomycetes in desert soil were determined with respect to soil depth and distance from shrubs. In general the highest numbers of microbes were found at the shrub base; the lowest numbers were found in the interspaces. While the total number of organisms usually declined in deeper soil, the relative importance of the actinomycetes increased. These population trends are attributed to substrate availability and utilization and interspecific interactions. As the soils became drier and warmer the total number of microorganisms decreased. Mold populations remained at about the same level during the study. While the numbers of both bacteria and actinomycetes declined, the relative importance of the actinomycetes increased.
41712139|Mature flathead chubs (Hybopsis gracilis) were present in mid-July and mid-August collections from the Musselshell River, Montana. The estimated numbers of mature eggs present in eight females were 360-753 per female. The smallest mature female and male collected were 113 and 123 mm in total length, respectively. The male to female sex ratio in collections was about 1:1. Only small differences were detected among the length-weight relationships of males and females and samples taken from various seasons and localities in Montana. Observations on size groups, fish associates, and habitat characteristics of flathead chubs are presented.
41712469|We examined the crop contents from 129 Rock Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) collected between 1967 and 1971 on Amchitka, Aleutian Islands, Alaska. On a yearly basis two plant species, Empetrum nigrum and Equisetum arvense, made up 87% of the diet. Only in July and August were they less than 90% of the diet, and in those months they constituted 65% of the diet. During the warmer months (May-October) when a variety of plant species were available, the Amchitka ptarmigan fed upon growth forms of plants high in nutritive value (particularly Equisetum strobili). Its main winter food was the vegetative portions of Empetrum, one of the few abundant evergreen vascular plants on the island.
41712033|Apparent first state records of 11 taxa for Wyoming and one taxon for Montana are listed. A range extension is noted for the genus Shoshonea.
41712216|Widespread karyotypic sampling in the lizard Sceloporus graciosus Baird & Girard has confirmed previous reports of chromosomal monotypy. Most individuals throughout the range have a diploid karyotype of 2N= 30 consisting of 12 biarmed macrochromosomes and 18 microchromosomes. A single female karyotyped from the vicinity of Riverside, California, was unmistakably triploid, showing 3N= 45 with 18 macrochromosomes and 27 microchromosomes. This female appeared phenotypically normal but appeared reproductively incompetent. A male from Zion National Park, Utah, showed an extra bivalent in some diakinesis arrays, which apparently represents a supernumerary chromosome.
41712548|The population dynamics and decomposition activities of litter arthropods in an unmanaged sagebrush/bitterbrush habitat in southeastern Wyoming were assessed in 1986. The effects of sagebrush/bitterbrush management practices on litter arthropod communities and the role of these communities in decomposition were also assessed. Insecticide applications were used to selectively exclude arthropods in order to determine the ecological impact of these detritivores. Application of a herbicide, 2,4-D, was associated with increased arthropod populations for 30 days following treatment. Mowing increased arthropod densities at two different times, 10-30 days and 50 days posttreatment, perhaps as a result of functional and numerical responses by litter arthropods. Elimination of arthropods from otherwise undisturbed shrub habitats by the use of broad-spectrum insecticides reduced the rate of litter decomposition during the growing season, indicating that these organisms play an important role in decomposition and nutrient cycling.
41712589|The effects of dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) on growth and mortality of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) were studied on 387 plots in mixed-conifer stands in three national forests in New Mexico and two in Arizona. Analyses of 8,570 trees showed that low infection ratings (dwarf mistletoe classes 1 or 2) had no significant effect on tree growth, but that losses increased markedly as infection severity increased. Average volume growth losses for trees over 10 inches in diameter were: dwarf mistletoe class 3, 10%; class 4, 25%; class 5, 45%; and class 6, 65%. Mortality of Douglas-fir in stands severely infested with dwarf mistletoe was three to four times that of healthy stands. These high losses confirm the need for silvicultural control of Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe in the Southwest.
41711876|Described as new is Cryptantha creutzfeldtii Welsh, named to honor the memory of F. Creutzfeldt, botanist with the Gunnison Expedition of 1853-54, who was killed along with Gunnison and other members of the party in an Indian ambush.
41712481|The Colorado River system downstream from Lake Mohave yielded 42 adult, 19 juvenile, and 39 larval wild razorback suckers (Xyrauchen texanus) between 1962 and 1988. Forty-six additional young captured between 1984 and 1987 may have been wild or stocked, hatchery-propagated fish. Wild juveniles of this endemic, imperiled species, with one exception, have not been otherwise known from the Colorado River basin downstream from the Grand Canyon since the 1950s. A majority of adults and larvae were from the river or its mainstream impoundments, while all but one wild juvenile and all presumably stocked fish were captured from irrigation canals. The ecology of artificial canals in which young razorback suckers survive and grow is poorly understood.
41711806|A checklist of the vascular flora of the alpine zone (treeless vegetation above 9500 feet or 2900 m) of the Teton Range is presented. For each of the 216 species, six attributes are listed: flower color and shape, pollination mode, life form, habitat preference, and whether each species is found in the Arctic. White and yellow flowered species are most common, and zoophilous species greatly predominate over anemophilous and apomictic species. Perennial/biennial herbs are the most common life form. Common habitats in the alpine zone include dry and wet meadows, bogs, debris accumulations, and cliffs and rock faces. Arctic species account for 25.9 percent of the flora. The 216 species are distributed among 111 genera and 36 families. The largest families, in order of size, are Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Brassicaceae, Rosaceae, and Scrophulariaceae.
41711750|Data on reproduction by the lizards Uta stansburiana, Crotaphytus collaris, and Cnemidophorus tigris are presented from a community where they are sympatric in west-central Utah. Data are compared to a previous study of these species at the same site and to data from other sites in the United States.
41712845|Mycorrhizal fungi are thought to benefit associated plant species via enhanced nutrient uptake and/or improved water relations. However, detailed descriptions of the components of mycorrhizal colonization and mycorrhizal hyphal growth are not available for Artemisia tridentata. This species occupies sites characterized by relatively low levels of both soil nutrients and moisture. We studied patterns of vesicular, arbuscular, and hyphal mycorrhizal colonization, mycorrhizal hyphal lengths, and soil moisture associated with two subspecies of A. tridentata over a 2-year period. A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana (ATV) is generally associated with more mesic and slightly higher elevation sites compared to A. tridentata ssp. tridentata (ATT). Nearly twice as much precipitation was received the first year compared to the second. In general, there were higher levels of colonization and hyphal lengths associated with ATV than with ATT. The ATV site received slightly more precipitation and was lower in available nutrients than the ATT site. Hyphal lengths and arbuscular colonization appeared more responsive to precipitation than were either vesicular or hyphal colonization. Hyphal colonization did not necessarily follow the same temporal pattern as hyphal lengths. Thus, mycorrhizal activity was greater for the subspecies that received slightly more precipitation and occupied a site lower in available nutrients. Arbuscular colonization and hyphal lengths appeared to be most closely associated with soil moisture and thus plant activity.
41712483|An annotated list of aquatic insects from the high carbonate system of Montezuma Well, Arizona, USA, is presented for collections taken during 1976-1986. Fifty-seven taxa in 16 families are reported, including new distribution records for Arizona (Anacaena signaticollis, Laccobius ellipticus, and Crenitulus sp. [nr. debilis]) and the USA (Enochrus sharpi). Larval stages for Trichoptera, Lepidoptera, Megaloptera, Neuroptera, Chironomidae, and Anisoptera were absent even though the habitat lacks fish, and water temperature, dissolved oxygen, available food, and substrata appear adequate in Montezuma Well. The potential importance of alkalinity in restricting these insect groups is discussed.
41711676|Deer mice (Peromyscus manicuhtus) were captured along an altitudinal gradient that extended from 5,000 feet (1524 m) up to 11,000 feet (3353 m) in central Colorado during August and early September, 1976. Starch gel electrophoresis of deer mouse hemoglobin followed no clear trend that would indicate that slight biochemical differences in the molecule help facilitate adaptation to the decreased pO that exists at that altitude.
41711418|Wood, leaf, and floral anatomy of Vanclevea stylosa is compared with that of several possibly related species in the genera Acamptopappus, East-woodia, Grindelia, Haplopappus, and Petradoria. Although V. stylosa was originally described as a Grindelia, it is clearly distinct from that genus. Of the taxa studied, it is most closely allied to Haplopappus salincinus and H. scopulorum. The taxonomy, morphology, and distribution of the monotypic Vanclevea are detailed, and known exsiccatae are listed.
41712819|Colonization of macroinvertebrates was assessed in a stream impacted by inputs of fine sediments. Colonization was examined at the stream surface and within the hyporheos with Whitlock-Vibert (W-V) boxes. Hyporheic areas accumulated much greater amounts of all size categories of sediment. No significant difference was observed in the amounts of organic matter accumulated at either depth. Only 150-m sediment had significant effects on macroinvertebrate total numbers and number of taxa. Total numbers of invertebrates at 30 cm were only 20% of those at the surface. Canonical Correspondence Analysis indicated that the strongest influence on macroinvertebrates colonizing W-V boxes at the surface was stream size and secondarily fine sediments. Within the hyporheos, abundance of fine sediment was the dominant influence on macroinvertebrate assemblages. Impacts of sedimentation on hyporheic environments can have significant and persistent impacts on streams.
41712880|Douglas-fir tussock moth (Orgyia pseudotsugata McDunnough) defoliation was detected by aerial survey on three areas of the Wasatch-Cache National Forest in 1990 and 1991. These are the first documented tussock moth outbreaks in Utah. Ground surveys revealed that subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa [Hook.] Nutt.) was heavily defoliated during the outbreak. Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco), though a minor component in the affected areas, had noticeably less defoliation and mortality. Adjacent stands of Douglas-fir had little or no visible tussock moth activity. Defoliation on subalpine fir was typically found evenly distributed throughout the crown rather than concentrated at the top. Ninety-four percent of subalpine fir with defoliation ratings of 90% or more were killed. Top-kill occurred on nearly one-half of subalpine firs defoliated 2589%. Heavily defoliated trees tended to occur in pockets bounded by areas of light defoliation. After three consecutive years of defoliation, tussock moth populations collapsed. No life stages were detected in 1993 from visual inspections of foliage or in pheromone traps.
41713002|During winter 1993, Arizona experienced regional river flooding. Floodwaters at the Hassayampa River eroded floodplains and created a 50-m-wide scour zone available for colonization by pioneer plant species. The slow rate and long duration of the floodwater recession allowed establishment of spring-germinating native trees (mainly Fremont cottonwood [Populus fremontii] and Goodding willow [Salix gooddingii] as well as summer-germinating species including the introduced salt cedar (Tamarix chinensis and related species). Goodding willow and Fremont cottonwood seedlings showed zonation in the floodplain, while salt cedar was equally abundant in zones with saturated and dry surface soils. Floodplain elevation (and soil moisture) influenced shoot growth rate to different degrees among the 3 species. For example, Goodding willow seedlings were significantly taller in areas with saturated soils than dry surface soils; Fremont cottonwoods were taller in the dry surface soil areas; and salt cedar were equally short in both soil moisture zones. Other factors that differentially influenced abundance or growth rates included competition with herbaceous species (Melilotus spp., an introduced plant, locally preempted salt cedar establishment) and herbivory (selective browsing by livestock at 1 river site reduced the natural height advantage of the native tree species). I draw on the results of this descriptive field study to suggest ways in which stream flows and floodplain land use can be managed to restore ecological conditions that favor native tree species over the introduced and widespread salt cedar.
41711597|The new choristid demosponge, Loganiella johnsoni, is described from the upper part of the Lower Ordovician Garden City Formation of southeastern Idaho. The new sponge is a relatively thin walled, low, subcylindrical form. The skeletal net is composed of tracts of curved rodlike spicules, but details have been lost on all specimens because of extensive silicification. Impressions, however, suggest a close relationship to the choristid Dystactospongia Miller, 1889.
41711818|During a two-year period (1976-1977), 180 Sacramento perch (Archoplites interruptus) were sampled from Pyramid Lake, Nevada, on a monthly basis using several capture methods in all lake areas. Age and growth determinations of these fish were inconsistent with previous research on this species. Sacramento perch are entirely carnivorous, adults feeding primarily on tui chub (Gila bicolor). Fish accounted for 6 percent of the diet (by volume) of Sacramento perch less than 300 mm fork length, and 98 percent for those exceeding 300 mm. Amphipods, Odonata, and Chironomidae composed 6.3, 5.7, and 1.8 percent, respectively, of the stomach contents by volume for all sizes combined. Females spawned from June to August when water temperatures approached 20 C, and their gonad weight was about 6 percent of the total body weight. A sample of 20 female perch had a mean fecundity of 84,203 eggs. The mean diameter of mature eggs was 0.88 mm. Sacramento perch almost exclusively inhabit the littoral zone of Pyramid Lake. Activity, as indicated by net catches, was greatest during the warm months of May to October. Monthly catches were significantly correlated with temperature (r = 0.577, P< 0.01). No short-term changes in population abundances were observed during 1976-1977.
41711651|The woundfin is a small, streamlined, omnivorous cyprinid that is now limited to the Virgin River basin where it was collected in the mainstream and one tributary during the present study. The woundfin occurred most frequently in runs and over sand substrates and less frequently in riffles and over rock substrates. It was common over at least half of its original range within the Virgin River. It was uncommon in the lower mainstream due to habitat alterations and, presumably, predation by and competition with exotic species.
41712406|Succession, nutrient cycling, production, and competition studies in plant communities require estimation of plant biomass. This is often accomplished by relating weight to easily measured plant dimensions via allometric equations. Dimensions of basal area and crown volume were used to predict phytomass of singleleaf pinyon (Finns monophylla Torr. & Frem.). Two regression methods for fitting the allometric equation to data for phytomass prediction were tested. These methods were the more commonly used logarithmic transformation of both data variables followed by linear regression analysis and an iterative nonlinear analysis without data transformation. The first was consistently less effective for predicting both individual tree and total plot phytomass for pinyon. Basal area was a better predictor of phytomass on a site than was crown volume. Prediction equations were highly site specific. Age of the trees in the stand used to derive the equations significantly affected the phytomass estimates. Other site and stand factors also appear to affect the phytomass-allometric parameter relationship.
41711443|Within the state of Utah are seven species of Geranium, two of which are annual. The nature of the caudex and the growth habit have been used to separate the perennial species. These characters are inadequate for separating the species. Better morphological characters, keys, and descriptions are presented.
41711541|Fleas obtained from deer mice and each of three sympatric rodents collected at the same times and places are quantified. When deer mice and canyon mice were caught together, 18.9 percent of the infested deer mice had canyon mouse fleas while 20.8 percent of infested canyon mice carried deer mouse fleas; long-tailed vole fleas were collected from only 3.9 percent of the deer mice but 67 percent of the voles associated with deer mice had fleas normally found on the latter; reciprocity was lowest between deer mice and des ert wood rats, with three wood rat fleas found among 155 fleas collected from 33 deer mice, and 12 deer mouse fleas among 403 fleas found on 52 wood rats. Rodent nesting habits, particularly the willingness of deer mice to den in a wide variety of situations, is thought responsible for many stray associations. The long-term evolutionary effect of flea dependency on wood rat denning habits is briefly discussed.
41712445|This study was designed to characterize arboreal arthropod community structure in an early successional coniferous ecosystem. We sampled six-year-old snowbrush (Ceanothus velutinus Dougl. ex Hook) and Douglasfir (Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco) at the H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest in western Oregon during 1982. The arthropod fauna was dominated in terms of densities by psyllids and aphids on snowbrush and by adelgids and cecidomyiids on Douglas-fir. Significant associations among taxa, e.g., positive correlation between aphids and ants, indicated trophic interactions or similar responses to host conditions. Significant seasonality was observed for individual taxa and for the community, reflecting the integration of individual life-history patterns. Significant spatial pattern (patchiness) in the arthropod community may reflect the influence of faunas on individual plants within neighborhoods and/or the influence of ant foraging patterns.
41712942|We conducted a survey of Utah alfalfa (Medicago sativa) growers in 1993 to identify wildlife damage problems to hay crops. Such surveys can provide wildlife managers with important insights regarding landowners' wildlife damage management concerns and needs. Pocket gophers (Thomomys spp.) and mule deer (Odecoileus hemionus) were perceived by growers as causing the most damage. Respondents reported a total annual loss of $350,000 or $24.79/ha (2.8% of the total crop value) because of wildlife damage in alfalfa crops. Decreased hay quantity was the most frequently cited problem caused by wildlife. Compensation and incentive programs were preferred over assistance and information programs for managing wildlife damage in alfalfa crops.
41716179|Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii Nutt.) is increasingly recognized as a valuable fuelwood throughout Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah. Knowledge of the distribution of nutrients among biotic and abiotic components is an important step in developing prescriptions for managing these stands for sustainable productivity. Eight Q. gambelii stands were sampled for concentrations (%) and accumulations (kg ha) of total nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), sulfur (S), calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), and sodium (Na) among aboveground and belowground biomass components and the upper 30 cm of soil. Highest concentrations of N, P, and S occurred in oak leaves, understory leaves, and the forest floor layer. Generally, highest concentrations of Ca, Mg, K, and Na occurred in the soil. The greatest proportion of the total capital of individual nutrients was contained in the soil (82%-99%). Aboveground components of live biomass, standing and down-dead, and forest floor contained 10%, 14%, and 8%, respectively, of total capitals of N, P, and S. The forest floor had the largest accumulation (63%) of total nutrients (N, P, S, Ca, Mg, K, and Na) of live and dead aboveground components. Nutrient accumulation in live biomass was heavily weighted to the belowground component. The dense system of roots, rhizomes, and lignotubers comprising 56% of total biomass contained 62% of the total accumulation of nutrients in live biomass. Low levels of total P in the soil and accumulation of 14% of the ecosystem total of P in aboveground biomass components suggest the need for a better understanding of the role of P in productivity of these stands in development of prescriptions for management of residues after harvest.
41713131|Eleven campgrounds in Yellowstone National Park were studied to determine the geography of 10 specific exotic plant species adjacent to campgrounds. Exotics were found in only 6 campgrounds. Six species were found at Mammoth campground, a low-elevation, dry site with year-round use. Only 2 species were found in the other 5 campgrounds. Exotics decreased with distance from Mammoth campground out to 6 m and then increased, suggesting a spread in their distribution. Significant associations were found between exotic presence and both open and closed canopies and low levels of disturbance. Generally, exotics decreased with an increase in cover of other vegetation forms. Five species were found most frequently in big sagebrush habitat types.
41712892|The effects of elk (Cervus elaphus), pronghorn (Antilocapra amercana), and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) browsing on shrubs in big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) communities were monitored over a 31-year period in Yellowstone National Park. Ungulates were restricting Wyoming big sagebrush (spp. wyomingensis) heights, size, and recruitment on the lower-elevation stratum only, while no such suppression was observed on the high-elevation stratum. Parallel increases in mountain big sagebrush (spp. vaseyana) densities and cover occurred over the study period on both browsed and unbrowsed sites at the higher-elevation stratum, although big sagebrush, green rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus), and horsebrush (Tetradymia canescens) were slightly taller and crown sizes were slightly larger on unbrowsed than browsed sites. Wyoming big sagebrush utilization (percent leader use) was eight times higher ($\bar x = 87 \pm 7.2\% $) by pronghorns, mule deer, and elk) on the low-elevation winter range stratum (the Boundary Line Area [BLA] portion ofthe winter range), while mostly mountain big sagebrush with leader use averaged only 11  4.1% (nearly all by elk) on the high-elevation range stratum. In addition, annual aboveground biomass production of big sagebrush did not differ between browsed and unbrowsed study sites on the high-elevation stratum ofthe winter range. Population turnover was higher on browsed big sagebrush at the high-elevation plots; seedling germination and survival rates were higher on browsed plots versus unbrowsed plots. No difference was observed in percent dieback of big sagebrush adult plants between browsed and unbrowsed plots at the higher stratum. Browsing did not influence the number of leaves or seedstalks per plant (P > 05), but leaves averaged 45% longer and seedstalks 42% longer on browsed big sagebrush. Ungulate browsing, however, apparently suppressed production, germination, and survival of Wyoming big sagebrush on the low-elevation stratum. Numbers of Wyoming big sagebrush declined 43% and cover declined 29%, 1957-1990, on browsed sites on the BLA. Annual biomass production on browsed sites at the low-elevation stratum was only 6-35% that of unbrowsed sites, and big sagebrush recruitment was less on browsed sites. Percent leader use of big sagebrush did not differ between the period of ungulate reductions, 1962-1969, and the 1980s on the lower stratum ($\bar x = 87\% $ leader use), but utilization was less on higher portions of the winter range during the period of elk reductions ($\bar x = 2\% $) than during the 1980s following cessation of elk controls ($\bar x = 11\% $).
41712583|Response of five perennial bunchgrasses following clipping and burning was evaluated in eastern Oregon. Burned plants were compared with clipped plants on several dates from spring to fall with respect to mortality and change in basal area. Basal area was generally reduced for one year but did not change the second year after defoliation. Treatments rarely affected yield. Burning in May was most detrimental, reducing basal area of all species. Fall clipping was least harmful, producing little or no change in basal area. Plant mortality was significant only for burned Thurber needlegrass (Stipa thurberiana).
41712910|Seventy-four species of montane breeding birds were evaluated for their vulnerability to extirpation in the Great Basin. Although none of these species are endemic to the Great Basin, the montane island system results in a unique pattern of species associations. Loss of species from these montane communities could be indicative of regionwide habitat degradation. I ranked susceptibility to extirpation based on seven biological variables: geographic range, population size, reproductive potential, susceptibility to cowbird parasitism, migratory status, and diet specialization. Each variable was weighted equally in its contribution to vulnerability, and scores were the sum of trait scores for each species. Different suites of life-history traits led to similar vulnerabilities. The following 10 montane bird species were categorized as most vulnerable to extirpation from the Great Basin, listed as most to least vulnerable: Olive-sided Flycatcher (Contopus borealis), Painted Redstart (Myioborus pictus), Hammond's Flycatcher (Empidonax hammondii), Veery (Catharus fuscescens), Whip-poor-will (Caprimulgus vociferus), Lincoln's Sparrow (Melospiza lincolnii), Blackbacked Woodpecker (Picoides arcticus), Three-toed Woodpecker (P. lridactylus), Himalayan Snowcock (Tetraogallus himalayensis), and Nashville Warbler (Vermivora ruficapilla). Species of similar vulnerability scores often were dissimilar in threats related to their vulnerability. No taxonomic patterns in vulnerability were found. This type of analysis should be used proactively to identify vulnerable species or populations and to set priorities for research and management.
41712658|Listed are 96 species of Scolytidae (Coleoptera) from Montana. Eighteen species reported from Montana for the first time are: Scierus pubescens Swaine, Hylastinus obscurus (Marsham), Hylesinus aculeatus Say, Hylesinus californiens (Swaine), Hylesinus criddlei (Swaine), Pseudohylesinus granulatus (LeConte), Dendroctonus punctatus LeConte, Phloeosinus hoferi Blackman, Phloeosinus pint Swaine, Carphoborus pinicolens Wood, Scolytus subscaber LeConte, Ips grandicollis (Eichhoff), Trypodendron betulae Swaine, Trypodendron retusum (LeConte), Trypophloeus populi Hopkins, Procryphalus mucronatus (LeConte), Pityophthorus alpinensis G. Hopping, and Gnathotrichus denticulatus Blackman.
41712427|Dentostomella translucida Schulz & Krepkorgorskaja (1932) was found in the small intestine of the Mongolian gerbil, Meriones unguiculatus Milne-Edwards, housed at the small animal center at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. Pertinent taxonomical characteristics were studied to differentiate D. translucida from D. kuntzi (Myers 1961) D. grundmanni (Chitwood 1963), D. legerae (Quentin 1975), and D. karachiensis (Bilqees 1978). Dentostomella translucida is distinguished by a large, evenly proportioned body, the presence of five unequal teeth per esophageal sector, and a spicule tip bifid in ventral view in males. This project included the analysis of the structure and histochemistry of the adult nematode cuticle layers and egg-shell layers through the use of light and electron microscopy. Embryonation of D. translcida eggs was attempted to recover various larval stages. Additional information on D. translcida includes the presence of six cuticle layers, one exogenous with three endogenous egg-shell layers, and an egg operculum similar to that of D. kuntzi.
41711610|Utah Lake is a shallow eutrophic lake in central Utah. It is characterized by high nutrient and silt loads and by large algal blooms in late summer and early fall. Phytoplankton samples and environmental data were taken from June through August 1974. Phytoplankton species were identified and then quantified in a Palmer counting cell. Environmental continuum theory was employed to describe algal succession, and regression analysis was used to discover interactions between algal communities and the environment. Phytoplankton communities in June were characterized by high species diversity. As the lake environment became stressed in late summer due to higher turbidity, nutrient levels, pH, and available inorganic carbon species diversity decreased. By August, the phytoplankton flora was composed essentially of only two species, Ceratium hirundinella and Aphanizomenon flos-aquae.
41712262|The relative abundance, habitat use, and seasonal occurrence are reported for the 6 fish, 1 amphibian, 9 reptile, 164 bird, and 39 mammal species recorded on the Idaho National Environmental Research Park in southeastern Idaho.
41712553|Fungal spores from the same taxa of fungi that occur in the Pacific Northwest are reported from digestive tracts of 31 rodents of 5 genera from the Nothofagus forest of southern Argentina. Mycophagy (fungal feeding) by forest rodents has been well documented in North America (Fogel and Trappe 1978, Maser et al. 1978, Mclntire 1984, and others), Europe (Blaschke and Bumler 1986, Durrieu et al. 1984), and Australia (Malajczuk et al. 1987). The purpose of this note is to report fungi consumed by rodents of the Argentine Andinian Patagonic forest (see Dimitri 1972, McQueen 1977, and Ward 1965 for a discussion of this forest), where mycorrhizal fungi may be an important part of the forest-rodent ecology (Cabrera and Yepes 1960, Pearson 1983, 1948, Pearson and Pearson 1982).
41712028|Described as a new variety is Opuntia basilaris Engelm. & Bigel. var. heilii Welsh & Neese.
41712639|Several habitat evaluation procedures have been developed for bighorn sheep. However, none of these procedures specifically addresses the Rocky Mountain subspecies nor analyzes both the quantity and quality of potential bighorn habitat with regard to minimum viable population (MVP) criteria. This bighorn habitat evaluation procedure combines (1) a quantitative assessment of bighorn range to determine if there are adequate quantities of resources to support an MVP of bighorn sheep, and (2) a qualitative assessment of a range to predict the probable density of bighorns the range can support. Extensive literature review, intensive bighorn research, and a modeling tool, pattern recognition (PATREC), facilitate critical analysis of proposed bighorn reintroduction sites. The resultant stepwise approach to bighorn habitat evaluation enhances the ability of wildlife biologists to make timely and accurate bighorn habitat assessments.
41712455|The only San Jose scale parasite found at two sites in northern Utah was a uniparental form of Aphytis vandenboschi DeBach & Rosen. Parasites overwintered as pupae and were attracted to San Jose scale pheromone traps. Mature female scales were most heavily parasitized, although some prepupal males and instar II female scales were attacked. Only partial development occurred between 11.7 and 18.3 C, and fecundity was reduced between 28 and 31C. Based on 11.7 C, 460 degree days were required in the field and 410 degree days at 26 C in the laboratory per generation. By the end of the season during 1981 at Brigham City, 30.9% of the adult scales on twigs and 79.2% on leaves were parasitized. During 1982, parasitism was 21.1% on twigs and 70.9% on leaves. A mite, Pyemotes herfsi (Oudemans), was a major predator of Aphytis in both laboratory cultures and field populations.
41712044|Two series of experiments were completed to determine (a) toxicity of waste water from power plants on warm water fish and (b) multiple use of waste heat and water for aquatic animal and plant production. All three types of waste water from a typical coal-fired power plant are acceptable for growing catfish and tilapia following aeration. This growth was compared with fish raised in spring water. Closed, recirculating polyculture systems using evaporation pond water operated efficiently for plant (duckweed) and animal (fish and freshwater prawns) production. Duckweed is an excellent supplement for fish feed. Tilapia and freshwater prawns grew rapidly in the tanks containing duckweed only.
41712147|The algal flora of selected soils in the Uintah Basin, Uintah County, Utah, was studied. A total of 45 species was identified from the top soils of three different vascular plant habitats. The soil algal flora was dominated in biomass by filamentous Cyanophyta, including Microcoleus vaginatus, Phormidium minnesotense, and three species of Nostoc. These algae formed the algal matrix of the soil within which other Cyanophyta as well as Chlorophyta, Bacillariophyta, and Euglenophyta occurred.
41711700|Artemisia carruthii and A. frigida of the subgenus Artemisia and A. filifolia and A. spinescens of the subgenus Dracunculus all have chromosome numbers based on x = 9. Diploid (2n = 18) karyotypes of each species are composed of large, medium, and small chromosomes that are mainly metacentric and submetacentric. The individual karyotypes are similar but distinctive. Artemisia filifolia's karyotype and chemistry is quite similar to that of Section Tridentatae, but A. filifolia has significant morphological differences with respect to the Tridentatae. Artemisia spinescens includes a tetraploid (2n = 36) population as well as diploid populations. Karyotypic analysis of a tetraploid A. spinescens suggests that it is an autotetraploid, thus carrying out a common theme in Artemisia (autopolyploidy).
41711548|Research on the nesting of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus auritus) was undertaken to determine the breeding biology of the bird on Utah Lake, Utah County, and the possible effects that diking Provo Bay would have on the cormorants breeding there. In 1973, two colonies in Provo Bay were visited weekly to determine laying dates, incubation period, clutch size, and hatching dates. Another colony, located on the dike of the Geneva Steel Works Reservoir near Orem, was visited daily during the spring and summer of 1973. At this colony egg-laying occurred from 13 April to 17 May. The average clutch size was 3.8, and the egg length and width averaged 60.50 mm  39.05 mm. The average period of incubation was 28 days, and 29.5 percent of the eggs hatched, beginning on 20 May and ending on 9 June. The young weighed an average of 36 gm at hatching with a beak length of 17 mm and tarsometatarsal length of 11 mm. These measurements increased to 1543 gm, 73 mm, and 58 mm, respectively, in 23 days. The cormorant population on Utah Lake may be severely reduced by the proposed diking of Provo, Bay.
41712176|A diverse late Jurassic dinosaur fauna, discovered in western Colorado in 1963, contains many undescribed taxa that may represent evolutionary trends at the generic level not previously reported from the Morrison Formation. A preliminary faunal list is given. Bones of the largest known dinosaur, Ultrasaurus, are present as are a variety of small animals, including Pterosaurs, in which one sacrum displays avianlike fused sacral neural spines. A new family, the Torvosauridae, erected, based on the genus Torvosaurus that is redescribed.
41711579|Spring waterfowl migrations at Ouray National Wildlife Refuge and Pelican Lake, Uintah County, Utah, were monitored during 1975 and 1976. Peak numbers occurred during the first week in April 1975 when 11,440 birds were counted. In 1976 the highest count, 9,650 birds, was made on 15 March. Most numerous early-season migrants were Mallards and Pintails. Important midseason migrants included Blue-winged and Cinnamon Teal, Canvasbacks, and Redheads. Late season migrants were Gadwall and Ruddy Ducks. Surveys conducted only at Ouray Refuge or at Pelican Lake would not adequately have reflected species composition of spring migration. Results point up the advisability of sampling large open water areas to obtain a representative view of waterfowl species composition in a given area during spring migration.
41711370|Silicified, upright axes of Palmoxylon are abundant in the Green River Formation in Eden Valley, Wyoming. Three new species of Palmoxylon, as well as the previously described Palmoxylon macginitiei Tidwell et al., were collected. These new species are P. edenense, P. contortum, and P. colei. They are compared to P. macginitiei and other anatomically similar Palmoxylon species. Palmoxylon edenense appears to be the most abundant species at this locality.
41712072|This paper describes features of the breeding bird population of a Great Basin ancient bristlecone pine stand on Wheeler Peak in White Pine County, east central Nevada. The bird population was determined by spot-mapping methods on a 20-ha plot during June and July 1981. The density of breeding birds was 82 pairs per 40 ha. Fourteen species were territorial. The most abundant species were the Dark-eyed Junco, Mountain Chickadee, Mountain Bluebird, and Townsend's Solitaire. Other common breeding species included the Cassin's Finch, Yellow-rumped Warbler, Pine Siskin, and Dusky Flycatcher. There were 410 individual breeding birds per km. When expressed as standing crop biomass, the Townsend's Solitaire was the predominant species, followed by the Dark-eyed Junco, American Robin, Mountain Bluebird, and Northern Flicker. Total standing crop biomass was 95 g/ha. None of the breeding birds were restricted to the bristlecone pine stand. The structure of the breeding bird community in the bristlecone pine forest compared best to those of the Rocky Mountain and Northern Boreal forest regions.
41711534|New synonymies and new combinations affecting North American Pityophthorus are proposed as follows: carinifrons Blandford, incompositus Blandford, and incommodus Blandford are removed from Pityophthorus and placed in Araptus; P. boycei Swaine (= Myeloborus catulus Blackman and M. iniquus Blackman); P. lautus Eichhoff= P. rhois Swaine and P. natalis Blackman); P. californicus new name for P. deleoni (Bright) not Blackman. New species are: P. abstrusus (Mexico), anthracinus (Mexico), arcanus (Arizona), brevicomatus (Mexico), dispar (Mexico), elimatus (Mexico), furnissi (Mexico), germanus (Mexico), ineditus (Mexico), litos (Mexico), megas (Mexico), minus (Arizona), occlusus (Honduras, Mexico), recans (British Columbia), siouxensis (South Dakota), speculum (Mexico), subimpressus (Mexico), thatcheri (California), thomasi (Mexico), and zonalis (Arizona). A neotype for P. lautus Eichhoff is selected.
41712106|Diel activity and association patterns of white bass (Morone chrysops) and carp (Cyprinus carpio) in Utah Lake, Utah, were studied over four 24-hr periods during August 1980. Fish were concurrently sampled from two adjacent littoral habitats. Significant differences existed in diel activity patterns in two of three size classes of white bass and in diel association patterns of white bass and carp between the two habitat areas. Differences in habitat structure, and in biological activity between the habitat types, are implicated as the primary determinants of overall diel activity of fish in these littoral areas.
41712956|New species descriptions of Negastrius rupicola from California, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia; N. stihicki from California, Montana, and British Columbia; N. solox from Arizona and New Mexico; and N. atrosus from Ontario and Quebec are given. Negastrius colon is returned to species status, and a neotype is designated for N. choris. Fleutiauxellus extricatus is a new combination. A key is provided to Nearctic species of Negastrius.
41711664|Sixty-eight species of beetles of 14 families were collected in pit traps in 12 major vegetative communities during environmental monitoring studies in the summers of 1971 to 1973 in southern Utah and northern Arizona. Seasonal and plant community differences and correlations in population and composition were noted for the 16 sites studied. Highest populations and the most species were found in a grass community, but occurred in different months in each of the three years. Lowest populations were found in a Coleogyne community, and fewest species in an Artemisia-grass community.
41712285|The Colorado squawfish, a large predaceous cyprinid, is a generalist species adapted to the large seasonal water fluctuations, low food base, and changing riverine subsystems of the Colorado River. Extant at least as early as the Miocene epoch, Ptychocheilus has survived by incorporating life strategies to deal with changing climates varying from arid to pluvial. Migration and long-term movement patterns appear to have evolved as tactics to perpetuate a grand reproductive strategy for exploiting the changing habitats and general environmental conditions of the late Cenozoic era. Accordingly, high mobility of a large fish would aid in selection of optimum spawning, nursery, and adult habitats in the dynamic lacustrine/riverine system that existed at that time. A spatial separation of life stages thus produced would aid in the reduction of intraspecific competition. Large size, long life, and late spawning of Ptychocheilus indicate that mortality of young must be disproportionately high compared to that of the adult form. Growth to a large size should reduce predation by other fishes and, once attained, would facilitate long distance movement for reproduction, feeding, and other purposes. Such a strategy, formerly highly adaptive, may now be implicated in the decline of this species in controlled riverine systems.
41711694|Climates of fescue grasslands were described by summarizing USDC Weather Bureau records of representative sites. Mean temperatures of the warmest month declined from 18 to 14 C, average annual precipitation increased from 40-50 to 170 cm, and the number of arid months in an arbitrarily defined dry year declined from 3 to 1-2 as one moves from Festuca arizonica (14 stations) to F. scabrella (15) to F idahoensis (17) to F. thurberi (6) to F. viridula (9). Climates of the grasslands are sufficiently like those of the Pseudotsuga menziesii and Abies lasiocarpa zones of the northern Rocky Mountains to make one ask what factorswind, snow duration, soil characteristics, or fireallow the fescue grasslands to persist in a conifer climatic zone.
41712124|A revision of the Saxifragaceae is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 41 taxa in 12 genera. Keys to genera and species are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and comments. Lithophragma glabra Nutt. in T. & G. var. ramulosa (Suksd.) Goodrich is the only new combination proposed. No new taxa are proposed.
41712459|Vegetation characteristics of 15 sagebrush community types identified on the Humboldt National Forest, northeastern Nevada, are described. A total of 218 plant species were found over the 372 relatively undisturbed rangeland communities sampled. The dominant plant families encountered were the Asteraceae (45 taxa), Poaceae (32 taxa), Scrophulariaceae (14 taxa), and the Fabaceae (12 taxa). Average annual dry weight production of the community types ranged from about 400 kg/ha/yr on types with Artemisia nova as the dominant sagebrush species to 1,200 kg/ha/yr on some A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana community types. A general increase in species richness and vegetation plus litter ground cover was observed within community types as the dominant sagebrush species changed from A. nova to A. arbuscula, to A. longiloba to A. tridentata spp. tridentata to A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana. Major differences in plant species production and constancy exist between the sagebrush community types studied.
41712133|The first published observations on the nesting and predatory behavior of Tachysphex antennatus Fox, T. occidentalis Pulawski, T. williamsi Bohart, T. yolo Pulawski, T. alpestris Rohwer, T. chrconis Viereck, tarsatus (Say), T. apicalis fusus Fox, T. similis Rohwer, T. ashmeadii Fox, and T. mundus exsectus Fox.
41712022|The following new synonymy in Scolytidae is proposed. Acorthylus Brthes (= Phacrylus Schedl), Amasa Lea (= Anaxyleborus Wood), Cryptocurus Schedl (= Hyloperus Browne), Hylesinopsis Eggers (= Trypographus Schedl, Chihdendron Schedl), Hypothenemus Westwood (= Stylotentus Schedl), Metahylesinus Eggers (= Glochicopterus Schedl), Phloeotribus Latreille (= Neophloeotribus Eggers), Pityophthorus Eichhoff (= Hypopityopthorus Bright), Scolytoplatypus Schaufuss (= Spongocerus Blandford, Taeniocerus Blandford, Strophionocerus Sampson), Scolytus Geoffroy (= Confusoscolytus Tsai & Hwang), Styracoptinus Wood (= Afrotrypetus Bright), Sueus Murayama (= Neohyorrhynchus Schedl), Taphrorychus Eichhoff (= Pseudopoecilips Murayama), Webbia Hopkins (= Pseudowebbia Browne), Webbia dipterocarpi Hopkins (= Webbia 18-spinatus Sampson), Xyleborus Eichhoff (= Anaeretus Dugs). A neotype is designated for Anaeretus guanaguatensis Dugs; this name becomes a junior synonym of Xyleborus volvulus (Fabricius). Species new to science are named from Mexico as follows: Cactopinus atkinsoni, burjosi, granulatus, setosus, Carphobius pilifer, Chaetophloeus confinis, Chramesus exilis, exul, securus, tibialis, Cnemonyx equihuai, evidens, Cnesinus cornutus, nebuhsus, parvicornis, Dendrosinus mexicanus, Liparthrum mexicanum, pruni, Phloeotribus geminus, Pycnarthrum amersum, Scolytodes plumericolens, retifer.
41713035|The current status of Mertensia oblongifolia (Nutt.) G. Don and its allied taxa is surveyed. On the bases of continuously coherent morphological characters and/or regionally correlated variations, more than 30 taxa, including species, subspecies, varieties, and 1 forma, previously considered different from M. oblongifolia, are now placed under synonymy of this species. Those taxa currently known as M. fusiformis Greene, M. bakeri Greene, and M. bakeri var. osterhoutii Williams are among the new synonyms. Typification, taxonomy, and morphological problems of M. oblongifolia are discussed.
41711352|Two new varieties described by Durand in 1859 from the Great Salt Lake area of northern Utah are discussed. One, Erysimum asperum var. purshii, is the oldest available name for the western United States variant of the species, while the second name, Acerales decumbens var. erecta, is a synonym of Asclepias asperula. Neither name has been included in botanical reference works nor in monographic studies. One new combination, Erysimum asperum var. amoenum, is proposed for the orange-flowered phase of the species found in southern Colorado and Utah.
41711456|Weight loss was rapid and fluid consumption decreased sharply when Onychomys torridus were exposed to salinities greater than 0.3 Molar. The southern grasshopper mouse is physiologically unspecialized for maintaining water balance in its xeric habitat. The southern grasshopper mouse is capable of weight maintenance on smaller daily water rations than is the northern grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leucogaster) . Differences in the water balance of O. torridus and O. leucogaster may influence their local distributions in areas of sympatry.
41712011|Seven wetland areas in the subalpine and alpine regions of the Uinta Mountains are described. Most areas have a mosaic vegetation structure, comprised of several patches that are usually sharply demarcated from one another. Each patch has a distinct species composition, usually with only one or two species. Water level is associated with some of the vegetation patterns found in these sites. Standing crop varied from 28 to 360 g/m. Sites show considerable variation in standing crop that could not be explained by elevation differences between sites. Sites with water flowing over them have substantially greater standing crops than sites where water stagnates. Seasonal patterns in shoot density and standing crop indicate one late summer peak in standing crop and little recruitment of shoots over the summer. On stagnant sites, the average stem weight shows a strong relationship to stem density. This pattern did not appear to be caused by thinning mortality and did not follow a "3/2 power law" pattern.
41712477|This is a summary monograph of the hanging gardens as they occur in the Colorado River and Virgin River portions of the Colorado Plateau in Utah. Discussed in this paper are the hanging gardens, their geography, geomorphology, aspects of distribution and diversity, and principal vascular and algal plant species. Animal trapping studies and plant productivity aspects are reviewed.
41711786|New names are presented to replace junior homonyms as follows in Platypodidae: Platypus acuticornifer for Platypus acuticornis Schedl, 1975 (nee Schedl, 1973), Platypus tuberculifer for Platypus bituberculatus Schedl, 1975 (nec Nunberg, 1967), Platypus obliquus for Platypus obliquesectus Schedl, 1975 (nec Schedl, 1973); and in Scolytidae: Amphicranus electus for Amphicranus elegantulus Schedl, 1978 (nec Schedl, 1963), Araptus crassulus for Araptus crassus Wood (nec Schedl, 1966), Corthycyclon tardulus for Corthycyclon tardus Schedl, 1976 (nec Wood, 1974), Corthylus brunnescens for Corthylus brunneus Wood, December 1974 (nec Schedl, November 1974), Monarthrum denticuhtum for Monarthrum (= Pterocyclon) dentatum Eggers, 1941 (nec Eggers, 1935), Monarthrum peruvianum for Monarthrum peruanum Schedl, 1978 (nec Schedl, 1950), Scolytodes eximius for Scolytodes grandis Schedl, 1978 (nec Schedl, 1962), Scolytodes minutus for Scolytodes (= Hexacolus) minutissimus Schedl, 1978 (nec Schedl, 1952). New synonymy is proposed in Platypodidae for Genyocerus albipennis Motschulsky (= Diacavus irregularis Browne). The emendation in Scolytidae of Cnemonyx vismiacolens is presented to correct the lapsis calami Cnemonyx visimiacolens Wood, 1979. The following species of Scolytidae are named as new to science: Chramesus aikinsoni, Liparthrum thevetiae, Microborus mexicanus, Phloeocleptus ardis, Phloeocleptus atkinsoni, Phloecleptus cristatus, Phloeocleptus spicatus, Pseudothysanoes perseae (Mexico), Scolytodes anceps, Scolytodes pusillimus, Scolytodes tardus, Scolytodes vesculus (Colombia), Scolytodes ficicolens, Scolytodes naevius (Venezuela).
41712321|Sympatric populations of Cophosaurus texanus and Callisaurus draconoides were periodically sampled from March 1973 through April 1974 at Burro Creek, Mohave County, Arizona. Callisaurus were also sampled at Rock Valley, Nye County, Nevada. Sex ratios were skewed in favor of males in the adult Cophosaurus but were equal in both adult populations of Callisaurus. Both species became sexually mature as yearlings. Mean clutch sizes were 3.55 (0.83) for Cophosaurus, and 4.25 (1.08) and 5.07 (1.33) for Callisaurus at Burro Creek and Rock Valley respectively. Evidence of multiple clutches was exhibited by both species. Egg weight/body weight ratios for both species and clutch weight/body weight ratios for Cophosaurus were notably smaller than previously reported. At Burro Creek both species were highly insectivorus, with orthopterans comprising the largest food group of each. Niche overlap for food was high at the ordinal level, but at the familial level it is apparent that Callisaurus probably fed in the more xeric areas of the riparian habitat. No differences were found in the temperature responses of these two lizards. However, minor temporal separations substantial spatial partitioning were observed. Callisaurus preferred sandy open areas, while Cophosaurus preferred the presence of some rocks and boulders.
41712705|I examined differences by sex and influences of weather on timing and patterns of migration of Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus h. hemionus) in the eastern Sierra Nevada, California, during 198487. Deer initiated spring migration from the winter range at about the same time in all years and made extensive use of holding areas at intermediate elevations. Radio-telemetered deer showed strong fidelity to summer ranges over as many as four years. Fall weather produced different patterns of fall migration. Storms during October produced a pulsed migration, in which most animals migrated to the winter range during or soon after the storm; in a year without a storm, fall migration was gradual. Despite the influence of storms on the pattern of fall migration, the median date of fall migration by females did not vary over years; however, among males it was later in a year without fall storms.
41712298|The Oreana local fauna (Blancan) occurs in exposures of the Glenns Ferry Formation in Owyhee County, Idaho. Fossil birds present include Phalacrocorax cf. P. idahensis, Pelecanus cf. P. halieus, an indeterminate anatid, an indeterminate falconid, two species of Otus, and a species of Colaptes larger than modern C. auratus that provides the earliest record of a colaptine woodpecker.
41711864|Relationships of temperature and precipitation to the reproductive success of blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were investigated. Maximum and minimum temperatures followed similar patterns during the years 1976-1981 and showed no patterns relative to hatching success. Precipitation data, however, was variable. When significant amounts of precipitation fell during the last three weeks of the hatching period, chick survival and, therefore, recruitment were adversely affected. We suggest that precipitation occurring at the end of the hatch period reduces the September harvest of birds.
41716186|Data collected from alpine lakes in the Uinta Mountains during fishery surveys by the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources indicate alkalinity has decreased in some drainages since the mid 1950s. Implications for continued monitoring, as well as environmental and recreational values, are discussed.
41712227|An insect survey was conducted on the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory during the summers of 1981-1983. This site is on the Snake River Plains in southeastern Idaho. Presented here is an annotated checklist of the Coleptera collected. Successful collecting methods, dates of adult occurrence, and relative abundance are given for each species. Relevant biological information is also presented for some species.
41711599|The relative abundance and habitat affinities of breeding and migratory waterfowl were documented for a 16,556 ha (40,880 acre) area of the Navajo Indian Reservation, San Juan County, New Mexico. The objective of the 1973-1974 study was to obtain baseline data for use as part of an environmental assessment for coal gasification plants and an associated strip mine proposed for an area not previously described in ornithological journals. Roadside breeding-bird surveys resulted in the observation of 26 species of birds, of which the horned lark was most abundant. Additional breeding-bird observations were made during afternoon reconnaissance surveys around stock ponds and arroyos, and by a helicopter survey of cliff-nesting raptors. Nine of 30 raptor nests located were active. Migratory waterfowl surveys were made in September and November at four stock ponds and a marsh on the study area. Peak waterfowl numbers were present in September, when teal and shovelers were the most abundant species. The importance of stock ponds to breeding and migratory birds and the significance of cliffs to nesting raptors were discussed. Details of observations made for five species of birds designated "threatened" or "status undetermined" were presented.
41711671|New synonymy of American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Acacacis, Lea (= Neodiamerus Schedl), Gnatholeptus panamensis Blackman (= Pityophthorus epistomalis Schedl), Gnatholeptus shannoni (Blackman) (= Gnatholeptus mandibularis Blackman, Pityophthorus gentilis Schedl), Gymnochilus reiften Eichhoff (= Problechilus striatus Eggers, Problechilus bicolor Eggers), Hyhstes scabripennis (Zimmermann) (= Hylastes salebrosus Eichhoff), Hylurgopinus opaculus (LeConte) (= Hylastes rufipes Eichhoff), Ips perturbatus (Eichhoff) (= Tomicus interpunctus Eichhoff), Monarthrum dimidiatum (Ferrari) (= Pterocyclon moritzi Eichhoff), Pityophthorus subcribratus Schedl (= Pityophthorus zeteki Blackman), Scolytodes trispinosus Eggers (= Scolytodes ehngatus Schedl), Xyleborus costaricensis Blandford (= Xyleborus nevermanni Schedl), Xyleborus improvidus Schedl (= Xyleborus aclinus Wood), Xyleborus spinuhsus Blandford (= Xyleborus fusciseriatus Eggers, Xyleborus artespinulosus Schedl). The genus Car phodicticus Wood is removed from synonymy with Dendrodicticus Schedl. Scolytodes striatulus, new name, is proposed as a replacement for Hylocurosoma striatum Eggers. Notes on the status of Xyleborus perforans (Walker) are presented. The following species are named as new to science: Cnemonyx furvescens (Colombia), C. squamifer (Guatemala), C. protivorus and C. vismiacolens (Venezuela), Corthylus nanus (Costa Rica), Dendrocranulus auctus, D. limbellus, D. limitaris, D. modus, and D. pinguis (Venezuela), Hylocurus ctoki (Guatemala), and H. fongipennis (Mexico).
41711798|A sagebrush wilt disease is causing severe damage to Forest Service uniform shrub garden plantings in Utah. Plants within most species of the section Tridentatae express disease symptoms and may die within several months. Varying degrees of susceptibility are evident within and between species. Modification of the soil environment through past agricultural use may dispose these wildland shrubs to associated potentially pathogenic fungi.
41712850|To date, 17 species of Laridae have been reported in Wyoming. Six of these species have known breeding populations in the state: the Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis), California Gull (Larus californicus), Herring Gull (Larus argentatus), Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia), Forster's Tern (Sterna forsteri), and Black Tern (Chlidonias niger). Of these species, the California Gull is the most abundant and widespread. In 1984 approximately 7300 nests existed in Wyoming at six breeding locations consisting of 10 different colonies. In contrast, only small breeding populations have been discovered for the remaining five species. The Herring Gull is the most recent addition among Laridae known to nest in Wyoming. Likewise, two Ring-billed Gull colonies were recently found after not having been documented as breeding in the state for over 50 years. Although some nesting colonies are threatened by habitat loss and human disturbance, most seem secure at present. Limited nesting and foraging habitat precludes establishment of large breeding populations of most Laridae in the state.
41713119|The objectives of this study were to (1) examine distribution and habitat use of leatherside chub (Gila copei) in a creek with high densities of predatory brown trout (Salmo trutta), and (2) compare study results with published accounts of leatherside chub habitat use in streams with few or no brown trout. A 14-km section of Diamond Fork Creek, Utah, was point-shocked to determine macrohabitat (main channel and lateral habitat) and microhabitat (current, depth, substrate, and cover) use of leatherside chub. At the macrohabitat level, leatherside chub were most common in lower reaches of Diamond Fork Creek where the channel was braided and lateral habitats (cutoff pools and backwaters) were abundant. Only a single leatherside chub was found in the main channel of Diamond Fork. Investigations in other systems lacking brown trout indicated that leatherside chub occupy main channel habitats. At the microhabitat level, we found significant positive associations between presence of leatherside chub and both habitat depth and silt. In addition, we found a significant negative association between presence of leatherside chub and number of brown trout. Our results suggest predation by brown trout may limit leatherside chub to lateral habitats that could provide refugia against predation. The introduction of brown trout to systems with little lateral habitat could have serious effects on persistence of resident leatherside chub populations.
41712473|Denitrification rates in soils of four subalpine plant communities in the Sierra Nevada were determined by the acetylene blockage method. The study area included riparian, meadow, forest, and barren sites. Data were collected during dawn-to-dusk measurements in April 1987. Soil atmosphere samples were analyzed for NO content using gas chromatography. Generally, temporal variability in denitrification rate within each plant community was insubstantial. Denitrification rate and soil temperature were found to be significantly correlated only in the riparian and barren sites. Of the four communities, the riparian site was found to have the lowest rate of denitrification overall. However, differences among sites in denitrification rate could not be conclusively attributed to variation in soil temperature, moisture, organic matter, total C and N, C:N ratio, NO-N, or pH.
41712599|We evaluated distribution, habitat use, spawning, and species associations of the endangered humpback chub (Gila cypha) in the Yampa and Green rivers, Dinosaur National Monument, from 1986 to 1989. Adult and juvenile humpback chub were captured in high-gradient reaches of Yampa and Whirlpool canyons where they were rare (n = 133, <1% of all fish captured). The fish was primarily captured in eddy habitats in association with 7 native and 12 nonnative fish species. Roundtail chub (G. robusta) were widely distributed in eddies, pools, runs, and riffles. Humpback chub (n = 39) and roundtail chub (n = 242) in reproductive condition were sympatric in eddy habitats during the 5-6-week period following highest spring runoff. River temperatures at this time averaged about 20 C. Nonnative channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) were abundant in eddies yielding humpback and roundtail chubs, suggesting a potential for negative interactions between the native and introduced fishes.
41711773|The new, presumably extinct species, Chrysothamnus pulchelloides, is formally described and illustrated. The plant materials came from Holocene packrat middens. Anatomical and phyletic relationships of the fossil species to extant taxa are discussed.
41716169|Abundance, seasonal use, and species composition of waterfowl and other aquatic birds are described along a 32.8 km stretch of the White River, Uintah County, Utah, at the site of the proposed White River Dam. Fourteen species of waterfowl and eight other species of aquatic birds were recorded. Waterfowl populations along the river were highest in April, but densities were much lower than on lakes and reservoirs at nearby Ouray National Wildlife Refuge.
41713046|We describe the chironomid midge fauna of the Colorado River between Glen Canyon Dam and Lake Mead, Arizona. This depauperate fauna, consisting of 38 species, is dominated by euryecious Nearctic or Holarctic orthocladine taxa. In addition, a small Neotropical faunal component is represented by Polypedilum obelos Sublette & Sasa and Rheotanytarsus hamatus Sublette & Sasa. The following new synonyms are given: Protenthes riparius Malloch 1915 with Tanypus bellus Loew 1866 [= Procladius (Psilotanypus) bellus (Loew)]; Cricotopus olivetus Boesel 1983 with Cricotopus (Cricotopus) annulator (Goetghebuer) 1927; Cricotopus edurus Sublette & Sublette 1971 with Orthodadius infuscatus Malloch 1915 [= Cricotopus (Cricotopus) infuscatus (Malloch)]; Cricotopus subfuscus Sublette & Sublette 1971 with Orthocladius infuscatus Malloch 1915 [= Cricotopus (Cricotopus) infuscatus (Malloch)]. The following new species are described: Cricotopus (Cricotopus) blinni Sublette, Cricotopus (Cricotopus) herrmanni Sublette, Metriocnemus stevensi Sublette, and Cladotanytarsus marki Sublette. We discuss the distribution and ecology of each chironomid species collected in this large, regulated, aridlands river.
41711895|Temporal activity patterns for Dipodomys ordii were generally bimodal during the summer, with the highest peak occurring during early predawn hours when conditions were optimum for water conservation. Removal of dominant members in the population resulted in a substantial shift in the activity pattern to increased activity during the evening hours.
41711476|Analysis of Audubon Society Christmas bird count data and certain environmental variables shows the degree to which the Black-billed Magpie is a bird of cool arid regions in North America. The abundance and distribution of this species appear to be limited by two major climatic barriers: increasing summer temperatures in the Southwest and increasing summer humidity and precipitation on the central plains.
41712228|Previous work suggested that Gambel oak seedlings are rare in the northern parts of its range in Utah where summer rainfall is relatively low but should be abundant in southern parts of the range where summer rainfall is usually high. Gambel oak grades from a relatively minor component of a ponderosa pine/mixed conifer assemblage in the south to a virtually monotypic formation in the north, where it exists as long-lived clones. Quadrat analysis in Arizona and New Mexico, within the oak zone, revealed a seedling density ranging from 120 to 1320 per hectare. We found a significant tendency of seedlings to be located on the NE (cool, shady) side of sheltering objects in the environment. Mature ponderosa pine ranged in density from ca 40 to 500 stems per hectare, whereas mature Gambel oak ranged from ca 10 to 20 genets per hectare with ca 1 to 7 ramets per clone. These results support our previous conclusion that Gambel oak in northern Utah probably became established as a minor component of a mixed pine/oak woodland at a time in mid-Holocene when summer rainfall was much higher than today.
41713057|Along the margins of playas in northwestern Nevada, a salt-tolerant plant community occupies mounds that dot a largely unvegetated landscape. In this environment we studied soil development and plant-soil relationships. The mounds, averaging 0.3 m in height, are occupied by the shrubs Allenrolfea occidentalis (iodine bush), Sarcobatus vermiculatus (black greasewood), and Atriplex lentiformis ssp. torreyi (Torrey saltbush). Distichlis spicata (desert salt grass) is the only herbaceous plant occupying this community. Soil salinity decreases with depth in this environment, and content of aqueous-extractable solutes is significantly influenced by site-specific vegetation. Content of silt, clay, and salt in mound surface horizons suggests a chronosequence of mound formation, with the youngest at the barren playa interface and the oldest at the upland vegetation border. Plant demography and mound soil stratigraphy suggest that a pulse of plant recruitment and mound building occurred during a time of neoglacial cooling. As a substrate for plant recruitment, mounds have a limited lifespan because deposition of eolian-transported salts and geochemical cycling by plants quickly render them too saline for seed germination. The apparent periodicity of mound formation precludes definitive conclusions regarding those mound characteristics favorable for plant recruitment and survivorship.
41711774|Species named as new to science include: Conophthorus michoacanae, C. teocotum, Hylesinus aztecus (Mexico), Phloeocleptus punctatus (Costa Rica), Pseudothysanoes atomus (Venezuela), P. leechi (California), Pityogenes mexicanus, Araptus speciosus, Amphicranus spectus (Mexico), and Xyleborus praestans (Panama). Also reported are the first records of the notorious Xylosandrus compactus (Eichhoff) from South America (Brazil), and the first American records of Xyleborus fornicatus Eichhoff (Panama) and X. validus Eichhoff (New York and Pennsylvania).
41712326|Big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt.) is one of the most successful plants in the Great Basin based on its abundance and wide distribution. The development of dimorphic leaves may be an important mechanism attributing to its adaptive and competitive abilities. Development, persistence, and proportions of ephemeral and perennial leaves on Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. wyomingensis) were studied for two years. The large ephemeral leaves are the first to develop in early spring. As early developing ephemerals mature and stems elongate, new ephemeral and perennial leaves develop in the axes of these large ephemerals. Perennial leaves expanded in the summer of their first growing season, persisting on the shrub until their abscission during summer drought of the second growing season. Plants maintained 33% of their leaf weight through the winters of 1985 and 1986. Active leaf and stem growth occurred at soil water potentials above 0.2 M Pa.
41711441|New synonymy affecting American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Acanthotomicus granulatus (Ferrari), n. comb. (=Mimips uncinatus Wood), Araptus deyrollei (Blandford), new comb. ( =Araptus insinuatus Wood), Cnesinus adustus Schedl (=Cnesinus atrodeclivis Wood), Corthylocurus mexicanus (Schedl), n. comb. (=Corthylus cylindricus Schedl), Corthylus collaris Blandford (=Corthylus splendens Wood), Corthylus comatus Blandford (=Corthylus spendidus Bright), Corthylus uniseptis Schedl (=Corthylus reburrus Bright,) Dendrocranulus carbonarius (Ferrari), n. comb. (=Xylocleptes floridensis Hopkins, Xylocleptes anonae Hopkins), Dendrocranulus maurus (Blandford), n. comb. (=Dendrocranulus huehuetanus Schedl), Dendroctonus valens LeConte (=Dendroctonus rhizophagus Thomas and Bright), Gymnochilus consocius (Blandford), n. comb. (=Problechilus trimaculatus Schedl), Gymnochilus minor (Blandford), n. comb. (=Problechilus varius Schedl), Gymnochilus zonatus Eichhoff (=Problechilus freyi Schedl), Hypothenemus areccae (Hornung) (=Hypothenemus vafer Blandford), Hypothenemus eruditus Westwood (=Cryphalus obscurus Ferrari), Micracis grandis Schedl (=Micracis costaricensis Wood), Micracis swainei Blackman (=Micracis robustus Schedl, Micracis pygmaeus Schedl), Microcorthylus parvulus Ferrari (=Pterocyclon exile Eichhoff), Monarthrum bicolor (Ferrari), n. comb. (=Corthylus signatus Ferrari, Phthorius edentatus Hagedorn), Monarthrum consimile (Blandford), n. comb. (=Pterocyclon pseudosulcatum Schedl), Monarthrum egenum (Blandford), n. comb. (=Brachyspartus bisetosus Schedl), Monarthrum fimbraticorne (Blandford) (=Pterocyclon turbinatum Schedl), Monarthrum gnarum (Schedl), n. comb. (=Amphicranus spinatus Bright), Monarthrum validum (Ferrari), n. comb. (=Amphicranus mexicanus Eggers, Pterocyclon jalapae Schedl), Phloeoborus scaber Erichson (=Phloeoborus opacithorax Schedl), Phloeosinus serratus (Le-Conte) (=Phloeosinus rugosus Swaine), Phloeotribus setulosus Eichhoff (= Phloeotribus rudis Eichhoff, Phloeotribus sodalis Blandford, Phloeotribus bolivianus Eggers), Pycnarthrum reticulatum Schedl (=Pycnarthrum fici Wood), Scolytodes rugicollis (Schedl), n. comb. (=Scolytodes plicatus Wood), Xylosandrus morigerus (Blandford) (=Xyleborus luzonicus Eggers). New names are proposed as follows: Araptus decorulus for Araptus decorus Wood, Cnemonyx nigrellus for Loganius niger Wood, Monarthrum bicoloratum for Monarthrum bicolor Wood. Araptus sobrinus, n. sp. (Mexico), and Dendroctonus vitei, n. sp. (Guatemala), are named as new to science. Dendroctonus mexicanus Hopkins is removed from synonymy.
41712478|Trends in age-specific, eviscerated carcass weights were determined for hunter-harvested yearling and two-year-old buck mule deer. Carcass weights declined over an 11-year period from two areas of similar management, but with independently collected data sets. Carcass weights also declined between the opening and second weekends of the hunt. Management implications are discussed.
41712375|A detailed list of holotypes of Recent mammals housed in the Utah Museum of Natural History is presented.
41712402|The Utah botanical contributions of Charles Christopher Parry are discussed. Especial emphasis is on his trips to Utah in 1874 and 1875. Plants taken during those years, which were subsequently listed as type-specimens, are listed. Insight is gained into this window in Utah botanical history through his letters to Dr. George Engelmann and limited correspondence from Engelmann and Joseph Ellis Johnson.
41711935|The relationship between form and habitat utilization of Echinocereus engelmannii and E. trigbchidiatus was studied in southeastern California. The major difference in form is in the density of stems comprising the canopy. These differences in morphology create differences in the daily heat loads of each species. Echinocereus triglochidiatus, with its stems densely packed and in contact with each other over much of their lengths, continues to gain heat internally as the sun sets due to conductance between the stems. In contrast E. engelmannii, with a more open canopy, begins to lose heat as the sun goes down. As a result, E. triglochidiatus is successful in the juniper-pinyon zone where winter temperatures are cold for long periods and E. engelmannii is more successful in the lower desert regions where very hot, summer temperatures prevail. In the latter case, daytime buildup in heat load is reduced by convective cooling as air moves through the open canopy. Differences in microhabitat utilization occur that provide a second mechanism to reduce daily heat load buildup on hot summer days in the juniper-pinyon zone.
41713115|At Fish Springs National Wildlife Refuge, only 18 to 34 Canada Goose goslings were fledged per year from 1989 to 1993. In addition to the number of breeding pairs, a wide variety of variables can influence goose production, including clutch size, and nest, egg, and fledging success. We examined these variables at Fish Springs in 1996 and 1997 by finding and monitoring nests, and then following broods. We found that despite a limited number of breeding pairs on the refuge, production was further limited by poor ground nest success and low fledging success. Only 51.2% (n = 22) of ground nests produced hatchlings vs. 86.4% (n = 19) of platform nests. Of all eggs that hatched, 36.8% (n = 57) fledged successfully. Predation and human disturbance are discussed as major factors contributing to mortality.
41711626|The paper presents an annotated list of 851 taxa in 358 genera and 80 families. Threatened and endangered plants are enumerated.
41712257|The first non-American representatives of the bark beetle genus Pseudopityophthorus, of the subtribe Corthylina (Corthylini), and of the Ips concinnus species group are named. All are apparently relicts of an early faunal exchange with North America. The new taxa include: Gnatharus, new genus, and its type-species Gnatharus tibetensis, new species (Tibet); Xenophthorus , new subgenus, and its type-species Pseudopityophthorus (Xenophtho rus) peregrinas, new species (Tibet), and Ips orientalis, new species (Tibet, China). The intercontinental exchange of other taxa in Scolytidae are also mentioned.
41712255|Protocedroxylon macgregorii sp. nov., from Jurassic strata of British Columbia, Canada, is the first reported occurrence of this genus in North America. Protocedroxylon macgregorii combines the tracheal pitting of the araucarians with the crossfield pitting of modern genera of the Abietineae. This species is similar to the type species Protocedroxylon araucarioides. They differ in that P. araucarioides has tangential pitting, tracheid septations, and entirely uniseriate rays. These features are lacking in P. macgregorii with the exception of the rays, which are partially biseriate in the latter species. Protocedroxylon macgregorii has traumatic resin canals or cysts that have not been reported in P. araucarioides.
41711529|A list of species, illustrated keys to nymphs and adults, distribution, and biological notes are presented for 24 stonefly species occurring in Louisiana. Leuctra moha?, Pteronarcys dor sata, Helopicus subvarians, Paragnetina kansensis, Paragnetina immarginata, Phasganophora capitata, and Acroneuria evoluta are recorded only from the florida parishes east of the Mississippi River. lsoperla coushatta, Isoperla mohri, Neoperla clymene, an undescribed Neoperla (Sp. A), Paragnetina fumosa, Acroneuria abnormis, Acroneuria arenosa, Perlinella dry mo, and Perlesa placida are found both east and west of the Mississippi; and Allocapnia granulata, Allocapnia malverna, Amphinemoura nigritta, and three species of Taeniopteryx have been recorded only west of the Mississippi. Habitats are primarily sand-bottomed streams of pine-hardwood rolling hills, constituting a portion of the western Gulf Coastal Plain. Few stoneflies occur in streams of the Mississippi Alluvial Plain, the Alluvial Atchafalaya Basin, or the lowlands along the Red River.
41712764|Pollinator preferences were observed for the six species of section Erythranthe of the genus Mimulus using greenhouse-grown plants placed in a meadow in the Red Butte Canyon Natural Area, Salt Lake County, Utah. The principal pollinators were hummingbirds and bumble bees. Hummingbirds preferred the species with the most reflexed tubular flowers regardless of color, whereas bumblebees preferred pink, lavender, or yellow flowers to red flowers regardless of shape. Results for the six species were confirmed by observations of F hybrid recombinant plants selected such that flower color could be held constant and flower shape varied and vice versa.
41716184|The spawning population of Lahontan cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus darki henshawi) in Summit Lake, Nevada, has reportedly declined since the early 1970s, coincident with the appearance of Lahontan redside shiner (Richardsonius egregius) in the lake. We investigated the relative predatory abilities of these 2 fish species foraging on live Daphnia magna in turbidity conditions commonly observed in Summit Lake. Experiments were performed under controlled light and temperature conditions. In separate trials we fed trout and shiner 1 of 3 size classes of D. magna (1.7 mm, 2.2 mm, and 3.0 mm) at 6 levels of turbidity ranging from 3.5 to 25 NTU. Feeding rates for both species varied inversely with turbidity for all prey sizes. Feeding rates of shiner were greater than trout at all turbidity levels. In low turbidity (5 NTU), shiner consumed approximately 3% more prey during 2-h feeding trials. However, at high turbidity levels, the difference in feeding rates between species was proportionally higher (10%). At high turbidity levels (> 20 NTU) trout predation rates were relatively insensitive to prey size. However, shiner continued to consume more, larger prey at the highest turbidity levels. These results indicate that Lahontan redside shiner may be superior to Lahontan cutthroat trout as Zooplankton predators at high turbidity levels, and may explain the recent success of shiner in Summit Lake.
41713039|We determined temporal and spatial differences in abundance and habitat use by small mammals in southeastern Utah as part of an effort to enhance management of the Mexican Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis lucida), listed by the federal government as threatened. Woodrats (Neotoma spp.) were captured only in canyons and most frequently in the pinyon-juniper (Pinus edulis-Juniperus osteosperma) vegetation type. White-footed mice (Peromyscus spp.) were found in a variety of vegetation types in both canyons and mesas. The deer mouse (P. maniculatus) was generally the most frequently captured species among vegetation types. We found seasonal and yearly differences in relative abundance of each small mammal species. Our data suggest that the pinyon-juniper vegetation type within canyons is an important component of Mexican Spotted Owl habitat.
41712451|Collections of crayfish by Wyoming Game and Fish Department biologists and University of Wyoming staff in 1985-1987 included five species: Pacifastacus gambelii, the only species found in the Snake River and Bear River drainages of western Wyoming; Orconectes neglectus neglectus, collected from one reservoir in the South Platte River drainage in southeastern Wyoming (its first reported occurrence in the state); O. immunis and O. virilis, widespread east of the Continental Divide and in the Green River drainage of southwestern Wyoming; and Cambarus diogenes diogenes, collected from a tributary of the North Platte River in eastern Wyoming.
41712490|Basidiocarps of Pisolithus tinctorius, a gasteromycetous fungus adapted to harsh sites, were observed in association with Jeffrey and Sierra lodgepole pine on acid mine spoils in northeastern California. Subterranean mycelial strands were traced from these basidiocarps to the root systems of the two pine species, which had ectomycorrhizae characteristic of those formed by this fungus in symbiotic relationships with conifer hosts.
41713021|Suwallia sierra and Sweltsa pisten are described as new species in the family Chloroperlidae from California, USA. Illustrations of the male terminalia of both species and the female and egg of S. sierra are presented. In addition, detailed figures of the epiproct of 2 similar species, Sweltsa townesi and Sweltsa resima, are included. Diagnoses are provided comparing the new taxa with related species. Observations indicate that S. sierra may belong to the same clade as the genus Neaviperh.
41711604|New distribution records are given for 13 grasses now found in New Mexico. One of these, Urochloa panicoides Beauv., is a new distribution record for the United States.
41711959|The distribution of 21 species of nonvolant mammals among nine islands in the Great Salt Lake was analyzed for biogeographic patterns. The number of species inhabiting an island is closely correlated with island area. That the slope of the regression line describing this relationship (z or b) is relatively shallow compared to (1) totally isolated island systems or (2) island systems where an equilibrium between rates of colonization and extinction have been attained suggests that isolation plays little role in accounting for the variation in mammalian species diversity among islands. Stepwise multiple regression confirms this, while demonstrating that area alone accounts for 88 percent of the variation in species diversity among islands. However, endemic subspecies comprise a significant proportion of the insular mammalian fauna, suggesting that isolation for small mammals restricted to certain habitats may be substantial. A general scenario of the processes determining insular mammalian diversity and endemism is discussed for the Great Salt Lake, where the dynamic lake level creates a potential for different biogeographic processes over time.
41711551|A unique fen peatland, on the California coast, depends on six streams for its supply of flowing, mineral-rich water. About 25 percent of the water is supplied by surface streams that had average concentrations of Ca from 0.15 meq/1 to 0.32 meq/1 and of Mg from 0.25 meq/1 to 0.47 meq/1. During the dry summer period oxygen concentration and pH were lower in the central area than in the ten margins. Water flow near the margins maintains high O, pH, and cation content. The fen ranges from 4 m to over 11 m in depth, but the thickest peat layer is made up of very liquid, unconsolidated peat. In one year, an estimated 19.3 metric tons of suspended sediment entered tne 38.6 ha fen, which was equivalent to a 42 kg/ha loss from the total watershed.
41712218|Distribution and habitat selection of hibernating bats at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL) and adjacent area are reported. Exploration of over 30 lava-tube caves revealed that two species, Myotis leibii and Plecotus townsendii, hibernate in the upper Snake River Plain. Five species, M. lucifugus, M. evotis, Eptesicus fuscus, Lasionycteris noctivagans, and Lasiurus cinereus are considered migratory. Myotis leibii and P. townsendii hibernate throughout much of the area, occasionally in mixed-species groups. Myotis leibii uses the dark and protected regions of the cave, usually wedged into tiny pockets and crevices near or at the highest portion of the ceiling. Individuals of P. townsendii may be found at any height or depth in the cave. Temperature appears to be the primary limiting factor in habitat selection. Myotis leibii was found in significantly cooler air temperatures than P. townsendii. Neither species tolerated continuous temperatures below 1.5 C. Relative humidity does not seem to be a significant factor in the distribution or habitat selection of the two species in lava-tube caves.
41711428|The early stages in the history of biological investigation of the Great Salt Lake involved the identification and establishment of taxonomic relationships of the indigenous flora and fauna. A result of advancements in systematic biology is that many of the earlier names of organisms have been placed in synonomy. Recent interest in the lake has centered on biological productivity and interactions of components of the ecosystem. The creation of two ecologically distinct lakes by the construction of a railroad causeway has further enhanced the biological complexity of what was originally believed to be a lifeless body of brine.
41712610|The local spatial arrangement of the coniferous trees Pinus edulis and Juniperus osteosperma was mapped in two woodland stands and measured in two shrub-dominated stands in the semiarid Piceance Basin of northwest Colorado. In the woodlands, small trees were often clumped, while medium and large trees were either randomly or uniformly dispersed. Significant regressions were obtained between a tree's basal area or canopy area and the area of its Dirichlet domain (the region closer to it than to any other tree). Both findings from the woodland stands accord with results obtained by other workers in other vegetation. Like earlier workers, we interpret these patterns to indicate density-dependent mortality and density-dependent depression of growth rates among the trees in the woodlands. In contrast, the trees in the shrub-dominated stands are located at random with respect to each other. However, they are strongly associated with shrub cover. Apparently, tree seeds arrive in these stands primarily by long-distance dispersal, and the establishment of seedlings is more likely in the shade of shrubs.
41713089|A total of 33 species of blow flies (Diptera: Calliphoridae) are recorded from Idaho. They include 1 species each of Cochliomyia, Phormia, Protophormia, Trypocalliphora, Cyanus, Cynomya, and Mehnodexia; 12 species of Protocalliphora; 5 species of Lucilia; 6 species of Calliphora; and 3 species of Pollenia. Other calliphorid species that may also occur in the state include 5 species of Protocalliphora and 3 species of Calliphora. Known distribution, periods of activity, abundance within the state, and biological notes are provided.
41712324|Echinococcus granulosus is the causative parasite of hydatid disease in humans and represents a significant public health problem within endemic foci in all major continents of the world. This report gives a detailed set of instructions whereby four trained individuals can examine 15-20 dogs per hour for the presence of this organism. The procedure permits the baseline determination of the prevalence of this parasite within any specific population of dogs and also allows the periodic examination of the same animals to determine if recommended preventive and control measures for hydatid disease are being followed by sheep and dog owners in any region where the parasite is known to occur.
41712550|Some American marten population characteristics (numbers, density, body weights, sex and age ratios, natality, mortality-survivorship, immigration-emigration, home ranges) were studied at four sites in the southern part of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem, Teton County, Wyoming, in 19751979. Ninety-eight different martens were examined. Males (n = 25) weighed 1,111 g ( 110 SD, range 8751,235), whereas females (n = 17) averaged 743 g ( 83 SD, range 600900). Live-trapping showed sex ratios of 1.5M:1.0F, whereas carcasses showed 3.0M:1.0F. Of 27 males that were aged, 12 (44%) were less than 1 year old and 2 were 910 years old. Of 10 females, 6 were less than 1 year old and 1 was 1213 years old. The mean length of time a male was present on the major study area was 144 days ( 266 SD, range 11,364), and for females it was 145 days ( 45 SD, range 1560). Home ranges for six males averaged 3.2 km ( 20 SD, range 0.75.8) on the main study area. Some management implications are given.
41712693|Soils of the green ash/chokecherry habitat type in northwestern South Dakota were evaluated for 22 properties to determine whether any could be correlated with density of chokecherry (Prunus virginiana) and snowberry (Symphoricarpos occidentalis). Surface soils were moderately fertile, with high levels of all elements except phosphorus and nitrogen. Soils were fine textured, with moderately high cation exchange capacity and saturation percentages. However, soils were nonsaline-nonalkaline with low amounts of exchangeable sodium. None of the soil properties showed good correlation with chokecherry and snowberry densities. Greatest correlations were found between each of the shrub species and grass.
41711507|There is little information available regarding symbiotic nitrogen fixation by desert plants, particularly with respect to the group of nodulated non-legumes. Early investigations of nodules on non-legumes were contemporary with early studies of the Leguminoseae; however, comparatively little is known even now regarding the extent to which non-legumes fix nitrogen. A review of literature regarding changes in concepts of nitrogen fixation by legumes and nodulated non-legumes is presented. Evidence from recent studies on nodulated non-legumes, including those in desert areas, indicates some 31 species of 21 genera in 12 new or previously unrecognized plant families show nodulation with implications of nitrogen fixation. Some biological aspects of symbiotic nitrogen fixation are discussed, and reports in the literature of nitrogen fixation in natural plant populations are reviewed. Nitrogen fixation reactions in the desert environment are considered in terms of the areas of investigation needed to help define (1) the magnitude of nitrogen fixation, (2) the extent of nodulation in non-legume plants, and (3) factors affecting this nodulation in the desert ecosystem.
41711333|Analysis of the Crotaphytus collaris complex reveals at least eight subspecies in two distinct groupings. The collaris-complex containing C. c. auriceps, C. c. baileyi, C. c. fuscus, and C. c. collaris lies essentially to the east of the Colorado River. The greatest portion of the western-complex containing C. c. bicinctores, C. i. vestigium, C. c. dickersonae and C. i. insularis lies to the west of the Colorado River except through western Arizona and northern Mexico. Two previously undescribed subspecies, C. c. bicinctores and C. i. vestigium, are described and named.
41712385|Blood, tissue, and organ samples from five bowhead whales were examined for ecto-and endoparasites. Two species of protozoans, four genera of diatoms, one species of trematoda, two species of nematoda, and one species of amphipoda "louse" were found. No blood parasites were recovered. The larval anisakid nematode, found in the submucosa of the forestomach of one whale, generated a prominent inflammatory response. Protozoans found in contents of the colon included a flagellate and a sarcodinan. The sarcodinan, which was common in the colon contents of one whale, belongs to the genus Entamoeba and probably represents an undescribed species. Ogomogaster plicatus, a trematode, was also identified. The data from this study are compared with previous lists of parasites for the bowhead whale and two other species of baleen whales. From the results presented, the previous list of parasites for the bowhead whale has been expanded to include eight additional genera and species.
41712110|The genera and species of Polygonaceae in Utah are revised. Descriptions and keys to taxa are included, along with habitat, elevation, and distributional data. Taxonomic problems are outlined and discussed. Described as new is Eriogonum brevicaule Nutt. var. promiscuum Welsh. New nomenclatural combinations include Eriogonum batemanii Jones var. eremicum (Reveal) Welsh and var. ostlundii (Jones) Welsh; E. brevicaule Nutt. var. desertorum (Maguire) Welsh, var. ephedroides (Reveal) Welsh, var. loganum (A. Nels.) Welsh, var. nanum (Reveal) Welsh, and var. viridulum (Reveal) Welsh; E. corymbosum Benth var. cronquistii (Reveal) Welsh, var. humivagans (Reveal) Welsh, var. smithii (Reveal) Welsh; E. lonchophyllum T. & G. var. saurinum (Reveal) Welsh; E. nummulare Jones var. ammophilum (Reveal) Welsh; E. racemosum Nutt. var. coccineum (J. T. Howell) Welsh and var. zionis (J. T.Howell) Welsh; E. spathulatum Gray var. natum (Reveal) Welsh.
41711873|Reviewed are the 144 collectors and 167 authors of 1073 Utah vascular plant types for the period from 1840 to 1981. Historical perspective yields evidence of geography of collection activities by botanists who penetrated the boundaries of the state, and of shifting centers of emphasis in the study of Utah plants from a classical taxonomic standpoint. Philosophy and influence of contemporary authors and collectors is discussed as they affect taxonomy of Utah plants in our first 142 years. A short biographical account of Marcus Eugene Jones and his interaction with other American botanists is included. The annotated checklist includes bibliographical citations, type locality data, collector, and place of deposition.
41712506|Winter habitat use and food habits of Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were studied in an isolated Utah desert mountain range that contained little typical Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) winter habitat. Habitat use was concentrated in the Douglas-fir and pinyon (Pinus edulis)-juniper (Juniperus spp. ) habitat. Douglas-fir and pinyon pine were the most consumed foods. Other foods that represented > 15% of the composition of an individual fecal sample were limber pine (Pinus flexilis), mahogany (Cercocarpus ledifolius), juniper, and an Antennaria-Cirsium type. The breadth in winter diet indicates that Blue Grouse may successfully occupy other habitats when typical winter habitat is scarce.
41712782|This paper quantifies the distribution and abundance of birds in the White Mountains, Inyo and Mono counties, California, during spring-summer 1989-91, to establish a baseline for monitoring the area's avifauna. Overall, 58 species were encountered in the single-leaf pinyon-Utah juniper (Pinus monophylla-Juniperus osteosperma) zone, and 61 species in the bristlecone-limber pine (P. longaeva-P. flexilis) zone. The bristlecone-limber pine zone had a significantly greater overall bird abundance relative to the pinyon-juniper. Both zones were characterized by few very abundant species, a few moderately abundant species, and numerous rare species. The Black-throated Gray Warbler (scientific names in tables), Gray Flycatcher, and Pinyon Jay were the most abundant species in the pinyon-juniper, whereas the Clark's Nutcracker, Mountain Chickadee, and Cassin's Finch were the most abundant species in the bristlecone-limber pine. There were few ecological or taxonomic replacements of species between zones, with the differences in distribution and abundance related primarily to the interaction between elevation and vegetation. Significant inter-year variation in abundance was found for about 20 species in each zonemore species showed declining rather than increasing trends. The Mountain Chickadee and White-breasted Nuthatch declined, whereas the Gray Flycatcher and Rock Wren increased across years in both zones. Reasons for declines in some species might be the severe drought that continued throughout this study.
41712896|Recent taxonomic studies in Mimulus support the recognition of Mimulus evanescens, a new autogamous species morphologically allied with M. breviflorus and M. latidens. Initially known only from herbarium specimens, the most recent from 1958, M. evanescens was relocated in the field in 1990 in northern Lassen Co., CA. A second population was found in southern Lake Co., OR, in 1993. Mimulus evanescens is apparently confined to the Great Basin and its periphery, where it has been recorded from 10 localities across Idaho, Oregon, and California. Based on collection information and visits to the two extant populations, the new species appears to be restricted to vernally moist sites and fluctuating banks of intermittent streams or pools. Long-term utilization of such sites by livestock may have contributed to the present-day rarity of M. evanescens. The species should be added to federal and state lists of candidate endangered species pending the results of future field studies and surveys.
41712046|Three species of shore bugs (Hemiptera: Saldidae) and 10 species of brine flies (Diptera: Ephydridae) were collected at Sylvan Springs (Wyoming section of Yellowstone National Park, USA), an area containing both acid and alkaline thermal springs. The fauna consists of both widespread (e.g., shore bugs Saldula comatula Parshley and Saldula explanata [Uhler] and shore flies Atissa litoralis [Cole] and Scatella stagnalis [Fallen]) and Yellowstone Park-endemic species (e.g., Saldula nr. arenicola and the shore fly Ephydra thermophila Cresson). The ratio of adults to nymphs of the numerically dominant shore bug Saldula nr. arenicola is higher along heated margins (11-12: 1) than along near-ambient-temperature margins (0.6-2: 1) of a thermal channel at Sylvan Springs; this may reflect differences in food availability, osmoregularity, thermal tolerance, predation, or other factors. Shore flies include species typical of acid (E. thermophila) and alkaline (Paracoenia bisetosa [Coquillett] and Paracoenia trbida [Curran]) springs.
41712822|We counted kokanee spawners and carcasses every 1-7 days from mid-September through mid-November in 1991 and 1992 in Taylor Creek, a tributary to Lake Tahoe, California-Nevada. Less than 1% of the spawning run entered Taylor Creek before flow from Fallen Leaf Lake was increased on 2 October 1991; in 1992 the peak occurred on 30 September or 1 October after flows increased on 29 September. In both years spawners concentrated in the middle three of five stream reaches below the impassable Fallen Leaf Lake dam. From tag-and-recovery experiments, the average longevity of male spawners in the stream was 3.5 days in 1991 and 2.8 days in 1992, whereas the average female longevity was 2.0 days in 1991 and 2.3 days in 1992. Observed carcasses accounted for less than 10% of spawners counted, suggesting removal by scavengers or high prdation on prespawners. An estimated 1928 males and 1309 females spawned in 1991, and 8021 males and 8712 females spawned in 1992. Our estimate of 3237 spawners in 1991 compared favorably to our estimate of 3520  1474 prespawners staging in Lake Tahoe in mid-September. An index of kokanee abundance in Lake Tahoe has historically been based on 1-day surveys every 1 November since 1960; however, estimated total spawner abundance was 19 times higher than the annual index of 158 spawners in 1991, and 141 times higher than the index count of 100 spawners in 1992. The index count and mean fork lengths of spawners (278  10 mm [2 SE] for males, and 248  3 mm for females) in 1991 and 1992 were the lowest on record.
41712773|The Shoshone sculpin (Cottus greenei) is found only in springs of the Thousand Springs formation along the Snake River in Idaho. In 1983 a small population of Shoshone sculpin was introduced into an unnamed spring in the Thousand Springs formation in an attempt to increase the range of the species. Previously, the only sculpin in that spring was the mottled sculpin (Cottus bairdi). The Shoshone sculpin was able to establish itself and become the predominant fish within 8 years.
41716166|Regressions between vegetational cover, estimated with a two-tiered, gridded sampling frame, and biomass were used to obtain predicted biomass values from cover values. Comparisons of eight sites based on predicted biomass data and comparisons of the sites based on cover data indicate that predicted biomass data may better identify differences among sites. Also, some suggestions are made regarding the methods of using cover-biomass regressions to obtain predicted biomass values.
41712335|The vascular flora of the Orange Cliffs area, defined here as part of the Colorado Plateau floristic province, harbors approximately 209 species in 123 genera and 49 families. A species checklist is provided with a discussion of physical and floristic aspects of the region. The flora is compared statistically to the San Rafael Swell flora, which is also a subset of the Colorado Plateau. We define six vegetation types and three edaphic communities; these are described and mapped. Of eleven endemic plant species in the Orange Cliffs, three are local and rare. Sites for Astragalus nidularius, A. moencoppensis, and Xylorhiza glabriuscula var. linearifolia are discussed and mapped.
41711790|Indices of similarity were used to evaluate the similarity of oakbrush stands throughout the Uinta National Forest and to compare oak communities in central and northern Utah. Results show that Gambel oak stands in central Utah differ significantly among themselves in respect to quantitative aspects of the vegetation. Those differences can be correlated with elevation, slope exposure, and fire history. Nevertheless, there is currently inadequate justification for recognizing more than one habitat type for the species in the study area. There is a need to develop a model capable of predicting growth rate of oak on specific sites.
41712420|The new sauropod, Cathetosaurus lewisi, is named and assigned to the Camarasauridae; it was collected from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation in western Colorado in 1967. Novel structural features of the skeleton in this genus, particularly in the axial skeleton, enabled it to assume and function to an unknown degree in a bipedal posture. Comparisons are made between C. lewisi and previously described sauropods. The following problems of sauropod locomotion are discussed: (1) sauropods lack two elements, sesamoids and patella, present in titanotheres; (2) sauropod limb and foot musculature, lacking leverage, is very inferior to that of titanotheres; (3) no previously described sauropod displays adequate structural specializations for voluntary bipedalism comparable to that of the new genus Cathetosaurus; (4) great weight and cartilaginous limb and foot joint structure restricted sauropods to a slow tempo of locomotion, suggesting a moderate to low rate of catabolic metabolism. Mammal and sauropod foot bones and their function are compared, and comparisons are made between the weight and structure of modern mobile machines and the locomotion and movement of large sauropods. Occurrence and taphonomy of C. lewisi are discussed.
41711953|The response of woundfin to different substrates and current speeds was investigated in an outdoor experimental stream. Fish spawned in groups of 15-20 over 5-10 cm rock substrate in a .06 to .09 m/sec current at a depth of 10 cm. Eggs were adhesive on the undersides of the rocks. Fish spawned under these conditions grew to approximately 55-60 mm TL in 5 months.
41712500|During the 1987 deer hunt 4,250 card questionnaires were distributed to Utah hunters at nine checking stations. Return rates varied from a mean 23% when cards were simply handed to hunters, to 50% when hunters' names and telephone numbers were taken. Results concerning methodology suggest that questionnaire surveys conducted from checking stations are efficient and accurate in obtaining hunter opinions. Questionnaire results indicated that most hunters rated the Utah deer hunt as moderately satisfactory, but may prefer alternative options that would result in a higher quality hunt. The majority of hunters indicated that hunter numbers should be limited to current levels or decreased. Unretrieved kill was reported as 21 deer per 100 hunters.
41711690|Although pinyon-juniper woodland is common throughout most of Utah, it is less so in Utah and Salt Lake valleys. Even so, stands do occur in the valleys and are known to have been there since presettlement times. Three such stands occurring along the eastern sections of the valleys have shown major decreases in area since settlement times, and one has all but disappeared. Their disappearance is attributed to early use for fuel, agricultural, and urbanization purposes.
41711669|Chemical composition of some major forage plants of mountain summer ranges of southeastern Utah is reported. Grasses are shown to contain significantly less nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and magnesium than either forbs or shrubs. Forbs and shrubs are demonstrated to differ significantly only in potassium content; forbs tested contained more potassium than shrubs. The chemical composition of the forage plants is discussed in relation to mule deer reproductive rates. It is concluded that protein and mineral content of the forage of the two ranges considered (the LaSal and Henry mountains) is less likely to affect reproductive rates than is the relative digestibility of grasses, forbs, and shrubs.
41712835|Despite the profusion of light in deserts, morphological adaptations to increase light interception are common among desert plants. We studied branch orientation and related physiological parameters in the Mojave Desert Joshua tree, Yucca brevifolia (Agavaceae). Azimuth and inclination were measured on all leaf rosettes of 44 Y. brevifolia trees. Interception of solar radiation was modeled for leaves in hypothetical rosettes facing due south and due north in December, March, and June. Carbon isotope discrimination, nitrogen content, and conductance to water vapor were measured in leaves from north- and south-facing rosettes. Rosette azimuths were nonrandom; rosettes predominantly faced southeast. North-facing rosettes were more steeply inclined than those facing south. The preponderance of southfacing rosettes reduces self-shading and increases interception of solar radiation during the winterspring growth period. Stomatal conductance was higher for leaves in south-facing than in north-facing rosettes. Nevertheless, discrimination against C was less in leaves of south-facing rosettes, indicating that average intercellular CO concentration was also lower. South-facing whorls had higher leaf nitrogen content. Greater allocation of nitrogen to leaves in south-facing whorls probably results in those leaves having a greater photosynthetic capacity than their north-facing counterparts. Orientation of rosettes to increase interception of sunlight during the period most favorable for photosynthesis, coupled with allocation of nutrients to maintain a higher photosynthetic capacity in those rosettes, should significantly increase whole-plant carbon gain in Y. brevifolia.
41712954|Diameter-age relationships of Salix arizonica (Arizona willow) stems were investigated for 5 populations on the Markagunt, Paunsaugunt, and Sevier plateaus in southern and central Utah. Of the 430 stems studied, none exceeded 26 mm in diameter at ground level (estimated age of 19 yr). Equations developed for predicting age from stem diameters consistently accounted for over 90% of the observed variation. Slopes of predictive equations were homogeneous across the 3 sites considered in detail. At 2 sites 46% and 38% of the stems exceeded 10 mm (~7 yr old) diameter at ground level. At a 3rd site, no stems survived to exceed that size. Stem-age profiles at specific sites may thus be useful for assessing the relative favorability of local environments for the species.
41711583|A review of published and unpublished data for the predatory mite Typhlodromus mcgregori in Utah and southern California apple growing areas is presented to summarize its role. Typhlodromus mcgregori was not found resistant to pesticides and, although usually present with Bryobia rubrioculus, only when Aculus schlechtendali was also present was there significant predation on B. rubrioculus. Aculus schlechtendali was considered the primary host and B. rubrioculus secondary for T. mcgregori. Typhlodromus occidentalis was always found associated with Tetranychus spp. and often with Eotetranychus and Pronematus ubiquitus in unsprayed orchards.
41713140|The effect of thatching ants (Formica obscuripes) on number of spiders found on sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) was determined by comparing spider abundance on shrubs at different distances from ant mounds. Spider abundance was inversely related to proximity to mounds. Spider abundance on shrubs around abandoned mounds revealed no effects of mound proximity. Two mounds in which ants were exterminated showed a declining effect of mound proximity 1 month after treatment. One year after treatment there was no effect.
41712675|In 1983 zinc phosphide, strychnine with prebait, and strychnine without prebait were applied to black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies in west central South Dakota. Short-term (four days later) and long-term (one year later) impacts of the rodenticides on Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) and other granivorous birds inhabiting prairie dog colonies were evaluated. Horned Larks and 49 other bird species were observed. Immediate impacts reduced Horned Lark relative densities 66% with strychnine only and 55% with prebaited strychnine. Zing phosphide caused no measurable reduction. Horned Larks showed no long-term direct impacts. Indirect negative impacts occurred through habitat changes following prairie dog control. The granivorous guild showed no short- or long-term effects.
41712224|Gross energy, digestible energy, crude protein, and digestible crude protein were estimated for two leporids and five rodents that were the primary prey of coyotes (Canis latrans) in southeastern Idaho. Digestible protein estimates digestible (38%-54%) more than digestible energy (3.5-4.4 kcal), in the prey examined.
41712480|This third report on the herpetofauna of Chihuahua deals exclusively with amphibians. The first plethodonid salamander is reported, the species Ambystoma rosaceum is discussed in greater detail than before, and two subspecies are recognized. Spea is elevated from subgeneric to generic rank, and S. stagnalis Cope is removed from synonymy and is recognized as a subspecies of hammondii. The species listed include the following: 2 salamanders and 19 anurans (1 Scaphiopus, 2 Spea, 9 Bufo, 1 Eleutherodactylus, 2 Hyfo, 3 Rana, and 1 Microhyla). Reference is made to various habitats that are associated with elevations arising from lower deserts and extending into the western mountains. The role played by the dry and wet annual cycles is also noted.
41711966|The western Nearctic stonefly genus Soliperla is reviewed and six species are recognized. Soliperh siena (Calif.) and S. tilfomook (Ore.) are described as new to science and illustrations of diagnostic features are presented for all species. Males and nymphs are keyed and a phylogeny for the group is proposed.
41712273|Seventeen loci were examined for polymorphism in four populations of Neotoma cinerea and Peromyscus maniculatus on isolated mountain ranges in the Great Basin, one population of each in the Sierra Nevada, and one of each in the Rocky Mountains. All Peromyscus populations had higher levels of heterozygosity than syntopic Neotoma populations.
41712378|Habitat-use patterns of mule deer, elk, and moose were determined on two winter ranges near Kemmerer, Wyoming. Mule deer used areas with the least snow depth and dominated by sagebrush. Elk were located more often than expected on wind-swept hills but used sagebrush communities more frequently as snow depths increased. Moose were generally found associated with broad, riparian zones. All three species occasionally used the same area but differed in their use of specific vegetation types and topography.
41712210|Large numbers of Red-necked Phalaropes migrate overland across the Great Basin in fall, occurring commonly at highly saline lakes. Migrants occur at Mono Lake, California, from mid-July to mid-October. The earliest migrants are adult females, followed several weeks later by adult males, and finally by juveniles. Adults make up ca 75% of the population, with males outnumbering females by 5:4. From 1980 through 1984 an estimated 52,000-65,000 birds passed through the area each year, except in 1983, when only 36,000 were recorded. The low number might be attributable to high mortality on oceanic wintering grounds in the Southern Hemisphere in 1982 associated with the severe El Nio. At Mono Lake the phalaropes concentrate near the shore and feed almost exclusively on brine flies. The migrants neither gain much weight nor accomplish much molt during their sojourn, which suggests that the average stay is only a few days. Some aspects of the molt pattern differ from those reported elsewhere.
41712734|We examined winter nutritional quality of current-year bud and stem tissues from burned and unburned stands of Gambei oak (Quercus gambelii Nutt.). Nutritional analyses were based on the amount of forage consumed by wintering mule deer. Deer use along the Utah Valley foothills averaged 6.25-10.7 cm of current-year growth. Of the tissues examined, post-fire bud tissue had the highest nutrient content, with a mean of 9.51% crude protein, 0.19% phosphorus, and 34.0% in vitro digestibility. Composite values (bud + stem) for unburned stands were slightly higher in crude protein and phosphorus and lower in digestibility than those reported in previous studies. Nutrient values from burned stands were significantly higher than those of unburned stands for all three measures. Tannin content of the burned-area regrowth was also higher. Overall forage value of Gambel oak to wintering mule deer is relatively low.
41712738|Native mushrooms play an important, though often underestimated, role in deer, elk, and caribou diets in North America. Mushrooms are often noted as an unusual or anomalous food in the diets of cervids; yet they often dominate diets in the late summer and fall in forested areas of western North America and throughout the year in the southeastern U.S. Mushrooms are particularly high in protein (16-19%), phosphorus (average 0.75%), and potassium (average 2%). Also, mushroom production is generally greatest in fall. Therefore, they are a highly nutritious food in late season when other native forages may marginally meet basal nutrient requirements of ungulates.
41711695|Distributional records are given for 40 stonefly species on 15 isolated mountain ranges in Nevada and Utah.
41713049|During the summers of 19851991, bird censuses were conducted along 13 permanent routes located at the 2315-km Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL, formerly INEL) in southeastern Idaho. The objectives of the surveys were to (1) compare avifauna in and near facility complex sites with remote, relatively undisturbed habitats, (2) identify trends in populations of sagebrush-obligate species and other common shrubsteppe species, and (3) determine the presence, abundance, and population status of species of special concern. Five routes were official U.S. Geological Survey, Biological Resources Division 40.0-km Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) routes (formerly administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service) located in relatively remote portions of the INEEL where access by humans was controlled and limited. Eight shorter routes (5.819.2 km in length) were near INEEL facility complexes, which more regularly experienced disturbance by humans. The surveys recorded 25,597 individuals representing 90 species. Western Meadowlarks (Sturnelh neglecta), Brewer's Sparrows (Spizelh breweri), Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli), Horned Larks (Eremophih alpestris), and Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus) comprised 72% of all individuals. Almost half of all species were represented by fewer than 10 individuals. Bird density was significantly greater along facility complex routes. Moreover, because of human-constructed wetlands and structures of various types, facility complex routes had significantly more bird species per unit area, including more species of waterfowl and humanassociated species. Some year-to-year variation in bird density was related to weather. More individuals were recorded in cooler, wetter years, although such increases were reflected more along facility complex routes. Among sagebrush-obligate species, trend analysis suggests that both Brewer's Sparrows and Sage Sparrows increased significantly in abundance, which may be in contrast to regional trends for these species. Of 5 species of special concern observed, trend analysis could be performed for only 2: Ferruginous Hawks (Buteo regalis) and Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus). Both species had more routes with negative regression coefficients and negative trend means, indicating that declines may have occurred, although the goodness-of-fit test for neither species was significant. These data from the INEEL should be useful for comparison with future studies at the site and other studies from throughout the Great Basin region.
41712169|The cui-ui, Chasmistes cujus Cope, a member of the sucker family and endemic to Pyramid Lake, Nevada, is listed as endangered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Cui-ui was once a major source of sustenance for native Americans, who have inhabited the Lahontan region for at least 11,000 years. The Northern Paiutes developed sophisticated fishing technology to harvest this resource. The original distribution of cui-ui was the ancient Lake Lahontan complex, but as a result of climatic changes it was restricted to the Pyramid-Winnemucca-Truckee system by the turn of the 20th century. Transbasin water diversions (1905 to present) have resulted in further restrictions of habitat. The species is now limited to Pyramid Lake and the lower Truckee River. Reproduction is from hatcheries as well as limited natural reproduction. Females produce more than 40,000 2mm eggs per year. The normal development is described from the unfertilized egg through 912 hours post-hatching, when the fry are actively feeding and approaching adult body form. The unusual feature of adult cui-ui morphology is the relatively large ventro-terminal mouth, with thin and obscurely papillose lips. Cui-ui grow slowly and may live 18 years or possibly much longer; females generally live longer and attain a greater size than males. The highest adult mortality probably occurs during spawning runs. At this time they are vulnerable to predation, stress, and sometimes environmental degradation. The highest larval mortality probably occurs from predation when they are planted or migrate into the lake. The trophic ecology of the species is poorly understood, but they are known to ingest algae and zooplankton. Spawning behavior is documented. At present, natural reproduction is probably still the limiting factor for the cui-ui population. Cui-ui composed less than one percent of the total fish in Pyramid Lake during 1975-1977. During 1982 the largest cui-ui spawning run (13,000) in recent years occurred. The activity of cui-ui in the lake closely resembles that of the Tahoe sucker being most active during the spawning season each spring. Cui-ui inhabit the inshore-benthic zone and the pelagic waters of Pyramid Lake (<46 m).
41712507|Five new species of Harasupia in the tribe Teruliini are described and illustrated. These include austini, baja, mexicana, retrorsa, and ungula, all from Mexico. A revised key to 12 known species is also given.
41712387|Reported are 105 species of Scolytidae (Coleoptera) from Idaho. About one-third of these are rarely collected, of which 22 species are known from a single locality each. Twelve species reported from Idaho for the first time are: Carphoborus carri Swaine, C. sansoni Swaine, Phloeosinus hoferi Blackman, Conophthorus monophyllae Hopkins, Dryocoetes betulae Hopkins, Ips confusus (LeConte), Pityophthorus absonus Blackman, P. aquilus Blackman, P. blandus Blackman, P. deletus LeConte, P. scalptor Blackman, and Xyleborinus saxeseni (Ratzeburg). Significant extensions of the known distributions in Idaho are reported for seven other scolytids: Alniphagus aspericollis (LeConte), Dendroctonus murrayanae Hopkins, Phloeotribus lecontei Schedl, Procryphalus mucronatus (LeConte), Trypophloeus populi Hopkins, Xyleborus dispar (Fabricius), and X. intrusus Blandford. Xyleborus dispar especially needs study in anticipation that it may become increasingly important in Idaho fruit trees and other woody plants including ornamentals and shade trees.
41711432|Phyllorhynchus decurtatus porelli ssp. nov. is described from a single specimen from Cerralvo Island, Gulf of California, Mexico, and is regarded as different from P. d. decuratus on the basis of an increased number of dorsal blotches (41 as compared to 18-33) and an increased number of supralabials (7 as compared to 6), combined with geographical isolation and the high degree of endemism found in other reptiles on Cerralvo Island.
41713036|As part of an ongoing summary revision of Astragalus for the Flora North America project, several nomenclatural changes are indicated. Nomenclatural proposals include A. molybdenus var. shultziorum (Barneby) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. australis var. aboriginorum (Richardson) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. australis var. cottoni (M. E. Jones) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. australis var. lepagei (Hultn) Welsh, comb. nov; A. australis var. muriei (Hultn) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. subcinereus var. sileranus (M.E. Jones) Welsh, comb, nov.; A. tegetarioides var. anxius (Meinke & Kaye) Welsh, comb, nov.; A. ampullarioides (Welsh) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. cutleri (Barneby) Welsh, comb, nov.; and A. laccoliticus (M.E. Jones) Welsh, comb. nov. Proposals of new taxa include Astragalus sect. Scytocarpi subsect. Microcymbi Welsh, subsect. nov., and A. sabulosus var. vehiculus Welsh, var. nov. A lectotype is selected for Phaca australis L.
41713116|We studied kit fox den characteristics on the northern McGregor Range of Fort Bliss Military Reservation, New Mexico, during 1994 and 1995. Twenty radio-collared kit foxes used 132 different dens, including 16 natal dens. Kit fox dens were located primarily in creosote-dominated habitat found in relatively flat, well-drained terrain. Natal dens were virtually indistinguishable from non-natal dens; however, natal den entrances were taller than non-natal den entrances. Entrances found at all dens were oriented more frequently toward the northwest and southeast. Kit foxes used more new dens during the breeding (January-February) and pup-rearing season (May-July) than during gestation.
41712078|Ten plant communities containing bitter nightshade (Solanum dulcamara) were studied and the ecology and naturalizing relationships of bitter nightshade in central Utah area were investigated. Biotic and abiotic factors from each area were statistically analyzed. The data indicated that bitter nightshade was negatively correlated (P < 0.01) with perennial grass cover and positively correlated with tree overstory. Bitter nightshade reached its highest development in heavily shaded areas. No other habitat factors correlated with the presence of bitter nightshade. This lack of environmental constraints along with bitter nightshade's bright red fruits, which are readily consumed by birds, suggests possible reasons for the rapid and successful invasion of the plant into the Utah Lake area.
41711516|This paper presents the results of a systematic study of mites of the genus Laelaps s. str. collected from small mammals of the Ethiopian region. Specimens taken from approximately 100,000 small mammals were examined from a wide variety of habitats and localities. The Ethiopian fauna of Laelaps mites includes 31 species, 4 of which are described as new: L. parasimillimus, L. myomys, L. malacomys, and L. acomys. A numerical taxonomic analysis was made, the results of which were used in the preparation of a proposed classification of the African species of Laelaps. A key for identification of females is given, and females and males (where known) of all species are illustrated. Diagnostic characters are given for the female and male of each species. Collection data and, where pertinent, discussions of morphological characters and variability are provided. Also included are discussions of host-parasite associations.
41712392|Estimates of site potential for ponderosa pine based on measured site indexes in 416 stands are compared between seven habitat types and one community type. No significant differences in mean site index are found between the habitat types studied. The habitat types are classified into high or moderate site potential classes based on mean site indexes.
41712019|Past observations and ongoing population surveys indicate daily and yearly vertical movement of the Devil's Hole pupfish, Cyprinodon diabolis Wales, within the upper 27 m of the water column in Devil's Hole, Nevada. This movement involves occupying and leaving a 5 by 3.5 m rock shelf during daily and yearly periods of maximum light intensity.
41712597|Two federally listed fishes, the Foskett speckled dace and Warner sucker, are endemic to Warner Basin in south central Oregon. The Foskett speckled dace is native only to a single spring in Coleman Valley. A nearby spring was stocked with dace in 1979 and 1980, and now provides a second population. The present numbers of dace probably are at their highest levels since settlement of the region. The Warner sucker historically occurred throughout much of the Warner Valley, but its distribution and abundance have been reduced by construction of reservoirs and irrigation dams and the introduction of predatory game fishes. Lentic habitats have become dominated by introduced fishes, particularly white crappie, black crappie, and brown bullhead. The largest remaining population of Warner suckers occurs in Hart Lake, where successful reproduction was documented but there is no evidence of recruitment to the adult population.
41716182|A total of 181 fishes belonging to 10 species were captured near Richfield, Utah, and examined for parasites. A new species of hemoflagellate, Trypanoplasma atraria sp. n., was observed in 3 species: Utah chub (Gih atraria [Girard]), redside shiner (Richardsonius balteatus [Richardson]), and speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus [Girard]). Seven other species of fishes examined in the study area were negative for T. atraria sp. n. The salmonid leech, Piscicola salmositica (Meyer), collected in the same area harbored developmental stages of Trypanoplasma, suggesting a possible leech vector for the hemoflagellate. Characteristics of Trypanoplasma atraria sp. n. place it near T. salmositica, but the new species is twice as large.
41713070|The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that there are no differences in understory production, by species, due to stocking levels of Pinus ponderosa (ponderosa pine). Understory production was estimated, by species, on 3 replicates each of 8 growing stock levels, ranging from clearcuts to unthinned stands, in both sapling-and pole-sized pine stands (48 plots) over 3 nonconsecutive years. All stands were approximately 70 yr old when thinning treatments were applied. Production of many herbaceous species, especially Agropyron spp. (wheatgrasses) and Carex spp. (sedges), declined as growing stock levels (measured in terms of basal area) of ponderosa pine increased. While trends in total production were similar, there were specific differences between sapling and pole stands. Sedges and Oryzopsis asperfolia (roughleaf ricegrass) produced more in sapling stands, whereas Danthonia intermedia (timber oatgrass) was more abundant in pole stands. Shrub production, dominated by Arctostaphylos uva-ursi (bearberry), was relatively consistent across all stocking levels except unthinned. Although the total number of species declined as pine basal area increased, a few species, such as Linnaea borealis (twinflower) and Shepherdia canadensis (buffaloberry), were found only under relatively dense pine canopies. While floristic species richness was greater at lower stocking levels of ponderosa pine, the total number of species would be greater if all stocking levels were present.
41712258|Pseudoxylechinus, new genus, and uniformis (type-species) (Yunnan), variegatus (Sanxi), sinensis (Yunnan), rugatus (Yunnan), and tibetensis (Tibet), new species, are described. Kissophagus tiliae Niisima, 1910, is also transferred to this genus.
41712487|Asclepias sanjuanensis Heil, Porter, & Welsh, a new species from the pinyon-juniper woodlands of the San Juan River Valley, San Juan County, New Mexico, is described and illustrated. The species appears to be local and rare. Similar to A. ruthiae Maguire, it is distinguished by the greater number of flowers per inflorescence, the larger number of stems, and the pubescence characters.
41712149|A partial cranium belonging to the extinct woodland musk-ox, Symbos cavifrons, is reported from the headwaters of Oak Creek, Delta County, Colorado. This is the first cranium of the genus Symbos to be described from the Colorado Plateau, and it helps to define the southwest boundary of the known range of the genus.
41712060|The weight of body water and fat-free dry weight of Uinta ground squirrels (Spermophilus armatus) is given as a function of body weight. Body fat is presented as a function of body weight and body length. An equation for calculating the total caloric content of Uinta ground squirrels is given. Fat index (weight of fat/fat-free dry weight) values of juveniles increased from 0.11 to 0.22 from 5 June to 28 July. In male yearlings and adults the fat index increased about 8 to 9 times in the latter half of June and early July.
41711349|A new species of soil mite from Hayden, Colorado, is described. This species, Peloptulus tanytrichosus, is the first representative of the genus in North America. The species is described, figured, and compared with P. foveolatus Hammer, 1961. Eight specimens were taken from different habitats, including aspen litter, scrub oak litter, and beneath greasewood and pepper grass.
41704198|The ability of Typhlodromus occidentalis to oviposit and numerically increase when consuming various life stage distributions of Tetranychus mcdanieli and Tetranychus pacificus were studied at several interaction levels. On field-collected apple leaves and 6x6 cm artificial substrates, oviposition rates and rates of increase (r) were higher when predators were fed populations of spider mites with high proportions of eggs and larvae as compared to prey colonies composed mainly of deutonymphs-male adults and female adults. Feeding studies indicated that reproductive differences were mainly due to increased predation and food intake when predators were offered eggs and larvae of Tet. pacificus and a decreased capture and food consumption when only provided with the larger prey stages. Samples taken throughout a growing season in apple trees and an orchard suggested that during early-season, prey stage distributions were most favorable to predator increases and would undoubtedly contribute to a rapid numerical response by predators. The affect of less favorable stage distributions was much less apparent as these stage proportions occurred during short intervals in early season, at intermediate prey levels, and were most unfavorable at high densities or late season after spider mites overexploited their host plant.
41711628|The Tahoe sucker spawns in Pyramid Lake from April to August at lake temperatures of 11.7 to 22.7 C. The spawning population is comprised of a large lake spawning group and a numerically smaller river running group. The river running group is smaller in length and was not considered during this study. The sex ratio of sampled suckers significantly favored the females. This is the result of the longer life of females and greater mortality of males during spawning. Pyramid Lake Tahoe suckers reach sexual maturity at two to three years of age; however, those in Lake Tahoe do not mature until four or five years of age. The size at sexual maturity is different in both populations, which suggests that size or rate of growth rather than age determines sexual maturity. The fecundity of Tahoe suckers is positively correlated with fork length, weight, and age. Additional analysis showed that a better correlation occurred between fish size (either length or net weight) and total ovary weight. We believe that fish size is primarily correlated with total reproductive tissue produced and secondarily with fecundity. A comparison of the Pyramid Lake population and the Lake Tahoe population demonstrated that size, not age, is the most important determinant of Tahoe sucker fecundity.
41711890|A list of the major livestock-poisoning plants has been compiled for the state of Utah. Two hundred fifteen taxa representing 36 families, 119 genera, and 209 species occur within the state. Forty-one percent are from two families, the Asteraceae and the Fabaceae. The remaining families of major importance are: Poaceae, Ranunculaceae, Solanaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Brassicaceae, Ascelpiadaceae, Liliaceae, and Euphorbiaceae. Sixty-nine percent of the genera occur with a single species. Thirty-three percent of the taxa are introduced to the state. Most of the plants are insect pollinated; 57 percent are herbaceous perennials. Most livestock poisoning occurs during the spring. This is due both to concentration of toxins in emerging vegetation and to the absence of more suitable forage on late winter and spring ranges. Green herbage is poisoning in about 80 percent of all taxa, seeds and fruits in about 15 percent, and the remaining 5 percent have toxic compounds confined to flower heads, sap, tubers, or roots. Disturbed or cultivated habitats and poorly managed range harbor the greatest diversity of poisonous plants. Wetlands contain fewer poisonous taxa than do xeric or mesic areas. The predominating plant toxins are various alkaloids and glycosides. Sixteen percent of the plants have uncharacterized toxins. Cattle and sheep are more susceptible to poisoning than are horses, swine, or poultry.
41712969|Evidence from the morphology, genetics, and biogeography of a rare endemic from western Nevada, Eriogonum robustum, is presented to determine its most accurate taxonomic classification. Previous authors have classified E. robustum Greene both as a species and as a variety of E. lobbii Torrey & Gray. However, results of a morphometric comparison for 9 characters establish that significant morphological differentiation exists between E. robustum and E. lobbii. In addition, results of a genetic study using protein electrophoresis indicate that genetic differentiation may exist between these 2 taxa. Furthermore, the 2 taxa are geographically, ecologically, and reproductively isolated. Finally, the selective pressures that act on E. robustum in a narrowly restricted cold-desert environment are different from those that act on E. lobbii in a subalpine environment. Thus, all available data support a species-level taxonomic classification for E. robustum.
41711512|Based on a sample of 17 adult specimens of Sceloporus horridus taken near Autlan, Jalisco, Mexico in May 1974 just before and just after the first rainfall of the year, we present the first published data on the food habits of this lizard. Important prey item taxa were Homoptera, Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, Orthoptera, and Isoptera. The absence of Homoptera and Orthoptera, and the concomitant greater relative importance of Isoptera and Hymenoptera in the diet after the rain than before indicates opportunistic feeding by S. horridus. Our data suggest that reproduction in this lizard is probably initiated soon after the first rains in late spring.
41712609|Benthic macroinvertebrates were collected at several sites downstream of three oligotrophic lake outfalls in July 1986. Total numbers, biomass, and species richness increased rapidly immediately downstream from the outlets, and then either stabilized or continued to increase downstream in parallel with benthic organic matter standing crops. Filter feeder densities showed an initial buildup and then decline downstream from the outlets. Variability in longitudinal patterns of other functional feeding groups among lake outlets was related to differences in food quantity and quality, and microhabitat. An additional set of samples was collected at Pettit Lake outlet in August 1986. Species richness and total density peaked sooner under baseflow conditions in August than under spring runoff conditions in June. Distributions of all functional feeding groups, except filter feeders, also differed between the two periods, reflecting differences in the physical environment. We conclude that reduced lentic inputs of particulate organic matter seston and improved habitat suitability downstream are responsible for the progressive development of macroinvertebrate communities in oligotrophic lake outlets. These data imply the importance of the habitat templet in the structuring of benthic communities.
41711342|Relict stands of Pinus edulis and P. monophylla, and of natural hybrids of these species have been found in Cache and Rich counties. The stands and their sites are described. The P. edulis stand in Rich County extends the range of this species northward. Possible means of seed dissemination are discussed and it is speculated that both species formerly migrated into and out of this area during periods of differing climates.
41712825|Efforts to reclaim amended and raw bentonite spoils with six plant species (two forbs, three shrubs, and one tree) were evaluated over a 4-year period. Plant species included fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens [Pursh] Nutt), big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata tridentata Nutt), Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum Sarg.), Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia L.), common yarrow (Achillea millifolium L.), and scarlet globemallow (Sphaeralcea coccnea [Pursh] Rydb.). Spoil treatments included addition of gypsum, sawdust, perlite, straw, and vermiculite; the control treatment was unamended. Fourwing saltbush had 52% survival across all spoil treatments, with greatest survival occurring on perlite-treated spoil (80%), followed by gypsum (70%) and vermiculite amendments (70%). Survival of other plant species ranged from 0 to 3% averaged across all treatments after 4 years. No differences in plant survival occurred among amendments when all species were considered.
41711784|Presented herein is an index to vascular plant names of Utah. The names are arranged in alphabetical order by genus, species, and infraspecific taxa. Each entry is followed by a bibliographic citation, family name,, rarity (whether endemic, rare, or endemic-rare), and origin (whether indigenous, adventive, or adventive-cultivated). Pertinent synonyms are cited beneath appropriate entries. An index of synonyms and a comprehensive bibliography are included.
41712725|We assessed the influence of water depth, extent of unobstructed view, and human disturbance features on use of roost sites by Sandhill Cranes along the Platte River, Nebraska, during spring migratory stopover. Aerial photos taken near dawn were used to determine areas of flock use and habitat availability in four sample reaches, and measurements were made on the ground at flock roost areas. In general, depths of 1-13 cm were used by sandhill cranes in greater proportion than those available. Exposed sandbars and depths > 20 cm were avoided, while depths of 14-19 cm were used in proportion to their availability. Sites 11-50 m from the nearest visual obstruction were used significantly greater than their availability, while sites 0-4 and > 50 m from visual obstructions were avoided. Sandhill Cranes avoided sites near paved roads, gravel roads, single dwellings, and bridges when selecting roost sites; however, they did not appear to be disturbed by private roads, groups of residential buildings, gravel pits, railroads, or electrical transmission lines.
41712027|Eight plant associations, not previously described in Colorado, and representative of part of the presettlement vegetation spectrum in the oil shale region of northwestern Colorado, are described and illustrated, based on an inventory of relatively undisturbed vegetation remnants.
41712694|The taxonomy of Aristida (Gramineae) in California is revised. The genus is represented in the state by six species and 11 taxa. Identification keys, descriptions, selected synonymy, distribution records, and illustrations are provided.
41712429|Percent tree canopy cover in a ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forest of northeastern California was estimated by the point intercept spherical densiometer and ocular methods. Estimates derived by the two methods were similar (P > .05). The ocular method is recommended when understory vegetation is tall or clumped instead of randomly distributed, or if available field time limits sample size.
41712768|Five alcoves (rock shelters) in the Forty-Mile Canyon-Willow Gulch area of the Escalante River Basin in southeastern Utah yielded rich deposits of late Quaternary macrobotanical remains. The deposits were sampled and the contents identified in order to construct a chronology of vegetational change. Fourteen radiocarbon dates indicate that the fossils were deposited between 12,690 and 7510 yr B. P. (years before present). Ninety-one plant taxa were identified, 62 to species. Six species were common to all alcoves: Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii), box-elder (Acer negundo), prickly pear (Opuntia subgenus Platyopuntia), skunkbush (Rhus aromatica van trilobata), serviceberry (Amehnchier utahensis), and Indian ricegrass (Oryzopsis hymenoides). Late Pleistocene samples (> 11,000 yr B. P.) contain extralocal, elevationally depressed species such as Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), spruce (Picea sp.), and mountain mahogany (Cercocarpus ledifolius), and mesophytic species such as rose (Rosa woodsii) and water birch (Betula occidentalis). Early Holocene samples (11,000-8000 yr B. P.) contain no elevationally depressed conifers, and the remaining mesophytic species decrease in relative abundance. Reticulated hackberry (Cekis reticulata) becomes common. The terminal Early Holocene sample (8000-7000yr B. P.) contains abundant Gambel oak and prickly pear, but little else. Paleoclimatic interpretations for the Late Pleistocene correspond well to those of most other workers on the Colorado Plateau. Climates that were wetter and at least seasonally cooler than they are today are inferred from the macrobotanical assemblage. However, the increased moisture is attributed to higher stream base levels and increased groundwater rather than directly to increased precipitation. Early Holocene climates are interpreted as warmer and drier than those of the Late Pleistocene but still wetter than the present climate. Groundwater levels appear to be decreasing due to stream entrenchment. Terminal Early Holocene climates were much warmer and at least seasonally drier. By the end of the period, groundwater levels had decreased so much that the alcoves were unable to sustain plant communities; stream base level was probably near the present level.
41712708|Red, orange, and yellow morphs of Mimulus verbenaceus and M. cardinalis were field tested for pollinator preferences. The species are closely similar except that M. verbenaceus flowers have partially reflexed corolla lobes, whereas M. cardinalis flowers have fully reflexed corolla lobes. On the basis of over 6000 bumblebee and hummingbird visits, highly significant (p < .001) patterns emerged. Yellow, which is the mutant color morph in both species and is determined by a single pair of genes, was strongly preferred by bumblebees and strongly eskewed by hummingbirds in both species. Orange and, to a lesser extent, red were strongly preferred by hummingbirds but eskewed by bumblebees in both species. Thus, strong, but partial, reproductive isolation was observed between the yellow mutants and the orange-to red-flowered populations from which they were derived. Coloryellow versus orange and redappeared more important than shapepartially reflexed versus fully reflexed corolla lobesin determining the preferences of the guild of pollinators in this particular test environment for Mimulus verbenaceus and M. cardinalis.
41711997|A track station survey method for small, nocturnal mammalian carnivores is described. The method has been field tested under a wide variety of conditions. Stations were visited by rodents, mustelids, and canids, as well as insects and birds.
41712278|The species composition of periphyton and benthic insect communities and abundances of common taxa (>0.1% of individuals) were examined during snow-free months in Convict Creek, a permanent snowmelt- and spring-fed stream in the Sierra Nevada of California. The communities were highly diverse. The most abundant taxa in the periphyton were diatoms (Achnanthes minutissima, Cocconeis phcentula lineata, Cymbella microcephala, C. sinuata, Fraguara construens, F. crotonensis, Navcula spp., Synedra acus, and S. rumpens), except in late spring and summer when several seasonal blue-green algae (Chamaesiphon incrustans, Lyngbya spp. and Oscillatoria spp.) are at their maximum densities. Most common periphyton taxa vary systematically in abundance with season, but relative abundances of taxa also appear to be influenced by streambed scouring and by concentrations of ambient nutrients. Data on population densities and length frequencies of larval and nymphal stages of common benthic insects and occurrences of pupal and adult stages were examined to determine life history patterns. Taxa hatching in winter and spring and abundant as immatures in late spring include ephemeropterans (Epeorus longimanus, Drunella flavilinea, and Caudatella heterocaudata), plecopterans (Calineuria californica, Doroneuria baumanni, and Pteronarcys princeps) and dipterans (Cryptolabis sp.). Common taxa hatching in late spring or summer are the plecopteran Malenka (californica?) and the trichopterans Arctopsyche grandis and Rhyacophih acropedes. Several bivoltine and multivoltine ephemeropterans (Baetis devinctus and B. tricaudatus) and dipterans (Simulium spp. and Chironomidae) have summer cohorts. Taxa hatching in late summer or autumn and most abundant in autumn include ephemeropterans (Baetis spp., Ephemerella infrequens, Epeorus dulciana, Ironodes lepidus, and Paraleptophlebia pallipes), trichopterans (Hydropsyche oslari, Lepidostoma spp., Glossosoma califica, Micrasema sp., Brachycentrus americanus, Neophylax sp., and Rhyacophila vaccua) and dipterans (Antocha monticola, Pericoma sp., and Chironomidae). Major recurring events that may influence life history patterns and structure of the benthic insect community are (1) near-freezing, nighttime winter water temperatures and occasional anchor ice, (2) a prolonged period of high discharge in late spring and early summer (3) a brief summer, and (4) a prolonged period of moderate stream discharge in autumn when the substratum is stable and food is abundant.
41712052|Microsite distribution and diurnal tissue temperature fluctuations were measured in Ferocactus acanthodes (barrel cactus) at its northern distribution limit in the Beaver Dam Mountains of southwestern Utah. At this location, barrel cacti were limited to south-facing slopes. Orientation (azimuth and angle) of both the cactus stem and of the apical region at the top of the cactus were nonrandom, strongly facing south. The potential adaptive significance of this orientation in minimizing apical meristematic tissue damage under low wintertime conditions and minimizing high temperature damage under summertime conditions is discussed.
41712404|Migrating bands of Mormon crickets (Anabrus simplex) were observed crossing the Green and Yampa rivers in Dinosaur National Monument, Colorado and Utah, in 1986 and 1987. Swimming crickets were swept downstream and eaten by four endemic and seven introduced fish species. Included were two endangered fishes, Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius) and humpback chub (Gila cypha). Direct and indirect effects to aquatic food webs associated with application of pesticides for Mormon cricket control may pose a threat to these fishes and to man.
41711673|A preliminary survey of raptor species and habitat in the Manti Division, Manti-LaSal National Forest, was conducted during May 1977. Eight species of raptors were recorded, the most common being the Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) and American Kestrel (Falco sparverius). Nine additional nesting and migratory species were reported by cooperating observers and based on habitat analysis another two species are expected. Eleven Golden Eagles, representing at least eight pairs, were observed and it is estimated that from 15 to 20 pairs of eagles inhabit the division. The Manti Division provides habitat for two endangered species, the Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus anatum) and the Northern Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus alascanus). Further research is needed to ascertain the impact that current development activities in the division will have on the raptor community.
41711517|The small, spherical, lithistid sponge, Hindia sphaeroidalis Duncan, 1879, is reported from the Devonian and Silurian of the Great Basin for the first time. Devonian specimens came from the Emsian Bartine Member of the McColley Formation from near Roberts Creek, Roberts Mountains, and from the Eifelian part of the Nevada Group near Bishops Creek, north of Wells, Nevada. The Silurian occurrence, questioned because of poor preservation, is from the Laketown Dolomite, on Tunnel Spring Mountain in western Millard County, Utah.
41712345|Pseudocrossidium aureum (Bartr.) Zand. (Pottiaceae, Musci) is reported as new to Utah from a locality in Wayne County. The species distribution is noted and comparisons are made with the other three species of Pseudocrossidium found in North America.
41711670|The aspen bark beetle, Trypophheus populi Hopkins, was studied in nature to determine the number of larvae emerging from galleries. Fifty-five percent of the larvae in aspen galleries in the field developed into adults. An artificial rearing medium for third instar larvae of the beetles was also developed from aspen bark sawdust and nutrient agar. The optimum medium contained a ratio of 1:2 parts of agar to sawdust which gave 70 percent emergence of the beetles and less than 10 percent of adult mortality over the 36 days following emergence.
41712048|For about 20 years Richard P. Erwin collected amphibians and reptiles in southwestern Idaho. This report is an attempt to indicate some of his herpetological activities, and to list the numerous individuals, universities, and museums that were recipients of his collections.
41712681|Nine species of mites of the genus Proctolaelaps were collected in flowers or phoretic in the nares of hummingbirds in Trinidad. Previously named species P. kirmsei, P. glaucis, and P. belemensis are redescribed, and six new species are described: P. jurgatus, P. mermillion, P. rabulatus, P. contumex, P. certator, and P. contentiosus. Proctolaelaps belemensis cyanocompsae is raised to specific status. Host plants are given for all species except P. mermillion, which was collected only from a hummingbird host. New World flower-inhabiting Proctolaelaps are grouped into two hypothetically monophyletic lineages, the kirmsei-group and the belemensis-group, on the basis of adult morphology. A key to the nine Trinidadian species is given.
41712838|Vernal pools are seasonal pools occurring in Mediterranean-type climates within which grow concentric zones of vegetation. We studied two vernal pools that lie within an Artemisia tridentata/Festuca idahoensis shrub-steppe landscape in the Channeled Scabland of eastern Washington to determine the relationship between vegetation zonation and soil characteristics. Abundant plant species in the pools include Elymus cinereus, Poa scabrella, Lomatium grayi, Allium geyeri, Eleocharis palustris, Epilobium minutum, Myosurus aristatis, Deschampsia danthonioides, and Psilocarphus oregonus. We surveyed topography, measured plant species frequency and cover to describe the vegetation zones, and used Sorenson s index of percent similarity to verify our designation of plant zones as communities. In one pool we described soil profiles and sampled soils throughout the growing season according to plant communities. We analyzed soils for pH; electrical conductivity; sodium, calcium, and magnesium ions; sodium adsorption ratio; particle size; organic carbon; and water matric potential. ANOVA tests of soil characteristics and topography among plant communities showed that only differences in topography are statistically significant. There are, however, trends in particle size, some soil chemical parameters, and soil moisture potential among plant communities along the topographic gradient. Electrical conductivity decreased with increasing dryness of the soil through the spring and summer. Seasonal changes in soil moisture potential showed that shallower soils in the centers of pools are wetter during the wet season and drier during the dry season than are deeper soils. These changes in moisture may be the most important influence on vegetation distribution within the vernal pools.
41711663|A juvenile female pygmy rabbit (Sylvilagus idahoensis) escaped from a holding pen and was recaptured 211 days later 200 m from its original capture site and 2.5 km from the pen facility.
41711191|In a study of oribatids from pack rat nests in Utah a new genus and species of oribatids was found. The new form Exochocepheus eremitus, gen. n., sp. n., is compared with Niphocepheus and Lamellocepheus, but is differentiated on the basis of the cerotegument, lamellae, translamella and prodorsal hairs. T.A.W.
41712974|We examined effects of human foot traffic on age structures and densities of seedlings and saplings of Pinus edulis (Colorado pinyon) and Juniperus monosperma (one-seed juniper) in a heavily used urban park, Garden of the Gods, Colorado. Age structures show no stand-destroying disturbances, but they do contain small peaks 85-95 yr ago (minimum age), which have been interpreted as responses to heavy grazing. For Pinus edulis reverse J-shaped age structures indicate a strongly reproducing population, while flat age structures of J. monosperma show low present reproduction. Young trees showed strong preferences for establishing under existing trees and shrubs and not among herbs or on bare soil. Pinus edulis seedling density was reduced by 73% in heavily trampled areas compared to lightly trampled areas. However, there were no differences in density when only the area protected by rocks, shrubs, or trees was considered. This indicates that direct effects such as physical damage and soil erosion kill young trees, and indirect effects, such as lower seed production, do not cause the lower densities in heavily trampled areas. Pinus edulis saplings and J. monosperma seedlings and saplings showed no differences in density across trampling intensities. In heavily trampled areas of Garden of the Gods Park, recent increases in use have apparently reduced Pinus edulis seedling establishment enough that long-term regeneration is threatened. Managers of all pinyon-juniper woodlands must recognize that in areas strongly impacted by foot traffic, and also presumably by similar disturbances such as vehicle traffic, sufficient regeneration likely does not occur to replace trees. The areal extent of severely disturbed areas should be limited, and managers should seek to avoid further degradation of less damaged areas.
41712744|A total of 3291 resident deer hunters returned questionnaires distributed at checking stations in fall 1989 and 1990 providing opinions and management data concerning the Utah rifle hunt. Hunters reported hunter crowding and too few big bucks as critical reasons for possibly choosing to quit deer hunting in Utah. Indeed, hunter age structure and measured satisfaction suggested a negative future trend in hunter participation. Results suggested the adoption of several hunter-preferred management options would increase satisfaction, motivation, and success.
41711615|Cerceris species are remarkably constant in their prey preferences. Records are presented from diverse localities that confirm prey constancy in five species. An apparent exception is noted in the case of C. crotonela Viereck & Cockerell. A mixed aggregation of C. fumipennis Say and C. californica Cresson is reported, both preying upon Buprestidae and using some of the same species. Nest and prey of C. conifrons Mickel are reported for the first time.
41711616|An inventory of the terrestrial vertebrate fauna and the seasonal occurrence of each species was determined for a man-made radioactive leaching pond complex in southeastern Idaho. Three reptile, 11 mammal, and 94 bird species were identified from February 1974 through January 1978. Fewest species were observed during the winter and most during the summer. Eight bird species nested at the pond complex, while 19 species of birds were common or seasonally abundant. It appears that the Test Reactor Area radioactive leaching pond complex is an important water source and provides habitat for some species of wildlife.
41712611|Cryptogamic soil crusts in Grand Canyon National Park were trampled by hikers, under controlled conditions, to determine how rapidly they were pulverized and how rapidly they recovered. Only 15 trampling passes were required to destroy the structure of the crusts; visual evidence of bacteria and cryptogam cover was reduced to near zero after 50 passes. Soil crusts redeveloped in just one to three years, and after five years the extensive bacteria and cryptogam cover left little visual evidence of disturbance. Surface irregularity remained low after five years, however, suggesting that recovery was incomplete.
41713071|The Truckee River in California and Nevada is subject to diverse water regimes and a corresponding variety of flow rates. Original riparian vegetation has been altered by these variable flow rates and by a variety of human uses resulting in loss of native riparian vegetation from its historic extent. We conducted bird surveys along the Truckee River during spring 1993 to (1) determine relationships between birds and the present vegetation; (2) determine the importance of different vegetation types to sensitive bird species that have declined recently in the western United States due to competition from exotic plant species, cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism, reduction in nesting habitat, or other unidentified reasons; and (3) establish a monitoring program and collect baseline data for future comparisons. The most frequently detected bird species throughout the study was the Brown-headed Cowbird. The greatest number of bird species (98 of 116) was found in the native mixed willow (Salix spp.) riparian scrub vegetation type. We recommend protecting the remaining native riparian vegetation types for bird habitat along the Truckee River.
41711334|Stenamma knowltoni is described as a new species from various localities in northern Utah and southern Idaho. The new species falls clearly into the large-eyed group of M. R. Smith's monograph of Stenamma.
41712847|Desert plants can influence the pattern of resources in soil resulting in small-scale enriched zones. Although conceptually simple, the shape, size, and orientation of these "resource islands" are difficult to study in detail using conventional sampling regimes. To demonstrate an alternative approach, we sampled soil under and around individual Artemisia tridentata (sagebrush), a dominant shrub of cool desert environments, and analyzed the samples with univariate statistics and geostatistics. Univariate statistics revealed that soil variables like total inorganic-N, soluble-C, and microbial biomass-C were distributed with highest mean values within about 25 cm of the plant axis and significantly lower mean values at distances beyond 60 cm. However, such simple analyses restricted our view of resource islands to identically sized, symmetrical accumulations of soil resources under each plant. Geostatistics provided additional information about spatial characteristics of soil variables. Variography revealed that samples separated by a distance of less than about 70 cm were correlated spatially. Over 75% of the sample variance was attributable to spatial variability. We modeled these spatial relationships and used kriging to predict values for unsampled locations. Resulting maps indicated that magnitude, size, and spatial distribution of soil resource islands vary between individual plants and for different soil properties. Maps, together with cross-variography, further indicate that resource islands under A. tridentata are not always distinguishable from the surrounding soil by sharp transition boundaries and may be asymmetrically distributed around the plant axis.
41712946|We used radiotelemetry and searched with a trained hound to locate the dens of 3 recently parturient mountain lions (Felis concolor). These dens were located in dense riparian vegetation along the same stream in the bottom of a steep canyon. We monitored the circadian temperatures of 2 dens at 1-h intervals and compared them to ambient temperatures recorded simultaneously. We found mountain lion dens to effectively moderate high ambient temperatures, but these dens failed to provide a thermal advantage at the lowest ambient temperatures recorded in this investigation. We conclude that mountain lion dens provide effective protection from thermal maxima for young, immobile kittens.
41712800|Bushy-tailed woodrats (Neotoma einered) collect vegetation and store it in middens. We asked to what extent plant species collected by woodrats reflect the array of species growing in the habitat. Species composition of plant clippings at 20 bushy-tailed woodrat middens in central Colorado was compared to vegetation growing within 30 m of the dens. Amount of overlap between midden and habitat species was low (28-49%) when all taxa were included; however, if only woody taxa were considered, overlap was 71-89%. Sorensen's Index of Similarity exhibited a like pattern; the index increased markedly if only woody taxa were included. Only one plant species not found within 30 m of a den occurred in significant amounts in the middens. Bushy-tailed woodrats collected a wide array of species but were more selective the greater the habitat plant diversity. Results of this and other studies indicate that the concordance between midden contents and habitat vegetation decreases with increasing habitat plant diversity. Ancient woodrat middens are nonetheless useful to paleontologists seeking to reconstruct past vegetation associations since woody vegetation is well represented in middens.
41712642|Physical characteristics of winter use-trees and roost sites of Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were studied in northeastern Utah. Blue Grouse selectively roosted in the largest Douglas-fir (Pseudotsga menziesii) trees during the day and subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) trees at night. Diurnal and nocturnal roosts were typically adjacent to tree trunks in the lower two-thirds of trees. Nocturnal roosts provided greater canopy and denser shelter than diurnal roosts. Roost site selection was consistent with occupation of favorable microhabitat, particularly at night, and foraging strategy during the day. Timber management strategies should perpetuate large trees within Douglas-fir-subalpine fir habitat in areas occupied by wintering Blue Grouse.
41712172|This is a report on the snakes of western Chihuahua that were taken at intervals from 1956 to 1972. At no time did we attempt to collect east of Highway 45, rather expending our time in the foothills, valleys, and desert ranges east of the mountains and in the highlands of the Sierra Madre Occidental. Reference is made to reports on the geological and ecological aspects of the area as a whole, but without a major attempt to duplicate previous studies. A brief gazetteer and a map are included as guides. To provide orientation to the area traversed by the John Cross expeditions, a map of the lower Rio Urique and Rio San Miguel is also included. From the area studied, 28 genera and 51 species are listed, with three new subspecies described: two worm snakes (Leptotyphlops humilis chihuahuaensis and Leptotyphlops dulcis supraocularus) and a garter snake (Thamnophis ruflpunctatus unilabialis). For a number of species it became necessary to expand the study into populations from adjoining states in Mexico and the United States. Such species as T. rufipunctatus and R. hesperia are examples. Where data were available systematic relationships were implied, as well as ecological and biological data.
41711505|A second record of the long-nosed snake in Idaho was taken at the entrance to Bruneau Dunes State Park, Owghee County.
41712249|Two canids, Vulpes vulpes and Cants lupus, are recorded from shoreline deposits of Lake Bonneville in north central Utah. Both species are new records in the Pleistocene sediments of Utah and add to our scarce knowledge of the large carnivores that inhabited the shoreline environments of Lake Bonneville.
41712923|Fire scar and vegetative analysis were used to construct a fire history for the Engelmann spruce/subalpine fir (Picea engelmannii/Abies lasiocarpa) vegetation type of the Utah State University (USU) T. W. Daniel Experimental Forest. Three distinct periods of fire frequency were establishedpresettlement (1700-1855), settlement (1856-1909), and suppression (1910-1990). Mean fire interval (MFI) decreased during the settlement period and greatly increased during the suppression era. The difference was attributed to the influx of ignition sources during the settlement of nearby Cache Valley, located 40 km to the west. Logging and livestock grazing appear to have led to the reduced MFI, which in turn worked as a factor to create the vegetative mosaic now observed on the study area. The increase in MFI during the suppression era permitted the advancement of shade-tolerant species in the understory of the shade-intolerant lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia) and quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides). Continued suppression of disturbance from wildfire will allow the lodgepole pine cover type, which experienced the lowest MFI during the settlement period, to be further invaded by shade-tolerant species, decreasing spatial stand diversity and increasing the risk of more intense fires.
41712121|A list of 80 references to Colorado vegetation description is presented, along with county and subject indexes to the list. This list expands an earlier list (663) to include literature through 1983.
41711939|Larvae of the phalacrid beetle Phahcropsis dispar (LeConte) consumed aeciospores and the underlying sporogenous mycelium, thereby destroying the aecia of all native western pine stem rust fungi studied. Aecia of the introduced white pine blister rust fungus (Cronartium ribicoh) were not found to be infested by the beetle. A close, if not obligate, biosis of the beetle apparently exists with the native rust fungi, and their geographic distributions closely coincide. Laboratory tests and field observations indicate that the beetle completes its life cycle in 30 to 40 days and apparently overwinters as an adult. Quantitative data on aeciospore inoculum destruction were beyond the means of this study; however, observations over a 12-year period evidenced widespread and extensive destruction of aeciospores. The beetle may be an effective element in the natural control of native pine stem rust fungi. Natural control by secondary organisms could significantly reduce the selective pressure for high host resistance in a naturally evolving host-parasite population.
41713047|Biogeographic, flow regulation (water clarity and temperature), and temporal influences affect the composition of the chironomid midge assemblage in the Colorado River between Glen Canyon Dam and Lake Mead. This assemblage is dominated by euryecious Nearctic and Holarctic orthocladine taxa (23 of 38 total species, total weighted relative abundance [WRA] = 0.972) and includes a minor Neotropical component. Chironomid species richness increases over distance downstream from the dam, and dominance shifts across 3 turbidity segments. Eleven species occur in the cold-stenothermic clearwater (CW) segment between the dam and the 1st perennial tributary (the Paria River, 26 km from the dam). Chironomid diversity increases from 18 to 24 species in the variably turbid (VT) and usually turbid (UT) segments downstream, respectively. Total Cricotopus spp. WRA is negatively correlated with distance (turbidity), while total Chironominae WRA shows the opposite pattern. In contrast to chironomid diversity, species density decreases from 0.42 species/km in the CW segment to 0.19 and 0.08 species/km in the VT and UT segments, respectively. Seasonal dominance shifts slightly from orthocladine EukiefferieUa spp. in winter (WRA = 0.101) to Cricotopus spp. (WRA = 0.165) in summer. Total WRA is lowest in spring (0.191). The assemblage is depauperate compared with other western rivers and has changed over post-dam time.
41711888|New distribution records are given for seven grass species now found in Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas.
41712344|Oeciacus vicarius bed bugs were collected from 32% of Hirundo rustica nests and 83% of Petrochelidon pyrrhonota nests on bridges in western Colorado in December 1984. A total of 409 bugs (158 adults and 251 juveniles) were counted in 47 nests, two months after the hosts had departed for the winter.
41711527|Posthodiplostomum minimum (MacCallum 1921), a strigeoid trematode normally found in the intestine of piscivorous birds, has been shown to be capable of developing in 17 orders of amphibian, reptilian, avian, and mammalian hosts. Both Physa gyrina and Lymnaea reflexa serve as the first intermediate host. Only sunfish from the lakes region were infected with metacercariae of P. minimum, indicating the presence of two physiologically distinct strains of Posthodiplostomum. Extensive feeding experiments involving all four vertebrate classes of hosts demonstrated the lack of host specificity in this genus.
41711621|The Nearctic Neoperla are reviewed. Eight species, placed in two nominal groups, are recognized. Neoperla carboni, new species, N. catharae, new species, N. choctaw, new species, N. freytagi, new species, N. gaufini, new species, and N. stewarti, new species, are described for male, female, and egg. Male holotypes and female allotypes are designated for each species. Neoperla mainensis Banks and N. clymene (Newman) are redescribed and mainensis is raised to species. Descriptions are supported by original drawings and stereoscan photomicrographs. Relationships of Nearctic species groups to the world fauna are discussed.
41711799|An expression of Centaurium namophilum (Gentianaceae), long confused with C. exaltatum in the Great Basin of the western United States, is described and designated as var. nevadense. It may be separated from the Death Valley region endemic, var. namophilum, by its broader leaves, its diffuse corymbose cyme, the ultimate peduncles that are longer than the flowers, its medium to deep rose pink corolla, and its stamens that equal or exceed the style and are only slightly exserted from the corolla-tube. The var. nevadense occurs from eastern California to western Utah, and from southeastern Oregon and adjacent Idaho south to the northern Mojave Desert of southeastern California. Centaurium exaltatum may be distinguished from the new variety by its broader, more elliptical leaves, dichotomous peduncles, paler pink or bluish and generally four-merous flowers, shorter and more blunt corolla lobes, and a thicker, more included style and stigma.
41712202|Winter crude protein content, in vitro digestibility, and productivity were determined for seven accessions of black sagebrush (Artemisia nova) grown in a uniform garden. No significant differences were detected among the accessions for any of these attributes. Mean crude protein was 6.8% of dry matter. Accessional range was from 5.8% to 7.3%. Mean in vitro digestion was 54.8% of dry matter; accessional range, 51.9% to 57.2%. Mean current year's growth (a measurement of productivity) was 4.3 cm; accessional range, from 3.7 to 5.1 cm. In comparison to other winter forages, black sagebrush ranks high for winter levels of crude protein and very high in winter digestible dry matter but low in productivity.
41712794|Patterns of colonization by macroinvertebrates were examined in two streams that differ in flow regime: a snowmelt system and a mesic groundwater system. Experiments were conducted during spring runoff, summer baseflow, and winter baseflow using artificial substrata. Colonization patterns reflected seasonal changes in benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages and life histories in each stream. The density and biomass of benthic organisms were approximately 3X greater in winter than in either spring or summer for both streams. Similarly, colonization was greater in winter than in spring or summer for both streams. In spring, colonization patterns were different between streams, with colonization being imperceptible in the snowmelt stream. Macroinvertebrate abundance fluctuated during the summer colonization experiment at both sites, resulting from a complex interplay among population emergence, recruitment, and/or movement. Assemblages in the snowmelt system primarily comprised mobile or ruderal taxa, such as Baetis tricaudatus and Chironomidae, whereas relatively sessile taxa, such as Glossosoma nigrior, were predominant in the mesic groundwater system. Seasonal patterns of colonization differed among stream types primarily because of the profound interplay of flow regime and temperature on benthic community structure and organism life history.
41712704|Red Butte Canyon is a protected, near pristine canyon entering Salt Lake Valley, Utah. It contains a well-developed riparian zone and a perennial stream; hillside vegetation ranges from grasslands on the lower limits to Douglas-fir and aspen stands at the upper elevations. In this paper we describe the history of human impact, natural history aspects of climate, geology, and ecology, and faunal and floral information for key species in the canyon. The role and importance of Research Natural Areas is discussed, particularly with respect to the need to protect Red Butte Canyonone of the few remaining undisturbed riparian ecosystems in the Intermountain West.
41711439|The colonization of the pocket-gopher (Thomomys talpoides) mounds by annual and perennial species of the understory of aspen woodland was observed over a four-year period. New and old gopher mounds exist as a mosaic of sites in one of three surface conditions: bare, dominated by annuals with a few seedlings of perennials, and dominated by perennials with annuals in peripheral areas. The regular creation of these new sites for plant colonization appears to favor the maintenance of aggressive perennials at high densities in the understory vegetation.
41711805|A new species of pulvinate wild buckwheat, Eriogonum soredium (Polygonaceae, Eriogonoideae) is described from near-barren limestone slopes in the Grampian Hill area near Frisco, Beaver County, Utah. The new species is outwardly similar to E. shockleyi S. Wats, but may be readily distinguished by its glabrous (not pubescent) flowers and fruits, generally smaller leaves, more numerous involucres per head, turbinate (not campanulate) involucres with 5, rarely 4 (not 5 to 10) teeth, and the smaller flowers.
41712245|A list of 537 Nearctic stonefly species is provided and distributions of all species are given by U.S. state and Canadian province. The list includes a bibliography of systematic and biogeographic papers published since the Zwick (1973) catalogue.
41713086|Alpine vegetation of Railroad Ridge in the White Cloud Peaks, Custer County, Idaho, was investigated to ascertain native communities and describe their distribution with respect to important environmental factors. Percent cover of all species and environmental information were recorded for 69 plots. Data were analyzed by TWINSPAN and CANOCO, which provided a classification and an ordination, respectively. Predominant communities are dominated by (1) Phlox pulvinata, (2) Carex elynoides, and (3) Geum rossii, and other communities of lesser importance are dominated by (4) Artemisia campestris, (5) Eriogonum ovalifolium and Silene acaulis, and (6) Ivesia gordonii. Although the Artemisia campestris community occupies a relatively small portion of the study area, it is noteworthy because it is a community type not previously known for Idaho. The community co-dominated by Eriogonum ovalifolium and Silne acaulis is also unique and has not been documented in other Idaho alpine studies. Community distribution showed the strongest correlation with exposure, substrate type, and slope. In general, the study area supports fellfield communities that are representative of alpine areas in Idaho and some Great Basin mountain ranges, and dense turflike communities similar to ones found throughout western North America s temperate alpine regions.
41712327|A range extension of the pygmy rabbit, Brachylagus idahoensis, into the Colorado River basin and a hypothesis as to its route of emigration.
41713102|Maximizing desired plant diversity has been suggested as a means of minimizing non-indigenous plant invasion on rangeland by maximizing niche occupation. Competition between 2 desired indigenous species, Pseudoroegneria spicata (Pursh.) Lve (bluebunch wheatgrass) and Hedysarum boreale Nutt. var. boreale (northern sweetvetch), and a non-indigenous invader, Centaurea maculosa Lam. (spotted knapweed), was quantified using growth of isolated individuals and 2 three-species addition series experiments. Seeding densities of P. spicata remained constant at 0, 200, 400, and 800 seeds m in both experiments. H. boreale and C. maculosa seeding densities were 0, 200, 400, and 800 seeds m, respectively, in the 1st experiment and 0, 400, 800, and 1600 seeds m, respectively, in the 2nd experiment. Densities were factorially arranged. Pots were placed in an environmental chamber (12C, 12-h day length, 200 mol photons m s spectral light) in a randomized-complete-block design. After 90 d the growth rate of P. spicata (92.1 mg d shoot growth) was greater than that of the 2 forbs (1.6 and 5.5 mg d for H. boreale and C. maculosa, respectively), and growth rates of the 2 forbs were similar to one another. Curvilinear regression indicated that intraspecific competition was more important in determining shoot weight than interspecific competition. In addition, the 2 forbs competed more directly with each other than with P. spicata. Competition coefficient ratios (1.42 and 1.53 for P. spicata with H. boreale and C. maculosa, respectively, and 1.03 for H. boreale with C. maculosa) indicated substantial partitioning of resources between P. spicata and each of the forbs. Little or no resource partitioning occurred between forbs. This study suggests that increasing desired plant diversity may minimize weed invasion by increasing niche occupation.
41711557|The mammalian community of Fossil Butte National Monument, Wyoming, consisted of at least 45 species. Snap trap sampling of the smaller species combined with sight and sign observations of the larger species formed the basis of this preliminary survey in the summers of 1974 and 1975. Snap-trapping samples (2880 trap days) yielded 44 least chipmunks and 89 deer mice. The distribution of all species was characterized by plant community occupancy. Heavy domestic livestock use of the communities nearest water has resulted in severe alteration in community structure; this has probably affected the distribution and abundance of at least some of the smaller mammals.
41711398|During ecological studies in 1966 and 1967, 282 scorpions of Paruroctonus bor eus (Girard) were collected in can pit-traps in 12 plant communities. The ideal habitat was in vegetated areas where the total ground cover was more than 85 percent, of which at least 60 percent was broad-leaf shrubs and 5 percent grasses. Populations of ants and spiders were highest where scorpions were most abundant. Scorpions were most active above ground during August, with about half as much activity during July. None were found prior to May or after September.
41712301|A series of removal experiments were performed on Dipodomys merriami, D. microps, and Perognathus longimembris to test for the importance of competition for food and microhabitats in a heteromyid community in the Great Basin Desert. Each of these species was removed singly to determine the short-term effects on the microhabitat preferences of the remaining species. We correctly predicted, based on differences in diet, that the removal of D. microps (a. foliovore) would have no effect on D. merriami or P. longimembris (granivores). Using the dominance hierarchy theory, we correctly predicted that removal of a larger heteromyid, D. merriami, would have an effect on the microhabitat use of the smaller P. longimembris , but not vice versa. While our results offer strong evidence of competition for food and microhabitats, the short-term reactions were weak compared to the long-term reactions found in other studies of heteromyids.
41711833|An unusual wear pattern in the cheek teeth of elk-wapiti, in which the third premolars and first molars of the upper jaw wear excessively into corresponding teeth in the lower jaw, was found in a Glacier National Park, Montana, elk skull. This unusual wear pattern was previously reported from elk of the Yellowstone-Jackson, Wyoming, herd.
41711415|Growth rates, gestation period, litter size, reproductive age, sex ratios, and development were studied on 198 litters of Reithrodontomys megalotis megalotis (Baird). Growth was characterized by several standard skull and body measurements and was partitioned into four phases of 1-3, 4-12, 13-22, and 23-70 days. Growth was best described by measurements of tail length, ear length, and dried eye-lens weight.
41711682|The relationships between vegetative and edaphic habitat factors and the local distribution and abundance of small mammals on Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, Harney County, Oregon, were examined between July 1973 and June 1975. Of 16 species of small mammals captured, deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), montane voles (Microtus montanus), Great Basin pocket mice (Perognathus parvus), and least chipmunks (Eutamias minimus) comprised 90.1 percent of the individuals. The physiognomy of the vegetation was a factor in the distribution of rodent species other than deer mice. Pocket mice and chipmunks were restricted to the communities dominated by sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) or greasewood (Sarcobatus vermicuhtus). Population densities of pocket mice and chipmunks were significantly related to edaphic factors such as soil depth, texture, and strength, which may have affected the construction and stability of burrows. Montane voles occurred only in marsh or grassland communities. Population densities of voles were directly correlated with the amount of cover and inversely correlated with its patchiness. Deer mice were the most common species encountered and occurred in all but the grassland communities. The density of this species was related to vegetative or edaphic factors only seasonally or in certain habitats, and few generalizations could be made.
41712447|Douglas-fir beetle brood production was studied on Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) trees defoliated by the western spruce budworm between 1983 and 1985. Tallies were made of the number of attacks, total length and number of egg galleries, number of eggs deposited, number of larval tunnels, number of pupal chambers, and number of emerging beetles (per female and per unit area). Data analysis showed no significant differences among the three years studied. The number of emerging beetles per female parent was 0.59, and emergence per 90 cm was 2.32 beetles. Egg, larval, and pupal survivals were 47.5%, 30.0%, and 15.5%, respectively.
41711947|Distribution records, including 26 maps of specific collection localities and counties are given for 169 species in 29 genera of ants known to occur in Utah. In some cases intraspecific and interspecific morphological variations and behavior are noted. Taxonomic keys are included for the identification of subfamilies, genera, and species.
41712127|Trichophrya sp. (Protozoa) on the gills of cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki) and longnose suckers (Catostomus catostomus) was studied using light and electron microscopy and tracer techniques. All cutthroat trout, 14 cm in total length and above, from Yellowstone Lake, Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, were infested with the suctorian. No trichophryans were found on fry or fingerling cutthroat trout. Sixty percent of the examined longnose suckers from the same location were infested. Light microscopy disclosed extensive pathology of gill epithelium in longnose suckers infested with Trichophrya that was not observed for infested cutthroat trout. Electron micrographs show damage to immediate host gill cells by both parasites, depicted by a reduction and lack of mitochondria. Both parasites form attachment helices (0.52  0.04 m), which may originate in the protozoan cell membrane and function for maintenance of parasite position on the host cell. There was no uptake of C, injected into host fish, via the attachment helices by the parasite that further substantiated the mechanical function for the spiral structure. Protozoan feeding on host tissue may be accomplished by use of necrotic gill tissue and mucus.
41712721|Three condition models for wintering Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) were tested for their ability to predict fat mass, logarithm of fat mass, or a condition index (CI) incorporating fat mass. Equations generated to predict fat mass and the logarithm of fat mass accounted for more than 69% of the variation in these dependent variables. Log transformations of body mass, wing length, and total length explained at least 60% of the variation in CI. All models performed better on an independent data set. Mean prediction error was minimal (8% of measured variables) and negative for all models. Regression models apply to live and dead pintails and thus represent tools that have utility in a wide variety of studies on pintail condition.
41712841|Counts of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were made at 13 reservoirs and lakes in southwestern Utah during 1989-91 to determine current abundance of that species. Food habits of cormorants were studied at three of the reservoirs in 1989. Data were also collected on trout abundance during standardized gill-netting to make comparisons between cormorant numbers and trout abundance. Cormorants were observed at all waters studied except one and were generally most numerous during the spring as they migrated through the area. Estimated cormorant abundance ranged from 0 to 34 bird-days per ha and was highest at the larger, lower-elevation reservoirs. Cormorants were summer residents at several of the larger reservoirs and nested successfully at Piute Reservoir. Trout accounted for 24-81% of the diet of cormorants, with Utah chubs constituting most of the remainder of the diet. Estimates of the annual consumption offish by cormorants ranged from 0 to 15.8 kg per ha. The index of trout abundance was inversely related to cormorant abundance (P < .01) at the waters studied. Cormorants apparently have increased in numbers and extended their range in southwestern Utah during the past decade. This change may be the result of factors that have led to similar changes throughout North America as well as some factors unique to Utah. Methods to mitigate the impact of predation by piscivorous birds on sportfisheries are discussed. The Utah Division of Wildlife Resources has initiated a new management plan at Minersville Reservoir that incorporates piscivorous birds into sportfish management at that reservoir.
41712112|An investigation to determine the location and extent of populations of pygmy rabbits (Sylvilagus idahoensis) in Oregon, and to describe several biotic and physical components within communities that include pygmy rabbits, was conducted from October 1981 to September 1983. Of 211 sites suspected of supporting the species based on interpretation of museum records, aerial photographs, soil maps, and interviews with biologists and area residents, 51 exhibited evidence of being inhabited when examined in summer 1982. Soil and vegetation components were sampled at 15 sites occupied by pygmy rabbits and 21 sites adjacent thereto. At inhabited sites, mean soil depth (51.0  2.3 cm), mean soil strength of surface (0.8  0.2 kg/cm) and subsurface (3.8  0.3 kg/cm) horizons, shrub height (84.4  5.8 cm), and shrub cover (28.8  1.4%) were significantly greater (P< 0.05) than at unoccupied adjacent sites, but percent basal area of perennial grasses (3.7  0.9%), density of annual grasses (5.2  2.1/1,000 cm), density of forbs (3.4  0.6/1,000 cm), and cryptogam cover (2.4  0.5%) were not. Except for the clay component of subsurface soils, texture of surface and subsurface soils were not significantly different between sites occupied by pygmy rabbits and adjacent sites. The affinity of pygmy rabbits for areas with greater shrub cover, shrub height, soil strength, and soil depth, and, to a small degree, coarser soil texture possibly was related to availability of forage, security from predation, and ease of burrow construction. Analysis of 472 samples of sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) collected at and near sites inhabited by pygmy rabbits indicated their distribution was not dependent upon the presence of specific subspecies of sagebrush. A marked decrese in evidence of occupancy of sample sites and of pygmy rabbit activity at occupied sites in 1983 indicated that populations of pygmy rabbits were susceptible to rapid declines and possible local extirpation. Fragmentation of sagebrush communities poses a potential threat to populations of pygmy rabbits, but the severity of the threat presently is unknown.
41713037|There has been a resurgence in applying bioassessment techniques for evaluating and monitoring the biological integrity of stream ecosystems. In all cases biological metrics have been refined to account for regional variation in aquatic habitats and fauna. This study evaluated environmental and macroinvertebrate properties for wadable streams in 3 major ecoregions of Idaho: Northern Basin and Range, Snake River Plain, and Northern Rocky Mountain. These 3 ecoregions constitute > 80% of the land area in Idaho. Reference streams were delineated from test streams in each ecoregion using standard habitat assessment protocols (Plafkin et al. 1989). Multiple discriminant analysis effectively determined habitat (quantified measures) and macroinvertebrate differences between reference and test streams within ecoregions, although the results suggested that quantifiable habitat measures (e.g., water chemistry and nutrients) and biotic metrics based on taxonomic groups (e.g., % Elmidae) improved the discriminatory power of evaluation procedures.Our results support the contention of a multi-metric approach for assessing differences among streams within an ecoregion. Lastly, individual metrics differed in their importance for evaluating stream condition among ecoregions, further emphasizing the importance of regionally stratifying metric selection or scoring procedures.
41712499|Diatoms were collected from an open-canopy and closed-canopy site on Mink Creek, Bannock County, Idaho, a third-order Rocky Mountain stream. Ninety diatom taxa were identified. Achnanthes minutissitna Kuetz. and Navicula lanceolata (Ag.) Kuetz. dominated the open-canopy site, whereas Cocconeis placentula var. euglypta (Ehr.) Cl. comprised greater than 40% of the diatom assemblage at the closed-canopy site. Seven of the 10 most important diatoms were present at both sites. A high degree of similarity was evident between natural and artificial substrates at both sites. Although most taxa were present at both sites, it is apparent from this study that differences in the abundance of taxa occur according to variations in light.
41712246|Three diatom species recently collected from Great Basin localities represent new records of these taxa from this region of western North America. Cocconeis scutellum Ehr. and Melosira dubia Kuetz. were collected from a thermal spring in Tooele County, Utah. Nitzschia hustedtiana Salah was collected from newly flooded marshes at the south end of the Great Salt Lake, Tooele County, Utah.
41712042|The Cactaceae of Utah are revised. Keys to genera, species, and infraspecific taxa are provided. The taxa are provided with descriptions and geographical and other pertinent data. New nomenclatural combinations include Sclerocactus pubispinus (Englem.) L. Benson var. spinosior (Engelm.) Welsh and Sclerocactus whipplei (Englem.) Britt. & Rose var. glaucus (K. Schum.) Welsh.
41712826|The recent appearance of the "California crayfish," Pacifastacus leniusculus, in Castle Lake, California, and interest in its potential impacts on the lake ecosystem provided motivation for a study of the population structure and habitat use of this species and its eifects on aquatic macrophytes. Mark-recapture studies indicated that the total number of adult (3 yr or older) crayfish in the lake was ca 10,100 individuals, yielding an estimate of lakewide crayfish density in preferred crayfish habitats of 0.13 adults m. Using mean body mass of individuals, we estimated that ambient biomass density was 5.9 g m. Length-weight relationships determined for captured individuals were sex dependent, with males having greater body mass for a given carapace length. Length-frequency and weight-frequency diagrams indicated that P. leniusculus reaches larger sizes in Castle Lake than do populations of P. leniusculus in ultraoligotrophic Lake Tahoe. Population-wide, males were significantly larger in both carapace length and body mass than females. We also examined sex dependence of interhabitat differences in crayfish body size by comparing animals trapped in rocky areas with those from areas with macrophytes and soft sediments. No significant differences in overall body size were found between habitats, but a significant habitat-sex interaction term occurred because the sex-dependent size differences were more pronounced in sediment than in rocky areas. Exclosure and enclosure experiments indicated that crayfish had large but differential impacts on Castle Lake macrophyte species, as the abundance of two of the dominant species (Chara sp., Potamogetn richardsonii) declined in the presence of crayfish and, in one case, increased in exclosures. These effects occurred via both consumptive and nonconsumptive mechanisms. These studies indicate that an expanding population of P. leniusculus in Castle Lake may be producing sizable impacts on the littoral zone habitat.
41712991|Since its introduction about 20 yr ago, fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas) has become very abundant in Upper Klamath Lake, Oregon. In 1991 mean beach seine catch per unit effort (CPUE) was 214, compared to 25 for native blue chub (Gila coerulea), the next most abundant species. In 45 trap-net samples collected in 1992, fathead minnow constituted 59% of the fishes caught in Agency Lake subbasin, 27% in Upper Klamath Lake, and 17% in tributary inflow habitats. From 1991 to 1995 fathead minnow declined and the abundance of some native fishes increased. Introduction to Klamath Basin was coincident with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency promotion of fathead minnow as bioassay subjects. Upper Klamath Lake fathead minnow have incomplete lateral lines and males have mandibular tubercles diagnostic of the northeastern subspecies. Although the origin, as bait bucket transfer, forage fish, or laboratory release, cannot be determined with certainty, the possibility of laboratory release suggests modification of bioassay protocols to require destruction of test or excess subjects.
41712412|Leucism in the western bluebird (Sialia mexicana) is reported from La Plata County, Colorado.
41711988|Previous work by Wells in the Laramie Basin suggested that a coniferous forest/woodland covered the basin floor in the recent past (until the latest Holocene). We have found no evidence for this woodland and suggest instead that these scattered woodlands along sandstone outcrops and their immediate margins are outliers of the montane forest of the Medicine Bow Mountains, existing in their apparently anomalous locations due to favorable microenvironments set up by the topography and substrate.
41712071|Soil samples from the Al horizon and dominant subsoil horizon at 190 sites were analyzed for Ca, Mg, K, P, and organic matter contents in conjunction with a soil resource inventory of the Caribou National Forest. Vegetative composition and production data were compared to the edaphic factors to derive relationships useful to the land manager. Organic matter was effective in distinguishing between soil orders and was positively correlated to vegetative production. Vegetative cycling of the nutrients P and K was most pronounced in soils of the order Mollisols, to a lesser degree in the Alfisols, and not at all in the Entisols. The K/Mg ratio of the soil showed a negative correlation to grass production and a positive correlation with shrub production. An interpretative table is provided to aid determinations of high versus low values for the edaphic factors studied.
41712223|The following new generic synonymy is proposed: Coptodryas Hopkins (= Microperus Wood), Cyrtogenius Strohmeyer (= Carpophloeus Schedl, Taphroborus Nunberg), Glostatus Schedl (= Ctonocryphus Schedl, Rhopalocryphus Nunberg), Hylurgops LeConte (= Hylescerites Schedl), Hypothenemus Westwood (= Ernophloeus Nunberg), Monarthrum Kirsch (= Eupteroxylon Eggers), Terminalinus Hopkins (= Kelantanius Nunberg), Xylechinus Chapuis (= Pruniphagus Murayama), Xylocleptes Ferrari (= Hylonius Nunberg). New combinations include: Pityophthorus anticus Schedl is transferred to Araptus; Hylesinus machilus Schedl is transferred to Phloeosinus; Phloeophthorus acaciae Lea is transferred to Phloeotribus; Blastophagus squamosus Schedl is transferred to Polygraphus; Chramesus semibrunneus Eggers is transferred to Pseudochramesus; Dacryophthorus capensis Schedl is transferred to Xylechinus; Pseudochramesus imperialis Schedl is transferred to Xylechinus ; and Hoplitontus abyssinicus Schedl is transferred to Xylocleptes. New specific synonymy includes: Hypothenemus sundaensis (Eggers) (= Ernophloeus costalimai Nunberg). A note on the South American Hylesinus antipodius Schedl is included. New names are proposed as follows: Hylesinopsis kenyae for africanus (Schedl 1963) (from Alniphagus) and Hylesinopsis ugandae for africanus (Schedl 1965) (from Hylesinus). Species described as new to science include: Ambrosiodmus ferus (Mexico), Ambrosiodomus paucus (Costa Rica), Carphoborus bicornis (USA), Chaetophloeus pouteriae (Mexico), Cnemonyx euphorbiae (Mexico), Corthylus convexifrons (Venezuela), Corthylus senticosus (Mexico), Corthylus sentosus (Mexico,), Cryptocarenus pubescens (Brazil), Cryptocarenus spatulatus (Mexico), Dendrocranulus mexicanus (Mexico), Hylesinus caseariae (Mexico), Pityophthorus levis (USA), and Trischidias exigua (Mexico).
41712955|We determined variability in counts of meristic features (pyloric caecae, vertebrae, pelvic fin rays, gillrakers, basibranchial teeth, scales above the lateral line, and scales in the lateral series) of Yellowstone cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus bouvieri) by 3 independent readers, by the same reader on 3 different occasions, and among fish from 12 sampling sites within a 650-km 2 watershed. Genetic purity of the cutthroat trout was determined by electrophoretic analysis. Significant differences in meristic counts were observed among 3 readers and among sampling sites, but not among 3 occasions by a single reader. Scale counts were within the reported range for Yellowstone cutthroat trout, but counts of other structures (pyloric caecae, gillrakers, vertebrae) were as similar to rainbow trout as to Yellowstone cutthroat trout. Meristic counts identified the fish as cutthroat trout; however, variation among readers and sampling sites, as well as within the species, limits their use when identifying genetically pure cutthroat trout or assessing possible integration with rainbow trout.
41712058|A wild population of Pacific tree frogs (Hyla regilla) in Idaho exhibited a high incidence (22%) of hind limb abnormalities. This situation is discussed with reference to similar occurrences reported for isolated populations of the species in the Pacific Northwest.
41713017|An inventory and analysis of the mayfly (Insecta, Ephemeroptera) fauna of New Mexico, based on the published literature and study of extensive materials from diverse collections, indicate the presence of 12 families, 37 genera, and 81 species. Of these species, 25 represent new state records: AcentreUa trbida, Ameletus falsus, A. sparsatus, Baetis adonis, B. bicaudatus, B. flavistriga, Baetodes deflciens, Caenis latipennis, Callibaetis fluctuans, Cinygmula par, Ephemera simulans, Hexagenia bilineata, Isonychia sicca, Labiobaetis propinquus, Lachlania saskatchewanensis, Leptophlebia bradleyi, Leucrocuta petersi, Neochoroterpes nanita, Paraleptophlebia debilis, P. heteronea, Procheon conturbatum, Rhithrogena plana, R. robusta, R. vitta, and Thraulodes gonzalesi. Baetodes deflciens represents a new USA record. For 37 of the 56 previously reported and confirmed species, 124 new county records are provided. With respect to continental affinities, 34 species are western, 27 southwestern, 13 widespread, 1 is a southern USA species, and 1 eastern. Of the major drainage systems in the state, the Gila system is the most species rich with 48 species, followed by the Rio Grande (46), Pecos (39), Canadian (28), and San Juan (25). Relationships between drainage systems and between New Mexico and broadly adjoining states are discussed. Lachlania dencyannae, the only endemic species in New Mexico, occurs in the Gila system and is rare and endangered. Certain other species from the Gila system are also noted as being at risk. From other drainages, B. adonis, Ephemerella mollitia, and L. petersi also are of some concern at the national level. Additional species that are rare in New Mexico and are of concern at least at the state level include Ametropus albrghti, C. fluctuans, H. bilineata, L. bradleyi, N. nanita, P. conturbatum, and R. hageni.
41712203|Eighteen pine marten (Martes americana) stomachs and 29 intestinal tracts, collected between October 1983 and March 1984 from northern Colorado, were examined for food items. Voles (Microtus spp.) occurred most frequently, followed by shrews (Sorex spp.), insects, and vegetative matter.
41711968|A program to control hydatid disease in central Utah was evaluated by: (1) surveillance of infection in dogs and sheep, (2) questioning adult residents of two Sanpete County communities (Fountain Green and Spring City) about their knowledge of hydatid disease and their attitudes toward preventive measures, (3) interviewing local officials to evaluate the proposed implementation of proper community-wide measures, (4) analyzing records of prophylactic treatment of dogs with praziquantel, and (5) comparing scores of tests given to third and fourth grade students before and after they colored an educational pamphlet about hydatid disease. Infection rates of Echinococcus granulosus in dogs brought to volunteer diagnostic clinics dropped from 28.3 percent in 1972 to 1.0 percent in 1979, but increased to 9.8 percent in 1981. This last rise was due mainly to the fact that some dogs were examined that belonged to range sheepmen who had either not attended a field clinic recently or had never attended at all. Prevalence of the parasite in slaughtered sheep decreased steadily from 13.2 percent in 1972 to 2.8 percent in 1981. With regard to the questionnaire phase of the project, 87.3 percent and 84.3 percent of the respondents understood the role of dogs in the life cycle of E. granulosus in Fountain Green and Spring City, respectively. Over 50 percent of the respondents of these two communities had worked directly with sheep sometime in their life. In general, residents were more willing to practice preventive measures involving sheep than they were to implement measures involving dogs alone. However, many of the recommended community-wide preventive measures were not implemented. With the coloring book, students answered an average of 62.5 percent of the questions correctly before they colored the pamphlet and 83.3 percent afterward. Overall, our results suggest that residents of Sanpete County are knowledgeable about hydatid disease and its mode of transmission, and that, in general, progress has been made in control of hydatid disease in central Utah.
41712630|Geographic and nongeographic variation in morphology was examined in Thomomys townsendii. A univariate analysis of external and cranial characters from a large population sample (66 adults; fusion of cranial sutures used as aging criteria) was used to assess variation among three adult age classes and between sexes. Only minor variation is apparent among age classes; however, sexual dimorphism is pronounced. Univariate and multivariate techniques were used to analyze external and cranial measurements and pelage characters for adults throughout the species range. These analyses show little to support the seven subspecific designations recognized by Davis (1937). The general pattern is one of homogeneity throughout the range of Thomomys townsendii. With the possible exception of T. t. nevadensis samples, current subspecies are not defined as morphological units. In fact, differentiation is found among populations within some subspecies. The most apparent pattern seen in these analyses is the divergence between the Humboldt River (including Honey Lake Valley samples) and Snake River systems. These results will be considered with those of a companion paper on the genetic variation in this species to more adequately assess the patterns of differentiation in Thomomys townsendii.
41711488|Cymopterus higginsii and Penstemon atwoodii are named and described from materials collected in the Kaiparowits Plateau vicinity of eastern Kane County, Utah. Habitat, distribution, and probable affinities are outlined.
41711346|During the ice-free period from May to November on two successive summers water molds were collected on 14 different substrata placed in Lily Lake, a subalpine bog lake in the Uinta Mountains of Utah. Twenty-five collections yielded thirty-four species in 20 genera, 11 families, and 6 orders of aquatic Phycomycetes. Correlation of frequency presence of the species reported with physical and chemical characteristics of the lake showed that the number of species collected increased with an increase in water temperature and a decrease in oxygen content during June to August, reaching a peak in late July. Rhipidium americanum Thaxter (100 percent frequency) and Sapromyces androgynus Thaxter (72 percent frequency) were the most common species and the species found on more different substrata than any others. Also in the "very abundant" group were Saprolegnia feraz (Gruith.) Thurent and Achlya sp., both with 64 percent frequency.
41712173|Thirty-nine Utah streams were sampled for cutthroat trout. Of these, 31 contain cutthroat or cutthroat/rainbow hybrid populations. By using starch gel electrophoresis, these populations were segregated into three groups. One group consisted predominately of fish from the Sevier River (of the Bonneville Basin) and Colorado drainages. A second was primarily populations from the Bear River Drainage (Bonneville Basin) as well as some scattered populations along the Wasatch Front (Bonneville Basin). The third consisted of Wasatch Front populations and populations that have hybridized with rainbow trout. Since different subspecies of cutthroat trout are native to the Colorado and Bonneville drainages, one would expect the populations from within the Bonneville Basin to be more similar to one another and less similar to the Colorado River populations. That this did not occur raises questions concerning the evolutionary relationships of the subspecies and the populations. It is clear that at least a northern (Bear River) and southern (Sevier River) form of the Bonneville cutthroat exists. The Wasatch Front may represent an intermediate zone where these two forms intergrade.
41712371|Numerous physical, chemical, and biological criteria evidently confirm that Lake Tahoe is oligotrophic. However, detailed examination of the ecology and trophic status of algae (mostly diatoms) from Lake Tahoe taken from three independent, long-term sampling programs aided in interpretation of plankton and periphyton algal communities by spectral analysis (supported by computerized data synthesis) and suggested that the prevailing trophic disposition of this deep, subalpine lake no longer can be described as "ultra-oligotrophic" or typically oligotrophic. Although at various places in recent years there has been some increase in oligotrophic species that seems to correspond with recent sewage export from the Tahoe basin, there was a marked tendency toward mesotrophy and/or eutrophy over most of the lake from April 1965 through October 1985. This study posits the speculation that there may be other "ultra-oligotrophic" lakes over the world from which future studies may reveal algal communities that may be described as more mesotrophic and/or eutrophic than oligotrophic. Lake Tahoe probably is not as oligotrophic as is generally believed, and the indicator algae in it are not as accurate as is generally believed.
41711687|Phytoplankton studies during the summer of 1974 in Utah Lake, Utah, demonstrated the development of disjunct distributions of Aphanizomenon flos-aquae and Ceratium hirundinella. Differential response to environmental factors and competitive displacement are proposed as probable explanations for this phenomenon.
41712380|Seeds of three species of dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthohium americanum Nutt. ex Engelm., A. cyanocarpum Coulter & Nelson, and A. vaginatum subsp. cryptopodum (Engelm.) Hawksw. & Wiens, were exposed to smoke from burning forest fuels. Premeasured amounts of coniferous needles and branch wood were burned in a small incinerator with smoke passing through a closed chamber containing the seeds. Following three different smoke treatments and one high-temperature treatment, tests were conducted to evaluate the effects of these treatments on seed germination. Germination was inhibited for all species when the seeds were exposed to smoke for 60 minutes or longer. Seeds of A. americanum were unaffected by exposures of up to 40 minutes from fuels with high moisture contents, but enhanced germination occurred after 30 minutes of exposure to smoke from drier fuels. The percentage of germinating seeds of A. cyanocarpum and A. vaginatum showed little effect from exposures of up to 30 minutes.
41711632|Nine new records of vascular plants indigenous to western North America, six new records of adventive taxa, and six significant range extensions are reported for the flora of Colorado.
41712365|One exotic poeciliid (Xiphophorus helleri) and two cichlids (Cichlasoma nigrofasciatum and Tilapia mossambica) are recorded as recently established in thermal springs and their outflows in southern Idaho. Misgurnus anguillicaudatus was collected and is considered as established in the Boise River system. Poecilia mexicana and juvenile hybrid tilapias are recorded from the Bruneau River at Bruneau Hot Springs, Idaho. A reproducing population of X. helleri was found in a spring within the boundaries of Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming. Poecilia reticulata, previously reported from one spring each in Idaho and Wyoming, is recorded from a second spring outflow in Idaho.
41712827|Habitat use by Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) hens with broods was examined at Jackass Creek and Hart Mountain, Oregon, from 1989 through 1991. Sage Grouse hens initially selected low sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) cover types during early brood-rearing, big sagebrush cover types later in the brood-rearing period, and ultimately concentrated use in and near lakebeds and meadows. Areas used by Sage Grouse broods typically had greater forb frequency than did random sites. Hens at Jackass Creek selected sites with forb cover similar to that generally available to broods at Hart Mountain, but home ranges were larger at Jackass Creek because of lower availability of suitable brood-rearing habitat. Differences in habitat use by broods on the two areas were reflected in dietary diffrences; at Hart Mountain, chicks primarily ate forbs and insects, whereas at Jackass Creek most of the diet was sagebrush. Larger home ranges, differences in diets, and differences in availability of forb-rich habitats possibly were related to differences in abundance and productivity between areas.
41712379|Insects inhabiting Great Basin wildrye (Elymus cinereas Scribn. & Merr.) were surveyed at two sites on the Snake River Plain in southern Idaho during 1982 and 1983. Forty-six species of phytophagous insects were observed. In addition, eight parasitoid species were reared from insect hosts in the plant culms and identified. Life stage, abundance, plant part utilized, and study site were recorded for each insect species collected. Insect guilds at the two sites were compared based on species presence utilizing Sorensen's similarity index. Overall, 26 insect species were common to both sites, yielding a moderate similarity index of 0.62. The majority of the species that constitute the wildrye herbivore guilds were oligophagous (restricted to grasses). Many of these insects feed on grain crops as well as other native and introduced grasses. The relatively high diversity of phytophages on wildrye may be due to its tall, bunchgrass growth form, its abundance within its habitat, its broad geographic range, and the large number of related species of grasses in the region.
41711560|Penstemon cyananthus Hook. ssp. subglaber Pennell, a plant found frequently in northwestern Utah, southeastern Idaho, and southeastern Wyoming, is elevated to species status. A new name, Penstemon holm grenii Clark is proposed because P. subglaber is preoccupied.
41711592|Rhopalomyia (Diarthronomyia) subhumilis Gagn, a new species of Artemisia ludoviciana Nuttall (Compositae), is described and its taxonomically important structural features illustrated. The new species is compared to its most similar North American congeners.
41712395|Niche pattern of a desert rodent community in shrub habitats of central Utah was examined in the canonical space formed by the first four principal components of trapsite microhabitat. Positions of species centroids differed significantly (P < .05) in this space and were consistent with the known habits of each; thus, it appears that the principal components measured biologically meaningful facts. Abundance in optimal habitat (ai) increased with niche breadth (vi) and decreased with increasing difference of centroids of a species from the overall mean habitat (di). Vi was positively related to di. Differences between niche pattern of this community and that of deciduous forest small mammals are discussed.
41711250|Richardson's ground squirrel was studied in Laramie Basin, Wyoming (elev. 7,200 ft) from August 1966 to March 1969. Squirrels were active aboveground from early March to late August. Males apparently emerged about two weeks before females. High mid-day summer temperatures resulted in a daily bimodal activity pattern. Mean litter size was 5.9 (range 4 to 9) (N= 69 females) based on embryos, placental scar counts and young born in captivity. Juvenile males had a larger home range (1.57 acres) than adults males (0.97 acres). Mean home range size for all squirrels was 0.81 acres. Density ranged from 1 animal per 12 acres in March to 1 per 2.1 acres in June. Based on monthly means, males weighed more than females at all times. The largest male was 536 g and the heaviest female was 473 g. Squirrels exhibited prominent seasonal trends in fatness. Fat reserves were greatest in July (5.30  2.40 g in males and 4.86  2.91 g in females). Spleen weights expressed as a percentage of body weights showed no significant seasonal fluctuation. Adrenal weights peaked in June.
41712536|Soil physical and chemical properties were studied to identify habitat differences among 15 sagebrushdominated plant community types of the Great Basin. The sagebrush taxa studied followed an apparent gradient of increasing soil fertility, with Artemisia nova commonly occupying the lowest fertility sites. Sites of moderate soil fertility tended to support A. arbuscula, A. longiloba, and A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis. Artemisia tridentata ssp. tridentata and A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana were commonly found on sites with the highest soil fertility levels as indicated by maximum organic carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus levels within such soils. Mollic epipedon depth, total depth, and water-holding capacity of the soil also increased as the dominant sagebrush taxon of a community type changed from A. nova to A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana. Data from this study provide information concerning soil relationships within relatively undisturbed rangeland communities. Such data are required if future soil sampling efforts within the Great Basin are to have a basis for comparison.
41712678|Two new osmundaceous species, Aurealcaulis moorei and A. bransonii, are described from the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. The area from which they were collected is uncertain, but it is presumed they came from the Lower Eocene San Jose Formation near Angel Peak, southeast of Bloomfield, New Mexico. The species are characterized by having a heterogeneous (A. moorei) to homogeneous (A. bransonii) pith, non-or partial closure of their leaf gaps, exarch protoxylem clusters, formation of their C-shaped leaf traces by fusion of two segments from adjacent xylem strands in their inner cortices, relatively low numbers of traces in their cortices (16-22 in A. moorei, 15-19 in A. bransonii), roots arising from lateral margins of these segments, sclerenchymatous outer cortex that connects with the sclerotic ring of the petiolar vascular strand, crenate (A. moorei) or interrupted (A. bransonii) sclerenchyma lining the adaxial concavity of their petiole strands, and leaf bases that may or may not contain one, occasionally two, sclerotic cellular masses in their stipular wings in A. moorei and 6-8 more or less aligned masses in A. bransonii. They are compared with other osmundaceous taxa, particularly A. crossii Tidwell & Parker of Paleocene age. Because of variations in these new species, Aurealcaulis Tidwell & Parker is slightly emended to accept species of this genus with heterogeneous or homogeneous piths, protoxylem becoming endarch in the leaf traces, petiolar vascular strands formed by fusion of segments from the xylem strands in the inner cortex, outer cortex, or outside the stem, and the occurrence or nonoccurrence of sclerenchyma in the adaxial concavity of their petiolar vascular stands and in their stipular wings. The paleoecological conditions under which these species of Aurealcaulis grew are also considered.
41712234|Acetylene gas is very useful in laboratory and in situ assay procedures for nitrogen fixation and denitrification. There is concern, however, that measurements of denitrification may be underestimated because nitrification, a major source of nitrate, is inhibited by C H. The objective of this study was to examine the effects of C H partial pressure and length of exposure time on nitrification in soils. Acetylene partial pressures of 0.1, 1.0, and 10.0 kPa were found to effectively inhibit nitrification in soil samples incubated in the laboratory. Both the partial pressure of C H and the length of exposure time were found to affect the recovery time of nitrification in soil samples. Nitrification recovered within seven days in samples exposed to 0.1 and 1.0 kPa C H for only 24 hours. The recovery of nitrification in samples exposed to 10.0 kPa C H for 24 hours or to 0.1 and 1.0 kPa C H for 216 hours was delayed for an additional seven days, however.
41711584|A variety of amphibian, reptilian, avian, and mammalian hosts were used in experimental development of Posthodiplostomum minimum. As a result of this study much host-induced morphological variation was noted in several organs of attachment. Variations in the oral sucker ranged from a well-developed muscular organ to a weakly developed oral slit. Acetabular development ranged from well-developed to reduced forms lacking apical musculature, tegumental spines, and sensory structures. The holdfast organ showed marked reduction in most poikilothermic hosts.
41712737|The demography of black sagebrush (Artemisia nova Nelson) was investigated in the Buckskin Mountains of western Nevada to determine patterns of stand renewal in sagebrush communities currently free from wildfires. Biomass sampling was conducted to develop growth classes that reflected apparent age of the shrubs. The density of black sagebrush plants was twice that of basin big sagebrush (A. tridentata ssp. tridentata Nutt.) in adjacent communities on contrasting soils (2.2 versus 1.1 plants per m). Black sagebrush accumulated only 75% as much woody biomass as big sagebrush. Regression equations were developed and tested for predicting total woody biomass, current annual growth (CAG), and leaf weight of black sagebrush plants. Apparent age classes were developed both for the black sagebrush plants and the sub-canopy mounds on which they grew. Discriminant analysis was used to test this classification system. Plant succession, apparently controlled by nitrate content of the surface soil, appeared to eliminate the successful establishment of black sagebrush seedlings on the mounds. After the shrubs die, the mounds eventually deflate. We propose that mounds reform around shrub seedlings; but because seedling establishment is so rare in these communities, this could not be verified.
41712230|A premigratory flock of Swainson's Hawks numbering at least 213 individuals was observed during July and August of 1984. Aerial feeding on grasshoppers was noted and kleptoparasitism was recorded between the Swainson's Hawk and the American Kestrel.
41712757|Grazed and ungrazed sites were examined in a semiarid woodland in eastern Australia to determine relationships within various types of cryptogams, and the role of cryptogams in pasture dynamics, infiltration, and water erosion. Strong relationships were found between vascular plant cover and cover of cryptogams for nine rangeland sites over an 18-month period. In the absence of vascular plants, sites with low cover of cryptogams were dominated by algae. The presence of a cryptogamic crust had no significant effect on infiltration at ungrazed sites but significantly increased infiltration at some grazed sites. Splash erosion was very low on soils with at least 50% cryptogam cover. Below this level splash erosion increased markedly, along with the proportion of fine sediments lost.
41711405|Although several recent workers have used the name Sternothaerus for the North American musk turtles, the rules of priority render Sternotherus the correct name for them. The generic type fixation by Stejneger of S. odoratus is accepted.
41712373|Little is known about the Brachiosauridae, which includes some of the largest known sauropods, such as the genus Brachiosaurus, discovered in western Colorado by Elmer S. Riggs in 1900. Additional diagnostic material, previously unknown in the western hemisphere, is reported from three comparatively recent quarries: the Jensen/Jensen Quarry in eastern Utah and the Dry Mesa and Potter Creek quarries on the Uncompahgre Upwarp in western Colorado. An unknown, well-preserved, articulated sauropod atlas/axis, seven cervical vertebrae, and an interesting flora were associated with the Potter Creek Quarry brachiosaur material. Taphonomic factors in that quarry are noted. The Jensen/Jensen and Dry Mesa deposits occur in basal sediments of the Brushy Basin Member of the Morrison Formation, and the Potter Creek Quarry in an intermediate section ofthat member.
41712428|Clethrionomys gapperi were captured in microhabitats with greater densities of overall cover than at noncapture or random sites within the study area. Variables describing cover density and distance from free water were selected in a discriminant function analysis to differentiate between vole capture and noncapture sites. Vole capture sites had greater amounts of cover within 4 dm above ground surface and were further from standing water than noncapture sites. The preferential use by C. gapperi of microhabitats with greater densities of cover is in agreement with laboratory and field assessments of habitat use reported in the literature.
41712640|Cicindela arenicola Rumpp is being considered for threatened and endangered status by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Little is known about the developmental biology of this species. Adults of C. arenicola were active from April through late June and late August through early November, but generally they were not on the surface when temperatures were below 19 C or above 45 C, or when conditions were windy, cloudy, or rainy. Mating and egg-laying occurred only during the spring. Five size classes (1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, and 5-mm diameters) of larval burrow openings were observed. Burrows of 5 mm had a mean depth of 42.23  8.81 cm (1 S.D.). Larvae of C. arenicola were active from April through June and late September through mid-November. Developmental times and larval size were affected by food supplementation. Nearly all food-supplemented, 1-mm, first instars molted to larger second instars of 3-mm diameter. Most nonsupplemented larvae spent several months as 2-mm second instars before growing to 3 mm in diameter. Food-supplemented larvae reached the third instar in approximately 13 months, while nonsupplemented larvae took slightly over two years to reach this stage. Development from egg to adult was estimated at two years for food-supplemented larvae and three and one-half to four years for nonsupplemented larvae. Cattle had a significant effect on larval mortality. A high percentage (76-80%) of larval C. arenicola that were stepped on by cattle never reopened their burrows. Only 14% of undisturbed larvae never reopened their burrows. Approximately 15% of 150 larvae marked in 1988 reopened burrows in 1989.
41711360|Chromosome numbers are reported for 19 species of western American plants. Reports for previously uncounted species include Nitrophila mohavensis Munz and Roos, n = 18; Eriogonum contiguum (Reveal) Reveal, n = 16; Mentzelia leucophylla Brandeg., n = 18, and M. torreyi A. Gray, n = 12; Prunus virginiana L. var. melanocarpa (A. Nels.) Sarg., n = 8; Astragalus beatleyae Barneby, n = 11; Angelica kingii (S. Wats.) Coult. and Rose, n = 22; Gilia nyensis Reveal, n = 9; and Arnica parryi A. Gray var. sonnei (Greene) Cronq. in Ferris n = 19. New ploidy levels are reported in Oxystylis lutea Torr. and Frm., n = 10; Lupinus aridus Dougl. ex Lindl., n = 12; and Castillejo, martinii Abrams var. clokeyi (Pennell) N. H. Holmgren, n = 12. Seven additional counts are given which confirm those published by others. These are Opuntia chlorotica Engelm. and Bigel., n = 11; Eriogonum inflatum Torr. and Frm. var. inflatum, n = 16, E. trichopes Torr., n = 16, and E. bifurcatum Reveal, n = 20; Stanleya pinnata (Pursh) Britt. var. inyoensis (Munz and Roos) Reveal, n= 28; Lupinus argenteus Pursh, n = 24; and Castilleja viscidula A. Gray, n = 12.
41712495|Two specimens of Notiosorex crawfordi (Coues) were obtained from the Rincn Mountains in southeastern Arizona. Elevations were 2,438 and 2,618 m. At the lower-elevation site the habitat was a meadow in a ponderosa pine forest.
41711545|All of the known records of Plecoptera occurring in southeastern Idaho have been compiled in this list, which includes a number of new records obtained by the authors. The study region includes all of the streams in the Snake River and Great Basin drainages of the state found east of the Wood River and south of the Continental Divide and covers about one-third of the state's 216,413 km area. A total of 71 species were found to occur in the area. These are listed by family and the specific habitats in which each is known to occur are noted.
41712277|Fish hatchery systems in both Utah and Nevada are now an integral part of the fishery management scheme. Historic development of hatcheries, including the early stocking of exotics, is presented. Disease control and dry pelleted feed are discussed in historical perspective and present status.
41713010|Large falcons (genus Falco) do not build their own nests and, in North America at least, usually nest on high cliffs. Occasionally they nest in abandoned stick nests built by another large bird on the cliff. In Asia and particularly South Africa, they sometimes nest in stick nests on electrical power transmission towers. This use of electric transmission towers was recently (1980) reported for the Prairie Falcon (Falco mexicanus) in North America but is unknown, except for 1 anecdotically documented use of an "electric-power pole" at the turn of century in California, for the Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus) in North America. Here we report such nesting of the peregrine in North America and additional tower nestings for the Prairie Falcon.
41711831|Thirty-nine previously unpublished reports of the endangered black-footed ferret from Wyoming are listed with dates, locations, number of animals, sources, and comments.
41713090|Before 1990 the spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) was known in Wyoming from only 2 records. Between June 1994 and May 1997 we documented habitat use and observations incidental to conducting a bat inventory of caves and abandoned mines. By monitoring audible echolocation calls, we observed bats at mist-netting sites. Spotted bats were heard or captured on 13 nights at 10 locations, all of which were near canyons or high cliff faces. No foraging habitat preferences were noted. E. maculatum occurrence appears to be related to roost structure, roost availability, and proximity to a permanent water source.
41711401|Some recent workers who have combined the genera Mastigodryas Amaral, 1834, and Dryadophis Stuart, 1939, under the former name, have done so prematurely in view of characters by Amaral that differentiate them. Either the genera should be maintained distinct, or the younger, but widely-known name, Dryadophis, should be retained through exercise of the plenary powers of the ICZN, already requested.
41712543|The prairie skink, Eumeces septentrionalis, is a small, semifossorial lizard inhabiting the tall-grass prairies and savannas of the central lowland province region of North America. This study provides an extensive bibliography and subject index as a tool for current and future workers studying E. septentrionalis and related species.
41711536|The holotype of Hedysarum boreale Nutt. is convarietal with natural populations now known as Hedysarum boreale Nutt. var. cinerascens (Rydb.) Rollins instead of var. boreale. The new combination Hedysarum boreale Nutt. var. rivulare (Williams) Northstrom is proposed for populations formerly known as var. boreale.
41712070|A new species, Astragalus anserinus Atwood, Goodrich, & Welsh, is described from specimens taken from tuffaceous outcrops in the Goose Creek drainage of Box Elder County, Utah and Elko County Nevada.
41712286|Two hundred woundfin minnows, Plagopterus argentissimus, from four sites along the Virgin River, Utah, were examined on two dates during summer 1985. The foreguts of 211 woundfin and variable numbers of other fishes from the Virgin River near Beaver Dam Wash, Arizona, and Mesquite, Nevada, were examined for cestodes on four dates throughout 1979. Seven parasites were found in P. argentissimus: Posthodiplostomum minimum (metacer cariae), Diplostomum spathaceum (metacercariae), Bothriocephalus acheilognathi, Gyrodactylus sp., Lernaea cypri nacea, Trichodina sp., and Ichthyophythirius multiflliis. Fungal infections were noted on two fish during the study. Seventeen Virgin River roundtail chub, Gila robusta seminuda, were examined from two of the four sites in 1985 and 64 specimens from Beaver Dam Wash were examined in 1979. Gila robusta seminuda was infected with Posthodiplostomum minimum (metacercariae) and Bothriocephalus acheilognathi, the Asian fish tapeworm. This cestode probably gained entrance into the ichthyofauna of the Virgin River from red shiners, Notropis lutrensis, and has the potential of being very detrimental to the endemic and endangered fishes of the Virgin River. Parasite loads were correlated with water quality and habitat disturbance, with highest number and frequency occurring in "disturbed" sites. Low river flows and increased total dissolved solids appear to be associated with a higher parasite frequency and mean number in fishes of the Virgin River. These data represent the first known published records for parasites of the woundfin minnow and Virgin River roundtail chub.
41711397|During studies of ectoparasites in 12 plant communities in 1966 and 1967, five types of traps were used to capture 2,478 mammals of the following 11 species: Dipodomys ordii, Eutamias minimus, Microtus montanus, Onychomys leucogaster, Perognathus parvus, Peromyscus maniculatus, Reithrodontomys megalotis, Sorex merriami, Spermophilus townsendii, Neotoma cinrea, and Thomomys talpoides. The most abundant species was D. ordii and the least, M. montanus. Plant communities which contained the greatest number of species were the Chrysothamnus-Artemisia and Chrysothamnus-grass Tetradymia. Fewest species were found in the grass and Juniperus communities. Greatest populations were in the Juniperus and grass communities, and lowest populations in the Artemisia-Chrysothamnus, Artemisia-Atriplex, and Chrysothamnus-grass-Tetrady mia associations.
41711972|A checklist of the vascular flora of the upper Walker River is presented. Listed are 1078 taxa from this 4000 km area. The upper Walker River encompasses a portion of the boundary between the Intermountain and Sierra Nevada floristic regions, and hence displays much floristic diversity within a relatively small area. Due to its location along the east slope of the Sierra Nevada, the Walker River drainage is unique in that it contains much elevational variation eastward into the Intermountain Region. This elevational extension is due to the presence of large mountain ranges including the Sweetwater Mountains, the Bodie Hills, and the Wassuk Range. As a result of this elevational variation, there is much overlapping of the two floristic regions. Additionally, the easternmost exposures of the Sierran granodiorites occur within the Walker River basin and may enhance the eastward migration of Sierran plants. The 90 percent floristic similarity (Sorenson's) between the Sweetwater Mountains, lying to the east of the Sierra, and the east slope of the Sierra Nevada (within the Walker River drainage) indicates the Sweetwaters to be more affiliated with the Sierran flora instead of the Intermountain flora.
41712041|Techniques for locating, capturing, and monitoring activities and movements of Flammulated Owls were developed during four years of study. Adults responded to imitated territorial song throughout the nesting season. Nests were found by noting vocalizations and behaviors associated with courtship-feeding and food transfers between the sexes. After fledging, broods were difficult to follow, unless the young or adults were radio-tagged. Adults and young were captured with noose poles, hoop nets, and mist nets. Backpack harnesses and tail-mounted transmitters were used on adults and backpacks on fledglings. Transmitter life was 30-40 nights.
41712684|Scanning electron micrographs are presented for 14 species of the North American alderfly Sialis: americana, arvalis, californica, contigua, cornuta, hamata, iola, joppa, mohri, nevadensis, occidens, rotunda, vagans, and velata. Male genitalic characters are described for use in species identification.
41712440|First occurrences of the Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus glaucescens), and hybrids between it and the Western (L. occidentalis) and Herring Gull (L. argentatus), in Utah are documented. Sightings of 14 individuals over two winters (198486) may represent an inland expansion of the winter range of this species.
41711446|Interspecific interactions between the little pocket mouse (Perognathus longimembris) and the dark kangaroo mouse (Microdipodops megacephalus) were tested in the laboratory. P. longimembris was statistically dominant over M. megacephalus. The dominant-subordinate relationships shown by our laboratory results indicate that interspecific aggression may be one mechanism involved in keeping these sympatric species ecologically separated.
41712894|The Tushar Mountains of southwestern Utah rise to a maximum elevation of 3709 m, with timberline and krummholz reaching maximum elevations of 3438 m and 3566 m, respectively. Voucher specimens were collected from the alpine region during eight field seasons to inventory this largely unknown alpine flora. Listed are 171 vascular plant species from 102 genera and 34 families that occur in eight types of plant communities within an alpine area of about 19.3 km. The seven largest families are Asteraceae (29 species), Poaceae (20), Brassicaceae (13), Rosaceae (12), Cyperaceae (11), Caryophyllaceae (10), and Fabaceae (8). Thirteen species are restricted to the alpine area. The perennial herb growth form accounts for 86.4% of the flora, 5.9% of the species are shrubs, and the remaining species are annuals to short-lived perennials. Bedrock in the alpine region is entirely of Tertiary igneous origin. Vegetation cover and species richness are highest on an andesite ash-flow tuff and latite flow and lowest on hydrothermally altered intercaldera rhyolites and tuffs. Forty-four species (26.0% of the indigenous flora) also occur in the Arctic, and 13 species are at a southern margin of distribution. Eight taxa (4.7% of the flora) are local or regional endemics. The majority of the alpine species appear to have migrated to the range by way of the contiguous mountain system to the north; statistical comparison with neighboring alpine floras shows the flora to be most similar to the floras of the Wasatch Mountains, Uinta Mountains, and Teton Range, with Sorensen's similarity indices of 52.8, 50.2, and 48.8% respectively.
41712137|Eight general study sites in the blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima) zone of southwestern Utah were examined. Soils data were gathered and plant cover was estimated. Shrubs were found to be positively correlated with shallow, sandy soil. Nonwoody plants were found to be positively correlated with deeper, silty soils. Cryptogamic soil cmsts were positively correlated with silt and nitrogen in the soil and therefore may play a role in elevating soil fertility. Shnibs and grasses were negatively correlated. Management implications are discussed.
41713077|One new species, Astragalus concordius Welsh, sp. nov., is described from Washington and Iron counties, Utah, and section Argophylli, subsection Concordi Welsh, subsect. nov., is proposed. A complete bibliographic citation is supplied to validate the nomenclatural combination Sphaeralcea janeae (Welsh) Welsh, Memoirs Great Basin Naturalist 9: 423. 1987.
41712444|The diatom Phaedactylum tricornutum Bohlin forms blooms in the south arm of the Great Salt Lake, Utah, during cool months. This represents the first report of this taxon from Utah and the first from nonmarine waters in the United States.
41712676|Five isolates of Phaeodactylum tricornutum Bohlin were examined in light and transmission electron microscopes. Although isolated from widely separated sites including both coastal marine and inland saline habitats, the morphology of the siliceous frustules of all isolates was very constant. The fusiform and triradiate forms, which have been reported as being non-siliceous in the past, were found to have an amorphous particulate nature in TEM. These forms were examined using EDAX SEM elemental analysis and were found to contain silica in their cell walls.
41712852|Workers of Great Basin Desert thatch ants (Formica obscuripes Forel) dig simple secondary nests at the base of plants upon which they tend aphids and scales. These secondary nests house only foragers, with the number of foragers occupying each nest positively correlated with the number of worker-tended Homoptera feeding on plant foliage above. Thatch ant secondary nests are cooler than 25 cm below the dome top of the primary nest and maintain a significantly more constant temperature than is observed on the ground surface or in the plant canopy. Thatch ant foragers use secondary nests for at least two purposes: as a cool refuge for Homoptera tenders when midday plant canopy temperatures rise during the summer months, and as the primary place within which Homoptera tenders transfer honeydew to larger "honeydew transporters" for ultimate transport back to the primary nest.
41711970|The vegetation of the San Rafael Swell in southeastern Utah is examined based on personal field collections and previously collected herbarium specimens in the Brigham Young University Herbarium (BRY). An annotated checklist includes information on frequency of occurrence and habitat preference for each entity. Treated are 491 vascular plant taxa from 59 families.
41711353|A new species, Eremopedes kelsoensis, is described from the Kelso Sand Dunes, San Bernardino Co., California, with notes on its biology, song, host plants, desert distribution, orthopteran associates, and a key to species in the genus.
41711875|Described are several new taxa of the genus Cirsium that occur in the state of Utah: C. eatonii (Gray) Robins, var. harrisonii Welsh; C. eatonii var. murdockii Welsh; C. ownbeyi Welsh; C. scariosum Nutt. var. thorneae; and C. virginensis Welsh.
41712061|Measurement of the fat depth adjacent to the xiphoid process is described for mule deer. The index was determined sensitive to changes in physical condition of hunter-harvested mule deer.
41711354|The food habits of a small colony of barn owls in central Utah were investigated from 30 January 1969 to 30 January 1970 to determine seasonal trends in prey species composition and abundance. An analysis of 783 pellets yielded 1845 prey individuals, of which mammals, primarily Microtus, were the most abundant during all seasons of the year. A wide variety of avian prey species revealed an opportunistic aspect of barn owl prey selection.
41712564|Fifty-seven individual plasma samples from desert tortoises (Xerobates agassizi) representing 10 separate populations were analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis using alkaline buffers. An albumin-like protein was found to be polymorphic for two electromorphs in northern populations inhabiting the Mohave Desert Province, while Sonoran Desert populations to the south were monomorphic. The genetic divergence demonstrated in this survey is similar to earlier studies and provides evidence for the Colorado River as a potential barrier to gene flow among tortoise populations. These data suggest that tortoise plasma, examined by various electrophoretic methods, may provide a nondestructive means of determining the broad regional origin of desert tortoises.
41712494|The role of arthropods in mediating nutrient cycling on a community level was examined in a mountain shrub habitat that was managed by mowing brush to a 20-cm stubble, applying aerially 2,4-D butyl ester, or burning sixteen 4-ha study sites. Malathion and carbaryl were used to decrease arthropod populations. Higher nutrient concentrations occurred in the litter and foliage than in the soil of unmanaged habitats. Arthropods decreased nutrient concentrations in litter and foliage in unmanaged and herbicide-sprayed sites. Arthropod populations increased nutrient concentrations in mowed and burned sites. Nitrogen was consistently affected by both arthropods and brush management in all habitats.
41712339|Three species of predators and parasites were found associated with western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis Freeman) (Lepidoptera, Tortricidae) in Larimer Co., Colorado. These were: Ancistrocerus antilope (Panzer) (Hymenoptera, Vespidae), Goniozus gracilicornis (Kieffer) (Hymenoptera, Bethylidae), and Ceromasia auricaudata Townsend (Diptera, Tachinidae). The first two species stored caterpillars in wooden trap nests, while the third was reared from final instar budworms.
41711991|There were 198 species of aculeata Hymenoptera in 15 families collected from Sand Mountain and Blow Sand Mountains, Nevada. Four species are considered new to science and none are considered endemic to either dune area.
41712312|Greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus [Hook.] Torr.) (Chenopodiaceae) typically grows on salt-affected soils where its germination requirements may reflect characteristics necessary for establishment in saline environments. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of osmotic potential and specific ions on the germination of seeds from three populations of greasewood. Seeds were germinated at 20 C in solutions of polyethylene glycol with water potentials ranging from 0.3 to 2.2 MPa that contained 0 to 68480 mol.L sodium chloride (NaCl) or 0 to 53640 mol.L potassium chloride (KCl). Germination of two populations was reduced by increasing salt concentration and decreasing osmotic potential; germination of one population was reduced by declining osmotic potential. No seeds germinated at an osmotic potential lower than 1.6 MPa. For all populations, days to 50% of final germination increased and abnormal germination decreased as osmotic potential declined. Comparison of our results with those from other studies suggests geographic ecotypic development in response to osmotic potential and NaCl and KCl concentrations during germination.
41713007|American Falls Reservoir in southeastern Idaho is an irrigation reservoir used as an inland feeding stopover by many shorebird species. Six exclosure experiments were conducted during the 1990 drawdown period to investigate shorebird predation impact on benthic macroinvertebrate populations. The study sites differed in sediment composition, sediment slope, invertebrate densities, and shorebird abundance. Shorebird predation significantly affected invertebrate densities in only 1 of 6 experiments (Aberdeen Mouth). This site had higher sediment slope and slower water recedence than other study sites, resulting in concentration of shorebird predation on a smaller area of newly exposed sediment. Shorebird predation had the greatest impact on medium size class chironomid larvae at Aberdeen Mouth. Our results suggest that inland sites such as American Falls Reservoir represent viable shorebird habitat and may be managed to insure consistent prey availability. Drawdown rate, sediment slope, invertebrate densities, and shorebird abundance are all important factors influencing shorebird predation. Monitoring shorebird abundance and predation impact on invertebrate densities may help in manipulating drawdown rate to provide adequate shorebird prey. Management of inland sites for shorebird use may become more important in the future as human encroachment in coastal areas continues.
41712094|Siberian polecats (Mustela eversmanni) were placed in white-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) and black-tailed prairie dog (C. ludovicianus) burrows to simulate a black-footed ferret (M. nigripes) visit. Both prairie dog species plugged burrows "visited" by polecats. White-tailed and black-tailed prairie dogs plugged 2 of 6 and 3 of 6 test burrows, respectively.
41712016|Selected reproductive attributes of herbaceous plant species were compared among three stages of a sere in the subalpine zone of Utah's Wasatch Mountains: herbaceous meadow, aspen grove, spruce-fir forest. No successional trends in seed size or inferred mode of seed dispersal were detected. We ascribe the deviation of these findings from those of most other studies to differences in climate, life-form composition, or community age between our sere and those of other studies. A variety of flower colors were found in the meadow stage, grading into a predominance of white flowers under conifers. Animal vectors of pollen, capable of effecting plant outcrossing, were most abundant in the meadows and an order of magnitude less abundant under aspen.
41711672|Annual energy budgets were calculated for three species of small mammals (Peromyscus maniculatus, Onychomys leucogaster, Reithrodontomys megalotis) from the northern Great Basin, Benton County, Washington. Individual ingestion rates were based on species activity, microclimate regime, coefficient of digestibility, caloric diet, and the cost for reproduction. For males and females, the estimated energy expenditures were: P. maniculatus, 6080, 5891; O. leucogaster, 5714, 6587; and R. megalotis, 4057, 3791 kcal/yr. By comparison, each species on an individual basis processes more energy annually than the more abundant species in the community, Perognathus parvus, but their total contribution to community energy flow is apparently minor. Integration of these results with other ecological parameters is necessary to develop new hypotheses on the role of small mammal consumers in cold desert ecosystems.
41712570|At peak standing crop, rillscale (Atriplex suckleyi) foliage grown on amended bentonite mine spoil contained adequate digestible energy, crude protein, and all mineral elements except phosphorus necessary for cattle, sheep, antelope, and deer. Amendments (sawdust, NPK, gypsum) generally did not affect forage quality. Iron, manganese, aluminum, sodium, and potassium concentrations were high and may have adversely affected forage quality. Forage utility would be limited to a few months during the growing season.
41711518|Nymphs and adults of three new species of Isoperla are described from reared material. I. sagittata is known only from southeastern Texas, I. coushatta has been collected in East Texas and Oklahoma, and I. jewetti occurs in the Basin and Range Mountains of West Texas. The male aedeagii, female subgenital plates, and nymphal mouthparts are diagnostic in all three species.
41711747|Considered in this treatment are the families Aquifoliaceae, Canabinaceae, Ericaceae, Krameriaceae, Magnoliaceae, Moraceae, Oleaceae, Pyrolaceae, Resedaceae, Tamaricaceae, and Tiliaceae. These 11 families include 61 cultivated, escaped, and indigenous species.
41716171|A preliminary checklist of the mosses of Grand Teton National Park and Teton County, comprising 106 species, is presented. The following nine species are reported as new to Wyoming: Sphagnum squarrosum Crome, Atrichum undulottim (Hedw.) P.-Beauv., Tortella humilis (Hedw.) Jenn., Bryum bicolor Dicks., Pohlia obtusifolia (Brid.) L. Koch, Calliergon sarmentosum (Wahlenb.) Kindb., Eurhynchium oreganum (Sull.) Jaeg., Plagiotheciwn piliferum (Sw. ex C.J. Hartm.) B.S.G., and Lescuraea stenophylla (Ren. & Card.) Kindb.
41712225|Estimates of site potential for Douglas-fir based on measured site indexes in 450 stands are compared between 10 southwestern habitat types. Significant differences in site potential are found between the habitat types studied.
41712617|Data on reproduction of three species of pocket mice (Perognathus) occurring in northern Utah are summarized. Perognathus parvus and P. formosus bred in spring but not the remainder of the year. This occurred despite mild fall and winter temperatures and shallow snowcover. Litter sizes for P. parvus and P. formosus were similar to those reported by previous investigators. A small sample of P. longimembris indicated they may have much larger litters (averaging 5.78 young) than previously reported for laboratory populations. Adult body mass was positively correlated with testis mass in all species, and with litter size in P. parvus.
41712294|Size, structure, and habitat characteristics were studied in three populations of Braya humilis var. humilis (C. A. Meyer) Robins, in Gray & Wats. (Brassicaceae), a small, herbaceous perennial of the alpine tundra in central Colorado. There was a significant association between numbers of reproductive, juvenile, and seedling individuals and population location. Plant size within reproductive, juvenile, and seedling size classes varied significantly among three populations. Plots containing Braya had significantly lower total plant cover, a different set of dominant plant species, more rock, bare ground, and less litter than plots without Braya. Braya appears to be restricted to calcareous substrates that experience a moderate level of disturbance, such as solifluction lobes and abandoned roads. Populations are small despite the existence of much potential habitat. Population studies are necessary for active conservation management of Braya.
41711646|Inshore and limnetic vertical distribution of adult fish in Pyramid Lake, Nevada was determined from late spring to early fall 1977. The benthic (23 m) inshore area exhibited a relatively diverse composition of five species, while the inshore surface and offshore limnetic zones were composed of over 98 percent tui chubs (Gila bicolor). Vertical fish distribution was associated with temperature and zooplankton distribution.
41712811|Laboratory experiments were undertaken to assess the effects of three levels of cobble embeddedness on the microdistribution of the sculpin Cottus beldingi and its stonefly prey, Skwala americana. Experiments were conducted separately and together as predator and prey in temperature-and flow-controlled artificial streams. When tested either separately or together, both the predator sculpin and its stonefly prey occurred in significantly greater numbers on substrata having unembedded cobbles than substrata having half-or completely embedded cobbles. Stonefly densities were greater in substrata having unembedded cobbles even though predator densities within the more embedded cobble patches were significantly lower. These findings support the hypothesis that higher predator densities influence prey densities less than the structural habitat quality of unembedded-cobble patches.
41711562|Astragalus atwoodii Welsh and Thorne is named and described on the basis of materials collected on the Kaibab Plateau in Coconino County, Arizona.
41712926|Observations and excavations of thatching ant nests from 1990 to 1994 at 2560 m in Colorado provided information on the numbers and behavior of males and winged and wingless queens. Nuptial activity was compared to that reported by other investigators at lower altitudes. Reproductives were observed from 24 June to 15 August. Activity was greatest in 1993 when reproductives were on 10 of 98 mounds in the area. Mating and swarming occurred on rabbitbrush 4 m from 1 nest 2-6 July. The number of wingless queens in 4 excavated nests varied from 0 to 198.
41704201|Because of a previous study of wet meadows, an investigation of Carnero Lake, White Mountains of Arizona, which is ecologically advancing toward a wet meadow, was undertaken. Information on eutrophication and successional patterns in ponds of the ponderosa pine is needed for better understanding of that ecosystem. Aerial infrared photographs were taken to delineate areas containing aquatic vegetation and as an aid in identifying zones around the pond. Five zones from open water to ponderosa pine were found. Abundance of vegetation by species was estimated in each zone. Protein analyses are given for 29 of the 32 species listed.
41712745|Listed are 121 species of Scolytidae from Oregon. Ten species are reported from Oregon for the first time: Hylastes tennis Eichhoff, Phloeosinus scopulorumscopulorum Swaine, Phloeosinus hoferi Blackman, Trypodendron betulae Swaine, Xyleborus xylographus (Say), Trypophloeus striatulus (Mannerheim), T. thatcheri Wood, Procryphalus mucronatus (LeConte), Pityophthorus scalptor Blackman, and Monarthrum dentigerum (LeConte). The second Oregon specimen of an exotic species, Xyleborus californiens Wood, is reported also.
41711359|Fifty-five Sceloporus lizards representing the four species occurring in Utah were dissected. For each lizard specimen and species, helminth parasites were tabulated and classified. New host and locality records were recorded. An appendix containing literature citations of reptilian parasitology for the American Southwest is provided.
41711613|During a 21-month field study of sympatric scus maniculatus (Deer Mouse) and Peromyscus truei (pinyon mouse), 12/152 (7.9 percent) P. maniculatus and 1/45 (2.2 percent) P. truei were parasitized by Cuterebra larvae. Both parasitized P. manicuhtus and P. truei and nonparasitized P. manicuJatus selected different habitats in the community. Differential parasitism of P. maniculatus and P. truei was possibly caused by host specificity of Cuterebra, whereas differential parasitism of P. maniculatus may have been due to habitat selection.
41711877|Bottle Hollow Reservoir contains a diverse algal flora. A total of 289 taxa was observed, 227 of which were diatoms. Both littoral and planktonic communities had high diatom diversity. During summer months filamentous Chlorophyta were diverse and high in biomass in the littoral zone. Phytoplankton collections in Bottle Hollow Reservoir were dominated by four species: Asterionella formosa, Cyclotella comta, Dinobryon divergens, and Fragilana crotonensis. Plankton samples contained mostly small diatoms in early spring, with larger algae succeeding these as the summer progressed. No blue-green algae were important in this succession. Two peak production periods were observed, one in the fall and one in the spring. Bottle Hollow Reservoir appears to be a healthy mesotrophic system based on the evidences of moderately high algal diversity, insignificance of blue-green algae, and the presence of a suite of diatom species indicative of mesotrophic conditions.
41712940|We sampled both subspecies of the Idaho ground squirrel (Spermophilus hrunneus) to document the larger ectoparasites of this rare endemic. S.h. hrunneus was host (+ = new host record, * = new Idaho record) to 4 flea species (Neopsylla inopina+, Oropsylla idahoensis +, O. tuberculata, and Thrassis pandorae+), 1 tick (Ixodes sculptus+), and an eyeworm (Nematoda: Rhabditis orbitalis*+, also 1st records from Sciuridae); S.b. endemicus was host to a louse species (Neohaematopinus laeviusculus+), 5 flea taxa (Rhadinopsylla sp.+, O. t. tuberculata, Thrassis f. francisi+, T. f. barnesi+, and T. f. rockwoodi), and a mite (Androlaelaps fahrenholzi+). Spermophilus brunneus had fewer known ectoparasite species than other congeners. Although all of their parasites had many other hosts, S. b. endemicus and S. b. brunneus shared only a single parasite species in common, whereas all but one of their ectoparasites also occurred on the closely related Townsend's ground squirrel (S. townsendii). The proportion of parasitized individuals and the parasite loads per individual were significantly lower in S. b. brunneus, which lives in small, isolated populations, than in S. b. endemicus, which has larger, less fragmented populations, suggesting a relationship between host population structure, parasite loads, and parasite species diversity. All but one of the flea species have been linked to plague transmission.
41711339|The species of Anoplura found on indigenous Panamanian rodents belong to the genera Hoplopleura (8 species), Fahrenholzia (3 species), Neohaematopinus (1 species), and Polyplax (1 species). As is the case with the Panamanian rodents, the anopluran fauna contains both Nearctic and Neotropical elements. Two new species of Hoplopleura are described: H. scotinomydis from Scotinomys xerampelinus, and H. mendezi from Oryzomys sp. (probably O. alfaroi or O. albigularis). A host-parasite list is included.
41712254|Ponderosa pine cones from 10 areas in Arizona were collected prior to natural seed dispersal and dissected to determine the number of sound, hollow, and insect-damaged seeds in each cone. Total and sound seed yields per cone did not vary significantly among areas but did vary significantly among trees within each area. Numbers of hollow and Megastigmus-infested (Hymenoptera: Torymidae) seeds varied significantly among areas and trees within areas. Numbers of sound seed increased significantly with increasing cone length but did not change with increasing numbers of cones per cluster. The percentages of Megastigmus-infested seed did not change significantly with increasing cone length or number of cones per cluster.
41704206|New additions to the Utah flora include Cryptantha dumetorum Greene, C. elata (Eastwood) Payson, C. longiflora (Neis.) Pay son (Boraginaceae), Hulsea heterochroma A. Gray, Parthenium incanum H. B. K. (Compositae), Arctostaphylos pringlei C. C. Parry (Ericaceae), Eremocarpus setigerus (Hook.) Benth., Euphorbia micromera Boiss, Tragia ramosa (Euphorbiaceae), Leptochloa filiformis (Lam.) Beauv., Schismus arabicus Nees. (Gramineae), Epilobium nevadense Munz (Onagraceae), Lomatium megarrhizum (A. Nels.) Mathias (Umbelliferae), and Aloysia wrightii (Gray Heller) Verbenaceae.
41716154|Vegetation patterns in Navajo National Monument, Arizona, were studied over a five-year period from 1977 to 1981. Twelve distinct plant community types occur within the boundaries of the park. These communities are characterized and the dominant plant species of each are recorded. The relationships of parent material, soils, and moisture to plant communities are also discussed. It appears that discrete communities occupy soils of different characteristics, particularly with respect to amount of weathering of parent material.
41712898|The use of domestic grazers to shift the growth advantage toward shrubs is a commonly applied tool on winter ranges managed primarily for big game. Results from horses grazing in spring indicated grazing also benefits shrub survival, seedling recruitment, and reduced winter injury damage on some species of shrubs.
41712014|New records for Myotis californicus, M. evotis, M. leibii, M. lucifugus, M. thysanodes, M. volans, M. yumanensis, Lasionycteris noctivagans, Pipistrellus hesperus, Eptesicus fuscus, Lasiurus cinereus, Plecotus townsendii, and Antrozous pallidus and their habitat occurrence in northwestern Colorado are reported. Mortality of 27 bats of six species trapped in an oil sludge pit is described.
41712188|The effects of suspended sediments on stream invertebrate detrital processing were investigated under replicated conditions in light and temperature-controlled chambers in the laboratory. The leaf-shredding insects Pteronarcys californica and Hesperophylax occidentals were studied. Mean daily ingestion rates were lower among insects subjected to suspended sediments (1.5 and 3.0 g/1) than insects held in suspended sediment-free environments for seven of the eight trials. In five of the eight trials, mean ingestion rates were suppressed by 41% when compared to insects held in suspended sediment-free environments. Feeding inhibition was typically greater at the end of the feeding trials (14 days) than at the beginning (0-4 days). The effects of suspended sediments on ingestion were apparently related to the feeding status of the insects at the time of a trial. Insects in an active feeding mode were less influenced by suspended sediment than those in an inactive feeding mode. We conclude that, depending on the season and the duration of impact, suspended sediment can suppress processing of coarse particulate organic matter and thus adversely influence important nutrient and energy pathways in low-order streams.
41711500|The Malpighian tubules in female nymphs and adults of Pteronarcys californica Newport are larger and whiter than in males. This difference is detectable in nymphs as small as 300 mg in live weight (final instar nymphs weigh 800 to 1600 mg depending on sex), and is most pronounced in late nymphs and adults. These differences are thought to be related to the increased excretory load imposed by the synthesis of ooplasm in the late female nymph and adult.
41712231|A population decline of about 50% from 1974 to 1981 for Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) was found at a traditional roosting site at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon. This decline may have been due to a region-wide reduction in this species, to the possible but improbable formation of a new but undiscovered roost, or to a reduction in feeding opportunities caused by the decreased use of the refuge by cattle.
41712828|Foliar biomass of singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla Torr. & Frem.) was estimated on the Virginia Mountains, Nevada, based on the easily measured dimensions of crown volume and sapwood area. Leaf biomass estimation techniques used in other studies of pinyon where total leaf biomass was collected were supported. Both sapwood area (cm) and crown volume, calculated as one-half of an ellipsoid (m), were found to be significantly related to total dry weight needle mass (g). Best predictive equations for crown volume were obtained with nonlinear regression analysis. A previously reported two-part relationship based on tree size for predicting needle biomass with sapwood area was supported. Foliar biomass of singleleaf pinyon can be accurately estimated with a minimum of 10 sapwood cores.
41711650|To assess the potential hazard from radioactive wastes, a plant with known radiosensitivity, Tradescantia clone 02, was grown in radioactive soil obtained from uranium mill tailings. The levels of radiation on these tailings varied from 0.03mR/hr (background) to a maximum of 3.00mR/hr. Tradescantia grown in soil with a radiation level greater than 0.10 mR/hr evidenced significantly reduced reproductive integrity and fecundity, as measured by the number of stunted hairs per stamen, pollen viability, and numbers of somatic mutations. Based on these data, the radioactivity from uranium mill tailings has the potential to alter normal plant succession due to its detrimental effect on any species that is relatively radiosensitive.
41711569|New synonymy is proposed as follows: Pityophthorus Eichhoff (= Pityophthoroides Blackman), Scolytodes Ferrari (= Ctenophorus Chapuis), Araptus pallidus (Blackman), n. comb. (? = Neodryocoetes portoricensis Schedl, Neodryocoetes devius Schedl), Corthylus letzneri (Ferrari) (= Corthylus strigilatus Eggers, Corthylus columbianus Schedl, Corthylus ater Schedl), Corthylus spinifer Schwarz (= Corthylus guayanensis Eggers), Hypothenemus brunneus (Hopkins) (= Hypothenemus cryphalomorphus Schedl, Stephanoderes bituberculatus Eggers), Monarthrum parvum (Eggers) (= Monarthrum praeclarum Wood), Phloeoborus punctatorugosus Chapuis (= Phloeoborus breviusculus Chapuis), Phloeotribus pilula Erichson (= Phloeotribus australis Schedl), Phloeotribus setulosus Eichhoff (Phloeotribus dubius Eichhoff, Phloeotribus spinipennis Eggers), Pityophthorus, pulicarius (Zimmermann) (= Pityophthorus cubensis Schedl), Pityophthorus subsimilis Schedl (= Pityophthorus subimpressus Bright), Premnobius cavipennis Eichhoff (= Premnobius latior Eggers), Scolytus propiguus Blandford (= Scolytus penicillus Schedl), Xyleborus dryographus (Ratzeburg) (= Xyleborus linearis Schedl), Xyleborus horridus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus flohri Schedl). Xyleborus tonsus (Hagedorn), n. comb., was transferred to Xyleborus from Dryocoetes. Pityophthorus aquilus Blackman and Pityophthorus cascoensis Blackman, n. status, were removed from synonymy. Scolytodes chapuisi, n. n., is proposed for Scolytodes (= Ctenophorus) laevigatus Chapuis, 1869 (nec Ferrari 1867). The following species are named as new to science: Araptus crassus (Panama), A. obesus (Brazil), Cnesinus prominulus (Mexico), Conophthorus conicolens (Mexico), Microcorthylus vicinus (Mexico), Pityophthorus alnicolens (Mexico), P. assitus (Mexico), P. concinnus (Mexico), P. indigens (Colorado), P. leechi (California), P. solatus (Mexico), P. speciosus (Mexico), Pseudopityophthorus denticulus (Texas), Pseudothysanoes securus (Mexico), P. turnbowi (Texas), Pycnarthrum fulgidum (Colombia), Scolytodes fulmineus (Venezuela), S. radiatus (Costa Rica), Xyleborinus tribuloides (Mexico), Xyleborus devexus (Florida, Puerto Rico), and X. laticeps (Venezuela).
41712054|Summer food habits of a small mammal community in the Piceance Basin of Colorado were investigated during 1977 and 1978 using a combination of fecal and stomach content analyses. Three species, deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), least chipmunks (Eutamias minimus), and plains pocket mice (Perognathus flavescens) consumed arthropods as the majority of their diets. Bushy-tailed woodrats (Neotoma cinerea) consumed predominantly woody vegetation, and the diet of golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus lateralis) consisted primarily of forbs and fungi. Mountain cottontails (Sylvilagus nuttalli) depended heavily on grasses, with a mix of woody vegetation and forbs composing the remainder of their diet. Most of the species investigated selected different foods and thus avoided competition for food. Plains pocket mice may have competed with deer mice for arthropods in 1977.
41711883|In a rare 1969 epidemic, spruce cone rust caused by Chrysomyxa ipirolata infected 40-100 percent of trees and 20-67 percent of cones on riparian Colorado blue spruce on plots located in a 2200-2400 m elevational zone in Huntington Canyon of central Utah. Uredinial and telial sporulation on pyrola spp. began in mid-June, a time closely correlated with opening of pistillate spruce cones. Cone phenology and host habitat, as influenced by elevation, are apparently important factors in the restricted niche of the cone rust fungus in Utah. Several preceding consecutive years with extended periods of spring and fall moisture were associated with occurrence of the epidemic, although no cause-and-effect relationship was established. Weather records indicate that these events are infrequent in this climatic zone, and there was no detectable recurrence of cone rust for at least 9 years following 1969. Outwardly normal seeds developed in diseased cones, but seed germinability was reduced by 25 percent. Aecial spore masses between cone scales, cone resinosis, and distortion of cone scales prevented seed dispersal to the extent that the seed crop was effectually destroyed.
41711778|Hanging gardens of the Narrows, Zion National Park, Utah, are plant communities growing at permanent seeps on the canyon walls. The gardens are isolated from each other and from other plant communities by vertical expanses of sandstone. Gardens consist mostly of herbaceous species less than 1 m tall. Though not individually species-rich, the hanging gardens are diverse as a group, and very dissimilar. This study considers two explanations of the heterogeneous distribution of species in hanging gardens. The assemblages of dispersal types in gardens of different spatial attributes and disturbance frequencies are examined. The GH statistic, a log likelihood ratio test, analyzes the incidence of dispersal types among classes of three spatial and two disturbance variables. The disturbance variables of expected flood frequency and soil depth segregate dispersal types; and the spatial variables of area, distance to possible seed sources, and relative isolation do not. Ferns and mosses, dispersing through spores, dominate a heterogeneous fugitive guild in the flood-prone gardens. Infrequently flooded gardens support more large-seeded species.
41713034|The objectives of this study were to compare vegetative and reproductive growth characters of bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata Pursh) stands as they relate to browsing levels. Growth characters were measured on 10 ecologically diverse stands in southwestern Montana on which browsing ranged from 0% to 60% of all current annual long shoot (LS) growth. Bitterbrush plants exhibited both twig-level and plant-level responses to browsing. Total bud density per plant was similar for browsed and unbrowsed sites, but differed (P < 0.01) between browsed and unbrowsed twigs. Browsed twigs produced one-half the leaf cluster density produced by unbrowsed twigs. No significant (P < 0.05) relationship between browsing levels on browsed plants and bud densities was found. Length of old-growth twigs per plant was shorter (P < 0.001) on browsed sites than on unbrowsed sites. Burning at 2 environmentally paired sites reduced flower bud density (P < 0.001) 9 and 10 growing seasons later although LS length was not affected. Growth of LS showed a site-by-year interaction (P < 0.05). Our data suggest that long-term unbrowsed plants should not be used as a standard for comparison with normally browsed plants.
41712163|Named and described is Astragalus piscator Barneby & Welsh, a species of sect. Argophylli subsect. Missourienses. The species occurs in Grand and San Juan counties, Utah.
41711892|Controlled pollinations were performed on four pinyons (Pinus edulis Engelm.) to compare the results of selfing and outcrossing. Final cone size was the same under both treatments. There was no significant difference in number of seeds per cone. Filled-seed yields averaged 14.4 percent in selfings and 90.5 percent in outcrossings. Relative self-fertility averaged about 15 percent, a level comparable with that of other pine species studied.
41711453|During an investigation of some of the stoneflies (Plecoptera) of Mill Creek, Wasatch Mountains, Utah, Megarcys signata, a large omnivorous stonefly, was found to have a univoltine life history and a slow seasonal life cycle. Temperature appears to affect the growth rate of Megarcys signata. Warmer stream temperatures accompany the acceleration of the growth rate, whereas cooler stream temperatures apparently retard the growth rate. Periods of maximum absolute growth rate correspond with maximum carnivorous feeding from August to September and March to April. Chironomidae, Ephemeroptera, and Plecoptera, in that order, were the most abundant prey in the foreguts. Young nymphs ingested considerable amounts of diatoms, filamentous algae, and detritus but not as much animal matter as did older nymphs. Megarcys signala was uniformly distributed throughout Mill Creek, except at the lowest station, where few nymphs were found. Emergence occurred in May and June, the peak occurring in June. The mean size of females and males decreased as emergence progressed.
41713032|Relationships within, between, and among the Anthemideae genera Sphaeromeria, Artemisia, and Tanacetum were investigated using 238 randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers obtained from twenty 10-mer primers amplified on genomic DNA. Forty-one populations from 16 taxa (15 species) were studied. Jaccard's coefficient of similarity and UPGMA clustering analysis were used to construct phenograms. T tests were used to make comparisons between samples at various systematic levels. DNA markers were 75% similar for conspecific populations. Sixteen Sphaeromeria populations (5 species) showed an average interspecific similarity of 21%. Interspecific similarity among 23 Artemisia populations (8 species with 2 subspecies of A. tridentata included) averaged 27%. Two Tanacetum species (1 population each) were 89% similar. The high similarity of the Tanacetum species was in the range of observed values for conspecific populations; indeed those 2 species (T. vulgare and T. boreale) have been considered conspecific by some authors. The 3 subgenera of Artemisia studied (Artemisia, Dracunculus, and Tridentatae) formed separate groups. In comparisons among the genera, Sphaeromeria was 18% similar to Artemisia (more similar to subgenus Tridentatae than the other Artemisia subgenera); intergeneric comparisons of Sphaeromeria and Artemisia and Artemisia and Tanacetum each were found to be 7% similar to each other. Thus, based on DNA markers, Sphaeromeria is more similar to Artemisia than it is to Tanacetum, which supports previously established morphological distinctions. Sphaeromeria potentilloides may be misplaced in the genus Sphaeromeria based on DNA marker results. It is likely that North American Anthemideae are circumboreal derivatives of ancestral Eurasian stock and that Sphaeromeria is derived from an Artemisia-like ancestor.
41712698|New taxa include Lomatium packardiae Cronq. (Apiaceae), Croton texensis (Klotzsch) Muell. Arg. var. utahensis Cronq. (Euphorbiaceae). Other nomenclatural innovations include: Cymopterus longipes var. ibapensis (M. E. Jones) Cronq., Lomatium roseanum Cronq. (Apiaceae); Camissonia boothii (Douglas) Raven var. decorticans (Hook. & Arn.) Cronq., Camissonia boothii (Douglas) Raven var. desertorum (Munz) Cronq., Camissonia clavaeformis (Torr. & Frm.) Raven var. aurantiaca (Munz) Cronq., Camissonia clavaeformis (Torr. & Frm.) Raven var. cruciformis (Kellogg) Cronq., Camissonia clavaeformis (Torr. & Frm.) Raven var. funerea (Raven) Cronq., Camissonia clavaeformis (Torr. & Frm.) Raven var. lancifolia (A. A. Heller) Cronq., Camissonia heterochroma (S. Wats.) Raven var. monoensis (Munz) Cronq., Camissonia kernensis (Munz) Raven var. gilmanii (Munz) Cronq., Camissonia scapoidea (Torr. & Gray) Raven var. macrocarpa (Raven) Cronq., Oenothera biennis L. var. strigosa (Rydb.) Cronq., Oenothera pallida Lindl. var. runcinata (Engelm.) Cronq. (Onagraceae).
41711340|A complete description and discussion of the genus Enalosalda Polhemus is given, and the males of E. mexicana Van Duzee and Saldula hispida are described. Saldula saxicola and Saldula durangoana are described as new. Saldula suttoni Drake and Hussey is transferred to loscytus (n. comb.); Salda hispida Hodgden is considered a subspecies (n. comb.) of Saldula sulcicollis Champion.
41711751|The new species, Haplopappus alpinus of section Tonestus, is formally described and illustrated. It is endemic to the high mountains of central Nevada. Vegetative and floral morphology of related species is detailed. The new species appears to be most closely related to H. eximius but also demonstrates close affinity to H. aberrans (all three are diploids with n = 9).
41712059|Thirteen pine martens (Martes americana) were sampled periodically from July 1979 to September 1980 for plague (Yersinia pestis) antibodies and their fleas collected and identified. Four individuals were positive for plague antibodies on 8 of 24 sampling occasions. Titer peaks in these individuals occurred simultaneously in early winter but fell to undetectable levels by late spring. A chipmunk flea (Monopsyllus ciliatus) was the most common ectoparasite constituting 55% of all individuals collected. Thirty-one percent of all fleas belonged to Chaetopsylla floridensis, a species previously unreported in California. The remains of ground-dwelling sciurids (chipmunks, Eutamias spp., and ground squirrels, Spermophilus spp.) were very common in marten scats during the period preceding elevated titers. For this reason, and the fact that 92% of all fleas collected from martens during this same period were found more commonly on chipmunks and ground squirrels, these rodents were implicated as the source of the martens' exposure to plague.
41712200|Sixteen study sites were established in grazed and ungrazed stands of winterfat in Kane County, Utah. The area is located within the winter range of cattle and along U.S. Highway 89 between Kanab, Utah, and Page, Arizona. Road construction in 1957 dissected several winterfat communities, and following fencing part of the communities were released from grazing. Differences in species composition, vegetation, and soil characteristics between grazed and ungrazed sites were assessed. Major differences in site characteristics appeared due to the influence of winter grazing by cattle. Winterfat and Indian ricegrass showed increased cover on the nongrazed sites following release from grazing pressure. Winterfat also showed significant negative interspecific association patterns with all major species.
41711570|Basilia dunni Curran (1935) is reported from Venezuela for the first time, and comments are made on four other indigenous species.
41716173|Species diversity, niche metrics, cover, frequency, and soil relationships were studied on high mountain meadows on adjacent cattle and sheep allotments in Strawberry Valley, Wasatch County, Utah. The cattle allotment vegetation was predominantly Mountain bluebell (Mertensia ciliata), and the sheep allotment vegetation was predominantly Smallwing sedge (Carex microptera). Other species of importance on both areas included Letterman needlegrass (Stipa letternwnii), Mountain bromegrass (Bromtis carinatus), and Yarrow (Achillea mille folium). Tall forbs were most abundant on the cattle allotment, and low forbs, perennial grasses, and sedges were most abundant on the sheep allotment. Vegetation composition on the two allotments was significantly different.
41712221|New taxa include: Cryptantha cinerea (Torr.) Cronq. var. arenicola Higgins & Welsh; Physaria chambersii Rollins var. sobolifera Welsh (Cruciferae); Phacelia demissa Gray var. minor N. D. Atwood (Hydrophyllaceae); Iris pariensis Welsh (Iridaceae); Astragalus preussii var. cutleri Barneby and Pediomelum aromaticum (Payson) Welsh var. tuhyi Welsh (Leguminosae); Abronia nana Wats. var. harrisii Welsh (Nyctaginaceae); Camissonia atwoodii Cronq. (Onagraceae); Habenaria zothecina Higgins & Welsh (Orchidaceae); Aquilegia formosa Fisch, in DC. var. fosteri Welsh (Ranunculaceae). New nomenclatural combinations include: Rhus aromtica Ait. var. simplicifolia (Greene) Cronq. (Anacardiaceae); Lomatium kingii (Wats.) Cronq., L. kingii var. alpinum (Wats.) Cronq. (Apiaceae); Cryptantha cinerea (Torr.) Cronq. var. laxa (Macbr.) Higgins; Mertensia lanceolata (Pursh) DC. var. nivalis (Wats.) Higgins (Boraginaceae); Opuntia erinacea Engelm. var. aurea (Baxter) Welsh (Cactaceae); Arenaria fendleri Gray var. aculeata (Wats.) Welsh, A. fendleri var. eastwoodiae (Rydb.) Welsh, Lychnis apetala L. var. kingii (Wats.) Welsh, Stellaria longipes Goldie var. monantha (Hulten) Welsh (Caryophyllaceae); Oraba densifolia Nutt. ex T. & G. var. apiculata (C. L. Hitchc.) Welsh, D. oligosperma Hook. var. juniperina (Dorn) Welsh, Physaria acutifolia Rydb. var. stylosa (Rollins) Welsh, Thelypodiopsis sagittata (Nutt.) Schulz var. ovalifolia (Rydb.) Welsh (Cruciferae); Lotus plebeius (T. Brandg.) Barneby, Lupinus polyphyllus Lindl. in Edwards var. ammophilus (Greene) Barneby, L. polyphyllus var. humicola (A. Nels.) Barneby, L. argenteus Pursh var. fulvomaculatus (Payson) Barneby, L. argenteus var. palmeri (Wats.) Barneby, Pediomelum aromaticum (Payson) Welsh, P. epipsilum (Barneby) Welsh, Psoralidium lanceolatum (Pursh) Rydb. var. stenophyllum (Rydb.) Welsh, and P. lanceolatum var. stenostachys (Rydb.) Welsh (Leguminosae); Mirabilis linearis (Pursh) Hiemerl var. decipiens (Standl.) Welsh (Nyctaginaceae); Camissonia boothii var. condensata (Munz) Cronq., C. boothii var. villosa (Wats.) Cronq., C. clavaeformis (Torr. & Frem.) Raven var. purpurascens (Wats.) Cronq., C. scapoidea (T. & G.) var. utahensis (Raven) Welsh, Oenothera caespitosa var. macroglottis (Rydb.) Cronq., Oe. caespitosa var. navajoensis (Wagner, Stockhouse, & Klein) Cronq., Oe. flava (A. Nels.) Garrett var. acutissima (W. L. Wagner) Welsh, and Oe. primiveris Gray var. bufonis (Jones) Cronq. (Onagraceae); Papaver radicatum Rottb. var. pygmaeum (Rydb.) Welsh (Papaveraceae); Dodecatheon pulchellum (Raf.) Merr. var. zionense (Eastw.) Welsh (Primulaceae); Aquilegia flavescens Wats. var. rubicunda (Tidestr.) Welsh, Delphinium andersonii Gray var. scaposum (Greene) Welsh, D. occidentalis (Wats.) Wats. var. barbeyi (Huth) Welsh, and Ranunculus andersonii Gray var. juniperinus (Jones) Welsh (Ranunculaceae); Purshia mexicana (D. Don) Welsh and P. mexicana var. stansburyi (Torr.) Welsh (Rosaceae); Galium mexicanum H. B. K. var. asperrimum (Gray) Higgins & Welsh (Rubiaceae); Castilleja parvula Rydb. var. revealii (N. Holmgren) N. D. Atwood and C. rhexifolia Rydb. var. sulphurea (Rydb.) N. D. Atwood (Scrophulariaceae).
41712752|Lichens are common components of microbiotic soil crusts. A total of 34 species from 17genera are reported from soil crust communities throughout the Intermountain Area. Distribution of terricolous lichens is determined by various physical and biological factors: physical and chemical characteristics of the soil, moisture regimes, temperature, insolation, and development and composition of the vascular plant community. Some species demonstrate a broad ecological amplitude while others have a more restricted distribution. All growth forms are represented; however, the vast majority of soil crust lichens are squamulose (minutely foliose). Fruticose species are least abundant. In exposed, middle-elevation sites vagrant (detached) species are common. This paper describes and discusses terricolous lichen communities of desert habitats of the intermountain western United States. Effects of various human-related activities including grazing, wildfire, air pollution, and recreation vehicles on soil crust lichens are discussed. Gypsoplaca macrophylla (Zahlbr.) Timdal, a rare squamulose lichen which occurs on gypsifersous soils, was recently collected in Emery County, Utah, and is reported as new to the state.
41711846|A total of 19 cestodes, Ophiotaenia sp., were recovered by deworming from adult Colorado River Squawfish (Pteichocheilius licius) maintained at the U.S. National Fish Hatchery at Willow Beach, Arizona. These specimens differ from other described species and are named Ophiotaenia critica.
41712633|Arctomecon humilis Cov. is a narrow endemic, confined to gypsiferous substrates derived from the Shnabkaib Member of the Moenkopi Formation in southwestern Utah. The characteristics of seven A. humilis sites were studied to define habitat requirements of the species. Both physical and biotic aspects of the habitat were analyzed; geology, soil chemistry, and physical properties, as well as vascular and nonvascular plant communities, were studied. Chemical and physical properties of these soils vary considerably from those supporting adjacent desert-shrub communities. The dominant vascular species on A. humilis sites are shadscale and Mormon tea. It was found that A. humilis occurred in portions of the habitat where shrubs were relatively less dense. A soil-surface, cryptogamic community contributed 84% or more of the total living cover on sites that supported A. humilis. Species composition of the cryptogamic community was highly similar among sites. Likewise, composition of the cryptogamic cover was similar when random samples were compared with samples centered on A. humilis plants. The Purgatory Flat site, which does not support the poppy, seems inseparable from A. humilis sites in respect to soil characteristics and composition of the associated plant cover. There is reason to believe an A. humilis population could be established at the Purgatory Flat site.
41716181|The western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis Freeman) prefers to feed on flushing buds and current-year needles of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco). Budworm larvae will not typically consume older age classes of needles unless all current-year foliage is depleted. We tested the following null hypotheses: (1) budworm larvae can feed on foliage with a wide range of qualities (i.e., current-year versus 1-, 2-, or 3-year-old needles) without measurable effects on fitness; and (2) budworm adults do not show any oviposition preference linked to the age of the foliage they fed on as larvae. We used both laboratory and field experiments. There was strong evidence to support rejection of hypothesis 1. Budworm larvae had greater survival from the 4th instar to pupal stage when they fed on current-year foliage (43%-52% survival) versus older age classes of foliage (0-25% survival). Pupae from current-year foliage were also heavier than pupae from 1-year-old foliage. There was weak evidence to support rejecting hypothesis 2; budworm adults that had fed on current-year or 3-year-old foliage as larvae preferred to oviposit on current-year foliage. Similar conclusions were drawn from the laboratory and field experiments.
41713074|Western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis spp. occidentalis) has rapidly expanded into shrub steppe communities in the Intermountain Northwest during the past 120 yr. Cutting juniper is a management tool used to restore shrub steppe communities. Response of the understory after cutting is strongly influenced by plant species composition existing prior to treatment. This study assessed distribution patterns of understory plants over 2 growing seasons after tree cutting in a western juniper woodland. Cover, density, and diversity of understory species were compared among 3 locations: interspaces, duff zones (previously under tree canopies), and debris zones (beneath cut trees). Plant cover and density increased in all zones following tree cutting. Understory vegetation in cut woodlands exhibited strong zonal distribution. Cover and density of Poa sandbergii and Sitanion hystrix and canopy cover of annual forbs were greatest in duff zones (P < 0.05). Density and cover of other perennial grasses and total densities of perennial forbs and annual forbs were greatest in interspaces (P < 0.05). Debris zones tended to have the lowest overall understory cover and plant density values. Under juniper debris many species common to interspaces were reduced in density, although plants that survived or established beneath debris grew larger than their counterparts in interspaces. Species that increased in density and cover under debris were plants characteristic of duff zones and whose seeds are typically wind dispersed.
41711440|A noosed female Crotophytus collaris bicinctores Smith and Tanner voiced an alarm similar to that of C. wislizeni.
41712837|We translocated 196 Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) into Sawtooth Valley, Idaho, during March-April 1986-87 to augment a small resident population. Forty-four grouse equipped with radio transmitters were monitored through spring and summer. Nest sites (n = 6) had greater (P = .032) horizontal cover than did independent random plots (n = 7). During summer, grouse used sites (n = 50) with taller live and dead shrub heights, greater shrub canopy cover, and more ground litter (P < .009) than were found on dependent random plots (n = 50) 50-300 m from use sites. Distance to edge and mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata vaseyana) density best separated use sites from independent random plots in logistic regression analysis and correctly classified 64% of the use sites and 78% of the independent random plots. Sage Grouse used sites that had narrower frequency distributions for many variables than did independent plots (P < .04), suggesting selection for uniform habitat.
41712306|Reported are 158 species of Asilidae (Diptera) in 50 genera from Utah. Keys to subfamilies, genera, and species are given, along with information on seasonal and distributional occurrence in Utah. Seventy-six maps and 56 line drawings show the Utah distribution of each species and illustrate important characters used in the keys. A table summarizes the current status of names used in earlier state lists.
41712846|Vegetation and soils inside and outside an abandoned sheep corral on degraded subalpine range of the Wasatch Plateau were studied to determine the influence of approximately 37 years use of the corral on soil and plant development. Vegetal and surface cover were estimated. Herbage, litter, and soils were sampled inside and outside the corral and analyzed for Corg, N, P and S. Soil pH, bulk density, and CO-C also were measured. Storage (mass/unit area) of Corg, N, P and S was determined for each component. Yield and vegetal composition were significantly affected inside the corral boundary. Herbage yield was 2.2 times greater, litter mass 16 times greater, foliar cover of grasses 2 times greater, and forb cover 70% lower inside than outside the corral. Cover of meadow barley (Hordeum brachyantherum), a component of the predisturbance vegetation of the Wasatch Plateau, was nearly 12 times greater inside than outside the corral. These and other vegetal and cover differences reflect inside-outside differences in concentration, storage, and availability of soil Corg, N, P and S. Concentrations of Corg and total and available N, P, and S were greater in the surface 5 cm of soil inside the corral. Available P inside the corral was much higher in all soil layers. Because of bulk density differences, storage was greater inside the corral only for Corg and N at 0-5 cm and for P at 5-15 cm. Lower soil pH inside the corral appears related to soil P distribution and CO-C storage. Results suggest a need to reexamine earlier conclusions that tall forbs are the climax dominants of the Wasatch summer range.
41711635|Botanical compositions and pH values for pronghorn (Antelocapra americana) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fecal pellets from the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory Site were different. As there was no overlap between ranges of the herbivores' fecal pH values, the fecal pH technique is a valuable tool for distinguishing between fecal pellets of pronghorn and mule deer on the study area.
41712596|Listed in alphabetical order by author are 934 references to literature of the native vegetation of Nevada and Utah. This updates and expands the 1967 bibliography of Christensen for Utah. A keyword-citation index is provided.
41716174|A flock of some 1000 ravens, not associated with night roosts, was seen during the breeding season. Some were feeding on the ground while others soared in the air above them. It is suggested that the large soaring flock acted as information transfers for feeding conditions.
41712020|The eight known North American species of Microrhopala infest Solidago, Aster, and other compositaceous plants. Descriptions and keys to species and subspecies are given. Microrhopala rileyi is named as a new species from Missouri, M. hecate (Newman) is removed from synonymy with M. cyanea (Say), and M. cyanea is reduced to a subspecies of M. excavata (Olivier). Lectotypes are designated for taxa described originally in the genus Hispa, i.e., Hispa vittata, H. xerene, and H. erebus, and neotypes are designated for H. excavata and H. cyanea. Phylogenetic relationships are discussed.
41711417|The following species are described as new to science: Monarthrum cordicticum, M. tetradontium, M. conversum, M. bidentatum (Mexico), M. subgranulatum (Honduras), M. morsum, M. carinatum, M. adustum, M. insignatum, M. fastigiorum, M. limulum, M. carinulum, M. infradentatum, M. corculum, M. posticum, M. proximum (Costa Rica), M. proprium, M. notatum (Costa Rica, Panama), M. bifoveatum (Costa Rica, Venezuela), Corthycyclon caliginis, C. furvus, C. morulus (Costa Rica), C. tordus (Costa Rica, Panama), Corthylocurus debilis (Costa Rica, Panama).
41711416|Juvenile Belding ground squirrels were studied in the Sierra Nevada. Females were more trappable, had smaller home ranges, and tended to enter hibernation earlier than males. The primary sex ratio was 1:1. Individuals first emerged from the natal burrow at three to four weeks of age and a body weight of 35 g. Body weight and linear dimensions increased thereafter until hibernation began. Maximum prehibernatory weight of 200 to 260 g was attained at about 12 weeks of age. Prehibernatory fattening began at about six weeks of age. Maximum lipid stores attained weighed about 80 percent of the lean, dry body compartment. Seasonal changes occurred in weight of white and brown fat depots, adrenal glands, spleen, heart, kidneys, liver, and testes. Annual variations in snowpack and emergence schedule caused the reproductive period, and thus phenology of juveniles, to vary by as much as three weeks. The last animals to immerge were unusually small, being from late litters. Nonetheless, they may have had lipid stores sufficient for surviving hibernation.
41711602|New synonymy of American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Corthylus Erichson (= Pseudocorthylus Ferrari), Hylesinus Fabricius (= Leperisinus Reitter), Monarthrum Kirsch (= Anchonocerus Eichhoff), Corthylus spinifer Schwarz (= Metacorthylus affinis Fonseca, Corthylus affinis Fonseca), Cryphalus ruficollis Hopkins (= Cryphalus amabilis Chamberlin, Cryphalus cohradensis Wood), Gnathotrichus retusus (LeConte) (= Gnathotrichus alni Blackman), Gnathotrichus sulcatus (LeConte) (= Gnathotnchus aciculatus Blackman), Hypothenemus eruditus Westwood (= Hypothenemus german Eichhoff, Stephanoderes myrmedon Eichhoff, Stephanoderes intersetosus Eggers), Hypothenemus seriatus Eichhoff (= Stephanoderes nitidulus Hopkins, Stephanoderes subopacicollis Hopkins), Hypothenemus obscurus (Fabricius) (= Stephanoderes asperulus Eichhoff, Stephanoderes cassiae Eichhoff), Pityophthorus annectens LeConte (= Pityophthorus citus Blackman), Pityophthorus balsameus Blackman (= Pityophthorus patchi Blackman), Pityophthorus briscoei Blackman (= Pityophthorus mundus Blackman), Pityophthorus cariniceps LeConte (= Pityophthorus cognatus Blackman), Pityophthorus confertus Swaine (= Pityophthorus agnatus Blackman, Pityophthorus comptus Blackman), Pityophthorus confusus Blandford (= Pityophthorus bellus Blackman), Pityophthorus consimilis LeConte (= Pityophthorus nudus Swaine), Pityophthorus fuscus Blackman (= Pityophthorus smithi Schedi), Pityophthorus immanis Blackman (= Pityophthorus sulcatus Bright), Pityophthorus murrayanae Blackman (= Pityophthorus gracilis Swaine, Pityophthorus cutleri Swaine, Pityophthorus exilis Swaine, Pityophthorus depygis Blackman, Pityophthorus watsoni Schedi, Pityophthorus aurulentis Bright), Pityophthorus ornatus Blackman (= Pityophthorus limatus Wood), Pityophthorus pseudotsugae Swaine (= Pityophthorus thatcheri Bright), Pityophthorus pullus Zimmermann (= Pityophthorus bisuhatus Eichhoff), Scolytodes levis (Blackman) (= Ctenophorus laevigatus Chapuis, Scolytodes chapuisi Wood). The following species are named as new to science: Pityophthorus crotonis (Venezuela), Scolytodes constrictus, S. festus, S. praeceps (Colombia), S. canaliculus, S. contractus, S. jucundus, S. opacus, S. opimus, S. serenus, S. suturalis, and S. varius (Venezuela).
41711468|This taxonomic monograph of the Phacelia crenulatae group for North America recognizes 35 species and 7 varieties. A brief discussion of the history, general morphology, phylogeny, and cytology is given. All entities are separated by a comprehensive key, followed by a list of types, synonyms, descriptions, and general habitat. Distribution maps and illustrations are included. One variety is described as new. The body of this work is based on herbarium specimens and extensive field observations and collections made throughout much of North America.
41712043|The stomach contents were examined from 324 western Washington bobcats (Felis rufus) and 123 from eastern Washington taken by hunters from 1976 through 1980, for major prey items as well as sex-and age-related differences in diet. Western Washington bobcats ate primarily mountain beavers (Aphdontia rufa) (42% occurrence) and snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) (26%). Within that population females ate larger quantities of smaller prey such as douglas squirrels (Tamiasciurus douglasi) and lesser amounts of deer (Odocoileus sp.) than males. Bobcat diets in eastern Washington were more diverse; main foods consisted of lagomorphs (Sylvilagus nuttallii, Lepus sp.) (20%), red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) (15%), deer (11%), and voles (Microtus sp.) (11%). Age-related differences were most prevalent in this population, with adults consuming larger quantities of deer and larger prey than did kittens.
41711741|The progress of bud development was studied in limber pines growing in the mountains of northeastern Utah. Initiation of new bud scales began in mid-June, several weeks after elongation of the current shoot had begun. Needle primordia first appeared in September and continued to form through the winter, until all were present in May. This winter activity is believed to be fostered by surface temperatures on the terminal buds considerably higher than ambient air temperatures.
41712513|An annotated list of 108 bird species is reported from several spring and two summer visits, as well as one fall and one winter visit, into Hells Canyon on the Idaho-Oregon border. This is the first report on the avifauna of one of the deepest gorges on earth.
41711409|The bite of a male blackwidow spider on a Utah woman is described.
41711999|A hunter-harvested adult female mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) was found to have canine teeth present along both rows of teeth of the maxillae.
41712450|We examined the mycophagy (ingestion of fungi) of squirrels of five genera and eight species in the coniferous forests of Oregon. Data from 644 dietary samples demonstrated that squirrels of all eight species are mycophagous and eat the belowground fruiting bodies of at least 26 genera of mycorrhizal fungi. Four species are primarily arboreal and active throughout the year; the other four are primarily terrestrial and hibernate during winter. Of the squirrels examined, only the northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus [Shaw]) is nocturnal and almost exclusively a fungivore. The flying squirrel is used to illustrate the dynamics of all the squirrels in association with hypogeous mycorrhizal fungi, nitrogen-fixing bacteria, yeast, and coniferous trees in Oregon forests because we have studied it the most. Squirrels may prove to be vital links among different processes within temperate coniferous forests.
41711830|Alloperla furcula, A. hamata, A. roberti and Triznaka spinosa are described from North America. A new genus, Bisancora, based on the new species B. rutriformis, is described and includes B. pastina (Jewett). Alloperla quadrata is synonymized with A. leonarda Ricker.
41712416|A checklist of the vascular plants of the House Range, Juab and Millard counties, Utah, is presented. A flora of 373 species and infraspecifc taxa in 231 genera and 60 families are reported. The geology, physiography, climate, and plant communities are briefly discussed. Several endemics occur in the study area and a new taxon has been described.
41712598|Home range use and activity patterns of black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californiens) in northern Utah were studied using telemetry. Home range sizes ranged from <1 km to 3 km and did not differ between sexes or among seasons. Jackrabbits were inactive during daylight, became active at dusk, and remained active throughout the night. Animals often traversed their home ranges in a few hours. During the breeding season, males were more active than females. Jackrabbits were most active during well-lit nights, and high winds decreased jackrabbit activity.
41711791|New county records are reported for Hypsiglena torquata and Rhinocheilus lecontei, and additional distribution records are presented for Sonora semiannuhta in southwestern Idaho. These three species are more abundant than indicated by previous records.
41712049|The following species are named as new to science from Mexico: Corthylus exiguus, lustratus, micacirrus, Dendrocranulus sobrinus, Dendroterus fossifrons, modieus, Gnathotrichus alniphagus, Hylocurus dissimilis, micaceus, scitulus, secus, Phheoterus burserae, Pseudothysanoes mandibularis, simplex, squameus, truncatus. The genus Phheoterus, with P. burserae as the type-species, is also named as new.
41716155|The soil algae in the Tintic Mountains, Juab County, Utah, was studied over a one-year period in 1982 and 1983. Fluorescence microscopy was used to measure algal density in samples directly from the field. A total of 30 algal taxa was observed, blue-green algae being most abundant both in terms of density and number of species. Algal density showed peaks in late fall and late spring. Minima were present in September 1982 and July 1983. Several weak correlations between algal density and climatic data existed. In general algae correlated positively with precipitation and negatively with temperature. A combination of low precipitation and hot temperatures was likely responsible for the low density observed in July. The Chrysophyta followed slightly different trends than the other algal groups, having minima in early October 1982 and late August 1983. Field observations indicated that the degree of algal crusting varied noticeably over a period of one year, with highest abundance of hummocking in spring. Heavy summer thunderstorms destroyed algal crusting during July and August of 1983, though absolute density of algae increased during this time in response to the extra moisture.
41716165|The vegetation of three alpine cirque basins in the northern San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado was inventoried and analyzed for the degree of specificity shown by vascular plant communities for certain types of habitats identified as representative of the basins. A total of 197 vascular plant species representing 31 families was inventoried. Growth forms of all species were noted and a growth form spectrum for all of the communities was derived. The caespitose monocot and erect dicot growth forms are the most important growth forms among the community dominants. The most common growth form among all species is the rosette dicot.
41712263|Mistletoe infection of Douglas-fir and spruce seedlings increased as the mean dwarf mistletoe rating of the overstory, seedling density, and total age of seedlings increased. Percent of spruce seedlings infected increased more rapidly than for Douglas-fir as overstory dwarf mistletoe ratings increased. However, the intensity of infection as measured by the mean dwarf mistletoe rating of seedlings, increased at about the same rate for spruce and Douglas-fir. Percent infection of seedlings less than 20 years total age was higher for spruce than for Douglas-fir. Douglas-fir and spruce seedling mortality was from two to three times greater in heavily infested stands than in healthy stands.
41711549|For the last seven years, 1969 to 1976, a steady decline of cattails (Typha latifolia L.) has been observed at Farmington Bay Waterfowl Management Area, Davis County, Utah. Several parameters of Farmington Bay's environment that could cause or enhance a decline of the marshland vegetation were studied. These parameters included temperature, pH, phenols, oil and grease, heavy metals, fungus pathogens, and salt water intrusion from the Great Salt Lake. Elevated soluble salt concentrations were found to be responsible for the decline. Cattails are weakened or killed when they are exposed to soluble salt concentrations greater than 5.0 gm/liter, and there is a significant (1 percent level) negative correlation (-0.68) between soluble salt concentration and cattail height. Symptoms of elevated salt concentrations include stunted growth, leaf tip necrosis (burning), and occasional browning of an entire cattail clone. Furthermore, those salt concentrations that cause physiological stress in cattails also facilitate the growth of a decomposition fungus, Chaetophoma confluens. This fungus causes a rot consisting of irregularly scattered lesions on the surface of the rhizomes and was consistently isolated from rhizomes of declining plants.
41712424|The following new synonymy is proposed: Halystus Schedl (= Phloeographus Wood), Hylesinopsis Eggers (= Aridiamerus Schedl), Halystus namibiae Schedl (= Phloeographus mamibiae Wood), Ips stebbingi Strohmeyer (= Tomicus blandfordi Stebbing), Olonthogaster (Hylurgus) concinnulus (Walker) (= Olonthogaster nitidifrons Motschulsky), Olonthogaster nitidicollis Motschulsky (= Hyledius asper Sampson), Polygraphus longifolia Stebbing (= Polygraphus himalayensis Stebbing), Pseudochramesus harringtoni Blackman (= Pseudochramesus multiseriatus Schedl), Pseudodiamerus obscurus Eggers (= Phloeoditica obscura Schedl, 1962, and Phloeoditica obscura Schedl, 1963), Xylechinosomus brasiliensis (Schedl) (= Xylechinosomus araucariae Schedl), Xylechinus (Pseudochramesus) imperialis (Schedl), new combination (= Xylechinus calvus Schedl). The following species are named as new to science: Aphanarthrum indicum (India), Aphanarthrum reticulatum (India), Aphanarthrum royaleanum (India), Bothinodroctonus indicus (India), Bothinodroctonus setosus (Andaman Islands), Carphoborus lautus (India), Liparthrum artocarpus (India), Liparthrum tinianesis (Tinian Island), Polygraphus anogeissi (India and Burma), Polygraphus difficilis (India and Pakistan), Polygraphus querci (Burma).
41711701|Collections of Sitanion hystrix known to differ in phenological development, height, dry matter production, and total water use were examined for possible differences in leaf anatomy and in CO assimilation rates. Collections originating in warm, dry habitats produced the narrowest leaves with the fewest veins. Other anatomical characteristics examined were either not different among collections or the differences did not appear to be related to the original habitats. The CO assimilation rates were similar on per-unit weight basis; therefore total assimilation varied as a function of plant size.
41712426|We examined crop contents of 217 Gray Partridge (Perdix perdix) collected during a two-year period in eastern South Dakota. Row crop grains (corn, sunflowers) dominated late fall, winter, and spring diets. Small grains (oats, barley, wheat, rye) were rarely consumed although fields of small grains were widely available. During a severe winter when waste row crop grains were buried by snow, partridge consumed more leafy vegetation. Insects dominated the early summer diet, while foxtail (Setaria spp.) seeds were a major late summer and early fall food.
41711727|Two groups of glabrous, narrow-leaved Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus (Asteraceae) are perceived, and appropriate taxonomic combinations are made, i.e., C. v. ssp. viscidiflorus var. stenophyllus and C. v. ssp. axillaris. The two are fairly distinct geographically, and they can be separated by floral morphology. A key to all species of section Chrysothamnus (to which C. viscidiflorus belongs) is given.
41711738|Data were gathered concerning the seasonal activity pattern of a population of Columbian ground squirrels (Spermophilus columbianus) in the Idaho Primitive Area. Adult females were significantly more active in June of all years than were adult males. A relationship between ground squirrel activity and temperature is postulated in which the squirrels alter their activity so as to avoid high temperatures and possible heat stress.
41711508|Disc gel electrophoretic assays of Mimulus plants showed young stems to contain at least 15 esterase bands. The 6 bands in the center of the gels were highly reproducible. Eightyone populations representative of all the cytotaxonomic groups and of the Western Hemisphere geographic range of the Mimulus glabratus complex were assayed for those 6 bands. There was no apparent correlation between the distribution of the esterase bands and important environmental parameters such as elevation and latitude. Hence, their distribution did not appear to reflect environmental adaptive values. Each population was monophonie for its particular combination and intensity of esterase bands which is consistent with our previous suggestion that genetic drift is a strong component of the evolutionary pattern of the complex.
41712411|The interaction between a grass-feeding mirid, Irbisia pacifica (Uhler), and plant growth of intermediate wheatgrass, Thinopyrum intermedium (Host) Barkw. & D. R. Dewey, was examined on a field site in northern Utah in 1985. With egg hatch beginning in April, the bug completed its life cycle within two months. Ovarian development was completed by 11 June, a week after all bugs had become adults. The proportion of feeding damage per leaf (35.1%) peaked on the seventh week of the twelve-week study (18 July). Green leaf area per tiller decreased initially from bug feeding and then continued to decrease because of seasonal aging. All plants senesced within three months. Grass bugs predominantly attacked the second and third youngest leaves. Analyses of age-specific leaf cohorts demonstrated that the major effect of bug feeding was the loss of green leaf area and potential foliage production over time. Bug feeding may also exacerbate other physiological stresses on the host plants.
41712802|In October 1991 we recorded all black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies and cattle point attractants in a 1248-km 2 study area in southwest North Dakota and southeast Montana. Cattle point attractants were defined as fabricated water tanks and long-term supplemental feed sites. We found that a significant number of prairie dog colonies encompassed or adjoined cattle point attractants (p < .001). Prairie dog colonies associated with cattle point attractants were a mean distance of 1.0 km from the next nearest town. The existence of cattle point attractants may encourage prairie dog colonization. Conversely, refraining from using long-term cattle point attractants can discourage prairie dog colonization.
41711824|The diatom flora of the Oregon Caves National Monument, Josephine Co., Oregon, was investigated. Diatoms were distributed throughout the cave system with abundance and species diversity depending upon moisture, light, availability of mineral nutrients, and proximity to cave openings. Twenty-six taxa were identified and described.
41712146|All 25 sablefish (Anoplopoma fimbria) examined from two bays near Sitka, Alaska, were infected with anisakid larvae. There were 1 to 11 larvae per infected fish, with worms encysted in the musculature of the body wall of 5 fish and in the liver of 4 fish. For the other hosts the viscera was the site of infection. Chinook salmon (Onchorhynchus tshawytscha) from Barrow, Alaska, and Obsidian, Idaho, were also infected with anisakid larvae. These data extend the known northern distribution of the anisakids along the Pacific Coast for sablefish and chinook salmon. The pathogenesis of the migratory pathway of anisakid larvae is described, and comments on human health implications are presented.
41711620|The allelopathic effects of bur buttercup (Ranunculus testiculatus) tissue on selected grasses and forbs varied according to the substratum for germination and growth. The in vitro effects of an aqueous extract of buttercup tissue on germination and root development of five grasses were strongly inhibitory in all cases. However, in soil the effects of buttercup tissue on germination and growth of seven grasses and two dicotyledonous herbs were small to nonsignificant. Deleterious effects were less severe in fine-as opposed to coarsetextured soils. Under field conditions, the ability of seedlings of the grasses to compete with buttercup varied with the species.
41712096|The pattern of vegetation on avalanche paths has usually been ascribed to the damage done by snowslides. In the northern Rocky Mountains the pattern of herbs, shrubs, and small trees appears to be more complex than could be accounted for by avalanche magnitude and frequency. The vegetation on one path in Montana illustrates that the topography of the path is a factor in the distribution of species. Three zones exist across avalanche paths: an inner zone of herbs and suffrutescent shrubs occupying a ravine, which is snow covered longer than elsewhere; flanking zones of dense shrubs and trees with flexible stems; and an outer zone of less dense shrubs that is more xeric. The pattern of vegetation seems to be due to avalanche-related stress rather than damage.
41711657|Over 1,000 herbarium specimens including 24 type specimens were examined in an attempt to achieve a clearer understanding of the Phlox longifolia complex. Four variables were measured for each specimen and the data were statistically analyzed by discriminant analysis. Using a previously published system of classification for the complex, approximately 73 percent of the measured variation among the specimens was accounted for by that system. The clustering patterns produced in this first analysis indicated that a more conservative approach would be advisable. The formulation and subsequent application of a modified system produced a grouping of specimens that accounted for 95 percent of the measured variation for the four morphological characters considered. From four species and seven subspecies previously recognized, one species with five varieties is proposed. The typification of Phlox longifolia Nutt. and other related taxa is resolved.
41712753|Bryophytes were found to be abundant as components of microbiotic soil crusts on the calcareous soils of Mungo National Park, an arid area of southern central Australia. Six sites that reflected differences in soils, topography, and vascular plant vegetation were studied. At each site bryophytes were abundant, both in terms of number of species present and percent ground cover. Number of species present did not differ significantly between sites, but percent bryophyte cover was lower at a site on sand dunes in mallee woodland and a site on a silcrete ridge than at the four other sites. Environmental factors (soil texture, pH, conductivity, nutrient status, vascular plant vegetation, light level, leaf litter, and fire frequency) appear to play a significant part in determining bryophyte distribution. Mosses that occur at Mungo are also widespread on calcareous substrates throughout arid southern Australia. Many of the bryophyte species present at Mungo also occur on limestones in high rainfall areas of eastern Australia. Environmental factors favoring bryophytic soil crusts in arid Australia are also present on limestones in high rainfall areas of eastern Australia and may account for the presence of many arid zone bryophyte species on limestones. In Australia there appears to be a relationship between rainfall and the ratios of acrocarpous to pleurocarpous mosses, and thallose to leafy liverworts. Recognition of calcareous soils, widespread in arid areas of southern Australia, may be possible by assessing a combination of characteristics of bryophyte assemblages.
41711490|New synonymy is proposed as follows: Pityophthorus Eichhoff (= Gnathophorus Schedl, Gnathophthorus Wood), Araptus confinis (Blandford) (= Neopityophthorus glabricollis Schedl), A. eruditus (Schedl) (= Neodryocoetes buscki Blackman), A. hymenaeae (Eggers) (= Neodryocoetes humilis Blackman), A. schedli (Blackman) (= Neodryocoetes lenis Blackman), A. tenellus (Schedl) (= Ctenyophthorus mexicanus Schedl, Neodryocoetes granulatus Schedl, Araptus cuspidus Wood), Coccotrypes carpophagus (Hornung) (= Coccotrypes liberiensis Hopkins, Coccotrypes punctatulus Eggers), C. dactyliperda (Fabricius) (= Coccotrypes bassiavorus Hopkins), C. robustus Eichhoff (= Coccotrypes cylindricus Schedl), Cryptocarenus heveae (Hagedorn) (= Cryptocarenus caraibicus Eggers), Hypothenemus setosus (Eichhoff) (= Stephanoder es congonus Hagedorn), Microcorthylus minutus Schedl (= Microcorthylus minutissimus Schedl), Pseudopityophthorus limbatus Eggers (= Pseudopityophthorus micans Wood), Xyleborus obliquus (LeConte) (= Xyleborus gilvipes Blandford, X. brasiliensis Eggers, illepidus Schedl). Hypothenemus javanus Eggers is a valid species. The genus Dacnophthorus, type-species Gnathophthorus clematus Wood, is described as new to science. The following species are described as new to science: Araptus consobrinus, A. micaceus, Pityophthorus ezplicitus, and P. inceptis (Mexico), P. costatus and P. mendosus (Costa Rica), P. de gener and P. timidulus (Panama), P. amiculus (Mexico, Costa Rica), and P. dissolutus (Costa Rica, Panama), Xyleborus californicus (California), X. incultus, X. molestulus (Panama), and tristiculus (Brazil).
41711879|The following species of Scolytidae (Coleoptera) are described as new to science: Amphicranus splen dens, Araptus micropilosus (Mexico), Araptus morigerus (Panama), Araptus placetulus (Mexico), Chramesus bispinus (Colombia), Cnesinus aquihuai (Mexico), Cnesinus atrocis (Panama), Cnesinus meris (Colombia), Dendrocranulus gracilis, Hylastes retifer, Hyhcurus prohtus, Micracis burgosi, Phbeotribus perniciosus, Pseudothysanoes fimbriatus, Pseudothysanoes pini, Scolytodes pilifer, Scolytus binodus (Mexico).
41712767|A literature review and field observations indicate that most sciurids are facultative predators on small vertebrates. This behavior is documented for at least 30 sciurid species in 8 genera. The frequency of prdation apparently is influenced by various factors including climate, season, gender, reproductive condition, and availability of plant sources for certain nutrients such as calcium and nitrogen. Although sciurids assimilate as much energy from animal foods as do obligate carnivores, behavior associated with predation appears to be less efficient in sciurids and may rely partly on prey habituation and other adaptive behaviors.
41712368|Critical thermal maxima (CTM) and thermal preferenda of the common fishes of the Virgin River were examined. Differences in final temperature preferenda and CTM for species with low thermal lability (speckled dace, spinedace, roundtail chub) correspond well with differences in their distribution and abundance in the river. These species shifted their acute thermal preferences relatively little as acclimation temperature increased. For thermally labile species (woundfin, red shiner, desert sucker, and flannelmouth sucker), the final preferendum is a less precise indicator of probable distribution. The woundfin, an endangered fish, has a high CTM (39.5 C at 25 C acclimation) and a labile acute preferendum (slope nearest 1) compared to other species in the system. The introduced red shiner likewise has a high CTM and a labile acute preferendum. In cooler temperatures, its acute preferendum shifts more rapidly than does that of the woundfin. At higher temperatures (above 15 C), the red shiner does not shift its acute preferendum as rapidly as does the woundfin. The red shiner, however, has a higher final preferendum. For thermally labile species, influence of acclimation temperature on mean preferendum, together with CTM, provides a better insight into distributional relationships within the system.
41711619|Four species of junipers, Juniperus osteosperma, J. scopulorum, J. monosperma, and J. deppeana, occur in mixed stands at Walnut Canyon National Monument, Arizona. All are parasitized by Phoradendron juniperinum, but the mistletoe was most common on J. osteosperma and least common on J. scopulorum. Fernbush (Chamaebatiaria millefolium, Rosaceae) was a very rare host.
41712665|Portions of the Colorado, Dolores, Green, and San Rafael rivers in Utah were surveyed for the breeding Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus anatum) from 1986 to 1988. Eleven physical variables were measured at nest cliffs (N = 22) and nonnest cliffs (N = 22) to discern descriptors of cliff choice and subsequent occupancy by breeding peregrines in unexplored habitat within the Colorado River and its tributaries. Ratio scale measurements were subjected to discriminant function analysis or the Mann-Whitney test to determine significant differences between clifif types. At nest cliffs, Rayleigh's and Kuiper's tests were applied to compass directions to ascertain mean direction and circular uniformity. None of the variables we selected revealed any appreciable descriptive ability, which suggests that certain physical attributes of a nest cliff are of questionable value in forecasting occupancy by breeding peregrines within that particular habitat.
41711735|Seasonal depletion by vegetation where sagebrush was selectively removed by grubbing and where sagebrush was sprayed with 2,4-D was 33 and 12 percent less, respectively, than that for undisturbed big sagebrush vegetation in the surface 122 cm of soil. Differences were located primarily below 61 cm in vegetation grubbed the previous fall and below 91 cm in vegetation sprayed three years previously. Total root weights under grubbed and sprayed vegetation were 29 and 16 percent less, respectively, than for undisturbed big sagebrush vegetation. Total herbaceous production by grubbed and sprayed vegetation was 69 and 43 percent less, respectively, than production by undisturbed vegetation.
41713114|Ecology of the endangered Gila topminnow is reviewed, described, and reconstructed; natural conditions are placed in perspective with human-altered habitats of today. In the natural state of waxing and waning of habitat size as a function of precipitation patterns and catastrophic events such as severe winter cold, the species in the past likely underwent dramatic expansions and contractions in population size and geographic range. Today, population expansions are unlikely because of constraints imposed by human activities. The original patterns of dispersal from refugia in "good" times and retreat in "bad" times, if they are to occur, must be re-created through human translocation. Further, most refugia now are destroyed or inaccessible to recolonization, so remnant, natural populations, along with established, transplanted stocks of appropriate size and genetic quality, need protection. Populations also must be established and maintained in artificial refugia. Last, even if connectedness were to be reestablished and refugia provided, intervening habitats harbor introduced piscivores such as western mosquitofish that interdict and eat dispersing topminnows and their progeny. Elimination, exclusion, or management against such offending species is mandatory to prevent topminnow extinction and achieve recovery.
41712342|A rodenticide, zinc phosphide, was applied to remove black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) from 6 ha of a prairie dog colony in southwestern South Dakota. Another adjacent 6 ha was left untreated. The removal experiment was repeated two consecutive years. Contingency table analysis showed that the resultant population was not homogeneous; age classes by sex of the immigrant and resident subpopulations were different (P < 0.01). The ratio of adult females to yearling females was greater among immigrants than among residents (P < 0.03). Female immigrants did not produce young in the treated zone during the year of their arrival. Fewer of these females displayed distended nipples than expected (P < 0.01), indicating that these immigrants did not reproduce during the reproductive season immediately preceding dispersal and suggesting that failure to reproduce may have stimulated dispersal.
41712154|Named and described is Talinum thompsonii Atwood & Welsh. The species is evidently most closely allied to T. validulum Greene from northern Arizona. The new species is known from the Cedar Mountain region of Emery County, Utah.
41712945|We investigated occupied squirrel middens and squirrel sightings and vocalizations as indicators of red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) abundance in the high-elevation whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) zone. Data were collected 1984-1989 from line transects located on 2 study sites in the Yellowstone ecosystem. We evaluated the performance of each measure on the basis of precision and biological considerations. We concluded that, of the 3 measures, active middens were the best indicator of red squirrel abundance. We also observed that the density of active middens dropped by 48%-66% between 1987 and 1989, following a severe drought and extensive wildfires that burned one of the study sites during 1988.
41711787|The diversity and abundance of reptiles were studied in three vegetation types on the Santa Rita Experimental Range, Arizona. Total reptile sightings were greatest in undisturbed mesquite and mesquite with irregularly shaped clearings. No zebra-tailed lizards (Callisaurus draconoides) or desert spiny lizards (Sceloporus magister) were seen, and significantly fewer western whiptails (Cnemidophorus tigris) were in the mesquite-free area. Only the Sonora spotted whiptail (Cnemidophorus sonorae) was significantly more abundant in the mesquite-free area than in the undisturbed mesquite. In an effort to increase grass production for cattle in mesquite grasslands, it is preferable to clear irregularly shaped areas rather than to attempt total mesquite removal, if reptiles are to be considered.
41712095|During the winters of 1980-1984 winter mortality of mule deer fawns in central Utah was assessed. It was determined that the winter mortality ratio for female fawns as compared to males was 156: 100. This mortality factor should be taken into consideration by game and range managers when determining harvest recommendations.
41712537|This report is a comparative study of the hyobranchial skeleton of the three species in the family Cryptobranchidae and four species of the family Hynobiidae, all of which are figured. Anatomical differences between the cryptobranchids and their relationship to hynobiids are noted and discussed. Reference is made to a relationship that may exist between these families and other salamander families, particularly the possible relationship of the Hynobiidae to the super families Ambystomatoidea or possibly Plethodontoidea.
41712222|Named are the following: Astragalus limnocharis Barneby var. tabulaeus Welsh var. nov., from the pass between Boulder Mountain and the Table Cliff Plateau, Garfield County, Utah; A. eremiticus Sheldon var. ampularioides Welsh var. nov. from Washington County, Utah; Lupinus argenteus Pursh var. moabensis Welsh var. nov., from southeastern Utah, validated by inclusion of a Latin diagnosis; Erigeron zothecinus Welsh sp. nov. described from moist alcoves along Lake Powell, eastern Kane County, Utah; Cleomella palmerana Jones var. goodrichii Welsh var. nov. described from Uintah County, Utah; Arabis vivariensis Welsh sp. nov. named from northeastern Uintah County, Utah; Oraba kassii Welsh sp. nov. described from material taken in the Deep Creek Mountains, western Tooele County, Utah.
41712089|Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. uintahensis (Asteraceae) is formally described and illustrated. The new subspecies represents stabilized hybrids that most probably have C. nauseosus ssp. hololeucus x C. parryi ssp. attenuatus ancestry. Morphological and anatomical comparisons are made among the putatively related taxa.
41712366|New specimens of Sahniocarpon harrisii Chitaley & Patil were collected from the Deccan Intertrappean beds at Mahgaon Kalan in central India. These specimens form the basis for this reinvestigation of the species and an emended diagnosis. A tuberculated seed coat, a chalazal haustorium, and the bitegmic nature of the testa can be observed in the new specimens. These features were not included in the original description. Although the extant genera of Clusiaceae and Sahniocarpon are not similar in all aspects, they are close enough to tentatively assign Sahniocarpon to this tropical family.
41712690|We studied aquatic insect production in three cold desert streams in southeastern Washington. The Size-Frequency (SF) and P/B methods were used to assess production, which is expressed by taxon, functional group, and trophic level. Dipterans (midges and black flies) were the most productive taxa, accounting for 40-70% of the total insect production. Production by collectors and detritivores was the greatest of all functional groups and trophic levels, respectively, in all study streams. Insects with rapid development times and multiple cohorts are very important in cold desert streams; they were major contributors to the total insect production. Total insect production rates in our study streams (14 23 g DWm yr ) were greater than those found in Deep Creek, Idaho (1.2 g DWm yr), the only other cold desert stream for which production data are available. Our values also were generally greater than published data for most cold/mesic (3-27 g DWm yr) and humid/mesic (3-25 g DWm yr) streams, but lower than in Sonoran Desert Streams (> 120 g m yr) or New Zealand streams (~40 g DWm yr). Our data support the contention of others that production, rather than density or biomass, is the most accurate and meaningful way to assess the role of these organisms in lotic ecosystems.
41711530|The sexual imprinting of a Barn Owl (Tyto alba) on humans is reported.
41711412|The genus Doroneuria is reviewed, and characters necessary for recognition of its two included species are figured. Doroneuria baumanni, sp. nov., is described for the male, female, and nymph, and a male holotype and female allotype are designated. Calineuria is removed from the synonymy of Doroneuria, and the genus is characterized in detail. Distributional data are presented for species in both genera.
41711998|Since Draba pectinipila Rollins was described in 1953, it has been assigned to several different taxonomic categories. It has been recognized at the species and variety level and has also been placed in synonymy under D. oligosperma Hook. Then Dorn (1978) described D. juniperina and contrasted it to D. pectinipila and D. oligosperma. To clarify the status of these three taxa, the evaluation included field and herbarium observations and scanning electron microscope studies.
41712065|The Chenopodiaceae for Utah are revised. Descriptions of the family and of its genera and species are included. Keys to the genera, species, and infraspecific taxa are provided, along with pertinent discussion. Treated are 18 genera, 56 species, and 13 infraspecific taxa. Newly described taxa are Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt. var. gigantea Welsh & Stutz, Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) J. T. Howell var. ruinina Welsh, and Chenopodium capitatum (L.) Asch. var. parvicapitatum Welsh. New nomenclatural combinations are: Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt. var. occidentalis (Torr. & Frem.) Welsh & Stutz; Atriplex gardneri (Moq.) D. Dietr.  var. bonnevillensis (C. A. Hanson) Welsh, var. cuneata (A. Nels.) Welsh, var. falcata (Jones) Welsh, and var. welshii (C. A. Hanson) Welsh; Atriplex patula L. var. triangularis (Willd.) Thorne & Welsh; Atriplex saccaria Wats. var. caput-medusae (Eastw.) Welsh; Zuckia brandegei (Gray) Welsh & Stutz, and Zuckia brandegei var. arizonica (Standl.) Welsh.
41712417|Surface-bearing pressure in newer logging skid trails compared to the 40+-year-old trails was approximately 60% greater as measured by a cone penetrometer. Surface soil compaction from tractor skidding may last 40 years or more, as evidenced by the fact that skid trails ofthat age were 20% more resistant to the penetrometer than areas adjacent to trails. No relationship was found between dry-bulk density (measured with a balloon apparatus) and surface-bearing pressure.
41712145|The interaction between Southwestern dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium vaginatum subspecies cryptopodum, infestation and defoliation by the pandora moth, Coloradla pandora pandora, on the Kaibab Plateau in Arizona was evaluated. Heavy defoliation of ponderosa pine, Pinus ponderosa, in 1979 and 1981 resulted in mortality of individual trees in areas of heavy dwarf mistletoe infestation. Postmortem evaluation of ponderosa pines indicated that dead trees had a significantly higher dwarf mistletoe rating than did nearby paired live trees. Of 25 tree pairs evaluated, only two live trees had higher dwarf mistletoe ratings than the paired dead tree. Mean dwarf mistletoe ratings were: live trees 2.9, dead trees 4.6 (6 class dwarf mistletoe rating system). Implications for management of the pandora moth are discussed.
41711868|Local floras, that is, plant lists for relatively small areas, are widely scattered, often unpublished, and difficult to locate. Over 100 local floras from the southwestern United States (Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, and Utah) are listed and briefly annotated.
41712113|Late summer diet composition of mule deer was determined daily within a mountain browse enclosure dominated by antelope bitterbmsh. Palatable forages of low abundance were rapidly depleted, and bitterbmsh continually composed over 50% of the diet, even at utilization exceeding 350 deer-days/ha. The relationship of bitterbmsh forage production and deer-days use is discussed.
41712908|Cited are names and combinations within the woody species of Atriplex as they occur in North America. Types and their repositories are included for all taxa except those for which that information could not be located. New nomenclatural proposals include Atriplex gardneri var. aptera (A. Nelson) Welsh & Crompton, comb, nov.; A. garrettii var. navajoensis (C. A. Hanson) Welsh & Crompton, comb, nov.; Atriplex acanthocarpa var. coahuilensis (Henrickson) Welsh & Crompton, comb. nov. A lectotype is designated for A. breweri S. Watson.
41711996|Coyote (Cants latrans) scats from two southern Utah deer herd units were collected and analyzed to establish diet selection. The category showing the most consistent frequency of occurrence was mule deer Odocoileus hemionus; lagomorphs were next. Formal statistical analysis revealed that the only significant difference in coyote food habits between herd units was in the frequency of rabbits eaten. These data suggest that coyotes in this region of southern Utah show a comparatively higher preference for mule deer but, at the same time, do not eat deer in proportion to the frequency of their occurrence.
41711494|The discovery and observation of colonies of starlings nesting in the eastern Great Basin desert indicates further expansion of the breeding range of this species in Utah. Data on nest site selection, nesting productivity, food habits, and relationships with other avian species are presented.
41712082|Dissection and rearing studies of second-year cones disclosed six species of insects associated with the seeds and cones of singleleaf pinyon pine during the spring and summer of 1976. Those most commonly encountered were: Dioryctria sp. probably albovittella Hulst, Conophthorus monophyllae Hopkins, and Pineus coloradensis Gillette. The three remaining species were of lesser importance. These included the gall midge, Asynapta sp., a minor cone pest and two parasites, one of C. monophyllae, Acerocephala atroviolacea Crawford, and an unidentified parasite of Dioryctria, of the family Ichneumonidae. Dioryctria sp. probably albovittella was regarded as the major insect destroying cones and seeds of P. monophylla in this study. During the growing season it attained a maximum level of 29% infestation. Conophthorus monophyllae occurred less frequently in this study, but probably has a higher potential for destruction in years of poor cone crops or high cone beetle populations. Pineus coloradensis caused negligible damage to seeds and cones, but was encountered frequently. Early in the growing season it infested a maximum of 38% of the cones.
41711365|Platyoplus, n. gen., is erected for P. gilaensis, n. sp., from the Gila Mountains, Yuma Co., Arizona. The method of preservation for these large, soft-bodied insects is described.
41712325|Rubber rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus nauseosus [Pallas] Britt. ssp. viridulus) may prove to be a source of high-quality cis-isoprene rubber, but its establishment is limited by a lack of information on seed germination. Consequently, seeds were germinated at alternating temperatures (515, 525, 1525, and 2030 C) in light and dark as well as constant temperatures (1540 C with 5-C increments) to determine temperature response. Seeds were also germinated in solutions of polyethylene glycol 6000 (0 to 5 bar), salinity regimes (1, 17, 51, and 86 mM) at all the above-mentioned temperatures to determine salinity and temperature interaction. The hormones GA (0, 2.9. 29.0, and 58.0 um) and kinetin (0, 4.7, 23.5, and 47.0 um) were used to study their effect on overcoming salt-and temperature-induced germination inhibition. Seeds of C. nauseosus ssp. viridulus were very sensitive to low temperature. Best germination was achieved at 25 and 30 C, but these seeds also germinated at a higher temperature (35 C). The seeds of rabbitbrush germinated at both constant and alternating temperatures. Light appears to play little or no role in controlling germination of the seeds of rubber rabbitbrush. However, seeds of rabbitbrush were sensitive to salinity, and seed germination was progressively inhibited by increase in salt concentration, although a few seeds still germinated at the highest saline level. Progressively higher concentrations of polyethylene glycol also progressively inhibited germination. Suppression of seed germination induced by high salt concentrations and high temperatures can be partially alleviated by the application of either GA or kinetin.
41711543|The family Gentianaceae in Utah includes the genera Gentiana, Gentianella, Centaurium, Frasera, and Swertia and is composed of 15 species. Centaurium nuttallii S. Watson is placed in synonymy under C. exaltatum (Griseb.) Wight, because there is no clear-cut basis for its segregation at the species level. Similarly, Gentiana forwoodii Gray and G. parryi Engelm. are extremes of clinal variation in G. affinis and are synonymized there. Keys to the genera, species, and subspecies are provided, as well as distribution maps, descriptions, and synonymies.
41712334|Collections of mayflies of the Leptophlebiidae, genera Choroterpes Eaton, Paraleptophlebia Lestage, Thraulodes Ulmer, and Traverella Edmunds from the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico are reviewed. Choroterpes (Choroterpes) oaxacaensis Brusca & Allen is synonymized with C. (C.) inornata Eaton. The nymph described as Thraulodes species "D" Allen & Brusca is the nymph of T. arizonicus McDunnough. New distributional records extend the known ranges of C. inornata, C. (Neochoroterpes) mexicanus Allen, Paraleptophlebia memorialis (Eaton), T. arizonicus, T. brunneus Koss, T. salinus Kilgore & Allen, T. speciosus Traver, Traverella albertana (McDunnough), and T. castanea Kilgore & Allen.
41712448|Twenty-seven plant taxa previously unreported from Bryce Canyon National Park are listed.
41712634|Bromus rubens and Bromus tectorum are now nearly ubiquitous components of the Nevada Test Site (NTS) flora. Introduced to the western United States in the late 1800s, they spread through the Mojave and Great Basin deserts in the early twentieth century. Since quantitative studies began on the NTS in 1957, Bromus spp. have greatly increased in frequency and density. By 1988 both species occurred in many places at densities exceeding 1000 individuals per square meter. They may significantly increase flammability of the vegetation and reduce success of native ephemeral species.
41712993|Woody plant community composition was analyzed throughout the range of Coleogyne ramosissima in the Spring and Sheep Mountain ranges of southern Nevada. The lower Coleogyne elevational boundary was analyzed in detail in Lucky Strike Canyon, on the eastern edge of the Spring Mountains. TWINSPAN (2-way indicator species analysis) identified 4 primary species and stand groups from the 2 mountain ranges (extensive survey), and 4 primary species and stand groups in the detailed study at the lower Coleogyne ecotone (intensive survey). Analysis of DECORANA (detrended correspondence analysis) results indicated that elevation and soil depth were the environmental factors most significantly associated with distribution of species and stand groups in the extensive survey. Elevation was the only significant physical factor associated with distribution of species and stand groups in the intensive survey. Five vegetation zones from the 2 mountain ranges were identified based on their dominant species in 15 extensive transects. Coleogyne were subdivided into pure stands and upper and lower ecotones for further investigation of species distribution and environmental factors. Selected environmental factors appear to play an important role in structuring the Mojave Desert vegetation zones in southern Nevada.
41711732|Serum transferrins were analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in four populations of Colorado bighorn sheep, Ovis canadensis canadensis. Transferrin was found to be polymorphic, with two alleles, Tf D and Tf E, being represented in each of the four populations. Within herds the phenotypic ratios conformed to values predicted by the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Among populations, significant differences were seen with respect to phenotypic frequencies.
41712471|Food habits and nest site features of the Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos), Prairie Falcon (Falco mexicanas), Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis), and Ferruginous Hawk (B. regalis) were studied near Medicine Bow, Wyoming, during 1981 and 1982. Foods consisted primarily of leporids and sciurids. The Wyoming ground squirrel (Spermophilus richardsonii) dominated the diet of Prairie Falcons, while Golden Eagles preyed on leporids more than did the other raptors. Diet overlap ranged from 59 to 99% between the species. Mean height of Golden Eagle nests was greater than nest height of other species. Most raptor nests (78%) were not visible from other active nests and were in view of roads. Prairie Falcons were the most specialized and Ferruginous Hawks the most versatile raptor species in terms of food habits and use of nest sites.
41712582|Three rodenticide treatments, zinc phosphide with prebait, strychnine with prebait, and strychnine without prebait, were applied to black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies in west central South Dakota. Results were compared immediately posttreatment and for one year after application. Zinc phosphide was the most effective for reducing prairie dog numbers immediately. When burrow activity levels of prairie dogs were initially reduced by 45% with strychnine only, they returned to untreated levels within ten months. When initial reductions were 95% with zinc phosphide, however, the number of active burrows was still reduced 77% in September the following year. Strychnine with prebait treatment showed initial reductions of 83% in burrow activity. Bait consumption by prairie dogs was highest for zinc phosphide.
41712012|A revision of the willow family, Salicaceae, is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 31 species and 5 subspecific taxa of indigenous and introduced plants. Keys to genera and species are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and comments. No new taxa or combinations are proposed.
41712644|Observations of changes in population density of native White River springfish (Crenichthys baileyi) in Pahranagat Valley led to the following hypothesis: introduced convict cichlids (Cichlasoma nigrofasciatum) cause reduced growth and recruitment; cover reduces the magnitude of the effect. The hypothesis was tested by establishing sympatric and allopatric groups of the two species in experimental aquaria with and without cover. Change in volume (= mass) and length of the two species over a three-month period in spring 1986 and 1987 was measured and analyzed using 2  2 factorial analyses. Convict cichlids caused reduced growth and eliminated recruitment of springfish under the experimental conditions. Cover did not influence growth but positively affected recruitment of springfish in allopatry. It is likely that a portion of the reduced springfish population densities in nature can be attributed to adverse effects from introduced cichlids.
41712860|Insects visiting flowers of the endangered Heliotrope milkvetch, Astragalus montii, were compared with those visiting two common sympatric congeners, A. kentrophyta and A. miser, on three sites on the Wasatch Plateau of central Utah for 2 yr. We recorded 27+ species of bees, most of which were uncommon, visiting the three species. All three species were primarily visited by native bees of the genera Osmia (15 species) and/or Bombus (4 species). Most Osmia species visited the three species of Astragalus indiscriminantly; bumblebees preferred A. miser and avoided A. montii. Our hypothesis that A. montii flowers would receive fewer total bee visits and be visited by fewer bee species than their common congeners was rejected: A. montii was intermediate to the two common species in its attractiveness to bees. Also rejected was our hypothesis that the greater similarity between A. montii and A. kentrophyta in flower size, flower morphology, and microhabitat would be associated with greater similarity of flower visitors than either had with A. miser. The data suggest that, rather than competing with each other for pollinators, the three species of Astragalus facilitate each other's visitation rates.
41712372|Vascular plant communities surrounding Benton Hot Springs, Mono County, California, were studied. The springs complex is comprised of two thermal springs, a thermal stream, and a cooling pond. Water temperatures varied from 57 C in one hot spring to 45 C at the cooling pond. The vegetation showed concentric zones about the springs and cooling pond and parallel zones beside the stream. Each zone demonstrated its own dominant plant species with some species being present in two or more zones. A total of six zones were identified plus an algal mat on the springs themselves. Soil factor patterns varied from spring to desert as did vegetational parameters. Soil moisture appeared responsible for most of the patterns observed.
41711481|Two local piericl populations in western North America showing regionally aberrant phenologies were investigated in the laboratory. Neither a partially bivoltine Pieris napi from the Sierra Nevada foothills in El Dorado County, California (surrounded by univoltine populations), nor a vernal-univoltine P. occidentalis from a foothill outlier of the Colorado Front Range (below bivoltine populations) showed unusual responses to controlled developmental regimes in the laboratory. Their unusual phenologies are hypothesized to be the product of microclimate. Failure to undergo genetic adaptation to unusual microclimates is discussed with particular reference to the presence or absence of gene flow from nearby normal populations.
41712101|The putative intergeneric hybridization between Stansbury Cliffrose (Cowania) and Apache Plume (Fallugia) is found to be undocumented. Chromosome counts support reported base numbers for Cowania and Fallugia to be n = 9 and n = 14 respectively.
41712741|Arctic grayling in Deer Lake, Montana, spawn only in the 350-m segment of outlet stream between the lake and a waterfall. The purpose of this study was to examine consequences of and possible adaptations by this population to spawning above the falls, by determining the extent of loss over the falls of age-0 young, the daily and seasonal patterns of such losses, and the seasonal pattern of movement upstream into the lake by the remaining young. We measured fish movements during 1989 and 1990 with traps placed at the outlet and at the falls, from fry swimup in July until October or November. Young went over the falls predominantly as newly swimming fry at night. In 1989 about 5000-9000 were lost downstream, representing an estimated 47% or less of young produced. Most young thus appear adapted to maintaining their position above the falls. A few started entering the lake in August and September, but only 95 in 1989 and 23 in 1990 had done so by the time observations were ended by the onset of wintery conditions. Most movement into the lake appeared to occur sometime during the six to seven months of annual ice cover. This extended period of stream residence contrasts with early lakeward movements reported for other inlet-spawning, lacustrine grayling populations and maybe an adaptation for avoiding predation by large conspecifics in Deer Lake.
41712938|In a pion-juniper woodland in northwestern Arizona, connected basal cladodes of a prickly pear cactus (Opuntia littoralis var. martiniana) form check dams that cause deposition of N-rich detritus in interspaces otherwise lacking litter. Seventy-eight percent of connected basal cladodes measured in transects grew at an angle (with respect to the slope contour)  45an orientation facilitating deposition of flood-borne debris. Soil total N was significantly greater (P < 0.01) and organic C was greater, but not significantly, above cactus dams compared to below cactus dams. Soil total N and organic C both above and below cactus dams were significantly greater (P = 0.0001) compared to adjacent interspaces. Soil total N and organic C above cactus dams were equal to areas beneath canopies (tree and shrub combined). Net NO (05 cm depth) above cactus dams was significantly greater (P = 0.0001) than below cactus dams, at interspaces, and beneath canopies. Net NH (05 cm soil depth) above cactus dams was significantly greater (P < 0.01) than below cactus dams and interspaces, and was greater (but not significantly) than beneath canopies. At 510 cm soil depth, differences in net NH and net NO between sampling locations were not significant except for the difference in net NO above and below cactus dams (P < 0.05). The litter layer above cactus dams had twice as much total N (P < 0.01) as the litter layer beneath canopies (tree and shrub combined); differences in net mineralized N were not significant between litter layers. Over the course of a single rainy season, detritus depth behind cactus dams increased up to 23 cm, with a mean increase of 4.3 cm (<tex-math>${s_{\bar x}}$</tex-math> = 0.625, P = 0.0001).
41711812|Montia linearis Dougl., a plant known from British Columbia to Montana, Nevada, and California, is reported from Utah.
41712136|Limber pine (Pinns flexilis James) seeds are usually wingless but occasionally have short, stubby wings. To determine the effectiveness of these wings in slowing seed descent, rates of fall were determined before and after wing removal. A similar experiment was conducted with seeds of Himalayan blue pine (P. griffithii McClelland), a white pine with typically long seed wings. The short wings of limber pine seeds were found to influence rate of seed fall far less than the wings of Himalayan blue pine. This is consistent with evidence suggesting that limber pine seeds are not effectively dispersed by wind but are dependent for dispersal on Clark's Nutcracker (Nucifraga cotumbiana).
41712198|A new genus, Stylolidia, and two new species, Stylolidia pectinata n.sp. (type species) and Stylolidia cristata n.sp., from Malaysia are described and illustrated. A key to the males of the known species is also included.
41712323|Reproductive ecology of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) was studied on the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge in northeastern Montana (1978-1980 and 1985). Breeding took place from early March through early April in most years. Persistent snow cover and below normal temperatures in February and March of 1978 delayed the start of breeding. Litter size averaged 4.4 but varied significantly among years. Average yearly litter size was correlated (r = 0.986) with summer Qune-September) precipitation prior to the breeding season. Largest average yearly litter size (5.0) followed record precipitation, while the smallest average yearly litter size (3.8) followed extreme drought. More than half the yearling females failed to breed while 88% of the females two years and older bred. Testes weights were greatest early in the breeding season and regressed rapidly during April.
41712307|Seeds of two halophytes, Atriplex triangularis, which grows in a mesic saline marsh environment, and Atriplex confertifolia, which grows in a xeric desert environment, were analyzed by energy-dispersive X-ray microanalysis for the distribution of elements. The highest concentration of sodium, chlorine, potassium, and calcium was present in seed coats of A. triangularis. All of the elements detected were at low concentrations in the endosperm. Embryos contained the highest amount of phosphorus that is probably associated with organophosphate compounds. Potassium was also high in embryos. The total amount of elements in all regions of A. confertifolia was low as compared to A. triangularis. In a similar pattern sodium, chlorine, potassium, and calcium were the highest in seed coats of A. confertifolia. Elemental concentration was also low in the endosperm. Likewise, the phosphorus level was the highest in the embryo. The results support the concept of elemental compartmentalization in seeds of these halophytes.
41712220|Swift fox (Vulpes velox) were investigated in western South Dakota to determine food habits and denning site characteristics. Over a three-year period food habits consisted of mammals (49%), followed by insects (27%), plants (13%), and birds (6%). Dens were located near hilltops within two habitat types, shortgrass and midgrass prairie; each type is characterized by differing plant species. Soil type was not a selective factor for den sites of swift fox. Management considerations for enhancing swift fox populations are presented.
41712992|The recent and future introduction of several ungulate species on Antelope Island necessitates knowledge of habitat use by each species. In this study habitat preferences of reintroduced pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) on Antelope Island were evaluated during February-March 1993 and January-March 1994. Elevation, slope, physiography, aspect, and habitat type of sites used by pronghorn were compared to similar data collected from random points. During the severe winter of 1993, pronghorn preferred terrain that was 1281-1380 m in elevation and was relatively flat or at the base of a hill. Slopes greater than 30% were avoided. South-facing slopes were preferred; west-facing slopes were avoided. Pronghorn preferred sagebrush habitats and avoided grasslands. During the mild winter of 1994, pronghorn showed preferences for slightly higher elevations, avoided slopes greater than 30%, but used other habitat features in proportion to their availability. Future winter studies of pronghorn should include considerations of snowfall patterns and the availability, versus the abundance, of sagebrush.
41711539|Desert Tortoises (Gopherus agassizi) from Utah showed courtship behavior consisting of a complex series of behavioral elements.
41712282|Four new species of Mexican Pityophthorus in the Lautus group are described: P. indefessus (Jalisco), P. inhabilis (Guerrero), P. tutulus (Veracruz), and P. vegrandis (Quintana Roo) and a new locality record is given for P. corruptus Wood.
41712269|Named is Mentzelia pumila (Nutt.) T. & G. var. lagarosa Thorne var. nov. from Utah.
41712666|White locoweed (Oxytropis sericea Nutt.) is restricted to the top and windswept ridges of the Raft River Mountains. Elevation and soil characteristics have the greatest effect on its occurrence. It is most abundant on the subalpine windswept ridge ecological site (9.2 plants/m) above 2,380 m. White locoweed apparently can tolerate the extreme environmental stresses of the shallow, rocky, windswept ridges where it is one of the dominant species. White locoweed also occurs in the deep, subalpine loam site (3.8 plants/m) above 2,865 m, but it is a minor component of this plant community. It is apparently less competitive on the deeper soils, and its population fluctuates more. It exhibits an opportunistic survival strategy on the subalpine loam site by having a large reserve of viable seeds in the soil ready to germinate and establish when environmental conditions are favorable, and then declines with competition from more robust species.
41711455|Six species of Plecoptera were maintained at four different temperatures, which were constant and higher than occurred in the natural habitat, and three species at two different day lengths. Each animal was weighed each day or each week. Weight of two species in the wild was monitored from periodic collection. The weight of each animal fluctuated rhythmically, changing about five percent every five days. These short-term fluctuations probably resulted from changes in water content. Molting occurred when a peak weight was predicted from the cycle and involved temporary gain of about 20 percent in weight. Growth probably stopped for some time before molt and was most rapid just afterward. Many animals died at molt. The time before death was less for univoltine species than for those with longer life cycles. Plecoptera collected in winter from water near 0 C lived for shorter times than did those collected in autumn from water near 10 C. Two species died sooner at higher temperatures and one died sooner with shorter day lengths. Growth in the laboratory was generally slower than in nature. One species grew faster, while three grew more slowly at higher temperatures. One species grew faster under long-than short-day conditions. Premature emergence, expected at the higher temperatures, did not occur, except in one animal.
41713112|We captured 299 individuals of 11 bat species in mist-nets at 18 water sources in west central Nevada from June through August 1994. Myotis ciliolahrum, Pipistrellus hesperus, M. californicus, and Corynorhinus townsendii were the most common species captured. These species are apparently broadly distributed throughout west central Nevada, occurring in a variety of habitat types. We captured Euderma maculatum at 2 localities. These represent the 1st known records of this species in Esmeralda County, Nevada. Mine adits were surveyed for hibernating bats from December 1994 through February 1995. We determined the presence of 3 hibernating species: G townsendii, M. ciliolahrum, and P. hesperus. Bats were present in 19 of 70 mines (27%) we surveyed at elevations ranging from 1500 m to 2460 m. G townsendii was the most common species encountered. Our study provides some much-needed baseline data on bat distribution and use of mines for hibernacula in west central Nevada.
41711497|Field and herbarium studies of Penstemon cyananithus Hook. ssp. longiflorus Pennell suggest that this taxon be elevated to species rank.
41713073|On degraded subalpine range of the Wasatch Plateau, we examined the hypothesis that recovery of vegetation, as manifested by its composition and biomass yield, was related to soil phosphorus (P) and sulfur (S) status. We sampled 6 topographic locations to determine the relationship among composition and yield of grasses and forbs, litter cover, and soil characteristics including rock cover, organic carbon (Co), total N (Nt), available nitrogen (Nav), total phosphorus (Pt), organic P (Po), inorganic P (Pi), total potassium (K), total S (St), and element ratios. We also evaluated aspect effects. An alternative hypothesis was that productive potential was a function of depth of soil remaining after the period of destructive grazing. Differences among locations were significant for all vegetal attributes and for all soil characteristics except total K and Co. Aspect was significant only for forb yield and Pt. Regression coefficients for yield and percentage composition of grasses were always opposite in sign to those for forbs. Yield and composition of grasses and forbs as groups were oppositely and strongly related to soil element ratios of Co/Pt, Nt/Po, Co/Pt, and Co/St but were not related to soil Pt or St. There was no clear support for acceptance of the hypothesis that soil P and/or S were major factors in recovery of this subalpine range after destructive grazing. Differences in regression coefficients and lower r-values among species within grass and forb groups, than for the groups themselves, to soil variables is a reflection of species individuality. This indicated a need to examine soil/vegetation relationships at the species level. Percentage compositions of grasses and forbs were oppositely related to the depth of A + B horizon, lending support to acceptance of the alternative hypothesis.
41711862|A description of some physical, chemical, and biotic features of Timpie Springs, Utah.
41711952|The relict dace, Relictus solitarius, represents the only genus and species of fish native to Ruby, Butte, Goshute, and Steptoe valleys in northeastern Nevada. In their natural habitats temperature ranges 0-25 and salinity 175-1,158 mg/liter. The upper median thermal tolerance limit (96-hr TL50) of Butte Valley relict dace was 30.6 when acclimated at 18-20 Relict dace tolerated total dissolved solids (TDS) of 11,043 mg/liter with no mortality during 96-hr exposures, but experienced 100 percent mortality at concentrations of 15,759 mg/liter with a mean resistance time of 23 hours. Tolerance of relict dace to 30 was lowered as TDS was increased from 2,845 to 5,652 mg/liter. The Butte Valley fish were slightly more resistant to elevated salinities than the Goshute Valley sample, and conversely the Goshute Valley sample may be slightly more resistant to elevated temperature.
41712970|The Bonneville cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki Utah; BCT) was once abundant throughout the Bonneville Basin. In southwestern Utah, however, only 3 local populations of the subspecies were known to exist in 1977, when conservation efforts to protect and replicate them began. By 1995 remnant populations were known in 6 streams, and replicate populations had been established in an additional 16. Populations of BCT in southwestern Utah streams were surveyed by electrofishing in 1994 and 1995 to describe the subspecies' status. Estimated densities of age-1 and older BCT ranged from 118 to 546 fish per km. Biomass estimates ranged from 8 to 64 kg per ha. Several age groups of BCT were collected at most locations. Six populations were classified as self-sustaining, 9 as expanding through natural recruitment, 6 as new, and 1 as hybridized. Overall status of BCT in southwestern Utah has improved since 1977, but conservation measures must continue to maintain a positive trend.
41711692|Food habits of a population of the Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, Butte County, were studied. The 421 pellets examined yielded 2,436 prey items of at least 22 prey species. Invertebrates, largely insects, constituted 91 percent of the total prey items, but only 29 percent of the total biomass; mammals constituted 8 percent of the prey items, but 68 percent of the biomass. The prey were mostly nocturnal species; diurnal species were poorly represented.
41712590|Rectangular surveys completed between 1796 and 1925 by the General Land Office have frequently been used in the eastern and central U.S. to determine land cover prior to European settlement. These survey notes are less often used in the western U.S., although they are the only site-specific presettlement records available in many areas. Recent efforts to restore riparian and grassland habitats require an understanding of the conditions of these sites before settlement. General Land Office Survey notes provide a description of each township, including water supplies, timber resources, and agricultural potential. The width and course of rivers and streams were recorded on survey lines, along with notes on topography, vegetation, wetlands, mineral deposits, and soils. The township and section descriptions may be used with other historic information to reconstruct presettlement landscapes. Incomplete or vague descriptions, land use before survey, bias in recording data, and contract fraud limit the usefulness of some survey notes. However, survey notes have proved useful in establishing baseline conditions of riparian habitats in Colorado and Oregon and grasslands in Colorado and New Mexico.
41711725|A pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus) was taken 20 km SE Warren, Carbon County, Montana. This represents a 410 km range extension and a new record for Montana.
41711674|Ecological aspects of desert vegetation in relation to a moisture gradient along an ephemeral stream in central Arizona were investigated. The stream channel, flood plain, and north-, west-, south-, east-facing slopes represent a moisture gradient going from mesic to xeric conditions. Vegetation in some areas of the stream channel intergraded into flood plain vegetation, which in turn intergraded into slope vegetation types. In other areas there were sharp delineations between stream channel and flood plain and between flood plain and slope. Trees and legume species preferred midmoisture habitats, but forbs, shrubs, and succulents preferred dryer areas. Family groups like the Asteraceae and the Poaceae were found to be distributed ubiquitously. Niche widths were broadest for flood plain species. Diversity was highest on the slopes. Negative correlations existed between stand diversity and the Synthetic Stand Moisture Index (i.e., as moisture increased diversity increased). It is believed that disturbance as well as moisture influenced diversity.
41711587|The algal flora of the Brigham Young University campus is more diverse than previously thought. Sixty-eight genera containing 160 species of Chlorophyta, Euglenophyta, Chrysophyta, and Cyanophyta were collected and identified. The greatest number of species was obtained from a small pond in the arboretum, with progressively fewer species obtained in the irrigation canal partly surrounding the campus and in specialized habitats in the greenhouses.
41716183|Small numbers of Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) are known to have nested historically in Utah. A precise baseline figure is unavailable, but the 19th-century Osprey population in Utah probably consisted of at least 15 breeding pairs scattered in 4 geographic regions. Human persecution is believed to have caused the abandonment of nesting territories along the Wasatch Front and in the western Uinta Mountains by 1900 and 1960, respectively. Osprey populations in the southern plateaus and Green River areas, however, began increasing in the late 1970s. Several recent nesting attempts and numerous summer sightings at nontraditional and abandoned historical sites in Utah suggest the Osprey is also expanding its range in Utah. High productivity for local pairs and long-range dispersal from more northerly Osprey populations are discussed as sources for the current surge in Utah's Osprey population, which now consists of approximately 35 breeding pairs.
41711433|Two new variants of Eriogonum are proposed: E. brevicaule var atwoodii from near Fredonia, Mohave Co., Arizona and E. pharnaceoides var. cervinum from southwestern Utah and adjacent northern Arizona and southeastern Nevada.
41712742|The effects of big game depredation on juvenile fruit trees were studied in northern Utah. Utilization of trees was determined by counts of nipped and intact buds in spring. Height, width, basal diameter, number of buds, and initial fruit production of peach and apple trees were determined from trees protected from or browsed by mule deer in winter. Results from the 10 orchards studied indicated that removal of buds at the observed browsing levels had no effect on tree growth or initial fruit production.
41711857|A study was made at 18 sites with elevations between 3512 and 3768 m in the Uinta Mountains, Utah. Sites were small in extent but typified vegetation patterns found in the Uintas. Standing crop, species composition (based on dry weight), and values for several physical parameters were determined at each site. Simple linear regressions performed between the various biotic and abiotic characters revealed significant relationships between the characteristics of rocks visible at the surface (the number, size, and variation in size) and vegetation cover. This relationship was probably due to the burial of rocks as a region became vegetated. Bray and Curtis ordinations performed on the data indicated that there were several factors which influenced the species composition but that no single factor dictated the vegetational pattern.
41711659|The plant communities and individual plant species in and around a salt playa near Goshen, Utah County, Utah, were studied in relation to gradients for soluble salts, soil moisture, and pH. Forty-eight stands were sampled. Frequency data were taken for all plant species. Soil samples were collected from each site and analyzed to establish the environmental gradients. Results indicate that the vegetational types respond differentially to the three gradients and can be segregated on the basis of one or more of the gradients. The total soluble salts gradient was found to be the most influential of the three sampled. Correlation analysis indicates that 45 percent of the variation in plant diversity can be accounted for by the three gradients. Distributional patterns of individual plant species are strongly influenced by the three gradients. Niche width measurements exhibited no correlation with the measured gradients.
41711559|A mountain cercocarpus (Cercocarpus montanus Raf.) population was analyzed first in 1965 and again in 1975 to gain insight into the growth and reproduction of this species. The basis for comparison was plant height and number of basal stems. Growth (measured by height) was slow during the 10-year period, with plants on the northeast-facing slope having an average increase of 37 cm and those on the southwest-facing slope maintaining relatively the same average height. There was an overall decrease in average number of base stems for plants positioned on both slopes.
41712707|Habitat selection patterns of Merriam's Turkeys were compared in hierarchical analyses of three levels of habitat stratification. Habitat descriptions in first-level analyses were based on dominant species of vegetation. Habitat descriptions in second-level analyses were based on dominant species of vegetation and overstory canopy cover. Habitat descriptions in third-level analyses were based on dominant species of vegetation, overstory canopy cover, and structural stages (dbh categories). First-level analyses showed turkeys selected for ponderosa pine and selected against meadow habitats. No conclusions could be drawn regarding forest management on habitat selection of turkeys at this level of habitat stratification. Second-level analyses showed that selection of ponderosa pine and aspen/birch habitats varied among seasons. Implications for forest management activities on turkeys at this level of habitat stratification could be made. Third-level analyses added little to conclusions of habitat selection patterns drawn from second-level analyses and increased chances for Type II errors. Habitat selection patterns of Merriam s Turkeys were best described when habitats were stratified by dominant species of vegetation and overstory canopy cover.
41712706|The diatom flora of Beaver Dam Creek, Washington County, Utah, was studied. The study area is in a warm Mojave Desert environment at an elevation between 810 and 850 m. A total of 99 taxa were identified from composite samples taken in the fall, winter, spring, and summer seasons. These taxa are all broadly distributed and no endemic species were encountered. Three new records for the state of Utah were identified: Gomphoneis eriense Skv. & Mayer, Navicuh elginensis var. lata (M. Perag.) Patr., and Nitzschia calida Grun. The most important taxa throughout the study as determined by multiplying percent presence by average relative density (Important Species Index) were Cymbella affinis Ktz., Epithemia sorex Ktz., Navicula veneta Ktz., Nitzschia palea (Ktz.) W. Sm., and Nitzschia microcephala Grun.
41712330|In 1973 a timber harvest of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) was conducted in an area southeast of Monticello, Utah, that is inhabited by Abert squirrels (Sciurus aberti). Abert squirrel dietary habits, foraging patterns, and population densities were compared in the timber harvest area and in an adjacent nonharvested area. Squirrel feeding patterns and preferences were visually determined by physical evidence of past feeding. Live-trapping and field-marking of animals were used to determine population density and trends in the two areas. Squirrels fed in only 26.3% of sampled plots on the timber harvest areas, while 42.7% of the uncut area plots showed use (P < 0.001). Trap days per catch were higher on the harvested area (P < 0.01). Similar differences in hypogeous fungi feeding sites between the two study sites were also recorded (P < 0.01). Thus, clearcut timber harvest of ponderosa pine did negatively affect Abert squirrels. To minimize long-term effects on squirrels, timber should be harvested in small, selective blocks (< 20 acres) rather than in large-scale areas (> 50 acres) by clear-cut methods commonly employed by management agencies.
41712343|The western painted turtle, Chrysemys picta belli (Gray), is recorded for the first time from Grant County, Oregon. This specimen represents the south westernmost occurrence of the species in Oregon.
41711742|The utilization of the stinger and the predatory technique of the scorpion, Paruroctonus boreus, was studied under laboratory conditions. During the study, 83 feedings were observed. Age of the scorpions and the percentage of prey stung by them were used to classify the scorpions into groups. The scorpions aged 13-61 days always stung prey. After 62 days the scorpions began to selectively utilize the stinger. Utilization declined until it reached 30 percent in the adult stage. The stinger is apparently necessary for prey capture only in the early life stages.
41712340|Patterns of zonation along a saline meadow slope were studied. Different species associations were distributed in five zones along the slope which paralleled Utah Lake. The five zones, distinguished on the basis of dominant species and/or life form, were: saltgrass-annual weed, saltgrass-alkaligrass, saltgrass-forb, saltgrass, and spikerush. Soil, vegetation, and plant species data were taken. Patterns of change with respect to these factors were observed along the downslope gradient. Soil pH and soluble salts decreased downslope, while organic matter and moisture increased. Individual ions showed varying patterns. Vegetation and species patterns also varied with slope position. Annuals dominated the ridge tops, while sedge and rush cover were restricted to the slope base. Perennial forb distribution was shown to be correlated with elevated levels of micronutrients in the soil.
41711958|Twenty-six taxa of Grimmiaceae are listed from Nevada, all representing the genera Grimmia and Rhacomitrium. Rhacomitrium heterostichum (Hedw.) Brid. var. heterostichum and Grimmia atricha C. Muell. & Kindb. ex Mac. & Kindb. are listed for the first time as occurring in Nevada. Within the state, the Mohave Desert, the Great Basin desert, and the Sierra Nevada display unique composition of members of the Grimmiaceae. Grimmia anodon is the most widespread moss in the state. Others, such as Grimmia rivulare, G. conferta, and G. alpicola inhabit only the montane environments of northeastern Nevada.
41712067|New generic synonymy in Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Amasa Lea ( = Pseudoxyleborus Eggers), Araptus Eichhoff ( = Brachydendrulus Schedl, Gnathocranus Schedl, Gnathoborus Schedl), Chortastus Schaufuss ( = Afrochramesus Schedl), Cosmoderes Eichhoff ( = Dendriops Schedl), Cryphalus Erichson ( = Acryphalus Tsai & Li, Jugocryphalus Tsai & Li), Cyrtogenius Strohmeyer ( = Eulepiops Schedl, Ozodendron Schedl, Mimidendrulus Schedl, Artepityophthorus Schedl), Dendrographus Schedl ( = Protopityophthorus Schedl), Glostatus Schedl ( = Paraglostatus Schedl), Gnathotrupes Schedl ( = Gnathocortus Schedl, Gnathomimus Schedl, Gnathoglochinus Schedl), Hylesinopsis Eggers ( = Metahylesinus Eggers, Hapalophloeus Schedl, Hemihylesinus Schedl), Hypothenemus Westwood ( = Chondronoderes Schedl, Archeophalus Schedl, Pachynoderes Schedl, Lepiceroides Schedl), Liparthrum Wollaston ( = Dacryophthorus Schedl), Mimiocurus Schedl ( = Micracidendron Schedl, Mimiophthorus Schedl), Miocryphalus Schedl ( = Afromicracis Schedl), Phloeoditica Schedl ( = Xylechinops Browne), Pityophthorus Eichhoff ( = Breviophthorus Schedl, Neomips Schedl), Pseudothysanoes Blackman ( = Bostrichips Schedl, Gretschkinia Sokanovskii, Neoglostatus Schedl), Scolytodes Ferrari ( = Hexacolinus Schedl, Cryphalophilus Schedl), Scolytogenes Eichhoff ( = Xylocryptus Schedl), Taphrorychus Eichhoff ( = Saliciphilus Sokanovskii, Taphroterus Schedl), Tricolus Blandford ( = Pterocyclonoides Schedl), Triotemnus Wollaston ( = Cladoproctus Schedl), Xylosandrus Reitter ( = Apoxyleborus Wood). New specific synonymy in Scolytidae is proposed for: Chortastus agnatus Eggers ( = Afromicracis baguenai Schedl), Pelicerus (now Dendrographus) pygmaeus Eggers ( = Protopityophthorus durus Schedl). The status of Pseudomicracus Eggers is discussed. The following new genera are proposed in Scolytidae: Phloeographus (type-species: Phloeographus mamibiae Wood), Phloeocurus (type-species: Hylocurus africanus Schedl), Saurotocis (type-species: Micracidendron tomicoides Schedl), and Peridryocoetes (type-species: Ozodendron nitens Schedl). Pseudothysanoes spinatulus, new name, is proposed to replace P. spinatus Wood, 1956.
41712685|Sialis bilobata is described as a new species of the alderfly family Sialidae from Los Angeles County, California. A brief description of the species, illustrations, and diagnosis that compares it with Sialis arvalis Ross are provided.
41712341|Cliffrose age in relation to stem circumference and stem diameter was studied in central Utah. Age-circumference and age-diameter predictor equations were developed from material obtained from 10 stands along a 65-km section of the Wasatch Mountains foothills. Ages estimated on material of known age by the two equations were highly similar. Age predictions were more accurate for young stems than for older stems. The oldest stem aged was 163 years.
41712015|Revision of the perennial genera of North American Triticeae requires recognition of seven new genera in the Intermountain Region: Elytrigia, Leymus, Psathyrostachys, Pseudoroegneria, Thinopyrum, and the hybrid genera  Elyleymus and  Pseudelymus. One previously recognized genus, Sitanion, is included in Elymus. Several new combinations are presented to accommodate the taxonomic changes. Elymus trachycaulus is treated as a widespread, polymorphic species with three subspecies in the region: subsp. trachycaulus, subsecundus, and latiglumis. Agropyron dasystachyum and A. albicans are treated as conspecific subspecies of Elymus lanceolatus. A key to the genera of the Triticeae occurring in the Intermountain Region is presented as well as keys and brief descriptions for those genera not included in, or substantially modified from, other regional treatments.
41712261|Two adjacent mechanically treated pinyon-juniper (Pinus spp. and Juniperus spp.) big game winter range sites in central Utah were sampled in 1981 to estimate vegetational differences and tree mortality from the two treatments. One site was treated by selectively bulldozing in 1957 and the other was double chained in 1965. Both treatments significantly reduced tree and litter cover, whereas significant increases were found for native grasses and shrubs compared to a nearby untreated site. Juniper cover for the untreated site was 35.5% compared to only 1.4% for the bulldozed area and 4.1% for the two-way chained area. Browse species densities were increased by the mechanical treatments. The use of different mechanical treatments on separate smaller portions of critical areas of big game winter range would help provide: (1) for both long-term and short-term use of a critical wintering area, (2) greater overall productivity and carrying capacity, and (3) greater diversity by creating more edge effect between the differently treated and untreated areas.
41711414|The concept of parity type is proposed as a criterion of relationship among members of the Sceloporus aeneus-scalaris complex, with members of S. aeneus being regarded as viviparous and those of S. scalaris, as oviparous. The viviparous S. goldmani is regarded as a relative of S. aeneus, and S. a. subniger is not regarded as intermediate between S. scalaris and S. aeneus. The proposal by Davis and Smith that S. a. aeneus is oviparous and specifically distinct (as S. aeneus) from S. a. bicanthalis (as S. bicanthalis) is rejected. S. aeneus is hypothesized to have a biennial reproductive cycle. S. scalaris slevini auctorum is segregated into two subspecies : S. s. samcolemani subsp. noy. in the Sierra Oriental (northern end), and S. s. slevini sensu stricto in the Sierra Occidental (also northern end) of Mexico and of the adjacent United States.
41713139|A population of feral horses (Equus caballus) in the southern Great Basin Desert of Nevada was monitored from 1989 to 1998 to determine size, distribution, and population trends. All individual horses observed in the population were identified by unique markings during the first 2 yr of study, and most animals could be observed annually. During this study no new horses were identified in the population, indicating that no immigration occurred from outside populations. The population reached a high of 65 horses yearling or older in 1992 and declined each year thereafter, reaching a low of 36 horses in 1998. Estimated foal survival averaged <12% over 8 yr. Only 11 horses were recruited into the population as yearlings or older animals during the study. Mountain lion predation is hypothesized as a major factor limiting growth of this feral horse population.
41711679|Studies of microhabitat of 14 species of rodents by cluster analysis suggested that the diverse landscapes of Canyonlands National Park, Utah, include six broad "habitat-types": (1) rimrock; (2) desert shrublands; (3) saxicoline woodland and sagebrush; (4) oakbrush; (5) riparian deciduous woodland; and (6) grasslands. Perognathus parvus and Neotoma cinerea were the species most strongly associated with single "habitat-types," desert shrub and saxicoline woodland, respectively. Peromyscus maniculatus and P. truei were the species associated with the broadest ranges of habitats. The rodents with the most similar habitats were Neotoma mexicana and Peromyscus boylii; Eutamias quadrivittatus, P. truei, and P. crinitus; Ammospermophilus leucurus and P. maniculatus; and Dipodomys ordii and Onychomys leucogaster.
41712013|The first reported mammal fossil from Dry Mesa Quarry (Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation, Mesa County, Colorado) is the distal end of a right humerus. It is very similar to humeri described by Jenkins (1973) from the Morrison Formation at Como Bluff, Wyoming. It has a distinct ulnar condyle and a spiral humero-ulnar joint, both features found in prototherian mammals but not in therians.
41716159|Insect faunas and communities are characterized for herbaceous and tree canopy layers in meadow, aspen, and spruce/fir stages of a northern Utah sere. A greater percentage of species were in Thysanoptera in both aspen strata, and a greater percentage of individuals were in Lepidoptera in aspen canopy. Our sites were quite similar to a wide variety of other terrestrial sites in their distribution of species or individuals among orders or metamorphosis categories. Insects/m peaked in the aspen stage, but declined in the herbaceous layer with succession. Insects/plant biomass in the herbaceous layer increased with succession. Insects/m and insects/foliar biomass were higher in aspen canopies than in conifer canopies. Insect species/m peaked in the aspen stage. This statistic was comparable in meadow and aspen understory, and lower in conifer understory. Insects/m in the tree canopies were similar to the values in their respective understories. Insect species/plant biomass increased in the herbaceous layer with succession, but decreased in tree canopies with succession. Species evenness in both strata increased with succession. Adult body length was greatest for meadow species, least for conifer species. Adult body length per individual was greatest in aspen. Life cycle complexity was greatest in aspen. Insects on trees were more likely to have complex life cycles than those on herbs.
41712333|Fifteen genera representing nine families of spiders were collected in the southwestern United States in 1980. Thomisidae, Araneidae, Dictynidae, and Salticidae were the most commonly collected spider families. Ten genera of spiders not previously reported on sunflowers are reported for the first time.
41712214|Rearing young ungulates for ecological studies is costly and time consuming. Doe-rearing mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fawns is a viable alternative to the common method of bottle-feeding. Fawns tamed while nurtured by their tractable dams showed no marked diiference in tractability over bottle-reared orphans. The advantages of doe-rearing are better health for the young and convenience for the handler.
41711542|Differences in botfly parasitism were observed in the sympatric species Peromyscus maniculatus and P. difficilis in northern Colorado. The overall incidence of infection was 13.7 percent in P. maniculatus and only 0.6 percent in P. difficilis. The incidence of parasitism was affected markedly by trapping locality and by month of capture.
41711575|Distribution records for the Trichoptera occurring in the southeastern one-third of Idaho are summarized based on published records and collections by the authors and their colleagues. The study revealed representatives of 13 families, 37 genera, and 84 species. Several species were collected for the first time in Idaho, including: Hesperophylax magnus, Limnephilus frijole and L. thorus, Psychoglypha ormiae, Ceraclea annulicornis and C. copha, Polycentropus crassicornis, Tinodes provo, and Agrypania dextra.
41711593|Bionomics of a gall midge that emerged from nodulelike structures of herbaceous sage, Artemisia ludoviciana, was studied as a part of a larger investigation on possible nitrogen fixation by this plant. Infested plants collected from the field were regularly examined in the laboratory where some of them were grown in a liquid nutrient medium. In the laboratory, adult midges were reared from pupae and induction of infestation was attempted. Apparent nodulation of these plants is caused by the subterranean bud galls of a previously unknown gall midge, Rhopahmyia subhumilis Gagn. Life history of this midge is reported. These midges have one generation per year in the study areas and overwinter as larvae. There were no indications of paedogenesis. These midges are parasitized by a species of Platygasteridae.
41712509|White River springfish collected in August and December 1966 from Hot Creek Spring, Nevada, fed primarily on amphipods, ostracods, plant fragments, and detritus. Composition of the diet was similar in both months. However, amphipods were the most important food in August, while in December amphipods, ostracods, plant fragments, and detritus were of approximately equal importance. Comparison of diel feeding periodicity and activity patterns suggests that most of the daily activity of White River springfsh is related to feeding.
41712829|The purpose of this study was to determine the physiological responses o Agropyron smithii Rydb. to various saline environments as evaluated in the laboratory. Agropyron smithii Rydb. (Rosana) seeds were germinated, transplanted into nutrient solutions with NaCl concentrations of 0,50,100,150, and 200 mM, and grown for 80 days in a growth chamber. Results indicated that leaf water potential, relative water content of leaf tissue, and concentrations of Na, K, and Cl in plant tissue were significantly affected by increasing NaCl concentration. However, leaf chlorophyll concentration and concentrations of Ca and Mg in plant tissue were not significantly affected by the presence of NaCl.
41712864|The exotic shrub Tamarix ramosissima (saltcedar) has replaced the native Populus fremontii (cottonwood) along many streams in southwestern United States. We used a controlled outdoor experiment to examine the influence of river salinity on germination and first-year survival of P. fremontii var. wislizenii (Rio Grande cottonwood) and T. ramosissima on freshly deposited alluvial bars. We grew both species from seed in planters of sand subjected to a declining water table and solutions containing 0, 1, 3, and 5 times the concentrations of major ions in the Rio Grande at San Marcial, NM (1.2, 10.0, 25.7, and 37.4 meq 1; 0.11, 0.97, 2.37, and 3.45 dS m). Germination of P. fremontii declined by 35% with increasing salinity (P = .008). Germination of T. ramosissima was not affected. There were no significant effects of salinity on mortality or above-and belowground growth of either species. In laboratory tests the same salinities had no effect on P. fremontii germination. P. fremontii germination is more sensitive to salinity outdoors than in covered petri dishes, probably because water scarcity resulting from evaporation intensifies the low soil water potentials associated with high salinity. River salinity appears to play only a minor role in determining relative numbers of P. fremontii and T. ramosissima seedlings on freshly deposited sandbars. However, over many years salt becomes concentrated on floodplains as a result of evaporation and salt extrusion from saltcedar leaves. T. ramosissima is known to be more tolerant of the resulting extreme salinities than P. fremontii. Therefore, increases in river salinities could indirectly contribute to decline of P. fremontii forests by exacerbating salt accumulation on floodplains.
41711355|Seeds of Pinus aristata Engelm., bristlecone pine, from the type locality at the headwaters of Clear Creek in Colorado have a germination of 80 percent. Germination occurs within 10 days with or without vernalization. Scarified seeds are invaded by fungus and less than 10 percent germinate. Seedlings 10 and 180 days old do not survive exposure to -10C (14F) even when exposed to gradually decreasing temperatures to -4C (25F) for five weeks before treatment. Rapid germination, scarification mortality, and lack of cold hardness in seedlings work against the reproduction of bristlecone pine.
41711452|Polites sabuleti is an example of an insect having a univoltine, monophenic highelevation subspecies and a multivoltine lowland one that produces similar phenotypes only in cold weather. When reared under conditions that induce the warm-weather phenotype in lowland stocks, the montane subspecies P. s. tecumseh continues to produce its usual phenotype, indicating that it has become genetically fixed.
41712238|Thirty-four study sites were established in shadscale (Atriplex confertifolia [Torr. & Frem.] Wats.) and greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus [Hoov. Torr, in Emory) communities bordering Utah Lake in central Utah. Differences in species composition, vegetation, and soil characteristics were assessed. Significant differences in soil factors between the two communities were found for sand, calcium, manganese, zinc, and copper. Soluble salts and sodium concentrations were generally higher in the greasewood type, but differences were not significant. Major differences were found in understory species, with burr buttercup (Ranunculus testiculatus Grantz) showing significantly greater cover in the shadscale community and cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum L.) showing significantly greater cover in the greasewood community.
41712057|Adult pandora moths began emerging in late July, and peak daily emergence occurred during 10-15 August. The mean density of moths emerging per 929 cm of ground surface ranged from 0.1 to 2.4. The ratio of emerging males to females varied from 3-4:1 during the initial days of emergence to 1: 1.5 during the last 10 days of August. Postemergence behavior is described and discussed in relation to egg mass deposition and species survival.
41712085|Seedlings of fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt.) were inoculated with indigenous vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) fungi in a containerized system and transplanted into processed oil shale and disturbed native soil in a semiarid rangeland environment in northwestern Colorado. After two growing seasons in the field, plants inoculated with VAM had greater aboveground biomass, cover, and height than noninoculated plants. Mycorrhizal plants were more effective in the uptake of water and phosphorus: Infection levels of inoculated plants were greatly reduced in processed shale (from 13.0 at outplanting to 3.8 at harvest), but functional VAM associations could be found after two growing seasons. Results indicate that VAM help make processed oil shale a more tractable medium for the establishment of plants representative of later successional stages by allowing these plants to make effective use of the natural resources that are limiting under conditions of high stress.
41712492|Ruby Lake is a highly mesic and vegetationally diverse pluvial lake basin of east central Nevada. Small mammal associations were examined in six plant communities at Ruby Lake using transects of live traps. Small mammal activity was recorded for these six habitats plus an additional three other specialized habitats. A total of 11 species of small mammals were trapped from the six habitat types; from the entire study area 26 species were trapped or observed. Two greasewood shrub habitats and a shadscale-spiny hopsage habitat held the highest number of trapped species, 6, 5, and 7, respectively. The mesic haymeadow and spring habitats, as well as the big sagebrush-antelope bitterbrush habitat held 4 trapped species each. Peromyscus maniculatus and Perognathus parvus made up 76% of the total captures and were found in all habitat types except marshlands. Eutamius minimus was found in four of the six habitat types, while Dipodomys ordii, Dipodomys microps, Perognathus parvus, and Microtus montanus were limited to specialized habitats. Mesic adapted, wetland species such as Mustela vison, Ondatra zibethicus, and Sorex vagrans possibly dispersed into Ruby Valley from the northeastern drainages and valleys during the late Pleistocene or Holocene.
41712485|Two new species, Paracarinolidia longiseta and P. glabra from Brazil and French Guiana, respectively, are described and illustrated. A revised key to males of five known species is also presented. The genus is now known to occur in Brazil, Ecuador, Peru, Colombia, and French Guiana.
41711990|Paraphyllanthoxylon utahense, sp. nov., is described from the Cedar Mountain Formation and compared with similar fossil and modern woods. Fossil angiosperm woods from the Early Cretaceous are of great interest because very few have been reported from strata of this age. This species demonstrates that the angiosperms had developed many of their modern characteristics by Early Cretaceous time.
41712820|Mountain goat (Oreamnos americanas) and bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) ranges overlap substantially in northwestern United States and southwestern Canada. Resource overlap in food and habitat parameters is assumed, but the degree of overlap has not been estimated. Data from published separate and comparative studies on food and habitat use were used to calculate indices of resource overlap for goats and sheep. Indices of overlap for general forage classes (grasses, forbs, browse) were > 0.90 in summer and winter for data based on pooled data from separate studies and in summer for data from comparative studies. In winter for comparative studies this overlap was 0.64. For studies where forage species were identified, estimates of resource overlap from separate studies were ~ 0.8 but were < 0.5 for comparative studies. Indices of overlap for habitat variables were also low (< 0.7) for comparative studies. It was concluded that possible overlap in food and habitat use by goats and sheep could be extensive; but in sympatric populations, resource overlap may be reduced substantially.
41712797|The purpose of this research was to evaluate the status of phytoplankton in Lake Albion in the Green Lakes valley, Colorado Front Range, with respect to lake acidification. The research was conducted during the inventory phase of the Long-Term Ecological Research program of the University of Colorado at the Niwot Ridge/Green Lakes valley site. Lake Albion is a small subalpine lake on the terminal end of the Green Lakes valley (13 ha, mean depth 6 m, and surface pH 6.51). Net plankton were collected six times during June-August 1984. Ancillary data on nutrients, temperature, chlorophyll a, and Secchi disc transparency were also obtained. Diatoms were identified and assigned to categories based upon their known tolerances to hydrogen ion concentration. The diatom flora was composed mostly of alkaliphilic or species indifferent to hydrogen ion concentration, a characteristic Lake Albion shares with other Front Range lakes. The diatom flora and water chemistry of Lake Albion are compared to other high-elevation lakes.
41713084|We seeded Agropyron cristatum and 16 native Great Basin perennial species on Bromus tectorumdominated sites to compare temporal patterns of seedling emergence and early survival among species. To indicate variability between sites and between years, plots were planted on 2 sites in western Utah in autumn 1994, and plantings were repeated near 1 site in autumn 1995. Two sites included burned and unburned seedbed treatments. We monitored seedling emergence and survival from early winter until July of the 1st year. Four seasonal patterns of emergence were evident, indicating considerable potential for different seasonal patterns of precipitation to favor recruitment of different species. Emergence of all shrubs, except Ephedra nevadensis, began in February and essentially ended by April. Seedlings of Ephedra nevadensis and of the grasses Agropyron and Pseudoroegneria spicata emerged over an extended period from February through June. Most other grasses and the 2 forbs began emerging in April and continued into June. Pleuraphis jamesii emergence did not begin until May. Although many seedlings of the 3 chenopod shrubs emerged, none survived, suggesting their episodic recruitment is more a function of survival than of emergence. Survival of 2 Chrysothamnus species was also low. Pseudoroegneria and Agropyron had the highest numbers of seedlings surviving on the moister site, followed by Elymus elymoides and Stipa comata. Survival of Agropyron, but not the native Elymus, was more depressed on the drier of the 2 sites planted in 1994. Stipa, Oryzopsis hymenoides, Pleuraphis, and Ephedra survived as well on the drier site as on the moister site, or better. On the 1995 planting site Bromus was greatly reduced by the burn treatment, and, in contrast to the effect of burn treatments on the 1994 site, survival of all species except Oryzopsis and Ephedra was higher on burned than on unburned treatments. Overall, Stipa, Oryzopsis, and Pleuraphis had low emergence but consistently high survival.
41712961|The flight periodicity of western balsam bark beetle (Dryocoetes confusus Swaine) in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah, was studied during the summer months of 1992, 1993, and 1994. Contents of baited funnel traps were tallied by species up to 3 times weekly. Two main periods of flight activity were observed each year. The first and, generally, largest occurred in early summer soon after flight was initiated for the season. A 2nd period was observed in late summer, generally August. Timing of the 2 periods was influenced by unusually warm or cool weather in each study year. The 1st period had more males than females while the 2nd period had a majority of females. Except during periods of cool or wet weather, western balsam bark beetles were found to be active at least at minimal levels from June through September.
41712369|Alniphagus africanus Schedl, 1963, and Hylesinus africanus Schedl, 1965, were both transferred to Hylesinopsis and thereby become junior homonyms of H. africanus (Eggers, 1933). The new name H. acacicolens is proposed as a replacement for Schedl's 1963 name and H. secutus as a new name for Schedl's 1965 name. Six species from Mexico are described as new to science, including: Hylocurus atkinsoni, H. crotonis, Monarthrum xahpensis, Pseudochramesus jaliscoensis, Pseudopityophthorus durangoensis, and P. xalapae.
41711377|Side-blotched lizards, Uta stansburiana, were marked and recaptured on a study plot near Anapra, Dona Ana County, New Mexico, during the summer of 1971. The density in July was estimated to be 20.3 individuals per acre (50.2 per hectare). The home range size for males averaged 0.254 acres and for females, 0.097 acres. Males 48-53 mm s-v increased 0.034 mm/day in s-v length and 0.067 mm/day in tail length from middle July to early September. Females 41.5-46 mm s-v increased 0.028 mm/day in s-v length and 0.058 mm/day in tail length during the same period.
41711880|Behavior of migrant birds in relation to temperature was studied and compared to that of resident species in the northern Mojave Desert. Migrants reduced foraging intensity above 30 C, but resident species showed no striking decrease in intensity of foraging at temperatures up to 35 C. Migrant species shifted activities to shaded microhabitats at temperatures between 20 and 30 C; the resident Verdin showed a similar shift at 35 C. Most migrants decreased the amount of time spent foraging at temperatures above 30; Verdins showed a similar but stronger response to temperatures about 30 C. Significant reductions in the use of hovering and hawking maneuvers were found among migrants at temperatures above 30 C. Migrants showed similar types of behavioral adjustments to temperatures as did resident desert species, but they responded earlier in the daily temperature cycle. Desert birds appear to correlate their daily activity strongly with temperature, but nondesert species may respond either to temperature or time of day.
41713063|The male epiprocts of 2 closely related western Nearctic species, Sweltsa fldelis (Banks) and S. revelstoka (Jewett), were examined using SEM. The males of these 2 species have been historically distinguished by epiproct measurements. The ratio of the length from the base to greatest width versus total epiproct length ranges from 0.49 m to 0.67 m (x = 0.56) in S. fldelis and 0.55 m to 0.69 m (x = 0.60) in S. revelstoka. Similarities in measurement suggest that the location of the greatest epiproct width is not a reliable and consistent character for distinguishing males of these 2 species.
41713038|We surveyed bats throughout the White and Inyo Mountains of California and Nevada. From December 1990 to November 1996, we surveyed hibernating bats, and foraging bats from June 1992 to September 1996. The White-Inyo Range rests in a unique biogeographical junction between the Sierra Nevada, Mojave Desert, and Great Basin regions. Elevational gradients of 305-4340 m, combined with limited human development, further enhance the interest of natural history and faunal distributions in this range. We found 13 bat species in the course of 2668 observations. Three of these species, the spotted bat (Euderma maculatum), silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans), and hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus), have no previous records from the White-Inyo Range. We found bats in all vegetation zones except the alpine, 3500-4342 m. Despite an abundance of mines in this range, only Townsend's big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii) and the western small-footed myotis (Myotis ciliolabrum) used them routinely. Our data also indicated the importance of surface water to bat populations in arid regions.
41712801|In 80% of the years between 1975 and 1989 chorus frogs were able to produce offspring that completed metamorphosis and became members of the next generation. During 3 of these 15 years (1975, 1983, and 1986), floods annihilated chorus frogs in the breeding pond. Between 1905 and 1989 this geographically isolated population of Pseudacris regilla, the Pacific chorus frog, located at the western edge of the Great Basin in northwestern Nevada, became reestablished after 10 natural physical disturbances including spring flash floods, numerous kill-ofFs by sudden drastic rises in water temperature, and stream dry-ups. Ninety percent of the frogs in this population were shades of green with black dorsal speckles and eyestripes. Predators were the belted kingfisher (Megaceryle alcyon), western terrestrial garter snake (Thamnophis elegans), and domestic house cat (Felix domestica).
41712241|A revision of the rush family, Juncaceae is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 28 taxa in two genera. Keys to genera and species are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and other comments. No new taxa or combinations are proposed.
41711951|The fish population of Ruth Reservoir, California, was sampled every two weeks with variable mesh gill nets from May 1974 through May 1975. Fish were captured in the following order of numerical abundance: Humboldt sucker (Catostomus humboldtianus), golden shiner (Notemigonus crysoleucus), brown bullhead (Ictalurus nebulosus), white catfish (I. catus), rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri), and largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides). The three most abundant species made up about 95 percent of total numbers and weight. All species exhibited a similar cyclic temporal availability pattern: catch rates increased to a maximum during summer and fall and decreased during winter and spring. Environmental variables with the most pronounced relationships to fish catches were temperature (direct) and turbidity (inverse).
41712289|Mortality of spruce in mixed conifer stands moderately to heavily infested with western spruce dwarf mistletoe was two to five times greater than in healthy stands in the White Mountains, Arizona. Ten-year volume growth loss for heavily infected spruce trees ranged from 25% to 40%. Estimates of growth loss for spruce on a stand basis ranged from 10% to 20% in heavily infested stands. Because western spruce dwarf mistletoe is prevalent in the White Mountains and causes increased mortality and reduced growth, its control should be included in management of mixed conifer stands there.
41712470|A population outbreak of Wahweap milkvetch (A. lentiginosus var. wahweapensis Welsh) occurred in the Henry Mountains area of southeastern Utah in 1985 and 1986, causing extensive locoweed poisoning in cattle grazing these winter ranges. Weather conditions supporting this population outbreak included above average precipitation in the fall of 1984 and 1985, which presumably allowed germination of seed lying dormant in the soil. Above average spring precipitation in the subsequent year supported the population growth. Part of the population died in the summer of 1985, and nearly all plants died in the summer of 1986. Historically, population outbreaks occurred every six to eight years: 1949, 1957, 1965, 1973, 1979, and 1985-1986. Correlation with weather records indicated that population outbreaks occurred in years of high spring and total annual precipitation. Wahweap milkvetch seed lying dormant in the soil ranged from 940 to 4,346 seed/m where old stands occurred, and 20 to 40 seed/m where old plants were not evident. Sufficient seed remains in the soil to cause future population outbreaks.
41712026|Stanleya pinnata var. gibberosa Rollins is a narrow endemic from southwestern Wyoming. This taxon is based upon the morphological characters of crooked petals and all leaves bipinnate. During field work in 1980, a population near the type locality of this variety was located that had plants with both bipinnate and entire leaves. Due to this unusual population, further field and herbarium studies were done to resolve the taxonomy of var. gibberosa. These further studies showed that this taxon is based upon young individuals of var. bipinnata.
41712568|The influence of soil frost on the infiltration rate of shrub coppice dune and dune interspace soils was evaluated near Crystal Springs, Nevada, using simulated rainfall. The infiltration rate of the coppice dune soil was greater than the dune interspace soil under frozen or unfrozen conditions. Because of different vegetation cover and surface soil characteristics, coppice dune and dune interspace soils responded differently to freezing, thus imposing a spatial and temporal response to infiltration rate. Infiltration rate of soils with porous concrete frost increased as the soils thawed during simulated rainfall, but soils with nonporous concrete frost allowed very little infiltration to occur. Both coppice dune and dune interspace soils that were classified in January as having granular frost had a higher infiltration rate than the same unfrozen soils in March.
41712710|Spermophilus brunneus is restricted to a 90  125-km area of west central Idaho, with two distinct (northern and southern) groups of populations within this limited range. Morphological differences in pelage length and coloration, external and cranial measurements, and bacula suggest that these groups are either very distinct subspecies or species. We used starch-gel electrophoresis to estimate the amount of genetic differentiation accompanying these morphological differences by assaying genetic variation at 31 loci in the two geographic groups. Fifteen loci were polymorphic (13 in the northern group, 12 in the southern), and mean heterozygosity (H) was high (12.3% northern and 10.8% southern). Nei's genetic distance (0.057) is in the range usually associated with subspecific differences. However, Jaccards association coefficient (0.893) is about the same as that found between several ground squirrel taxa currently recognized as species. The high levels of heterozygosity suggest that S. brunneus is a neoendemic rather than a paleoendemic species.
41712891|Physical characteristics, benthic macroinvertebrates, and periphyton assemblages in two adjacent headwater streams in Yellowstone National Park were evaluated five years after the 1988 wildfires. The catchment of one stream was burned by wildfire (burned stream) while the other catchment was unburned (unburned stream). Physical measures revealed channel alteration in the burned stream relative to the unburned stream. Periphyton biomass was lower in the burned than the unburned stream (29.2 vs. 50.5 g/m AFDM, respectively), further demonstrating the unstable physical conditions of that system. Kendall's coefficient of concordance (an index of similarity) between diatom assemblages was 0.22, indicating distinct assemblage composition between streams. Navicula permits Hust was the most abundant diatom in the burned stream while Hannaea arcus (Ehr.) Patr. was dominant in the unburned stream. Macroinvertebrate taxa richness, density, and biomass were all greater in the unburned stream, although Chironomidae was the most abundant taxon in both streams. Results suggest the removal of terrestrial/riparian vegetation by wildfire can directly influence stream benthic assemblages by altering the inherent disturbance regime of the physical habitat templet.
41712937|The objective of this study was to determine if crude protein varies significantly during late summer and midwinter among stands of bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata Pursh) in southwestern Montana. A secondary objective was to determine if leaves, when present, contribute significant additional protein in the region. Nine sites with different environmental conditions and within a radius of 14.5 km were studied. Bitterbrush leaves and leaders collected in August 1990 and 1991 and February 1991 were used for crude protein and leaf-to-leader ratio determinations. Crude protein differed (P < 0.001) among sites for both leaves and leaders on individual collection dates. Crude protein in leaves was nearly twice the level found in leaders. Because few leaves were present in February, they increased crude protein in total foliage by only 0.3% over twigs alone. February crude protein levels averaged 6.8% for total foliage, which is below the estimated requirement for wintering deer.
41711316|Food consumption by the cliff chipmunk, Eutamias dorsalis, was observed in northern Utah in the natural habitat during May, June, July of 1965, 1966. Plant food sources nearest the cliff den sites were used in early spring, and as the season progressed, chipmunks increased ranges proportionately with the positioning of specific maturing food plants. Total daily frequencies of plant use suggested the following plants as prime energy sources in order of observed usage: Tragopogn, Bahamorhiza, Poa, Lomatium, Bromus, Crpis, Amelanchier, Agoseris.
41712958|A field study of the thatching ant, Formica obscuripes Forel, at 2560 m elevation in Colorado provided information on mound density, composition, dimensions, and temperatures; worker longevity; and mite parasitization. Density was 115 mounds/ha. Mounds had 1-52 entrances and Peromyscus fecal pellets in the thatch. Mounds conserved heat and exhibited thermal stratification. Excavations of 4 nests revealed depths of 0.3 m to almost 1 m, novel myrmecophiles, and 0-198 wingless queens per nest. Marking experiments demonstrated that some workers overwinter and live more than a year.
41711943|A field survey in caves near Grants, New Mexico, and Flagstaff, Arizona, found only an exceptionally poor fauna of 14 species with no strong patterns of cave restriction. The faunal poverty is judged to be correlated with and influenced by the similarly impoverished boreal forests in nearby mountains. Species of flightless arthropods, suitable for cave colonization and restricted to cool-moist litter of boreal ("Hudsonian-Canadian Life Zone") forests, are apparently not now present in suitable, nearby mountain habitats. They may not have dispersed to all available montane sites from the Southern Rocky Mountains during glacial conditions. Either the forests did not exist as continuous dispersal corridors for the litter arthropods, or the fauna could not track the rate of spread of the forests.
41712055|Medicago sativa L. and Hedysarum boreale Nutt. were grown in the greenhouse on soils representing 27 of the major soil associations of the northern Great Basin. Nodulation of Medicago sativa L. by indigenous rhizobia occurred with 25 of the soil associations and of Hedysarum boreale Nutt. with 21 of these soil associations. Nitrogen fixation, as indicated by acetylene reduction activity, was greater for Medicago sativa L. than for Hedysarum boreale Nutt. for most of the soil associations. Multiple regression functions incorporating 49 independent climatic, edaphic, and vegetation variables failed to predict acetylene reduction activity with satisfactory precision.
41712472|Changing habitat structure in pinyon (Pinus edulis)one-seed juniper (Juniperus monosperma) stands by (1) pushing trees down with a bulldozer and leaving them in place, (2) pushing, then piling and burning slash, or (3) thinning to a spacing of 6.1 m and leaving slash did not affect weights of individuals of nine rodent species. Previous studies have shown that habitat modifications influence kinds of species and numbers of individuals, but changes in total rodent biomass are a function of sizes of different species occupying different habitats, not changes in weights of individuals.
41712921|We used creel surveys to evaluate how a change from a 6-mon to a year-round fishing season affected the sport fish harvest in East Canyon Reservoir (Utah), a 277-ha mesoeutrophic system. Under the year-round season, fishing effort was 840 angler-hhayr, and 360 trout ha were captured. Catch rates were proportional to estimated trout densities in the reservoir, ranging from 1.06 during the winter ice fishery, to 0.18 fish anglerh in July. Ninety-nine percent of fish harvested were rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Thirty-two percent of the 300,000 75-mm fingerling trout stocked annually were captured by anglers within 2.5 yr, but return rates varied with the strain and/or size of trout stocked. Annual fish yield was 102 kg/ha, among the highest yet reported for a temperate zone, lacustrine system. Extending fishing from a 6-mon season to year-round increased the number of fish captured and provided almost twice as many hours of recreational fishing in the reservoir. The harvest period was changed from traditional spring-summer months to primarily a winter-spring fishery because relatively few trout survived for more than 6 mon after reaching harvestable size. Although salmonid production in East Canyon Reservoir is very high, the fishery is in a precarious state because high primary productivity driven, in part, by cultural eutrophication, makes water quality suboptimal during midsummer.
41712962|Population status surveys were performed from 1987 to 1996 for desert dace (Eremichthys acros), a cyprinid endemic to several small thermal springs in Soldier Meadow, Humboldt County, Nevada, where the species occupies 7 spring areas in a single valley. Because spring distributions are patchy and all areas are not linked by surface flow, each area comprises a more-or-less isolated population, although irrigation practices or high runoff may occasionally link several of them. Although limited to thermal springpools and outflows, desert dace were found in temperatures ranging from 37C near spring sources to 13C in downstream areas. Between May 1988 and October 1989, most of the discharge from a major spring outflow was diverted from its natural channel into an irrigation ditch. Trap catches in the original channel were reduced after the diversion, and fish densities were lower in the ditch than in the channel. Reduced fish numbers still persist (1996), even though the affected site has been relatively undisturbed since 1989. To improve desert dace habitat and increase populations, irrigation diversion should be discontinued and water returned to the original channel. Continued protection and increased habitat preservation for desert dace are recommended because of their limited distribution, apparently restricted habitat requirements, and the potential for environmental disruption in the area.
41712305|Some populations of Drosophila pseudoobscura in the Great Basin have very little genetic variation for third chromosome inversion gene arrangements. These populations are essentially monomorphic for the Arrowhead gene arrangement. At Bryce Canyon, Utah, individuals with other gene arrangements (Standard, Pikes Peak, and Treeline) were released and their frequencies monitored. One generation after release, the released arrangements had increased in frequency from 0.7% to almost 10%. After overwintering, the arrangement frequencies were not statistically different from the prerelease samples. The samples did demonstrate a low-level retention of the released Pikes Peak arrangement. The decline in the released arrangements was probably the result of large population size at Bryce Canyon and the bottleneck effects of overwintering. The results do not seem consistent with a model of the released arrangements having a lowered fitness.a
41713113|The Ferruginous Hawk, a breeding bird endemic to North America, was named Falco ferrugineus in 1838 by H. Lichtenstein, curator of the Berlin Zoological Museum. The type was collected by F. Deppe near presentday Monterey, California. In 1844 G. R. Gray of the British Museum assigned the name Buteo regalis to a Ferruginous Hawk specimen of unknown origin, but perhaps donated to the museum by John Phillips, a renowned British geologist. The species was known as Falco (Buteo) ferrugineus until the 1920s when it was discovered that this epithet was occupied. The next name in priority was Gray's Buteo regalis, which then became valid. The species has been known by a number of common names. Even though any reference to the rusty brown markings on the otherwise white plumage is no longer part of the species scientific name, the Ferruginous Hawk continues to be the most frequently used common name.
41711634|Growth rates were determined for laboratory-reared Dipodomys ordii pallidus Durrant & Setzer. Instantaneous growth rates were used to express increase of body weight, total length, tail length, ear length and hind foot length as rates between times of measurements and the instantaneous percentage of maximum size. Data were analyzed for growth periods of 1-3, 4-15, 16-29 and 30-70 days. All five parameters provided significant correlations of growth with age during all growth periods. Even though all of the growth parameters correlate with age, these parameters cannot be reliably used to predict age.
41711834|The study population is a group of hybrids of Salsola iberica  S. paulsenii. The plants show great variation in phenotypic characteristics, and the character complexes of the parent species seem to have largely disappeared. Seeds are dispersed both locally, from intact plants, and by tumbling. Tumbling is the dominant form of dispersal in most individuals studied. Most locally dispersed seeds fall between .5 and 1.5 m from the parent plant. Despite the dominance of tumbling, large numbers of seeds are dispersed locally and probably serve to maintain the population while those dispersed by tumbling introduce the plants into new areas.
41712960|A total of 28 Swainson's Hawk (Buteo swainsoni) and 30 Red-tailed Hawk (B. jamaicensis) nests were found in Cache Valley, Utah, during the summers of 1992 and 1993. All nests were in trees, but only Red-tailed Hawks nested in dead trees (30%). In the intensive study area, nesting densities were 0.10 nests/km for Swainson's Hawk and 0.08 nests/km for Red-tailed Hawk. Nearest-neighbor nest distances were significantly shorter among Swainson's Hawks (1.74 km) than among Red-tailed Hawks (2.83 km). Congeneric nearest-neighbor distances were significantly shorter than conspecific distances for Red-tailed Hawks (1.59 vs. 2.83 km) but not for Swainson's Hawks (1.52 vs. 1.74 km). GIS analysis of habitat types was made for 2-km radii around nest sites. Cropland was the dominant land cover type at nest sites of both species and no significant difference was found between species. Swainson's Hawk nest sites contained significantly more pasture, whereas Red-tailed Hawk nest sites contained significantly more juniper, maple, and sagebrush. Only Red-tailed Hawk nests (n = 8; 27%) were found on the periphery of the valley at the base of foothills of the Cache Mountains. This preference resulted in a significantly higher elevation for Red-tailed Hawk nest sites. Swainson's Hawk nests occurred only on the valley floor on level terrain. Distance to the nearest paved road and building was very similar for both species, implying that little difference exists in tolerance levels for human activities. Overall, multivariate niche overlap for habitat was high (0.89), indicating a lack of habitat partitioning between these 2 Buteos in Cache Valley.
41713020|The life history of the endangered Kendall Warm Springs dace (Rhinichthys osculus thermalis) is largely unknown. Our study of its reproduction, sources of mortality, and diet indicated that Kendall Warm Springs dace seem to be reproductively active throughout the year, but the rate of reproduction appears to decrease during the winter. Males become sexually mature at 34 mm total length and females at 40 mm total length. We observed 2 sources of mortality: (1) emigration from the warm spring stream over a waterfall into the Green River and (2) predation on larvae by dragonfly (Libellulla saturata) nymphs. Stomachs of Kendall Warm Springs dace contained small (1.5 mm total length) benthic invertebrates, primarily dipterans and mollusks.
41711394|Data from pictograph and archaeological sites in northeastern California are used to verify the postulated former existence of small resident populations of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in this region. The reason for the disappearance of bighorns from this area remains unclear, with climatic change, Euro-American settlement, or hunting pressure existing as possibilities.
41712632|Curlleaf mountainmahogany is a widely distributed shrubby tree of western North America. Welldeveloped stands are most often found on warm, dry, rocky ridges and slopes at high elevations on mostly southern exposures. It can, however, be found on all exposures. The species appears to be indifferent to substrate with soils which are invariably shallow and of low fertility. However, the nitrogenfixing root nodules help overcome soil deficiencies. This highly palatable species is preferred by mountain sheep, mountain goats, deer, and elk. Its nutritive value (about 12% protein) and digestibility ratings (around 50%) in the winter are high when compared with most other associated winter browse species. Early research with curlleaf mountainmahogany basically dealt with two major management problems: (1) how to increase available forage production on old, even-aged stands too tall for big game to browse, and (2) how to increase reproduction in these same communities. Selective dozer thinning, sometimes in conjunction with the seeding of fast-growing plants, appears to be a promising management technique providing browse until the younger curlleaf becomes established.
41716163|A burrowing owl (Athene cuniciilaria) population nesting on the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL) in southeastern Idaho utilized burrows excavated by badgers (Taxidea taxus) or natural cavities in lava flows as nesting sites. The size of the population was small (N = 13-14 pairs) in relation to the number of available nesting sites, suggesting that factors other than burrow availability limited this population. Rodents and Jerusalem crickets (Stenopeimatiis fusciis) represented the primary prey utilized during the nesting season. This population demonstrated both a numerical (brood size) and functional (dietary) response to a decrease in the density of three species of rodents on the INEL during a drought in 1977.
41712484|Haliplus eremicus is described as a new species of the crawling water beetle family Haliplidae. A brief description of the species, illustrations, and diagnosis that compares it with Haliplus mimeticus Matheson are provided.
41711423|A taxonomic review of the Astragalus lentiginosus complex in Utah indicates that the epithet var. albiflorus, antecedes and therefore should replace var. diphysus. The range of var. vitreus has been extended to include Kane and Garfield cos., Utah, and var. fremontii has now been identified from the state.
41713137|Caudal movement in snakes may serve either a predatory (e.g., caudal luring) or defensive (e.g., rattling, aposematism) function. I describe a new behavioral pattern of tail movement in snakes. Gray rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta spiloides) foraging on small mammals (Mus domesticus) moved their tails in an erratic, whiplike fashion after detecting prey in their vicinity. The thrashing movement in the horizontal plane was audibly and visually obvious, resulting in displacement of leaf litter around the tail. All subjects displayed the behavior, but not in all foraging episodes. Shorter durations of caudal distraction resulted in greater predator success during the 1st attempt at prey capture. Caudal distraction may facilitate prey capture by gray rat snakes by directing the attention of prey away from the approaching head of the snake.
41711437|In May 1974 four male spotted bats were netted near St. George, Utah. Contrary to published speculation on Euderma, indications are that the spotted bat in southwest Utah (1) is not a late flyer, (2) does not feed solely on moths, (3) may drop to the ground on occasion to forage, (4) is not a rapid flyer, and (5) appears to utilize crevices as roosting sites.
41716162|Animal and nonanimal items were identified in the digestive tracts of 61 cougars (Felis concolor) collected between 1978 and 1984 from the western slopes of the Cascade Range in Oregon. Forty-two (69%) of the cougars were taken by hunters in December and January, 18 (30%) were killed at other times of the year because of their proximity to livestock, and one animal was illegally killed in November. Black-tailed deer (Odocoiletts hemionns columbianus) was the most common prey item, although domestic sheep (Ovis ories), porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum), and a variety of small mammals were also recorded. Masticated grass was the most common nonanimal item.
41711499|Forty-five percent of 306 brown trout from 16 Montana streams were infected with one or more of the nematodes Cystidicoloides salvelini, Bulbodacnitis globosa, Rhabdochona sp., and Eustrongylides sp. The relationships between incidence and intensity of nematode infections and age and sexual maturity of the host fish were studied. Generally, sexually mature female brown trout had a higher rate of infection and had more nematodes per infected fish than immature female brown trout. Higher incidence and intensity of infection in sexually mature fish was attributed to more aggressive feeding behavior leading to more exposure to the intermediate hosts (mayflies) of the nematode parasites.
41711630|Recent discoveries of native cutthroat trout populations in desert mountain ranges on the western fringe of the Bonneville Basin have prompted intensified management efforts by state and federal agencies. Analysis of Snake Valley cutthroat specimens in Trout Creek, Deep Creek Mountain Range, Utah, indicate this is a pure strain of the trout which once inhabited Pleistocene Lake Bonneville and which was thought to be extinct in Utah. The Snake Valley cutthroat is similar to Salmo clarki Utah of the eastern Bonneville Basin; however, electrophoretic and morphomeristic analysis show unique genetic differences brought about by long-term isolation (8,000 years) from the remainder of the Bonneville Basin cutthroat. This cutthroat is a common ancestor to several other limited cutthroat populations within the basin in Nevada. In May 1977 the BLM withdrew from mineral entry about 27,000 acres within the Deep Creek Mountains for protection of this salmonid cutthroat and other unique resources on the range. Results of 1977 stream surveys on the Pilot Peak Mountain Range, Utah, indicate the presence of the threatened Lahontan cutthroat, Salmo henshawi, in one isolated stream.
41712182|Yucca harrimaniae var. sterilis Neese & Welsh is named and described from the Uinta Basin of Utah. The plant is strongly rhizomatous, evidently sterile, and has limber, sparingly filiferous leaves that tend to recline on the ground.
41712288|Three species of Pityophthorus from Mexico are described: bravoi (Mexico), conscriptus (Morelos), and ostryacolens (Morelos). Additional host or locality data are given for: atomus, corruptus, deletus, diglyphyus, elimatus, exquisitus, furnissi, hylocuroides, molestus, montezumae, nebulosus, nocturnus, and vespertinus. Existing keys are modified to contain all newly described species.
41712601|We compared physical and vegetative habitat characteristics at 14 dam sites occupied by beaver (Castor canadensis) with those at 41 random unoccupied reaches to identiiy features important to dam-site selection in the Long Creek basin, Grant County, Oregon. Stream reaches with dams were shallower and had a lower gradient than unoccupied reaches. Beaver did not build dams at sites with a rock substrate. Bank slopes at occupied reaches were not as steep as those at unoccupied reaches; and occupied stream reaches had greater tree canopy cover, especially of thinleaf alder (Alnus tenuifolia), than did unused reaches. A discriminant model using transformations of bank slope, stream gradient, and hardwood cover classified all beaver dam sites correctly and 35 of 41 random sites as unoccupied sites. The 6 misclassified sites had rock substrates. We also tested four habitat suitability models for beaver in this basin. Three models produced significantly different (P < .05) scores between occupied and random unoccupied reaches, suggesting that they might have some utility for this region.
41712034|A second small population of white fir dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. concohris, is reported from the Santa Catalina Mountains in southern Arizona. The discovery of a second population of this mistletoe in southern Arizona supports the contention that it once had a more southern distribution but has survived past climatic changes in only a few locations in the southwestern United States. The distribution of the Western spruce dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium microcarpum, is extended to the Sacramento Mountains of south central New Mexico, a range extension of approximately 170 miles. The mistletoe is restricted to an area of about 300 acres, but its potential for further spread is high. The possible implications of this range extension to the biosystematics of Picea spp. and the evolution of A. microcarpum are discussed.
41712560|Comandra umbellata is the alternate host of a hard pine canker rust disease induced by the fungus Cronartium comandrae. The occurrence and density of C. umbellata were recorded near lodgepole pine stands in the Wind River District, Shoshone National Forest, Wyoming. Comandra populations occurred most often on slopes with southern aspects, particularly southwestern, and on steep slopes; these sites tended to be dry and relatively open. Comandra was also found growing under heavy perennial shrub canopy covers. It was most often associated with sagebrush but was common near other perennial shrubs as well. Overall, C. umbellata appeared to be a poor competitor with dense grass populations. Comandra was found primarily on Abies lasiocarpa/Juniperus communis, Pinus flexilis/Hesperochloa kingii, and Artemisia tridentata/F estuca idahoensis habitats. No comandra was found in the Abies lasiocarpa/Vaccinium scoporium habitat.
41712657|Regression analyses for plant biomass estimation from physical measurements of individual plant dimensions that are nonlinear have generally used some form of the allometric equation. Use of this equation has most often involved logarithmic transformation of the variables (power regression). Transformation, however, introduces systematic bias into the analyses. Power regression was compared with a bias correction technique and with nonlinear regression for the prediction of the total foliage biomass (phytomass). Crown volumes of one sagebrush and one perennial grass species were used for these evaluations. The bias correction factor was uniformly applied to all the predicted values from power regression. Nonlinear regression avoided this bias by not requiring logarithmic transformation. It was also consistently less variable than either power regression or the correction factor method in estimating actual total phytomass by the allometric equation and equivalent or better in accuracy. The correction factor technique consistently gave the poorest predictions of the methods evaluated. Standard linear regression worked as well for the bunchgrass as the best method based on the allometric equation. Predictions were generally better when sample sizes used to derive the regression equations represented the range of plant size and variability in the data for which the phytomass was estimated.
41711493|A key to the Utah species of Bombylius is presented. Bombylius heximaculatus, nigri ventris, montanus, abdominalis, aeslwus, and auriferoides, new species, and lancifer kanabensis, subspecies new, are described from Utah. Bombylius lassenensis, new name, is proposed to replace the preoccupied B. pallescens Johnson and Maughan.
41713033|Species of Artemisia (subgenus Tridentatae) dominate much of western North America. The genetic variation that allows this broad ecological adaptation is facilitated by hybridization and polyploidization. Three separate studies were performed in this group using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). Fifty-seven 10-mer primers generated nearly 400 markers from genomic DNA obtained from leaf tissue. These studies were (1) a measure of the variability of plants within and between populations and between subspecies using 5 A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis populations, 2 A. cana ssp. cana populations, and 1 A. cana ssp. viscidula population; (2) an examination of the hypothesis that tetraploid (4x) Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana derives de novo from diploid (2x) populations via autopolyploidy; and (3) an examination of the validity of the status of putative hybrids that have been produced by controlled pollination. These latter hybrid combinationsA. tridentata ssp. tridentata x A. t. ssp. vaseyana, A. t. ssp. wyomingensis x A. tripartita, and A. cana ssp. cana x A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensiswere made to combine traits of parental taxa in unique combinations with possible management application. RAPD marker data were subjected to similarity and UPGMA clustering analyses. RAPD markers were effective in measuring genetic diversity at different systematic levels. Individual plants within a population were approximately 55% to > 80% similar to one another; populations within subspecies gave corresponding values of similarity, probably a result of the combined effects of large population sizes and wind pollination. The 2 subspecies of A. cana were approximately 45% similar. At least some 4x populations of A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana apparently derive de novo from 2x plants based on their being embedded in 2x phenogram groups, thus reinforcing evidence that autopolyploidy plays an important role in Tridentatae population biology. Two (A. tridentata ssp. tridentata x A. t. ssp. vaseyana and A. cana ssp. cana x A. tridentata ssp wyomingensis) of the 3 putative hybrid combinations were confirmed to include hybrids. These hybrids may have potential in management applications. Additional use of RAPD technology combined with other techniques may be useful in delimiting genetic characteristics and in guiding artificial selection in the Tridentatae.
41712462|Young-of-year largemouth bass from lakes Mead and Mohave fed upon crustacean zooplankton, insects (primarily chironomids), and fish. Largemouth bass smaller than 32 mm TL fed extensively upon zooplankton. In Lake Mead, transition to an insect-dominated diet occurred at 32 mm TL; transition to an insect-fish-dominated diet did not occur in Lake Mohave until a length of 56 mm was reached. Largemouth bass from Lake Mohave consumed significantly more zooplankton than did those from Lake Mead, but largemouth bass from Lake Mead consumed significantly more insects. Fish were most common in the diet of young-of-year largemouth bass larger than 52 mm TL.
41711942|Measures of niche breadth and overlap were used to compare nest site selection in a community of 10 raptor species and the Raven nesting in the eastern Great Basin Desert. Three variables were examined: nest site type, elevation, and exposure. Results suggest a division of component raptor species into relatively abundant core species that show wide niche breadths and uncommon fringe species with narrow niche breadths. Differences in use of each resource are most pronounced along elevation gradient in which three guilds are evident that correspond to raptor species groupings that nest at higher, middle, and lower elevations. Each guild is comprised of a mix of core and fringe species. Raptor species with highest overlap along one or more nest site variables examined are separated by differences in activity patterns.
41712595|The importance and nature of vegetative reproduction was compared with seedling establishment in plains silver sagebrush (Artemisia cana Pursh. ssp. cana). Sixty-three percent of plants excavated originated from rhizomes. Sites that experienced habitat disturbance did not have a significantly different number of plants originating from vegetative reproduction than did undisturbed sites. Parent rhizomes were significantly older than taproots, which were significantly older than aboveground stems. Rhizome systems were spread 3.3 times that of plant height. Seventy-nine percent of rhizomatous daughter plants were 100 cm or less from parent plants. Up to 52 sprouts were found on one rhizome. Seedling establishment was greatest during wet growing seasons, and vegetative reproduction was greatest during dry years.
41712425|New synonymy is proposed for Phloeosinus (Hylesinus) machilus (Schedl) (= Phloeosinus cinnamomi Tsai & Yin). New replacement names are proposed for junior homonyms as follows: Cyrtogenius africus for Cyrtogenius (Metahylastes) africanus (Eggers), Cyrtogenius elongatissimus for Cyrtogenius (Ozodendron) elongatus (Schedl), Cyrtogenius elongatulus for Cyrtogenius (Eidophelus) elongatus (Schedl), Cyrtogenius gracillimus for Cyrtogenius gracilis Browne, Cyrtogenius papuae for Cyrtogenius (Pelicerus) papuanus (Eggers), Cyrtogenius papuensis for Cyrtogenius (Eidophelus) papuanus (Schedl), Cyrtogenius ruginosus for Cyrtogenius (Mimidendrulus) rugicollis (Browne). The following species are named as new to science: Indocryphalus machili (India), Olonthogasterjiri (India), Olonthogaster regalis (Sri Lanka), Phloeosinus phoebe (India), Scolytomimus andamanensis (Andaman Islands), Scolytomimus mimusopis (Sri Lanka), Scolytomimus quadridens (New Guinea), and Scolytomimus rectus (Sri Lanka).
41711631|Sex ratios for tui chubs (Gila bicolor), obtained from a sample of 3,384 fish, deviated significantly from the expected 1:1 ratio (chi-square, P<0.05). Spawning occurred from June to August, with estimated fecundities ranging from 6,110 to 68,933 ova. Females spawned after attaining a maximum (average) gonadal somatic index (GSIpercent gonad weight/total body weight) of 9.1 percent and between surface water temperatures of 15.5 to 22.2 C. Males reached sexual maturity at age two, with most females maturing at age three. Consistent increases in fecundity were apparent with increasing length, weight, and age. Linear regressions between fork length and fecundity and weight and fecundity were highly significant (P<0.05).
41712912|Named as new taxa are Lepidium huberi Welsh & Goodrich, sp. nov., and Artemisia nova A. Nels. var. duchesnicola Welsh & Goodrich, var. nov. The taxa are provided with diagnoses and descriptions, and their relationships, provenance, and habitats are discussed.
41712774|Abundance of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) in relation to characteristics of pockets created by boulders was studied in Fall River, southeastern Idaho. To determine depth and surface area of pockets most selected by rainbow trout, fish were counted by snorkeling, and pocket physical dimensions were measured. An electivity index defined habitat selection in the following terms: the most suitable habitat was 0.7 m maximum depth, 0.5 m minimum depth, and 3 m surface area. Some study reaches of Fall River had more suitable pockets available for trout than were being utilized.
41712911|Low-density grasshopper populations were sampled at 15 pairs of rangeland sites in south central Idaho. One site of each pair had not been grazed by livestock for at least 10 years. Grazed sites were managed under normal grazing regimes established by the Bureau of Land Management. Mean grasshopper density was higher on ungrazed sites than on grazed sites. Proportions of Melanoplus sanguinipes were higher on ungrazed sites than on grazed sites and were higher on annual grasslands than on other vegetation types. Effects of grazing appeared to be independent of vegetation type. Proportions of Gomphocerinae, a subfamily of grasshoppers that feeds almost exclusively on grasses, were affected by vegetation type, but not grazing. Crested wheatgrass seedings supported the highest proportions of Gomphocerinae. Proportions of Oedipodinae were affected by grazing and vegetation type. Higher proportions of Oedipodinae were found on grazed sites than on ungrazed sites, and on sagebrush/grass sites than on annual grasslands. Results indicate that livestock grazing during drought conditions tends to reduce grasshopper populations on southern Idaho rangeland.
41711793|Petrified leaf and pericarpio tissues from the Eocene Deccan Intertrappean beds of India were studied using light and transmission electron microscopy. Degradated cytoplasm with organellelike bodies are present in cells of the leaf tissues. TEM of these cells revealed wall structure and cytoplasmic residues. Microfibril distribution of pericarpic cells resembles fiber cells in extant angiosperms.
41711994|Sixty-four cougar (Felis concolor) stomachs and 41 intestinal tracts were examined for food items in northeastern Oregon from 1976 through 1979. Food items, in order of decreasing frequency, were mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), North American elk (Cervus elophus), porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum), snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus), and deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus).
41712975|Numerous basins of the intermountain area often have extensive playa surfaces that are nearly devoid of vegetation. Margins of these playas support sparse communities dominated by the chenopod shrubs Allenrolfea occidentalis (iodine bush) and Sarcobatus vermiculatus (black greasewood). These plants establish and persist in an environment where halomorphic soils induce extreme osmotic stress and atmospheric precipitation is very low and erratic and occurs largely during the winter when temperatures are too low for growth. We measured net CO assimilation rates, leaf conductances, transpiration rates, water-use efficiencies, and stem xylem potentials for these two C3 species. Data were collected in above-average (1991) and below-average (1992) precipitation years. Net CO assimilation rates for Allenrolfea were statistically similar in 1991 and 1992 but in general declined for Sarcobatus in 1992. For both species, leaf conductances and leaf transpiration rates declined significantly from 1991 to 1992, with the decline significantly greater for Sarcobatus. Water-use efficiencies doubled from 1991 to 1992 for both plant species. Predawn xylem water potentials were -2.2 and -3.3 MPa for Allenrolfea and -1.8 and -2.6 MPa for Sarcobatus beginning in May 1991 and 1992, respectively, and dropped to -3.8 and -4.2 MPa for Allenrolfea and -1.8 and -2.8 MPa for Sarcobatus by September 1991 and 1992, respectively. Afternoon xylem water potentials were -3.1 and -2.0 MPa for Allenrolfea and -2.6 and -2.2 MPa for Sarcobatus beginning in May 1991 and 1992, respectively. Xylem water potentials dropped to -5.0 MPa for Allenrolfea and -3.4 MPa for Sarcobatus by September of both 1991 and 1992. For Allenrolfea, in general, the total soil water potential within the zone of maximum root activity is more negative than the plant's predawn xylem potential, which suggests that the plant is partially phreatophytic and/or has a large capacitance due to its extensive woody root system.
41713117|We investigated ecology of flannelmouth sucker (Catostomus latipinnis) from 1992 to 1997 in the 26-km Lee's Ferry reach of the Colorado River immediately below Glen Canyon Dam, Arizona. We captured by electrofishing a total of 212 fish and recaptured 52 previously tagged by others. Flannelmouth sucker were captured throughout the tailwater but tended to aggregate within about 5 km of the dam, possibly reflecting blockage of historic migration routes. Catch per hour of electrofishing did not differ among years but was greater from November to February than other periods, suggesting seasonal movements of flannelmouth sucker into the tailwater. Mean lengths and weights offish did not differ among years or seasons. Length frequency analyses also indicate there were no significant yearly trends in proportion of catch within size classes offish. Mean condition differed only among seasons and was greatest in February, lowest in August, coinciding respectively with pre-and post-spawning periods of flannelmouth sucker in a tributary just downstream from Lee's Ferry. Recaptured fish migrated from initial tagging locations 1.4-231 km downstream from Lee's Ferry. Fifty-nine percent of recaptured fish with known initial tagging locations increased in length, and fish tagged initially as subadults or adults, respectively, grew an average of 45.9 mm and 5.5 mm per year.
41711347|New synonymy involving American Scolytidae includes: Acanthotomicus Blandford (= Mimips Eggers), Dendroterus Blandford (= Xylochilus Schedl), Chramesus dentatus Schaeffer (= Ch. barbatus Eggers), Cnemonyx atratus (Blandford) (= C. nitens Wood), C. errans (Blandford) (= Ceratolepsis brasiliensis Schedl), C. exiguus (Blandford) (= Loganius pumilus Eggers), C. minusculus (Blandford) (= Loganius vismiae Eggers), Cnesinus porcatus Blandford (= Cn. bicostatus Schedl), Cryptocarenus seriatus Eggers (= Cr. adustus Eggers), Dendroterus luteolus (Schedl) (= D. mundus Wood), D. mexicanus Blandford (= D. confinis Wood), D. sallaei Blandford (= Xylochilus insularis Schedl), D. striatus (LeConte) (= Plesiophthorus californicus Schedl), Hylastes gracilis LeConte (= H. longus LeConte), Hylocurus elegans Eichhoff (= Hy. minor Wood), Hy. retusipennis Blandford (= Hy. bidentatus Schedl), Hy. rudis (LeConte) (= Micracis biorbis Blackman), Xyleborus asper Eggers (= X. arnoenus Schedl), X capucinus Eichhoff (= X. capucinoides Eggers), X. caraibicus Eggers (== X. trinidadensis Schedl), X. declivis Eichhoff (= X. pseudoprocer Schedl), X. deplanatus Eggers (= X. longideclivis Wood), X. discretus Eggers (= X. usticus Wood), X. gilvipes Blandford (= X. mexicanus Eggers), X. godmani Blandford (= X. caelebs Blandford), X. guatemalensis (Hopkins) (= X. anisandrus Schedl), X. intrusus Blandford (= X. howardi Hopkins, X. scopulorum Hopkins), X. lecontei (Hopkins) (= X. gundlachi Eggers), X. sparsipilosus Eggers (= X. inconveniens Schedl), X. spathipennis Eichhoff (= X. coronatus Eichhoff, Boroxylon burgdorfi Hopkins, X. curtus Eggers, X. femoratus Eggers), X. tumucensis Hagedorn (= X. guayanensis Eggers), X. vespatorius Schedl (= X. corniculatus Schedl, X. corniculatulus Schedl), and X. volvulus (Fabricius) (= X. grenadensis Hopkins, X. vagabundus Schedl). Microborus bicolor Eggers is removed from synonymy, and the new name Acanthotomicus bidentis is proposed for the preoccupied name Mimips bidens Wood.
41712051|Diphyllobothrium cordiceps (Leidy 1871) plerocercoids are present as enzootic parasites in the viscera and skeletal muscle of cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki) from Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Eight cutthroat trout from the Yellowstone River were examined by histological technique and scanning electron microscopy to determine the response of host tissue to the presence of diphyllobothriid larvae. All fish sampled contained encysted plerocercoids on the serosa of the pyloric caeca and intestine. In addition to infection of the exterior of the alimentary tract, muscle tissue was infected in two of the fish sampled, whereas one fish had infection of the liver, spleen, and testis. Intact plerocercoids were encapsulated with connective tissue that was infiltrated with lymphocytes and macrophages. Granulomatous tissue that was fibrotic was also present. Pancreatic tissue was displaced in infections associated with the alimentary tract. The liver showed general necrosis with edema, and the spleen demonstrated a reduction in cellularity and increased connective tissue. Testicular tissue compressed by an adjacent plerocercoid appeared to be in an otherwise normal stage of development. Necrotic myofibrils near encapsulated parasites were separated by edema and fatty infiltration. A brief morphologic description of D. cordiceps is presented. In general, D. cordiceps did not appear to produce a serious debilitation of cutthroat trout.
41712647|Inland saltgrass (Distichlis spicata) occurs on at least two metal-contaminated sites in southwestern Montana. As a result of mining, milling, and smelting activities, soils have elevated concentrations of copper, zinc, and manganese. One soil is acidic (upper horizons), slightly saline, and moderately sodic. The other soil is alkaline, nonsaline, and nonsodic. The fact that inland saltgrass grows on these soils and does not accumulate dangerous levels of metals makes it a candidate species for revegetating hardrock mining and other metal-polluted sites.
41711382|In a report published in 1970, 190 species of wasps were reported from Jackson Hole, Wyoming, and notes were presented on the biology of several ground-nesting species. In this paper, records of 18 additional species are presented. A short account of the biology of a ground-nesting species, Tachysphex aethiops Cresson, is included. Also included are accounts of four species that accepted wooden trap nests during the summer of 1971: Symmorphus cristatus (Saussure), Ancistrocerus adiabatus (Saussure), both Eumenidae; Trypoxylon aldrichi Sandhouse, Passaloecus cuspidatus Smith, both Sphecidae. Notes are presented on nest structure, prey, and parasites in each instance.
41711981|Described as new are six critical species and one variety of Erigeron from Utah. They are E. awapensis Welsh, E. canaani Welsh, E. carringtonae Welsh, E. goodrichii Welsh, E. maguirei Cronq. var. harrisonii Welsh, E. untermannii Welsh and Goodrich, and E. wahwahensis Welsh.
41712389|In 1984 (a dry year), Tule Meadow, in the Sierra National Forest, California, was well grazed after several years of light use. This situation provided the opportunity to study responses of Nebraska sedge (Carex nebraskensis), an important forage species in mountain meadows, to protection and grazing. Rooted shoot frequencies and densities in fall 1984 and spring 1985 were the same within an exclosure and on the grazed area. Residual herbage (shoot weight) in fall and shoot heights in spring were greater within the exclosure. Lower spring shoot heights on the grazed area may relate to fall regrowth and reduced insulation induced by grazing. Nitrogen and potassium content of fall herbage was greater on the grazed area. Phosphorus content was the same both inside and outside the exclosure.
41712119|Historical accounts and matched photographs indicate sharp decline of once-abundant Kochia americana in eastern Great Basin vegetation since the early 1900s, most of the decline by the late 1950s. Exclosure data show further decline from 1957 to 1973, then some increase between 1970 and 1973 and 1976 and 1981. Utah sheep numbers, at maximum from 1925 to 1940 and declining steadily to the 1970s, may have induced the long-term changes. Black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californicus), could not have induced vegetation decline, but could have added to livestock pressure and abetted the trend. In 1972, rabbits near a cyclic high were indirectly estimated to completely utilize K. americana in Curlew Valley, northwestern Utah. In 1976-1977 at rabbit low, direct measurements show 4%-18% of plants browsed by late summer, about 30%-50% of herbage removed from browsed plants. The latter rose to 45%-82% by end of winter. Late-summer percent browsed may have risen slightly (11%-21%) in 1980-1981 at next rabbit high. Increase in K. americana density from 1973 to 1976, then a slight decrease from 1976 to 1980, suggests fluctuating K. americana abundance induced by rabbit browsing, superimposed on long-term K. americana decline and recovery.
41712433|Observations in nature and captivity reveal that members of the population of Rhinoclemmys areolata of western Tabasco, Mxico, exhibit underwater courtship and mating and appear to lay one egg per nest.
41712691|Survival of adult chukar-imprinted, game farm (sibling/human-imprinted), and wild chukars was compared in three releases (two sites). Combined results indicate similar (P < .05) survival for adult-imprinted and wild chukars, but lower rates (P < .05) for game farm chukars. With early behavioral conditioning, some potential exists for using captive-reared chukars to establish new populations.
41711526|This revision discusses the 10 species of Eriogonum assigned to the subgenus Pterogonum. Six of the species are essentially restricted to northern Mexico; two additional species, E. hemipterum and E. nealleyi, are found primarily in Texas; and the remaining two, E. hieracifolium and E. alatum, are the most widespread species of the subgenus being found mainly in the United States and just barely entering Mexico. The subgenus is characterized by the broad, often winged or ribbed achenes, and the generally erect habit of the stems of these perennial herbs. Three new species, E. fimbriatum, E. viscanum, and E. clivosum, are described. They are related to E. ciliatum and are found in the desert foothills of north central Mexico. Two new varieties of E. atrorubens are proposed. One, var. nemorosum, is restricted to the high mountains of the Sierra Madre Occidental in northern Durango and southern Chihuahua, while the second, var. auritulum, is a plant of the Sierra Madre Oriental of Coahuila and Nuevo Len. The subgenus is divided into four sections, two of which, Peregrina and Astra, are new. Cytological information is given for nearly all taxa and shows the majority of species to have a haploid number of 20. Eriogonum atrorubens var. intonsum is a polyploid with n = 40, and E. greggii is the most unusual with a haploid number of 16. Each species is described in detail, discussed, and illustrated. Distribution maps are given noting the known locations for each taxon.
41712925|Bat surveys were completed in 6 habitat types in eastern Nevada between 1980 and 1994. Twelve species of bats and 578 individuals were identified from 33 trap localities in 144 trap nights. There were weak correlations between bat species richness and January maximum temperatures (0.728, P < 0.05) and mean annual days with 0 or lower (0.704, P < 0.05). Bat species richness exhibited no correlation with annual normal precipitation, January minimum temperatures, July minimum temperatures, and July maximum temperatures. It appears that bat species richness is highest in portions of northeastern Nevada typified by sedimentary deposits (limestone, dolomite). Igneous mountain ranges (basalt, volcanic ash) generally had moderate bat species richness, and metamorphic mountain ranges (quartzite) typically had low bat species richness. Notable range extensions include Antrozous pallidus (from central Nye County north to the Nevada-Idaho border, approximately 450 km), Tadarida brasiliensis (approximately 350 km north), and Pipistrellus hesperus (approximately 350 km north). Also, the presence of Lasionycteris noctivagans, Lasiurus cinereus, and Corynorhinus townsendii was confirmed.
41704200|Observations were made on four nesting attempts by Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus) in 1965 and 1966 in Box Elder and Cache Counties, Utah. The location, nest composition, and number of eggs of each nest are presented. In one instance eggs were laid at intervals of forty-eight hours or less. Data on weight and measurement and color of eggs are given. Data for the only two completed nests indicates incubation periods of twenty-seven and twentyeight days respectively. The distraction display of the incubatng family is descrbed for the first time.
41712260|Distribution and abundance of 215 amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals were monitored for 10 years on Utah's Oil Shale Tracts using line transects, mist netting, and live trapping. Wildlife monitoring was conducted in four major vegetation types and during all seasons to establish a quantitative baseline for use in impact identification during oil shale mining. Habitat preferences were established for many species in cold desert vegetation of two types of desert shrub, and juniper and riparian woodlands. Seasonal, annual, and habitat distribution of each class demonstrated a variety of adaptive responses to environmental variables. The most important environmental variables, that is, those factors resulting in a predictable change in wildlife populations, were, in descending order: weather, food resource, shelter, and competition.
41712935|The existence of low-elevation populations of Neotoma cinerea in the northern Bonneville Basin shows either that these mammals can survive many thousands of years in xeric habitats or that they can move across xeric lowlands far more readily than has been appreciated, or both. Current models of Great Basin small mammal biogeography are far too static to encompass properly the interaction of the wide range of geographical and biological variability that has produced the modern distribution of those mammals that have, for several decades, been treated as "montane" within the Great Basin.
41712461|Distribution, status, habitat, elevational range, original literature citations, synonymy, and specimens deposited at Brigham Young University (BRY), University of Colorado (COLO), Colorado State University (CS), Denver Botanical Garden (KHD), Kansas State University (KSC), University of Kansas (KANU), Missouri Botanical Garden (MO), and the Rocky Mountain Herbarium (RM) are given for 79 species of rare Colorado plants. Species federally listed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service under the Endangered Species Act, candidates for listing, and species that qualify as federal candidates because of limited range, small populations, or known threats are included. Suggested changes in status are offered where appropriate. Maps and tables indicating the Colorado range of these species are provided.
41711808|The influence of winter weather on the survival of Utah's ring-necked pheasants was evaluated using correlation analysis. This method used published Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources population data and a calculated winter warmth index. Results show four different patterns of survival occurring in the 14 counties analyzed.
41712849|Soil samples, one from each of 10 locations in northern Nevada, were evaluated for redox potential, total and extractable selenium, phosphate, free iron oxide, total and ferrous iron. Mole fractions for extractable selenium species were calculated from redox potentials. Data were used to extrapolate general geochemical relationships for soil selenium at the sample sites. Results obtained from one sample per location allowed only the most general conclusions to be drawn. Soil phosphate levels, which affect the adsorption of selenite species on iron oxide by competing for adsorption sites, were not correlated with levels of extractable selenium in this study. This would suggest that selenium would exist in solution, having been displaced from adsorption sites by phosphorus. Ferrous iron, iron oxides, and redox potential had a combined effect on the level of extractable selenium at all sites. Soils in this study support selenite species that are not readily available to plants and therefore could not support vegetation adequate in Se.
41711983|Reported as a new variety from the Green River Formation of Uintah and Duchesne counties, Utah, is Haplopappus armerioides (Nutt.) Gray var. gramineus Welsh & F. J. Smith.
41716164|The diet of Long-billed Curlew chicks is described for the first time. Five insect orders and one arachnid order were identified from nine stomach contents samples. Grasshoppers and carabid beetles were dominant prey items.
41712735|Botanical content of black-tailed jackrabbit diets was determined by microhistological examination of fecal samples collected from six different vegetation types in southern New Mexico on three dates. Grasses comprised the largest component of the jackrabbit diets, with dropseed species (Sporobolus spp.) and black grama (Bouteloua enopoda) the most abundant grasses in the diets. Leatherweed croton (Croton pottsii) and silverleaf nightshade (Solanum elaeagnifolium) were important forbs on most vegetation types. Diet composition varied in response to season and vegetation type. Grasses were important during the summer growing season, while forbs were selected during their growing season (summer or winter-spring). Shrubs were less abundant in the diet than grasses and forbs.
41711882|One hundred and twenty-eight mima mounds were studied relative to their vegetational relationships in a tall grass prairie area of central Iowa. Mound origins are thought to be due to several phenomena but are most likely initiated and maintained by the activity of pocket gophers. Seventy-five percent of the plant species common to the mounds are prairie species. When vegetative composition of the mounds was compared to the adjacent prairie vegetation, however, they were only 35 percent similar. The mounds were shown to alter the original structure and composition of the prairie vegetation. The mounds, once formed, created a new microenvironment. Many species were shown to respond to this new habitat. The factors deemed most influential in affecting the vegetational changes were disturbance and microrelief. Study observations indicate that the mounds represent microsuccession sites and cause changes in prairie vegetation to earlier stages in the sere.
41712682|All names known to apply to the genus Oxytropis de Candolle in North America are listed with place of publication, type information (where known), type specimen repositories, and notations pertinent to understanding the nomenclatural aspects of the genus. Nomenclatural combinations proposed are: Oxytropis arctica R. Brown var. murrayi (Jurtzev) Welsh and O. campestris (L.) de Candolle var. roaldii (Ostenfeld) Welsh.
41711458|The stability of the salt content in Salicornia pacifica Standl. var. utahensis (Tidestrom) Munz in relation to environmental changes was investigated. Salicornia pacifica communities have a characteristic soil pH of 7.5 to 8.0  0.2 and a constant subsurface soil moisture level of 25 to 35 percent. The ion content in the tissue of S. pacifica remained constant despite increased moisture stress throughout the growing season. The concentrations of the salts were significantly higher in the surface soil layers than in the subsurface layers around the roots. Normal metabolic processes in the tissues of S. pacifica appear to occur even though some fluctuations in the ionic balance and concentration of ions in the plant occur.
41711231|A 6.3 ha grid was established at the United States Atomic Energy Commission's Nevada Test Site and the small mammals trapped-out during the summers of 1964 and 1965 to study invasion by Perognathus longimembris Coues. Age analyses were made to determine the relationship between age and invasion. The mean age of invading animals was lowest in mid- and late summer, but varied widely with reproductive success. There was no statistically significant difference in mean age between male and female invaders. Ratios of male to female invaders varied directly with that of the natural population. Invasion rates varied widely and were mainly influenced by population density outside the grid.
41712541|Two new subspecies are described from the southern part of the distribution of Thamnophis elegans: T. e. arizonae from the Little Colorado River basin of Arizona and New Mexico and T. e. vascotanneri from the Upper Colorado River basin of Utah.
41712723|Leaf area estimates are required by hydrologie, erosion, and growth/yield simulation models and are important to the understanding of transpiration, interception, CO fixation, and the energy balance for native plant communities. Leaf biomass (g) to leaf area (mm) linear regression relationships were evaluated for 15 perennial grasses, 12 shrubs, and 1 tree. The slope coefficient () of the linear regression equation is a ratio of leaf area to leaf biomass and is defined as the leaf area ratio [LAR = one-sided leaf area (mm)/oven-dry leaf weight (g)]. LAR represents  in each regression equation, where Y = (X). Linear regression relationships for leaf area were computed (r = .84-.98) for all 28 native range species after full leaf extension. Within-plant estimates of leaf area for mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torr. var. glandalosa [Torr.] Cockll.) or lime prickly ash (Zanthoxylum fagara [L.] Sarg.) were not significantly different (P  .05). LARs for three of the shrubs and the tree were established at four different phenological stages. There were no significant differences (P  .05) in LARs for lime prickly ash, mesquite, and Texas persimmon (Diospyros texana Scheele) after full leaf extension during the growing season. The LAR relationship for Texas persimmon changed significantly after full leaf extension. LAR relationships for Texas colubrina (Colubrina texensis [T. & G.] Gray) changed in response to water stress.
41711475|The status of the genus Urosaurus Hallowell and its relationship to the genus Uta Baird and Girard as presented in previous studies are reviewed. Additional data from the head and throat osteology and myology are included in the analysis. Each bone and muscle is measured, ratios determined, and the position noted. Five distinct anatomical differences are noted between Uta and Urosaurus, and it is concluded that both of these genera are sufficiently different to warrant generic status. Uta is considered to be phylogenetically more primitive.
41711375|A new subfruticose Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) is described as E. pelinophilum, from specimens obtained near Hotchkiss, Delta Co., Colorado. A member of the subgenus Eucycla, the new species is most closely related to E. contortum Small ex Rydb., but differs in having cream-colored flowers instead of bright yellow flowers. The two species also differ in that E. pelinophilum has narrowly turbinate involucres which are longer than those of E. contorium and larger flowers and achenes. The new species is apparently restricted to gumbo clay hills west of Hotchkiss.
41711897|Pitfall and Malaise trap collections from terrestrial arthropod populations in central Nevada were analyzed for four trapping periods during the 1978 growing season. Mites (Acarina) and ants (Formicidae) were the taxa represented by the largest numbers of individuals in pitfall trap collections throughout the season; Malaise collections were composed mainly of aerial taxa (largely Diptera and Hymenoptera). Peak arthropod abundance was recorded during mid-June. Collection diversities for both trapping methods were generally low due to the abundance of a few taxa. Evidence for spatial heterogeneity in arthropod populations was meager; temporal heterogeneity in these populations, however, was more apparent.
41711629|In situ radiocarbon uptake measurements conducted at Big Soda Lake, Nevada, indicate that (i) bacterial photosynthesis comprises an important fraction (30 percent) of the lake's total primary production and (ii) bacterial chemosynthesis contributes significantly to organic particle production. The results of nutrient enrichment bioassay experiments support Hutchinson's prediction that availability of inorganic nitrogen, rather than phosphorus, limits primary production in the mixolimnion. Nutrient additions of NO-N with Fe most stimulated C uptake.
41712431|Three new genera and 14 new species in 9 genera in the tribe Coelidiini are described and illustrated. Revised keys to males of species in several genera are also given. New genera include: Pygmaelidia, type-species Pygmaelidia bullata, n. sp.; Gracilidia, type-species Gracilidia gracilis, n. sp.; Fistulidia, type-species Fistulidia simplex, n. sp. Additional new species include the following: Boliviela bispinosa, Boliviela paraortha, Tinocripus huggerti, Lodia parapectinata, Calodicia circulata, Dicolecia serrata, Evansolidia massa, Evansolidia bifurcata, Evansolidia digitula, Spinolidia sarmenta, Spinolidia magna.
41711797|The European annual plants Salsola iberica, Sisymbrium altissimum, Descurainia sophia, and Bromus tectorum invaded southern Idaho about 1900 and spread very rapidly into native plant communities damaged or eliminated by burning, abusive grazing, and agricultural clearing. Historic photographs reveal that the sites of initial invasion were waterway margins, railroad rights-of-way, road shoulders, city streets, agricultural areas, and construction sites. By 1915, these plants were widespread and abundant. Burning and grazing fostered their spread and dominance on millions of acres in southern Idaho.
41711843|Callibaetis nymphs in Rattlesnake Springs, Hanford Reservation, Washington, feed almost exclusively on fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) collected from the stream bottom.
41712660|An adult male and an adult female black bear (Ursus americanus) were found in the same den in the Carson Range of the Sierra Nevada in Nevada. Co-occupancy of dens is very rare, and such behavior has never been previously reported for adult bears of opposite sex.
41712374|Mima moundfields were investigated at the Lawrence Memorial Grassland Preserve, located on the Columbia Plateau in southern Wasco County, Oregon, and at three locations in the San Luis Valley and Sangre de Cristo Mountains, southern Colorado, to test the alternative hypotheses of mound origin by erosion, frost action, and soil translocation by geomyid pocket gophers. The concentrations of two size classes of small stones, gravel (8-15 mm diameter) and pebbles (15-50 mm diameter), were sampled along mound-to-intermound transects and at different depths within the mounds. Numbers and masses of small stones per unit soil volume increased from intermounds to mound tops at the Colorado sites and from mound edge to mound top at the Oregon site, where thin intermound soils lay directly on the weathering surface of basalt bedrock. Numbers and masses of small stones in the surface soil of mound tops were greater than or similar to concentrations in deeper layers. Mean masses of individual pebbles were greater in the intermound zone than in mound soils at the Oregon site, but did not differ along mound-intermound gradients at the Colorado sites. Ratios of gravel to pebbles varied significantly along the mound-intermound gradient at the Oregon site and at one Colorado site, being highest at mound edges or in intermounds. These observations support the hypothesis that mounds are formed by centripetal translocation of soil by geomyid pocket gophers, and are contrary to predictions based on theories assuming erosion or frost action to be the mechanism of mound formation.
41712023|Plant communities are inherently variable due to a number of environmental and biological forces. Canopy cover and aboveground biomass were determined for understory vegetation in plant communities of a prairie grasslandforest ecotone in southeastern Montana. Vegetation units were described using polar ordination and stepwise discriminant analysis. Nine of a total of 88 plant species encountered and cover of litter were the most useful variables in distinguishing among vegetation units on the study area and accounted for nearly 100 percent of the variation in the data. Seven vegetation units were different (P < 0.05) after all 10 variables had been entered into the analysis. Some plant communities were represented by two or three different vegetation units, indicating that some plant communities were variable and nonuniform in botanical composition over a relatively small area. This variability will influence management practices for these areas. Multiple-use management will benefit by recognition of inherent plant community variation.
41713099|Brachylagus is currently a monotypic genus of uncertain origins and known only from Holocene and late Rancholabrean. A new species of leporid is described from the early and middle Pleistocene (Irvingtonian) deposits of Porcupine Cave, Park County, Colorado. Stratified deposits of the Pit and the Velvet Room, 2 localities within Porcupine Cave, have been dated biochronologically and paleomagnetically from the middle Irvingtonian and early to middle Irvingtonian, respectively. Brachylagus coloradoensis, sp. nov., is characterized by its conserved p3 enamel patterns which are intermediate between B. idahoensis and Hypolagus, and its size which is slightly larger than that of B. idahoensis. This suggests a possible ancestral relationship between Hypolagus and Brachylagus.
41711975|Peromyscus maniculatus and related small rodents have been examined for ectoparasites in the tundra region of the Rocky Mountain National Park 1974-1979. One hundred and ninety-four P. maniculatus were examined from two tundra sites. Flea infestation rates were 1.9 fleas per mouse examined and 4.1 fleas per infested mouse. Species taken in significant numbers were Monopsyllus thambus (51 percent), Peromyscopsylla hesperomys (34 percent), Maforaeus euphorbi (9 percent), and Catallagia calisheri (4 percent). Peromyscus maniculatus host/flea relationships in the tundra are compared with those in other life zones in the park.
41713138|We examined Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) nesting characteristics in northeastern Oregon to identify relationships between hen age and nesting parameters and to ascertain habitat characteristics related to successful nests. Adult and yearling hens exhibited no differences in clutch size, percentage of eggs hatched, nesting success, or hatch dates. Among nests located under logs, 100% (n = 10) hatched 1 egg, whereas 58% (n = 10) of 17 nests not under logs hatched 1 egg.
41712329|A set of ovibovine horn cores collected from Pleistocene sediments in southeastern Idaho provides additional evidence for sexual dimorphism in the helmeted musk ox, Symbos cavifrons. Specimens previously assigned to Bootherium sargenti are placed in synonomy with Symbos cavifrons as sexual dimorphs (females). Bootherium bombifrons is a valid taxon and is probably not closely related to Symbos.
41711407|Mechanisms important in maintaining substrate color matching in the grasshopper, Circotettix rabula, were studied near Aspen, Colorado, during the summers of 1968-70. Studies concentrated on populations on gray shale and red sandstone substrates. In both areas, collections revealed appreciable numbers of mismatched phenotypes among all age groups. The possibility of developmental homochromy was examined by observation of nymphs held in rearing boxes on matching and contrasting soil colors. The behavioral selection of matching substrate colors was tested by preference experiments. While not negating the possibility of these mechanisms, results suggested that they were of minor importance. Predation experiments, using Sceloporus lizards, demonstrated significant levels of selective predation on mismatched nymphs on both red and gray substrates. Experiments with bird and mammal predators, using adult grasshoppers, gave similar results. Release-recapture experiments with marked adults in areas of red and gray substrates showed markedly higher disappearance rates for mismatched animals. These results are interpreted to indicate that selective predation on mismatched animals is a major factor in maintaining substrate color matching in this species.
41711839|Two populations of Helianthus niveus (Benth.) Brandegee ssp. canescens (A. Gray) Heiser were discovered in northern Arizona extending the range 300 miles north for this species. Helianthus deserticola Heiser range was extended 100 miles east in both Arizona and Utah.
41712242|Advertisement call variation and male mating success was investigated in a population of the Arizona tree frog, Hyla wrightorum , from central Arizona. Dominant frequency of advertisement calls was significantly correlated (negatively) with male snout-vent length. Males found mating were not significantly larger than nonmating males, nor was there a significant correlation between sizes of males and females found in amplexus. These results are discussed in relation to Renaud's (1977) work with H. wrightorum and in light of recent work with anurans in general.
41711107|The history of naturalization of Siberian Elm (Ulmus pumila L.) in Utah is presented. Establishment of the species in nature occurred quickly after its introduction into Utah, and it has become a conspicuous part of the vegetation in lowland areas in Utah valleys. The earliest documented date of establishment in nature in Utah is 1935. The species was not cultivated in Utah and adjacent states prior to 1920. It was recommended for use in the western United States during the 1920' s, and it was extensively planted during the 1930' s and 1940' s. The naturalization of Siberian Elm is similar to the earlier naturalization in Utah of tamarix (Tamarix pentandra Pall.) and Russian olive (Elaeagrtus angustifolia L.).
41713104|Soldier beetles of 2 species, Chauliognathus basalis and C. deceptus, were examined to test the Crespi hypothesis that positive assortative mating by size is caused by mate choice. Specifically, we tested the prediction that if mate choice involves choosing the largest mate available, then mating individuals will be larger than nonmating individuals. Four samples were taken, at different times during the mating season, from each of 2 sites. Each sample consisted of mating pairs, nonmating males, and nonmating females. Some of the samples contained beetles of both species; others contained beetles of a single species. For each gender elytron lengths of mating individuals were compared with elytron lengths of nonmating individuals. We found no effect of mating status (mating vs. nonmating) on elytron lengths in samples that exhibited assortative mating (which occurs where 2 species coexist). Surprisingly, we found a consistent effect of mating status on elytron lengths in samples that did not exhibit assortative mating (which occurs where only 1 species exists). Our results do not support the mate-choice hypothesis. Instead, mate choice and assortative mating appear to be alternative mating patterns in which mate choice occurs where a single species exists and assortative mating occurs where 2 species coexist.
41711438|Data taken on external scale characters of 1003 specimens representing nine of the sixteen species of Gerrhonotus sensu Stebbins, 1958, strongly indicate that Tihen's 1949 arrangement of those species in three genera (Gerrhonotus, Elgaria, Barisia) is valid. Misinterpretation of the identity of the head scales in various species of this group has led erroneously to disregard of them as indicators of relationships. Actually the scales are as constant as in most other lizards and seemingly provide firm clues to natural associations.
41711568|In this taxonomic revision of the Nearctic flea genus Anomiopsyllus Baker morphological characters, phylogeny, affinities with other genera in the subfamily Anomiopsyllinae, evolutionary adaptations, geographic distribution, ecological parameters, and host preferences are discussed. Characters primarily associated with the male genitalia, in particular the number and placement of spiniforms on the movable process (finger) of the clasper, are used for species discrimination. A key to the males of the 15 species and subspecies is provided, including illustrations of both males and females.
41711372|Questionable Utah distribution records are reviewed and new state records are given. The female of Capnia cygna Jewett is described and figured and an allotype  designated. Detailed synonomies and nomenclatural notes are provided for Capnia vernalis (Newport), Utacapnia poda (Nebeker and Gaufin) and Oemopteryx fosketti (Ricker). Descriptions are given of the female, nymph, and egg of Isogenoides zionensis Hanson and an allotype  designated. The male, nymph, and egg of Pictetiella expansa (Banks) are described and an allotype  designated. Sweltsa gaufini, sp. nov., is described for the male, female, and egg stages and a holotype S designated. Descriptions are either supported with original figures or reference is made to acceptable figures in the literature. Besides line drawings and halftones, useful photographic figures are provided which were prepared by using a scanning electron microscope. An annotated list of Utah species is given following the revised nomenclature of lilies (1966) and Zwick (1973).
41711501|In June 1974 a scrotal male Mexican big-eared bat (Plecotus phyllotis) was netted near Hurricane, Utah. This account represents the third report of the species from Utah and extends the range approximately 330 km west of previous accounts. Adjacent state records are located approximately 64 km to the southeast in Arizona and 80 km southwest in Nevada.
41711538|A new species of weevil, Phyllotrox canyonaceris Warner, is described, new synonomy, and distribution records of eight species of the genus Phyllotrox in North America are given.
41711826|Twenty-three study sites were established in the sagebrush communities bordering Utah Lake. Relic (ungrazed) and grazed stands were represented in the sample. Differences in species composition, vegetation, and soil characteristics were assessed. Major differences in species composition and vegetative characteristics were due to the influence of grazing. Major changes were loss of native perennial grass cover, and increases in cover from introduced annual species. Differences in the soil characteristics were due to habitat rather than grazing influences.
41711422|An investigation to elucidate some facets of the biology and ecology of Paruroctonus boreus (Girard), in southeast Idaho, was conducted from 21 March to 13 October 1972. Three hundred and eighty-five observations were made on 202 scorpions captured in covered pitfalls and by ultraviolet light. The greatest activity occurred at 2130 hours. Surface activity was not observed when ambient temperature was below 10 C, and, as ambient temperature increased, an increase in surface activity was noted. Male scorpions frequently moved as much as 30 m between observations, while females seldom moved more than five m. Sex ratios varied considerably depending on time of year and method of sampling. Of 142 scorpions observed by blacklight, 92 were males, and 50 were females (1.84 males/female). Limited data suggest a mean litter size of 34  11.
41711645|A new subspecies, Lichanura trivirgata bostici, from Cedros Island, Baja California del Norte, Mexico, is described, figured, and compared to other taxa of the genus.
41711781|An annotated list of 125 taxa new to the flora of Teton County is presented, increasing the number of known species to 1043.
41713121|Plant species richness, density, and frequency were quantitatively examined within Pogonomyrmex rugosus (seed-harvester ant) nest discs and at various distances from nest discs in a Larrea tridentata-Ambrosia dumosa (creosote bush-white bursage) shrubland in southern Nevada. Woody vegetation at and near the edge (perimeter) of nest discs showed decreased species richness, density, and frequency compared with vegetation in adjacent reference areas (nonnest; 4 m beyond discs). Four of 17 species were found with significantly lower density and frequency on nest discs than at greater distances from the nest. Thirteen of 17 species were not found on nest discs at all. Species richness, density, and frequency were significantly and negatively correlated with distance from nests. Woody vegetation was sparse and less variable in composition when occurring at discs and edges of discs. Local disturbances caused by P rugosus nests may largely alter immediate surrounding vegetation in the L. tridentata-A. dumosa shrubland of southern Nevada.
41712663|Five new species of teruliine leafhoppers from the Nearctic and Neotropical regions are described and illustrated. These include Vlapigella jessicae, Stalolidia crista, and Korsigianus christopheri from Brazil; Jikradia infufo from Mexico; and Onbfovia freytagi from Venezuela. Revised keys to males of species of three genera are also given.
41712229|During the spring breeding season throughout the channeled scablands of eastern Washington, metamorphosed male and female blotched tiger salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum melanostictum) utilize oropharyngeal suction to capture large quantities of small aquatic invertebrates. Stomach content analysis on salamanders from three populations of this subspecies revealed that they consume the following taxa: Copepoda, Cladocera, Culicidae, Anostraca, and Chironomidae. Although the amount of energy obtained by adults via in-water feeding was not calculated, the large volume of aquatic invertebrate material flushed from salamander stomachs suggests that this feeding strategy should add significantly to their total annual nutrient consumption.
41712697|Microhabitat selection by the johnny darter (Etheostoma nigrum) was examined in the North Laramie River, Platte County, Wyoming, where it does not occur with other darter species in the same stream reach. Electivity indices based on microhabitat observations indicate that E. nigrum avoids riffles and selects certain microhabitats characterized by intermediate water depths in pools and slow-moving runs with a substrate composed primarily of silt and sand. Niche breadth and electivity values for total depth, bottom water velocity, and substrate measurements from this study indicate that E. nigrum is a habitat generalist, except at the extreme ends of the habitat gradient. Habitat use here is generally similar to other studies where E. nigrum occurred with one or more other darter species. This study found little evidence for competitive release in the absence of other darters.
41712667|Abert's squirrel is a forest-dwelling mammal, dependent upon ponderosa pine, that now ranges from southern Wyoming to northern Mexico. During the late Pleistocene, ponderosa pine and this squirrel occurred no further north than central Arizona and New Mexico. In consequence, the present range of the squirrel north of the 36th parallel must have been the result of post-Pleistocene (Holocene) dispersal. If such dispersal took place after the fragmentation of the northern montane conifer forest, at least some leakage across barriers of unsuitable (non-ponderosa pine) habitat must have occurred. Dispersal following transplanting "experiments" has shown that such barriers can be crossed; other evidence is provided that suggests this may occur sufficiently often to produce significant changes in distribution within short periods of time. Thus, explanations for the distribution of Abert's squirrel, based only on historical legacy and local extinctions, are found to be insufficient. An alternative explanation is proposed in which post-Pleistocene dispersal also plays an important role.
41711638|A revision of the legume family, Fabaceae (Leguminosae), is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 244 species and 60 varieties of indigenous and introduced plants. A key to genera and species is provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and pertinent comments. Proposed new taxa are Astragalus lentiginosus Dougl. ex Hook, var. wahweapensis Welsh; Astragalus subcinereus A. Gray var. basalticus Welsh; Hedysarum occidentale Greene var. canone Welsh; Oxytropis oreophila A. Gray var. juniperina Welsh; and Trifolium andersonii A. Gray var. friscanum Welsh. New combinations include Astragalus bisulcatus (Hook.) A. Gray var. major (M. E. Jones) Welsh; Astragalus consobrinus (Barneby) Welsh; Astragalus pubentissimus Torr & Gray var. peabodianus (M. E. Jones) Welsh; Lathyrus brachycalyx Rydb. var. zionis (C. L. Hitchc.) Welsh; Lathyrus lanzwertii Kellogg var. arizonicus (Britton) Welsh; Lathyrus langwertii Kellogg var. laetivirens (Greene) Welsh; Lupinus argenteus Pursh var. moabensis (Dunn & Harmon) Welsh; Lupinus argenteus Pursh var. rubricaulis (Greene) Welsh; Lupinus caudatus Kellogg var. argophyllus (A. Gray) Welsh; Lupinus caudatus Kellogg var. cutleri (Eastw.) Welsh; Lupinus pusillus Pursh var. rubens (Rydb.) Welsh; Lupinus sericeus Pursh var. barbiger (S. Wats.) Welsh; Lupinus sericeus Pursh var. marianus (Rydb.) Welsh; Oxytropis besseyi (Rydb.) Blankinship var. obnapiformis (C. L. Porter) Welsh; Psoralea lanceolata Pursh var. stenostachys (Rydb.) Welsh.
41711292|During the summer of 1969 a survey involving 45 nesting nocturnal and diurnal birds of prey was made. Prey items, nest site selections, and productivity for great horned, long-eared, burrowing and short-eared owls, golden eagle, prairie falcon, kestrel, harrier and ferruginous, red-tailed and Swainson's hawks were determined. The turkey vulture, accipiter hawks, barn and screech owls were also recorded. The total raptor impact on the environment was determined to be slight, whereas the limits placed on the nesting species are considered substantial. It was noted that immature eagles were in the valley and, because they did not require a nest site, were able to utilize areas away from suitable nest sites. Ferruginous hawks had a clumped distribution because the nest sites (junipers) were aggregated on the valley floor. Red-tailed hawks and kestrels required nest sites not typically found in undisturbed desert communities and were found more commonly in agricultural lands. The golden eagle was the only species studied that did not produce a replacement population, i.e., a minimum of two young per pair, although observations outside the valley proved this to be a local phenomenon.
41711299|A late Pleistocene mammalian fauna from Little Box Elder Cave, eastern Wyoming, provides paleontological evidence bearing on several contemporary and related studies in zoogeography of Recent intermontane mammals and on understanding of rapidly changing environments in the Rockies in late Pleistocene and post-Pleistocene time. Both paleontological and zoogeographical findings suggest that during glacial periods in the Pleistocene the life-zones were lowered and, therefore, many boreal mammals ranged away from the glaciated Rocky Mountain chain. Since then, some of these returned or retreated northward as the climate moderated, and many warmth-adapted mammals approached the Rockies. The fossil and Recent faunas analyzed together reveal that the post-Pleistocene climate became so warm that numerous boreal species disappeared from habitats that are now again boreal (montane). Some warmth-adapted species have advanced to and retreated from the cave area. The climatic optimum, as well as the glacial and interglacial periods, apparently affected the distribution of numerous mammals in this area.
41711995|Described as a new species is Penstemon flowersii Neese & Welsh from Utah. An illustration is provided. The species is named in honor of the late Seville Flowers, professor of botany at the University of Utah.
41711967|A list of 658 references to Colorado vegetation description is presented, along with county and subject indexes to the list.
41711891|Several investigations (size-class analysis, age-determination inquiries, and germination tests) suggest that Cupressus arizonica of southeastern Arizona is a pioneer species. The tree requires disturbance to remove or reduce soil litter, which otherwise inhibits the reproduction of the species. Reduction of light intensity caused by canopy closure appears to be less important than litter accumulation in restricting C. arizonica reproduction. Following disturbance, successful establishment of seedlings may occur over an extended period (50 to 100 years), as litter gradually accumulates. The absence of C. arizonica seedlings in present populations suggest that fire suppression policies on federal lands where C. arizonica occurs have altered fire frequency, and consequently have fostered a short-term reduction in C. arizonica establishment. Only in floodplain environments, where flooding disturbs the soil surface, has much reproduction occurred in recent years. The long-term population pattern of C. arizonica appears stable, due to the great longevity of the species.
41712839|Golden Eagle population ecology was studied from 1982 to 1992 in eastern Utah where over 47% of 233 territories monitored during the study period were active. Golden Eagle use of four habitat types was compared. Talus territories were used less often than expected; valley, aspen-conifer, and pinyon-juniper territories were used as expected. Number of young produced per territory averaged 0.612 and was correlated with rabbit abundance. Observations on the impacts of coal mining at two locations are discussed.
41712030|Tui chubs collected from November 1975 through November 1977 from Pyramid Lake, Nevada, were analyzed for seasonal growth patterns. Major growth in length occurred during the fall and early winter, and major reproductive development occurred during the late spring and early summer.
41712995|Blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima Torr.) is a dominant desert shrub in a distinct mid-elevational vegetation belt between creosote bush-bursage (Larrea tridentata-Ambrosia dumosa) shrubland below and big sagebrush-pinyon pineUtah juniper (Artemisia tridentata-Pinus monophylla-Juniperus osteosperma) woodland above in the Mojave Desert. Seed germination patterns of blackbrush seeds collected from 2 elevations (1200 and 1550 m) in 5 mountain ranges within the blackbrush shrublands were investigated. Morphological features of blackbrush seeds, including weight, length, and width, were not significantly different (P > 0.05) among elevations and mountain ranges in the Mojave Desert. Germination of blackbrush seeds was optimal when preceded by a prechill period of 4-6 wk. Seeds incubated at room temperature germinated poorly. Seeds collected at warm, low-elevation sites appeared to be less dormant (required less prechill time), germinated faster, and showed a higher overall germination response at low temperature relative to cold, high-elevation sites. Frequencies of watering also determined the germination response; watering at 2-wk intervals revealed the greatest germination. Some ecotypic variation among populations establishing at different elevations was evident with regard to dormancy duration and germination response at certain constant temperatures.
41711553|The sagebrush vole flea (Megabothris chntoni princei Hubbard) is reported from Utah for the first time, based on collections made in Tooele County. Distribution of the flea Megabothris abantis in the Bonneville Basin is limited to the Oquirrh Mountains, where its presence appears to be determined by the occurrence of the western jumping mouse.
41712151|Six new species of Pityophthorus from Mexico are described. The new species, all in the Scriptor group, are: atkinsoni, diminutivus, equihuai, thamnus, trunculus and zexmenivora. An additional locality record for P. coronarius Blackman is included. A new key to the 22 species included in the Scriptor group is presented.
41712939|Lewisia longipetala (Piper) Clay is a high-altitude endemic found in the northern Sierra Nevada. The characteristics of 12 sites with L. longipetala, which represent all known populations, were studied to define habitat requirements of the species. Meso- and microscale characteristics of the habitat were examined, including characteristics of the associated plant community. Average plant size and plant density of L. longipetala were also determined for each population. Similar measurements were made on 6 populations of Lewisia pygmaea (A. Gray) Robinson, a more common Lewisia. Populations of L. longipetala that had larger plants and higher plant density were associated with gently sloped, north-facing sites that were near large, persistent snowbanks and had low vegetative cover. Plant species associated with populations of L. longipetala were similar among the 12 sites and were indicative of mesic, rocky alpine sites. These types of plant communities found near persistent snowbanks are often termed snow-bed vegetation. In contrast, L. pygmaea was found to be less site specific. Lewisia pygmaea was found adjacent to or interspersed with L. longipetala at 5 sites, but was found in areas associated with a higher percentage of herbaceous cover and a wider variety of species. This integration of ecological and community information for L. longipetala populations contributes to the interim management and long-term monitoring of this species by providing needed information concerning its habitat and environmental specificity.
41712572|Studies in several areas in Arizona and New Mexico show that dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) is rare in young Douglas-firs growing under infected overstories. Less than 5% of the Douglas-firs under 26 years old and less than 6% of those under 1.4 m tall were infected in 77 mistletoe-infested stands. Both percent infection and mean dwarf mistletoe rating of young Douglas-firs increased as tree age, height, and stand dwarf mistletoe ratings increased.
41711832|This study examined (1) the relative abundance of the pocket gopher (Thomomys talpoides) in four successive stages (1-10, 11-39, 40-79, and 80+ years following disturbance) of spruce-fir forest; (2) the relationship between number of gopher sign (mounds and earth plugs) with gopher density; and (3) a method of sampling pocket gopher populations using a 500 by 4 m strip transect. The number of gopher mounds was significantly correlated with the number of earth plugs. Data were pooled and a categorical log linear analysis used to test for significant differences in pocket gopher sign between the four successive stages. The 1-10 and the 80+-year-old sites had significantly more gopher sign than the 11-39 and the 40-79-year-old sites. No significant differences were found between the 11-39 and the 40-79-year-old sites, or between the 1-10 and the 80+ -year-old sites. The difference in population densities may be due to understory vegetation differences between the successional stages. There was a significant correlation between amount of gopher sign and gophers caught in each of the study sites. This indicates that counts of pocket gopher sign may be used to estimate pocket gopher density. The strip transect is recommended as the most appropriate method when sampling heterogeneous habitats or when there is cause to suspect gopher populations may be aggregated within the area rather than spaced randomly or regularly.
41712907|Seasonal movements, roost-site fidelity, and foraging activity patterns are largely unknown for western populations of Townsend's big-eared bat (Plecotus townsendii). We used miniature radiotelemetry units to track springtime movements of six bats inhabiting forested lava flows in central Oregon, and found that bats moved up to 24 km from hibernacula to foraging areas. Individual bats returned to the same foraging area on successive nights but shifted to different areas in presumed response to changes in insect availability. Both sexes apparently use a series of interim roost sites between emergence from hibernation and the time females enter into maternity colonies, with little individual fidelity to these sites. In regions characterized by extensive lava-flow topography, suitable daytime roosts are numerous and dispersed over a large area, allowing bats to move relatively great distances to locate foraging ranges. Hence, the actual area of concern for effective management of individual populations can be considerably larger than indicated solely by locations of hibernacula and maternity caves of this declining species.
41713130|Sarcobatus Nees., a genus of North American halophytic shrubs, consists of 2 species: S. vermiculatus (Hook.) Torr. (n = 18, 36), which is widespread in western North America, and S. baileyi Cov. (n = 54), endemic to Nevada. Within S. vermiculatus, populations of n = 36 are widely distributed, whereas populations of n = 18 are found only in the Sonoran Desert, northern California, and northwestern Great Plains, locations at the periphery of the species range. Although the chromosome number of n = 18 is apparently tetraploid, failure to form an n = 27 race intermediate to those of n = 18 and n = 36 suggests that n = 18 S. vermiculatus is of significant age and that it behaves chromosomally as a diploid. Sarcobatus has a long fossil pollen record and endured Pleistocene climatic extremes with little range displacement.
41712129|New species and varieties of the plant genus Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) that occur in Nevada are proposed. Eriogonum tiehmii and E. ochrocephalum var. alexanderae are endemic to Nevada, and E. lewisii is restricted to extreme northeastern Nevada and adjacent Utah. These entities belong to the subgenus Eucycla. Two varieties of E. umbellatum (of the subgenus Oligogonum) are proposed. The first, var. juniporinum, is found in eastern Nevada and in the desert ranges of southeastern California. The second is var. furcosum, which is restricted to the Sierra Nevada. One new combination is also proposed: E. nudum var. gramineum.
41712391|Long-billed curlew populations were studied in the upper Green River Basin of Wyoming. Sites were selected where curlew populations appear constant in numbers and declining in numbers. Results show that while few habitat differences were found between the two areas, disturbances such as grazing and dragging during nesting reduced productivity. Nest failures were also correlated with field fertilization and early season grazing. Within each area curlews nested successfully on field sites that were elevated and had adequate grass cover but not tall grass.
41712763|This study compared the abilities of two cool-season bunchgrasses to extract moisture from a drying soil and compared photosynthetic and stomatal responses of the two species as soil moisture supplies were depleted. When grown in 49-L pots in a greenhouse, Leymus cinereus extracted more water from the soil and maintained higher gas exchange rates to lower absolute amounts of soil water than did Agropyron desertorum. The soil water content at the lower limit of extraction was 10.3% for L. cinereus and 13.3% for A. desertorum. When soil moisture was expressed as extractable soil water, there was little difference between the species in pattern of water use. Both species maintained high stomatal conductances (gw) and photosynthetic rates (A) until extractable soil moisture was reduced to about 15%. For field-grown plants under severe water stress, A was higher in L. cinereus than in A. desertorum at comparable leaf water potentials. The relationship between A and gw was similar for the two species; the higher A in L. cinereus was a consequence of higher gw. Thus, higher A in L. cinereus is achieved through some sacrifice of water-use efficiency.
41712740|Kane Lake Cirque lies in the western Pioneer Mountains of south central Idaho. An inventory of the high-elevation flora of the cirque revealed the presence of 180 vascular taxa representing 95 genera and 30 families. Five alpine taxa are here documented from Idaho for the first time: Carex incurviformis Mack., Draba fladnizensis Wilfen., Potentilla nivea L., Ranunculus gelidus Kar. & Kir., and Ranunculus pygmaeus Wahlenb. Kane Lake Cirque also contains populations of four additional alpine taxa considered to be of conservation concern in Idaho: Erigeron humilis Graham, Parnassia kotzebuei Cham., Saxfraga adscendens L., and Saxfraga cernua L.
41711393|During a physiological study that required the collection of several thousand stoneflies, Pteronarcys californica, observations were made on the distribution of these aquatic insects within streams. It was noted that P. californica occur primarily in large rivers that have loose, unconsolidated substrates and swift currents. They occur from depths of six inches to several feet. They are exclusively vegetarian, feeding on detritus, algae, and diatoms. P. californica congregate in dense clumps, but within the clumps they segregate by size. The largest specimens are found in the quietest water. There is evidence of some seasonal variation in their behavior.
41712076|Yearly variation in numbers of cones produced by western white pine was found to affect the population level of the mountain pine cone beetle. In years when cone production is moderate to heavy, beetle populations increase. Increasing beetle populations are ultimately limited by poor cone crops, which increase competition for nutrients and oviposition sites. Variability in western white pine cone production is regarded as the most important factor regulating populations of the mountain pine cone beetle.
41711852|In northern Utah, Douglas-firs (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) with symptoms of Rhabdocline needle blight had a significantly higher frequency of epicormic branching than did healthy trees. It is not known whether Rhabdocline infection stimulates epicormy, or whether the proliferation of epicormics increases resistance to the disease.
41711985|Named as new is Stephanomeria tenuifolia (Torr.) Hall var. uintaensis Goodrich & Welsh.
41712664|Radio telemetry was used to study habitat use of breeding male sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) at a lek in northeastern Utah during 1983 and 1984. Objectives were to determine if grouse day-use areas differed significantly in sagebrush characteristics from adjacent nonuse areas and to establish a simplified method for use by land managers in identifying grouse use areas. We determined that male grouse used areas of greatest sagebrush height and cover. Our methods provide a means for land managers to identify habitat associated with a lek that is suitable for male sage grouse day use in the event sagebrush alteration is planned within 3 km of a lek.
41712029|The scenic Bryce Canyon "breaks" constitute harsh and inhospitable habitats for plant life. The eroded pink cliffs and talus slopes are sites of some of the most rapid natural erosion on earth. This paper divides the plant life on the breaks of the main Bryce Canyon amphitheater into four vegetative types. A checklist of all plant species found in the main amphitheater is included. Many of the rare and endangered endemic species of the park are found in the Pinus longaeva vegetative type. Recommendations for managing the breaks to protect endemics are presented.
41712556|Mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) in a cold-desert ecosystem used man-made ponds for watering, feeding, gritting, loafing, and courting. Diurnal pond use by doves peaked in the morning and evening. Monthly dove use of ponds fluctuated slightly during the summers of 1984 and 1985. Pond size, pH, and shoreline characteristics had little association with the intensity of pond use by doves; but geographic isolation of ponds was weakly associated with pond-use intensity. The number of doves present at the beginning of the one-hour period was a poor indicator of the number of arrivals during that period. We conclude that man-made water sources are important in areas where water availability may limit mourning dove productivity and abundance. It is suggested that mourning dove arrival rates could be used as a population index in cold-desert areas.
41712292|In this study, we have examined the effect of vegetation structure on the three major vertebrate taxa in Great Basin habitats of southwestern Utah. The effect of increasing vegetation heterogeneity, both horizontally and vertically, on the diversities of lizards, rodents, and postbreeding birds was investigated. We found no statistically significant relationship between diversity of all animal taxa and horizontal vegetation heterogeneity, although lizard diversity tended to decrease with increasing heterogeneity and rodent diversity tended to increase. Bird species diversity was positively correlated with vertical habitat heterogeneity. Abundances were highest for rodents in pinyon/juniper habitat and highest for lizards and birds in areas with the highest grass cover. Species richness was highest in sagebrush habitat for rodents but highest for lizards and birds in pinyon/juniper. Evenness values were relatively similar and high for birds and rodents and were relatively high for lizards in all habitats except for pinyon/juniper, which had an evenness value of 0.38. For rodents and lizards, abundance was significantly correlated with the index for horizontal habitat heterogeneity. After logarithmic transformation, abundance of lizards was positively correlated with increasing vegetation complexity. Combined abundance of lizards and rodents was also positively correlated with vegetation complexity. Rodent and lizard abundances, however, were affected by different aspects of the habitat. After logarithmic transformation, lizard abundances increased significantly with increasing grass cover, whereas rodent abundances increased significantly with increasing shrub cover.
41711477|Nectars of 11 hawkmoths-visited taxa of Oenothera were studied. Qualitatively the sugars of all taxa were identical. The amount of nectar produced per night among the taxa was quite variable. Potential energy available from nectar of an average flower of O. caespitosa was determined to be 42.1 calories.
41711748|Evidence is presented indicating that Lichanura roseofusca and Lichanura trivirgata are conspecific. Data include the report of an intermediate specimen from El Arco, Baja California Norte, a site midway between the previously known peninsular ranges of the two species; captive hybridization provides additional support for the conclusion.
41712897|Trichodina tenuiformis Stein, 1979 and Apiosoma campanulatum Timofeev, 1962 were found on gills of mottled sculpin (Cottus bairdi) from two locations in the Provo River, UT. They were studied by light and electron optics. Dimensions and morphology of the adhesive disc and denticles of T. tenuiformis were differentiated from other Trichodina species. A. campanuhtum was characterized by its spindle-shaped cell body. Fine features examined by scanning electron microscopy included body shape, pellicle, elements of the adhesive disc, aboral ciliary complex, and adoral ciliary spiral. Histopathological studies suggested that the organisms are ectocommensals. Ecological aspects of organism infestation between two areas were also investigated. This report establishes a new host and distribution record for these two species in mottled sculpin from the Provo River, UT.
41712976|Examination of gastrointestinal tracts of native cyprinids from the Little Colorado River (LCR) in Grand Canyon, Arizona, 1990-1994, revealed varying rates of prevalence and infrapopulation levels of Asian tapeworm (Bothriocephalus acheilognathi). Mean prevalence was 28% (range 0-78%) in humpback chub (Gila cypha) and 8% (range 0-46%) in speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus), with infrapopulations as high as 46 and 28, respectively. We also note Asian tapeworm infection of the nonnatives common carp (Cyprinus carpio), fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas), and plains killifish (Fundulus zebrinus) from the LCR. Reported pathogenic and chronic eifects of this cestode to its definitive hosts add concern for the status of the Grand Canyon population of the federally endangered humpback chub. The rapidity with which Asian tapeworm has spread to different drainages of the Colorado River Rasin likely portends an eventual cosmopolitan basin distribution in lower elevations suitable to the parasite's thermophilic life history. Such biotic changes must be considered among the most serious threats to conservation and recovery of native fish populations.
41711867|Glabrous Paspalum distichum, pubescent var. indutum, and pubescent plants of P. distichum from the western United States were compared. No morphological differences other than pubescence exist between the three forms. Plants from the eastern United States are generally more glabrous than those from western regions. The var. indutum represents an extreme pubescent form and is reduced to synonymy under P. distichum.
41712818|Thirteen Speyeria nokomis apacheana (Edwards) (Nymphalidae) populations from the western Great Basin were assayed for isozyme variability using starch-gel electrophoresis. Eight of the 25 presumptive isozyme loci analyzed were found to be polymorphic. Collections made in 1991 and 1992 allowed for between-year comparisons of heterozygosity and the estimation of effective population size for five of the sampled populations. Speyeria nokomis apacheana populations exhibit lower mean heterozygosity levels than other nymphalids. This may be attributed to genetic drift in apparently isolated populations with small effective sizes.
41712759|Effects of rangefire on soil algae in sagebrush steppe in the Lower Columbia Basin were studied. Dynamics of recovery of the soil algal community in the first two years following the fire were also documented. The study site was on the Arid Lands Ecology Reserve managed by Battelle Pacific Northwest Laboratory. Fire decreased the numbers of algae by more than an order of magnitude. Species composition in burned plots was similar to that in unburned plots, although some cyanophyte algae, particularly Nostoc commune, were decimated by the fire. Algal recovery took place in the winter months of the second year. Ninety taxa of algae were identified during the course of the study, over half of which were chlorophytes. Seasonal changes in the algal flora were also noted.
41712645|Nest sites selected by Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus) in southeastern Idaho were characterized and compared with available habitat. Microhabitats within 5 m of nests had taller and more aggregated shrubs and less bare ground than the study area in general. Big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata wyomingensis) plants used for nesting were taller than average available shrubs, had greater foliage density, were more often living, and more frequently had branches and foliage within 30 cm of the ground. Nest placement was specific with respect to relative nest height and distance from the top and perimeter of the support shrub. Sage Thrashers disproportionately used easterly exposures and underused westerly exposures for their nests.
41713103|Plecia akerionana, n. sp., is described from the Green River Formation, Colorado, and diagnosed with P. minutula Rice, P. myersi Peterson, and P. rhodopterina Cockerell. Plecia intermedia (Scudder), the genotype of Mycetophaetus, and Plecia creedensis James are transferred to the genus Penthetria, and Hesperinus immutabilis Melander is transferred to Plecia.
41712295|Some biogeographical and paleobiological aspects of leeches, mollusks, and amphibians in the Intermountain Region are reviewed. Areas of eastern Nevada and western Bonneville Basin as well as the tristate region of Nevada, Utah, and Idaho are poorly inventoried with respect to many aquatic-dependent animals. Observations of Batracobdetta picta in the Wasatch Mountains and Erpobdella punctata in Tule Valley in the Bonneville Basin extends the western ranges of these leeches in the Great Basin. Life history and size of leeches varies among the study sites in the northern hemisphere. Aquatic mollusk species have diminished greatly in both prehistoric and historic times, as demonstrated by Utah Lake where some 30 species once lived. Eight genera survived into historic times, and perhaps only one species presently lives there. Extinction of numerous mollusks in the Bonneville Basin is still unknown with respect to cause and time. The finding of the Western Spotted Frog (Rana pretiosa) in Tule Valley reveals both a different habitat for this species when compared to other study sites and that this species must have occupied the region during Lake Bonneville times. With the exception of the Leopard Frog (Rana pipiens), most other amphibians probably migrated into the Bonneville Basin after the desiccation of Lake Bonneville.
41712959|Gas exchange and carbon isotope ratios were measured on 2 facultative hemiparasites, Castilleja linariifolia Benth. (Indian paintbrush; Scrophulariaceae) and Orthocarpus tolmiei H. & A. (Tolmie owl clover; Scrophulariaceae), and their Artemisia tridentata L. (big sagebrush; Asteraceae) hosts. Photosynthetic rates differed greatly between years; rates in 1995 were more than double those in 1994, likely due to more precipitation and less water stress during 1995. Despite this difference in precipitation, photosynthetic rates for C. linariifolia were not different from those of their hosts for either year. However, carbon isotope ratios of C. linariifolia and O. tolmiei were up to 3% o more negative than those of their A. tridentata hosts. Using measured C ratios in conjunction with C ratios predicted from gasexchange measurements, we calculated that C. linariifolia derived, on average, 40% of its leaf carbon heterotrophically. Contrary to current suggestions that high photosynthetic rates of hemiparasites are an indication of reduced heterotrophy, C. linariifolia exhibited photosynthetic rates similar to autotrophic plants and used a substantial amount of hostderived carbon. Moreover, this evidence shows that manipulation of a heterotrophic carbon supply transcends obligate hemiparasites to include those plants whose parasitism is facultative.
41711367|Thirty-four percent of 100 mink examined from Gallatin and Madison counties, Montana, revealed the presence of Perostrongylus pridhami Anderson, 1962 (Anderson, 1963), in the lungs. This is the first report of P. pridhami in the United States. Thirteen percent of the mink were infected with Taenia mustelae Gmelin, 1790. This is the first report of T. mustelae in southwestern Montana. A checklist of internal parasites of Mustela vison is included.
41712213|During the summers of 1982, 1983, and 1984, 269 sheep dogs from an area endemic for hydatid disease were examined for cestodes (Echinococcus granulosus and Taenia spp.). Each dog was given an oral purge of arecoline hydrobromide and then following purgation received a subcutaneous injection of praziquantel (Droncit) . During the three-year study period, 205 dogs were examined one time only, 48 dogs were examined two of the three years, and 16 dogs were examined each of the three years (= 349 separate examinations). In 1982, 45 of 91 dogs examined (49.5%) harbored at least one species of cestode. Those data for 1983 and 1984 were 55 positive of 141 examined (39.0%) and 34 positive of 117 examined (29.1%), respectively. The marked drop in dogs infected during the second and third year of the study suggests that many sheep ranchers were implementing some of the control measures recommended for prevention of E. granulosus infections. The numbers of separate purgations showing specific cestodes detected in all positive dogs (some dogs naturally with more than one species of cestode) were: E. granulosus, 16 (4.6%); T. hydatigena, 34 (9.7%); T. ovis krabbei, 46 (13.2%); T. pisiformis, 47 (13.5%); and T. serialis, 24 (6.9%).
41712024|Five new species of Coelidia are described and illustrated. These include panamensis and simplex from Panama and retrorsa, cochloea, and tortula from Brazil. A revised key is also presented for 13 of the 14 species for which males are known. Coelidia gladia is proposed as a new name for Coelidia spangbergi Nielson, 1982 nec Coelidia spangbergi Linnavuori, 1956 and Coelidia spangbergi Metcalf, 1964.
41711816|Plantings on northwestern New Mexico raw mine spoils from 1973, examined for establishment (1975) and survival (1979), showed 75 percent survival of fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt.), each plant occupying 2.32 m (1.52 X 1.52 m). Alkali sacaton (Sporobolus airoides (Torr.) Torr.) cover was 4 percent and had a density of 0.05 plant per m.
41711601|A new name, Galium emeryense, is proposed to substitute for the preempted name G. scabriusculum.
41712720|Moapa dace (Moapa coriacea) is a federally listed endangered fish endemic to the spring-fed headwaters of the Muddy River, Clark County, Nevada. Species life history, abundance, and distribution were studied from March 1984 to January 1989. Reproduction, which was observed year-round, peaked in spring and was lowest in fall. It occurred in headwater tributaries of the Muddy River, within 150 m of warm water spring discharge in water temperatures ranging from 30 to 32 C. Females matured between 41 and 45 mm in fork length (FL). Egg abundance increased with female size (r = .93); counts ranged from 60 for a 45-mm-FL female to 772 for one 90-mm FL. The oldest of eight fish, aged by the opercle method, was a 90-mm-FL, 4+-year-old female. Adults are omnivorous but tended toward carnivory; 75% of matter by volume consumed was invertebrates and 25% plants and detritus. Fish size was generally commensurate with flow, the largest fish occurring in the greatest flow. Adults were near bottom, in focal velocities ranging from 0 to 55 cm/s. Juveniles occupied a narrower range of depths and velocities than adults, and larvae occupied slack water. From December 1984 to September 1987, the total adult population ranged from 2600 to 2800. Although these numbers are higher than previously believed for Moapa dace, they are still sufficiently low to warrant its endangered status. The dependency of Moapa daces different life history stages to various areas and habitat types of the Warm Springs area suggests that all remaining habitat is necessary for their survival.
41711654|A man bitten on the finger by a wolf spider, Lycosa sp., experienced temporary bleeding and tingling of the finger, but no other symptoms occurred.
41711932|A general survey of the information presently available on the osteology and myology of the hyobranchial apparatus. Included in the survey are examples of the hyobranchial skeleton of the major groups of reptiles, including the Chelonia, Crocodilia, Rhynchocephalia, and Squamata. The myology treats the muscles directly associated with the hyoid as well as those associated with the functioning of the apparatus, but not arising or inserted directly on or from the hyoid. The innervation of the hyobranchial apparatus is reviewed and briefly discussed based on the information available in a few major studies. An attempt is made to cite all pertinent literature references, and in Tables 1 and 2 the references to basic areas are indicated. Twenty-nine plates and figures are included, some of which represent original research.
41713058|Macroinvertebrate communities were examined on 4 winter dates over a 4-yr period in 2 high-altitude Rocky Mountain streams to document overwintering assemblages potentially experiencing spring acid pulses. Taxa richness values were comparable to other published lists for alpine and montane stream systems despite the fact that most literature reflected summer collections. Mean benthic density ranged from 1406 to 19,734 organisms/m, and drift rates ranged from 0 to 1740 organisms/100 m. Benthic collections showed higher taxa richness than drift collections while the Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera occurred in greater proportions in drift than in benthos. The Nemouridae (Plecoptera), Ephemerellidae and Heptageniidae (Ephemeroptera), Chironomidae (Diptera), and Hydracarina were the numerically dominant taxa in benthic collections. Grazer/scrapers and shredder/detritivores were always the numerically dominant functional feeding groups at all sites, composing 60-90% of the benthos. Predators, constituting approximately 15% of the community, occurred in the same relative proportion at all sites on all dates. Winter macroinvertebrate communities in these low-order, montane streams exhibit high taxonomie richness and benthic densities as great as lower-elevation mountain streams in the West.
41711973|The new hybrid X Agrositanion pinalenoensis (Gramineae: Tribe Triticeae) is found in disturbed, forested areas of higher elevations in southern Arizona. In the Pinaleno Mountains where logging has been heavy, numerous disturbed habitats have permitted frequent hybrid populations to persist. Intermediate phenotype, chromosome behavior, lack of seed set, and pollen sterility were used to interpret the status of this hybrid derivative. Introgression and/or segregation are not apparent.
41711450|Phylogenetic relationships among Sceloporine genera are briefly discussed. Species relationships within the genus Sceloporus are analyzed, and evolutionary lines of descent are proposed. The genus Sceloporus is composed of three monophyletic groups: Group I, the most primitive, probably developed from Sator-like ancestral stock in Miocene times. This group speciated from stock similar to Sceloporus gadoviae in southern Mexico to S. merriami in the North and contains 7 species in 3 species groups. We propose that these species be included in the genus Lysoptychus Cope. Group II arose from Group I and evolved from centrally located Sceloporus pictus in all directions throughout Mexico. This intermediate group contains approximately 19 species in 5 species groups. Group III also arose from the primitive stock of Group I and radiated from several desert refugia created by Pleistocene glaciation. Evolution of this group in Mexico was generally from north to south with Sceloporus malachiticus extending as far south as Panama. This group contains approximately 33 species in 5 species groups.
41711800|The type of Salvia dorrii is shown to represent the Great Basin phase of the species (currently called subsp. argentea) rather than the Mojave Desert expression as implied by Epling and others. The Mojave Desert phase is hereby renamed S. dorrii var. pilosa (A. Gray) Strachan & Reveal.
41712854|Timing of reproduction was assessed for wild onions and White-crowned Sparrows in relation to snow conditions on the same subalpine meadow in the Sierra Nevada for 21 years. Flowering date and clutch initiation date were both highly correlated with snow conditions, being later as snowpack was deeper. Interannual variation in schedule was 46 days for onions and 33 days for sparrows. There was nearly a fivefold difference in snowpack depth, and date of snow disappearance varied interannually by 72 days. Compensation for late-lying snows occurred in both species but was greater in sparrows than in onions because the nest-building behavior of sparrows was flexible. In years of deeper snow, sparrows were able to lay eggs earlier because they built more nests than usual in trees and shrubs rather than waiting for groundcover to develop.
41712161|The grass spider (Agelena naevia), commonly found in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona, uses rodent burrows located under a shrub canopy more frequently for web construction than burrows located in the open. The average number of prey available in canopy microhabitat was greater than in open microhabitat, and unequal prey abundance may explain spider microhabitat use.
41712736|Five species of the coccidian genus Eimeria (E. beecheyi [prevalence = 17.9%], E. callospermophilimorainensis [28.6%], E. larimerensis [16.1%], and E. bilamellata [3.6%]) were recovered from 56, 13-lined ground squirrels (Spermophilus tridicemlineatus) collected from two sites in eastern Wyoming. Two squirrels from one site were also passing an unidentified polysporocystic coccidian. Infected squirrels were found to harbor from one to three species simultaneously. Previously these same eimerian species were found infecting sympatric populations of Wyoming ground squirrels (Spermophilus elegans) and white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus) at one of the sites; it is suggested that the exchange of these generalist parasite species among co-occurring sciurid hosts contributes to the consistent prevalence levels reported in Wyoming ground squirrels.
41712821|We measured predation on 120 artificial Sage Grouse (Centrarcus urophasianus) nests in montane sagebrush grassland in northern Utah. We examined nests in areas that had been chained and seeded 25 years previously (treated areas) and in areas that were untreated. Predation rates of artificial nests were higher in areas of untreated sagebrush, even though these areas had greater sagebrush cover, taller shrubs, and greater horizontal plant cover. These results differ from those previously hypothesized for treated sagebrush habitat and may reflect a greater abundance of other potential prey species, especially lagomorphs, in untreated areas that attracted greater densities of predators. In addition, over 80% of nests were depredated by mammals, which hunt using olfaction and are less likely than avian predators to be affected by nest cover. We conclude that, after treated sagebrush has recovered to some degree, predation rates of Sage Grouse nests may be lower in treated sagebrush. Consequently, factors other than nest prdation (e.g., winter food, thermal cover, insects, perennial forb abundance) may be more important reasons for preserving mature sagebrush stands for Sage Grouse.
41713122|We report the collection of 8 additional specimens of Sorex merriami from northwestern Nebraska; previously only 2 specimens had been collected in the state. The new specimens were captured in pitfall traps and Sherman live-traps from 1979 through 1996 in Dawes, Sheridan, and Sioux counties. These individuals were caught together with Sorex cinereus and several rodent species in a variety of grassland habitats, including disturbed roadsides dominated by native and introduced grasses and forbs, grassland openings in forests of ponderosa pine, and an open, dry grassland. Seven of the new specimens, captured in late May, early June, and December, were young-of-the-year, and 4 of these were not in reproductive condition; reproductive status of the other 3 was not assessed. One individual, captured in late May, was an old male in reproductive condition.
41712080|Of two salt desert shrub communities studied in Curlew Valley, Utah, the Atriplex confertifolia-dominated community had 15% greater total midsummer phytomass than the Ceratoides lanata community. The larger Atriplex shrubs contained much more woody tissue for support of photosynthetic tissues than did Ceratoides. Atriplex aboveground phytomass and litter were about twice those of Ceratoides. Ceratoides litter was generally fine and easily decomposable, but Atriplex litter contained about equal proportions of coarse, resistant woody tissues and fine, easily decomposable material. Atriplex root phytomass was 1.3 times that of Ceratoides at the 2-30 cm depth, but at depths below 30 cm, Ceratoides exhibited up to three times greater root phytomass and had 23% more root mass overall. Net aboveground community primary production was estimated to be about one-third greater in the Atriplex than Ceratoides community. Turnover times for readily decomposable aboveground litter were quite similar, but, because Atriplex produced coarser litter, its overall rate was somewhat slower than that of Ceratoides. Analyses of selected minerals in plant parts, litter, and soil revealed that about 90% of the mineral capital is in the soil, mostly within organic matter. Nearly equivalent pools of mineral elements were found in the two communities, except for greater Na in the Atriplex community.
41711425|A male nymph in stadium 3 of Viscainopelmatus davewerneri Tinkham is reported and illustrated. The specimen was taken near Laguna Scammon, Baja California Sur, Mexico.
41712865|The names and types of Hedysarum L., sensu stricto, for North America are included, along with bibliographic citations, type information and place of deposit of types, and all synonyms. Lectotypes are designated for Hedysarum auricuhtum Eastw., H. carnulosum Greene, H. marginatum Greene, H. pabulare A. Nels., and H. truncatum Eastw.
41712256|New taxa include Penstemon angustifolius Pursh var. dulcis Neese, P. leonardii Rydb. var. higginsii Neese, P. scariosus Pennel var. cyanomontanus Neese, and P. thompsoniae (Gray) Rydb. var. desperatus Neese. New nomenclatural combinations include: Penstemon acaulis L. O. Williams var. yampaensis (Peni.) Neese, P. duchesnensis (N. Holmgren) Neese, P. leonardii Rydb. var. patricus (N. Holmgren) Neese, and P. pachyphyllus Gray ex Rydb. var. mucronatus (N. Holmgren) Neese.
41711849|A 5-year winter bald eagle survey was conducted along 22 km of the Snake River Canyon in northwestern Wyoming. Surveys were done on 94 days requiring 1,414 hrs and 1,888 km driving. In all, 220 (85 percent adults) bald eagles were seen. Seventy-seven percent of all eagles were perching, 15 percent were flying, 4 percent were feeding on road-killed mule deer, and 4 percent were flying low over water. Perching sites were identified as 32 percent cottonwoods, 30 percent spruce, 17 percent Douglas-fir, and 22 percent other. Eagles were somewhat clumped in distribution.
41712464|Described as new species are Erigeron cavernensis Welsh & Atwood from the Schell Creek Range and Currant Mountain, White Pine County, Nevada, and Penstemon idahoensis Atwood & Welsh from the Goose Creek drainage, Cassia County, Idaho.
41712008|The 621 species of spiders known to occur in Utah as recorded in the literature or Utah universities' collections are listed with their junior synonyms and collection localities. Two-fifths (265 species) are known from only one locality each, and only one-fifth (123 species) from five or more localities in the state.
41713018|Mid- to late-Holocene vegetation change from a remote high-desert site was reconstructed using plant macrofossils and pollen from 9 packrat middens ranging from 0 to 5400 yr in age. Presettlement middens consistently contained abundant macrofossils of plant species palatable to large herbivores that are now absent or reduced, such as winterfat (Ceratoides lanatd) and ricegrass (Stipa hymenoides). Macrofossils and pollen of pinyon pine (Pinus edulis), sagebrush (Artemisia spp.), and roundleaf buffaloberry (Shepherdia rotundifolia) were also recently reduced to their lowest levels for the 5400-yr record. Conversely, species typical of overgrazed range, such as snakeweed (Gutierrezia sarothrae), viscid rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus visidiflorus), and Russian thistle (Salsola sp.), were not recorded prior to the historic introduction of grazing animals. Pollen of Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) also increased during the last 200 yr. These records demonstrate that the most severe vegetation changes of the last 5400 yr occurred during the past 200 yr. The nature and timing of these changes suggest that they were primarily caused by 19th-century open-land sheep and cattle ranching. The reduction of pinyon and sagebrush concurrent with other grazing impacts suggests that effects of cattle grazing at modern stocking levels may be a poor analog for the effects of intense sheep grazing during drought.
41711801|A survey of parasites from 39 stool specimens taken from 36 Indochinese refugees who are now living in Utah County, Utah, indicated representative intestinal helminths (worms), and protozoans upon clinical examination. Approximately 75% of the stools contained nematodes, and 55.5% had protozoans. Parasites found were Entamoeba coli, Chilomastix mesnili, Endolimax nana, Giardia lamblia, lodamoeba buetschlii, Clonorchis sinensis, Trichuris trichiura, Ascaris lumbricoides, and Plasmodium vivax. The most common protozoan observed was Entamoeba coli (1979 and 1980) while the most common helminths were Ascaris lumbricoides) (1979) and Clonorchis sinensis (1980). These data were comparable to studies of refugees at two other laboratories in Utah and one at Washington, D.C.
41712973|Strawberry Reservoir, Wasatch County, Utah, was treated with rotenone in August 1990. For 5 yr following treatment, about 2000 fish from 5 different species were examined for eye metacercariae (Dipiostomum). Incidence dropped from 88.0% before to 0.1% after treatment for cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki), from 93.0% to 0.1% for rainbow trout (O. mykiss), and from 19.0% to 10.0% for redside shiner (Richardsonius balteatus). Average numbers of metacercariae per eye also dropped from 6.8 to 0.1 for cutthroat trout, from 23.1 to 0.1 for rainbow trout, and from 18.9 to 0.1 for redside shiner. Kokanee salmon (O. nerka), introduced into the reservoir 1 yr after treatment, had a 0.9% prevalence rate and average of 0.1 metacercariae per eye. Rotenone affected almost all organisms in the system. Low incidence of diplostomatosis after treatment indicates that rotenone effectively destroyed many intermediate hosts (fish, snails), which in turn probably affected parasite burdens in definitive hosts (gulls). These changes in metacercariae per host probably occurred because of the complex life cycle of the organism, which is similar to other trematodes. Rotenone is a specific inhibitor of electron transport complex I and can be devastating to parasites with complex life cycles. Through a combination of factors, parasite numbers have decreased in Strawberry Reservoir.
41711974|Species composition, distribution, and phytosociology of an 8 hectare area of tall grass prairie was intensively studied. Elevation and soils data were correlated with species distribution patterns. All species showed a response. Nine general patterns of distribution were observed in relation to elevation and soil types. Ordination and interspecific association analyses were used to identify clusters or groups of species having similar ecological amplitudes. Sporobolis heterolepis is the dominant plant of the upland prairie. The vegetation of the prairie is best described and represented by the continuum concepts of phytosociology.
41713141|Arabis pulchra plants infected by the crucifer rust fungus (Puccinia consimilis) develop pseudoflowers. These pseudoflowers are characterized by stems with short internodes and numerous closely spaced, bright yellow leaves coated with a sweet sugary substance. Pseudoflowers do not resemble normal A. pulchra flowers. Pseudoflowers, leaves, and stems of A. pulchra plants infected with P. consimilis and true flowers, stems, and leaves of uninfected A. pulchra plants were fixed, embedded, sectioned, and stained using standard microtechniques. Epidermal, ground, and vascular tissues of true leaves, true petals, and pseudopetals were examined and compared for anatomic differences. Examination of anatomic characteristics revealed that pseudopetals are modified leaves.
41712390|Cores obtained in 1978 from Diamond Pond, Diamond Craters, Harney County, Oregon, as part of the Steens Mountain Prehistory Project, provide a record of vegetation change on the sagebrush/shadscale ecotone and of local and perhaps regional water tables. Pollen, macrofossils, sediments, and charcoal from these radiocarbon-dated cores were analyzed. Varying abundance of juniper, grass, sagebrush, and greasewood pollen, and of aquatic to littoral plant macrofossils reflects changing regional effective moisture and local water table since 6000 B.P. Eleven dates spanning 5200 radiocarbon years and four regionally correlated volcanic ashes establish the dating of seven periods of different moisture regimes: 1. Greasewood and saltbush pollen dominance before 5400 B.P. indicates shadscale desert. Rapid accumulation of alternating silts and medium sands lacking aquatic plant macrofossils and pollen reflects periods of ephemeral ponds with water table 17 m below the present level and considerable erosion of maar slopes. 2. Increasing sagebrush pollen from 5400 to 4000 B.P. indicates sagebrush expansion into shadscale desert. Scirpus, Rumex, Ceratophyllum, and Polygonum persicaria macrofossils and finely laminated clayey silts evidence perennial pond. 3. From 4000 to 2000 B.P. abundant juniper and grass pollen reflects extensive juniper grasslands (juniper seeds from trees growing nearby fell into the pond during this period). Rising charcoal values indicate greater importance of fire. Deepest late-Holocene pond ca 3700 B.P. corresponds with postulated intensive human occupation of northern Great Basin marsh and lake locales. 4. Between 2000 and 1400 B.P. increased sagebrush pollen mirrors reduced effective moisture and reexpanding sagebrush steppe. More abundant Scirpus and Rumex macrofossils evidence shallow pond. 5. From 1400 to 900 B.P. more numerous grass pollen indicates returning greater effective moisture resulting in deeper water with abundant Potamogeton. 6. About 500 B.P. increased greasewood and saltbush pollen evidences drought. Ruppia seeds and pollen and the mollusk Musculium indicate shallow, brackish water. 7. Abundant juniper and grass pollen reflects moister conditions between 300 and 150 B.P. Numerous Ceratophyllum fruits indicate deeper, freshened water. Since the mid-1800s man and changing climate have encouraged sagebrush reexpansion. Increased Scirpus macrofossils indicate shallower water.
41711933|Reports of the occurrence of Crotalus atrox Baird & Girard from Nevada are reviewed. There is no evidence to support the occurrence of this species in Nevada.
41712906|The distinctive but inadequately known Paleocene faunas of central Utah are significant in that they sample a time interval not well represented by sequences in other areas. New materials from the Wagon Road (late Puercan) and Dragon (early Torrejonian) local faunas, North Horn Formation, provide additional information on the composition of the assemblages and systematics of included mammal taxa. The proteutherian ?Propalaeosinopa is recorded, for the first time, from the Wagon Road fauna, indicating a significant extension for the enigmatic family Pantolestidae, otherwise first known from the Torrejonian. Associated premolars of Aphronorus simpsoni, a pentacodontid proteutherian from the Dragon fauna, indicate that the species is more distinct from its Torrejonian congener, A. fraudator, than previously suspected. New materials of Desmatoclaenus hermaeus uphold the synonymy of this species with D. paracreodus and permit more adequate definition of the genus with respect to the arctocyonid Loxolophus and the phenacodontid Tetraclaenodon; because Desmatoclaenus appears to share derived morphology with Loxolophus, we refer it to the basal condylarth family Arctocyonidae. The periptychid condylarth Haploconus, represented in the Wagon Road fauna by the geologically oldest described species of the genus, H. elachistus, is shown to be distinctive in the configuration of lower molars and premolars; H. elachistus appears to be more primitive than species known from the Torrejonian of New Mexico. Some features of Haploconus are suggestive of the Conacodontinae, a distinctive clade of diminutive periptychids.
41711574|Of 42 Microtus pennsylvanicus trapped 1 km from Bozeman, Montana, 14 (33.3 percent) were infected by strobilocerci of Taenia taeniaeformis, while only one (2.1 percent) of 47 was infected at a rural site 16 km from Bozeman. The higher incidence of the primary host, domestic cats, is believed to account for the higher rate of infection near Bozeman.
41712235|Five new species of Thagria from the Oriental region are described and illustrated. These include melichari from Thailand, unidentata from Indonesia, marissae from southern China, bifida from Nepal, and insolentis from an undetermined locality in the Oriental region. There are presently 166 species in this large and unique genus. A key to males of 30 species is included.
41711976|Four near-surface locations in Pyramid Lake, Nevada, were sampled for larval tui chubs (Gila bicolor) during summer and early fall 1979. Numbers of larvae collected were highest in mid-July. Zooplankton was the only food eaten throughout the survey; the cladoceran Moina hutchinsoni was the major species eaten at all locations. Another cladoceran, Diaphanosoma leuchtenbergianum, was also important to the diet of pelagic larvae, and the copepod Cyclops vernalis was eaten in significant quantities by near shore fish. Changes in diet composition of larval tui chubs during summer corresponded to seasonal succession of Zooplankton species in Pyramid Lake.
41711431|A review of the distribution of Rhinocheilus l. lecontei, in Utah, with a northward extension of its range in the Upper Colorado River Basin.
41712779|An updated checklist of the vascular flora of Bryce Canyon National Park is presented, including 458 species arranged in 232 genera and 73 families. Four species have been added to the park list based on 1991 fieldwork: Arabis perennans, Arceuthobium divaricatum, Gentiana parryi, and Haplopappus acaulis. Recent changes in nomenclature have been included, and several species identifications have been corrected. The six largest families are, in decreasing size, Asteraceace, Pocaceae, Fabaceae, Brassicaceae, Scrophulariaceae, and Rosaceae. Common names and an index are provided.
41704203|Five subspecies of Ctenosaura hemilopha are recognized, including C. h. hemilopa from Baja California; C. h. insulana from Isla Cerralvo, Gulf of California; C. h. conspicuosa from Isla San Esteban and (?) Isla Lobos, Gulf of California; and two new subspecies: C. h. macrolopha from Sonora and northern Sinaloa, and C. h. nolascensis from Isla San Pedro Nolasco, Gulf of California. The species is thought to have evolved from C. pectinata, through the somewhat similar C. h. macrolopha or its forerunner. Its range probably extended at an earlier time northward around the Gulf of California, thence southward through Baja California, with populations reaching certain Gulf islands from the peninsula, not from mainland Mexico, despite greater proximity of some of the islands inhabited to Sonora than to the peninsula.
41712309|Tame mule deer and elk were fed fresh alfalfa hay at night and given various alternate forages during the day. This schedule, simulating farmland depredation feeding, yielded consumption values for field-growing alfalfa hay.
41712386|Clutch sizes of the prairie skink, Eumeces septentrionalis, in Nebraska are positively correlated with female snout-vent lengths (SVLs). Data presented in this study and others indicate Nebraska populations of E. septentrionalis have larger average clutch sizes than other populations within this species' range.
41712866|To determine whether infections by whipworms (Trichuris dipodomys [Nematoda: Trichurata: Trichuridae]) might affect digestive efficiency and therefore energy budgets of two species of kangaroo rats (Dipodomys microps and Dipodomys ordii [Rodentia: Heteromyidae]), we compared the apparent dry matter digestibility of three groups of hosts: those naturally infected with whipworms, those naturally uninfected with whipworms, and those originally naturally infected but later deinfected by treatment with the anthelminthic Ivermectin. Prevalence of T. dipodomys was higher in D. microps (53%) than in D. ordii (14%). Apparent dry matter digestibility was reduced by whipworm infection in D. microps but not in D. ordii. Although a statistically significant effect was shown, its small magnitude indicates that whipworm infection is unlikely to have a biologically significant impact on the energy budgets of host kangaroo rats.
41713094|Autumn musters of bison (Bison bison) on Antelope Island State Park, Utah, conducted annually since 1987, provided data on temporal and age-specific reproductive patterns and a basis to evaluate the efficacy of management measures implemented to elevate reproductive performance in the herd. Pregnancy rates were variable and low (<tex-math>$\bar x$</tex-math> = 46.2%) in comparison to other free-ranging, noncommercial bison herds in North America. Cows in the 3- and >6-yr age classes exhibited lower-than-expected pregnancy rates (P < 0.05). Annual pregnancy rates showed a significant (r = 0.64, P = 0.047) linear decline of 2.5% per annum. Variance in distribution of fetal ages observed in 6 yr indicates substantial temporal fluctuation. Long-term reproductive performance of cohorts born prior to implementation of management measures did not differ from that of cohorts born subsequent to these changes.
41712279|The diatom flora of Cowboy Hot Spring, Mono County, California, was studied. Two habitats, one at 37C and one at 41C, were examined. Fifty-six taxa were identified from our samples. These taxa were mostly broadly distributed forms, and no endemic species were encountered. The dominant taxon was Nitzschia frustulum, followed by Achnanthes gibberula, Achnanthes exigua, Nitzschia hantzschiana, and Navicula cincta.
41712268|Described is Mentzelia multicaulis (Osterh.) Goodman var. librina Thorne & F. J. Smith.
41711944|A list of one taxon new for Montana and 10 new for Wyoming is presented, plus comments about Astragalus molybdenus.
41712586|Experimental sets of Mimulus cardinalis and M. lewisii plants were (1) exposed to pollinators and (2) shielded from pollinators at study sites in Red Butte Canyon and Big Cottonwood Canyon, Wasatch Mountains, Utah. The exposed plants produced 1,535 seedlings and the shielded plants only 1. Clearly, seed production is dependent upon cross-pollination. A few syrphid flies were observed visiting the flowers but no hummingbirds or bumble bees, although the latter two have been reported as the main pollinators of M. cardinalis and M. lewisii, respectively. No interspecific hybrids were produced even through the species are fully interfertile, indicating that pollinators are faithful to their species or that different parts of their bodies pick up and carry pollen to the two different species.
41712646|Leon Bly Tunnel, which connects Eagle Lake to Willow Creek, was investigated to see if the water issuing from the tunnel was lake water or spring water and to check reports of its being inhabited by fish. We found that the water was similar to that of highly alkaline Eagle Lake, despite a block placed in the tunnel in 1986. Five species of fish were found in the tunnel, the same species inhabiting both Willow Creek and Eagle Lake, although the creek was much warmer and less alkaline than the lake. The fish originated from the creek. Fish in the tunnel were either not feeding or were consuming snails (Vorticifex sp.), the principal invertebrate present. The largest fish (35 cm SL) captured were rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).
41712204|The influence of current year foliage age on food consumption and utilization by the western spruce budworm, Choristoneura ocddentalis (LepidopteraiTortricidae), was examined. Larvae were fed immature foliage of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii var. glauca), Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii), and corkbark fir (Abies lasiocarpa var. arizonica) in June and August of 1981 and Douglas fir in June and July of 1982. All larvae feeding on early season (June) foliage reached maturity. Larvae feeding on middle (July) and late (August) season foliage died before reaching pupation. Relative growth rate and efficiency of conversion of ingested food decreased with foliage age in both the 1981 and 1982 experiments. Relative consumption rate increased with foliage age in the 1981 and decreased in the 1982 experiment.
41712661|New records for bushy-tailed wood rat (Neotoma cinerea) on the White Mountains of eastern California increase the elevation from which this animal is known on the White Mountains, outside of human habitation, from 3,120 to 3,648 m. These records, coupled with archaeological data, suggest that the isolated bouldery outcrops occupied by bushy-tailed wood rats above timberline here are true habitat islands, occasionally colonized by dispersing individuals and characterized by frequent local extinction.
41712565|This study examined the effects of alterations in soil nitrogen on the growth of Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis Nutt. Soil nitrogen content was altered by applying sugar (45 g/m), nitrate (4.5 g/m), or ammonium (4.5 g/m), and the results were compared with a control treatment (no soil amendments). Addition of either form of nitrogen significantly increased leaf nitrogen content, mean maximum length of ephemeral leaves, number of ephemeral leaves per terminal shoot, and current year's vegetative stem length over the control and sugar treatments. Both soil water and predawn xylem potentials during active growth were lower in the nitrogen-treated plots. The higher growth activity and greater leaf mass of A. tridentata in the nitrogen treatments may have been responsible for this result. Higher photosynthetic rates observed in the nitrogen treatments during an early June sampling period also lend support to this observation. This study suggests A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis would opportunistically take advantage of increased availability of soil nitrogen. The ability of this species to respond positively to increased soil nitrogen may enhance its competitiveness over associated perennial species.
41711576|Penstemon cyananthus Hook. ssp. subglaber Pennell, a plant found frequently in northwestern Utah, southeastern Idaho, and southeastern Wyoming, is elevated to species status. A new name, Penstemon holmgrenii Clark is proposed because P. subglaber is preoccupied.
41712434|Oregon records from Harney County establish a minimum altitudinal occurrence for the water shrew (Sorex palustris), identify an isolated population of the montane shrew (Sorex monticola obscurus), and provide an additional specimen of Merriam's shrew (Sorex merriami). Utah records extending the ranges in the southeastern part of the Bonneville Basin for the little pocket mouse (Perognathus longimembris), long-tailed pocket mouse (Perognathus formosus), and dark kangaroo mouse (Microdipodops megacephalus) are also given.
41712131|Burrowing Owls (Athene ciinicularia) were studied in a prairie dog town of southwestern South Dakota. Pellets regurgitated by Burrowing Owls contained a wide variety of prey remains. Insects, spiders, small mammals, and vegetation were the most frequent items identified in the pellets. Mammals were consumed most frequently during spring and early summer. Insects were consumed in large numbers during the entire period of this study, but they became more frequent in owl pellets during late summer and fall in association with a decline of mammal remains. Some prey items observed around owl nest sites were not found in the pellets examined. Possible secondary poisoning of some prey of Burrowing Owls has not produced any change in owl food habits, based on other studies reported in the literature.
41712636|The effects of elevation and environmental parameters associated with elevation on the dinitrogen fixation rates, N[CH], of a North American lupine species were evaluated. Lupinus argenteus Pursh plants growing at five elevations on Francis Peak, Utah, were sampled weekly throughout the growing season. The highest elevation site had the greatest frequency of nodulated plants. Influence of the environmental and physiological variables on fixation activity varied with elevation and the mean time of sampling. Soil moisture, nodule dry weight, and air temperature were important. Less than one-half of the observed variation in fixation rates, N[CH], was accounted for by variation in the associated independent variables. Nevertheless this study documented that nodulated plants of L. argenteus were capable of actively fixing nitrogen at a range of elevations on Francis Peak.
41711780|The floristic composition of Angel Island, Marin County, California, is presented. The vascular flora consists of 416 native and naturalized plants, representing 252 genera and 73 families. Eighty species of ornamental plants persisting from cultivation, representing 64 genera and 39 families, are also identified. The nonvascular flora consists of 42 species of fungi, 7 species of green algae, 8 species of brown algae, and 41 species of red algae. The vascular flora occurs in seven plant communities and is composed mainly of the following plant types: forbs (69 percent), grasses (13 percent), shrubs (8 percent), and trees (4 percent). Approximately 25 percent of the 1605 native and naturalized vascular plants of Marin County occur on Angel Island.
41712053|A two-year study of the rare vascular plants of the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory generated new data on the abundance, distribution, and habitat features of eight taxa presently under review at either the federal or state level, or recently proposed for such review. Astragalus ceramicus Sheld. var. apus Barneby is common on the INEL and adjacent areas and will be recommended for removal from further consideration at the federal level and placed on Idaho's Federal Watch List. Coryphanta missouriensis (Sweet) Britt. & Rose is common throughout east central Idaho, but will be recommended for retainment on the State Watch List. Gymnosteris nudicaulis (H. & A.) Greene and Oxytheca dendroidea Nutt. are also recommended for retention on the State Watch List. Four taxa not previously known to occur in Idaho or not known from the southeastern part of the state (Astragalus gilviflorus Sheld., Astragalus kentrophyta Gray var. jessiae (Peck) Barneby, Gilia polycladon Torr., and Lesquerella kingii S. Wats. var. cobrensis Roll. & Shaw) were encountered and evaluated with reference to current or potential threats, and are recommended for placement on Idaho's State Watch List.
41711693|The floristic composition of the Lee Creek valley in southwestern Alberta, Canada, is presented. The valley flora consists of 299 species of vascular plants representing 173 genera and 46 families. The flora is dominated by forbs (73 percent), followed by grasses (24 percent), shrubs (12 percent), and trees (11 percent). The valley of Lee Creek is divided into upper and lower sections on the basis of elevational, climatic, and biotic differences. Floristic richness of the Lee Creek valley is quite evenly divided between the upper and lower valleys: 105 species limited to the upper valley, 95 to the lower valley, and 99 species shared by both upper and lower valleys.
41712025|Following a preliminary survey (1981) of diplostomatosis in fish from the Salmon River near Obsidian, Idaho, an extensive survey was conducted during the summer of 1982. From the initial sampling site on the Salmon River, 98 percent of 384 sculpin, Cottus bairdi, 8 percent of 317 salmonids, and 13 percent of 16 Dace and suckers were infected with Diplostomum spathaceum. Upriver from the initial sampling site and from three drainages entering the Salmon River 28 percent of 185 sculpin and 1 percent of 70 salmonids were infected with D. spathaceum. The number of worms per eye was greater for sculpin (1 to 100+) than for salmonids (1 to 18) from the same area. The metacercariae of D. spathaceum occupy the vitreous body-retina area of infected fish. There is a prominent pathology associated with the infection, including detachment of the retina. Sculpin represent an indicator species for the range of diplostomatosis. The high infection rate of sculpin is associated with their bottom-dwelling characteristic and with their feeding habits.
41712503|The microenvironment of the nest surrounding most reptilian eggs is known to have a strong influence on the growth and development of embryos. This is particularly true of substrate moisture content. The results of this study suggest that neonatal body size (SVL) increases with increasing substrate wetness in the prairie skink, Eumeces septentrionalis. These results agree with studies conducted on other species of reptiles. This study is the first to provide evidence for this relationship in a scincid lizard.
41713008|Large areas of western rangeland are presently dominated by alien annual weeds such as Bromus tectorum (cheatgrass). These communities resist succession to perennial communities primarily because the annuals are competitively superior to establishing perennial seedlings and they promote fires that favor weeds over perennials. Succession may be further slowed, however, by low rates of seed dispersal into annual grasslands. We investigated the role of lagomorphs (Sylvilagus nuttallii, Nuttall's cottontail; S. audubonii, desert cottontail; and Lepus californicus, black-tailed jackrabbit) in seed dispersal across an ecotone between an open juniper woodland and an annual grassland. We collected pellets along five 100 x 2-m transects parallel to the ecotone: 50 m into woodland, border, and 20 m, 50 m, and 100 m into grassland. We searched pellets for juniper seeds visually and for any other species through germination from crushed pellets after cold, moist stratification. Pellets were not evenly distributed across transects, but there was no trend with respect to position of transect. Juniperus osteosperma (Utah juniper) was the most abundant seed. Both the number of juniper seeds and the proportion of pellets with juniper seeds decreased steadily from a high in woodland to absence at 100 m into grassland. Only 2 dicot seedlings emerged from pellets, 1 Salsola pestifer and 1 unknown that died prior to identification. Consequently, there was little seed movement into the grassland; 72% of all seeds were collected from either woodland or border transects. Lagomorphs apparently do not effectively replenish the native perennial seed pool of cheatgrass-dominated disturbances at Dugway.
41711980|The new species, Haplopappus crispus and H. zionis of section Macronema, are formally described and illustrated. They are endemic to southern Utah. Also, H. bloomeri ssp. compactus is raised to species. Chromosome numbers of all three are n = 9. Aspects of anatomy are detailed. Comparisons are made to H. bloomeri and H. suffruticosus. Relationships are discussed, and a key to the species is given.
41712423|The life, activities, and contributions of an energetic, catholic woman scholar, Rozella B. Smith, are reviewed. Her pioneer innovations in bibliographic data retrieval and mapping by use of the computer, creating a permanent niche for her in the annals of herpetology, are emphasized. A list of her publications is included.
41712878|Losses in fecundity due to predispersal herbivory can be large; however, the effects of this loss on longterm population viability have rarely been investigated. I conducted a demographic study of Astragalus scaphoides (Fabaceae), a long-lived perennial endemic to east central Idaho and adjacent Montana, by following mapped individuals at two sites from 1986 to 1993. Astragalus scaphoides suffers losses of predispersal fecundity averaging nearly 50% from insect seed predation and inflorescence prdation by insects and livestock. Cattle reduced fecundity by 0-85%. Nonetheless, estimates from matrix projection models indicate that both sample populations had positive growth in most years. Elasticity analyses revealed that population growth occurred in spite of relatively small contributions by recruitment compared to growth and survival of nonreproductive plants. Results suggest that populations of this longlived perennial depend little on reproduction and recruitment for growth and can persist in association with seasonalrotation livestock grazing.
41711960|Sciurus aberti, like many other sciurids including Sciurus vulgaris and Sciurus carolinensis, shows a coat color polymorphism. Like Sciurus vulgaris, Sciurus aberti shows a correlation between coat color phase and dorsal hair length. Both squirrels show an increased frequency of dark morphs in the northern portions of their respective ranges.
41713082|The Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming are an insular mountain range completely surrounded by the Great Plains. The stonefly (Plecoptera) fauna of the Black Hills was surveyed and Zoogeographic affinities examined. Twenty-seven species representing 22 genera and 6 families were found. Fifteen new state records for South Dakota and 2 for Wyoming are presented. Two species are removed from the South Dakota list. An analysis of the North American distribution of each species showed a strong relationship between the Black Hills and the Rocky Mountains, with much weaker relationships between the Black Hills and eastern and northern regions. Results of a logistic regression analysis comparing factors contributing to long-distance dispersal ability against presence/absence in the Black Hills were inconclusive. However, other evidence suggests that the Black Hills fauna is a result of expansion and subsequent vicariance of stonefly populations during Pleistocene climatic oscillations.
41711665|Ants of 22 species were collected in can pit-traps from 16 different vegetative associations to determine distribution, seasonal and annual occurrence, and population as bases for monitoring environmental impact. Thirteen species were sufficiently abundant and distributed to qualify as indicator species. Myrmecocystus mexicanus was the most widespread ecologically. Pogonomyrmex occidentalis was the most abundant species, but second in ecological distribution. The greatest number of species was found in the juniper-Ephedra-grass association, and the fewest species in Ephredra-Coleogyne-Grayia.
41712928|Productivity and food habits of the Barn Owl (Tyto alba) utilizing nest boxes in Juab, Utah, and Salt Lake counties, Utah, during 1979-1984 were examined. Average clutch size was 5.8 eggs for the 6-yr period; mean number fledged was 3.9 young per successful nest. While severe weather during the 1981-82 winter did not result in a significant decrease in productivity during the 1982 breeding season, it may have resulted in a significant overproduction of female young. Barn Owls in north central Utah fed almost exclusively on mammalian species, particularly Microtus spp. Differences in clutch size between areas and years may be a response to availability as well as abundance of prey.
41712248|To determine the role of the California red-backed vole (Clethrionomys californicus), the northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus), and the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) in the nitrogen cycle of forest stands in western Oregon, bacterial colonies were isolated and purified from feces, and their nitrogen-fixing ability measured by acetylene-reduction assay. The ability of the bacterial species Azospirillum sp. to withstand freezing was also tested. Fecal extracts were used to test whether fecal pellets can provide the nutrients necessary for growth of the bacteria. All the feces tested contained viable nitrogen-fixing bacteria, and both species can survive drying and one can survive freezing. Azospirillum colonies grew well on liquid medium but required yeast extract for growth and nitrogenase activity. Fecal extracts from flying squirrels and chickarees (Tamiasciurus douglasi) were as effective as the yeast. The results suggest another link in the chain of mutualism that unites small mammals, mycorrhizal fungi, and forest trees.
41711837|Wildland shrubs have gained considerable attention in recent years due to increasing recognition of their values as animal feed, as wildlife habitat, and for land reclamation. Better management of the shrub resource will be possible through clearer taxonomic identification and better understanding of phylogenetic relationships. This study applied polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and further developed this technique to address genetic relationships among 16 paired shrub species (genera: Artemisia, Chrysothamnus, Atriplex, Ceratoides, Sarcobatus, Purshia, Cowania, and Cercocarpus [Compositae, Chenopodiaceae, Rosaceae]). Cluster analysis of similarity values for total protein and 14 isoenzyme systems gave patterns of species relationships expected from classical morphological grounds with two minor exceptions. Isoenzyme analyses showed promise for solving taxonomic, phylogenetic, and population genetics problems.
41712987|I surveyed 34 meadows in California and Oregon to count Lincoln's Sparrows (Melospiza lincolnii alticola) and to identify habitat features that might influence their local, insular occurrence. Lincoln's Sparrows were found at 72% of the sites surveyed. Counts of singing males were low and uncorrelated with meadow size. Lincoln's Sparrows were most common in wet meadows with little damage by grazing. Singing males were concentrated in flooded or boggy areas near meadow edges, where pines (Pinus sp.) provided elevated perches for singing and vigilance. Patches of willows (Salix sp.) were often present nearby. Numbers of male Lincoln's Sparrows were strongly and negatively correlated with abundance of sympatric Song Sparrows (M. melodia fisherella). Lincoln's Sparrows breeding in montane meadows are potentially vulnerable to local extirpation because of their insular distribution, low population density, and fluctuating habitat conditions. Heavy damage from livestock grazing drastically increases the probability of local extirpation.
41712466|The impacts and timing of insect infestation were determined in developing Engelmann spruce cones throughout the summer of a year of low cone production in northern Utah. The major insects found were the western spruce budworm, Choristoneura occidentalis Freeman (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae); fir coneworm, Dioryctria abietivorella Grote (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae); and the spruce seed moth, Laseyresia youngana Kearfott (Lepidoptera: Olethreutidae). Insects reduced the survival of cones to 11.48 cones out of 100. The high percentage of seeds and cones lost to insect predation supported previous studies of a similar nature.
41711447|Type material added to the Brigham Young University Life Sciences Museum insect collection includes 6 holotypes, 5 allotypes, 106 paratypes, 78 cotypes, 48 homotypes, 1 metatype, and 1 androtype.
41712280|Crayfish distribution and composition in Utah are poorly documented. Based upon limited collections, the native Pacifastacus gambelii is widespread and often abundant in the Bear and Weber river drainages and is occasionally represented in smaller tributaries to the Great Salt Lake and to the Raft River. Pacifastacus leniusculus was collected from Utah County and Procambarus clarkii from Tooele County; the origin of these populations is not known. The nonnative crayfish Orconectes virilis is currently abundant in the Virgin, Price, and Duchesne river basins and the Glen Canyon, Flaming Gorge, Deer Creek, and Starvation reservoirs; it is expanding in Huntington North, Scofield, and Willard reservoirs. Further work is required to develop a more complete inventory and monitor the impacts on aquatic ecosystems of expanding nonnative crayfish populations. Surreptitious stockings can be dealt with only if the public is made aware of the adverse consequences of ill-conceived introductions.
41712631|Genetic variation across the known geographic range of Thomomys townsendii was examined by starch gel electrophoresis and nondifferentially stained karyotypes. All specimens examined had a diploid number of 76, but some populations possessed one pair of acrocentric chromosomes in an otherwise biarmed karyotype. Electrophoretic analyses of 16 populations revealed Thomomys townsendii to be among the least variable of pocket gopher species studied. Of 27 loci examined, 17 were monomorphic and heterozygosity values were low $\left( {H = .000 - .028,\bar H = .012} \right)$. Genie differentiation between populations was also low $\left( {S = .896 - .998,\bar S = .956} \right)$ and revealed little concordance with current subspecific units. The most marked differentiation is between the Honey Lake Valley/Humboldt River region and the Snake River drainage. Within each of these regions population variation is, in some cases, greater within than between currently defined subspecies. F-statistics show that the greatest genie differentiation is seen between populations, and a comparison of subspecies within a region shows the greatest homogeneity. The evolutionary history of Thomomys townsendii is discussed in the context of both the physiographic history of the region and the affinities of this species to Thomomys bottae. Results of this study and the patterns of differentiation found in the morphological analyses of the accompanying paper (Rogers 1991) indicate that the only consistent pattern to be discerned from the overall morphological and genetic homogeneity of Thomomys townsendii is that between populations of the Humboldt and Snake River drainage systems, which are here assigned to Thomomys townsendii nevadensis and Thomomys townsendii townsendii, respectively.
41712413|Forage quality was assessed in pole and sapling ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) stands growing at five stocking levels0, 5, 14, 23, and unthinned (which approximated 40 m/ha basal area)in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Crude protein, acid detergent fiber, acid detergent lignin, ash, calcium, and phosphorus were evaluated for cream peavine (Lathyrus ochroleucus), bearberry (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi), and timber oatgrass (Danthonia intermedia). Acid detergent fiber, acid detergent lignin, and ash showed some significant differences among growing stock levels for cream peavine growing in sapling stands. Crude protein content of timber oatgrass was different among growing stock levels in pole stands. In all cases, however, no trends or patterns relative to stocking levels were evident. When understory forage quality was compared within pole and sapling stands, only 4 of 18 possible comparisons were significant. In general, modifying the overstory of ponderosa pine in the Black Hills by clearcutting or thinning did not result in predictable changes in nutritional values of selected understory species.
41712683|The previously reported alkaloids (including protopines, benzophenanthridines, tetrahydrobenzylisoquinolines, and protoberberines) of the genus Arctomecon (Papaveraceae) are discussed in relation to their distribution in the plant kingdom, in the Papaveraceae, and among the three species of Arctomecon. The biological activity of these alkaloids is discussed, and possible implications for herbivore and plant-insect interactions in A. humilis are presented.
41712118|A substantially complete compilation of producer-consumer biomass was achieved for two montane forest reference stands on the Arizona Mogollon Plateau. This compilation, containing published and previously unpublished data, shows these ponderosa-pine-dominated stands to be near the lower end of the biomass range of commercial forest types. The two stands averaged approximately 75 metric tons/ha of plant biomass. Consumers made up less than 0.01 percent of the forest biomass. About 9/10 of the measured consumer biomass consisted of domestic and native ruminants.
41711386|New species and subspecies of Tipulidae from California and Alaska are described, including Tipula (Trichotipula) frommeri, Tipula (Trichotipula) sanctaecruzae, and Tipula (Lunatipula) hastingsae diperona, from California, and Tipula (Pterelachisus) macleani and Limnophila byersi from Alaska.
41712614|Black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) once occupied extensive areas throughout the Great Plains. In recent years massive control programs have been initiated to reduce prairie dog populations, primarily to benefit the livestock grazing industry. Currently in western South Dakota most prairie dogs are found on public lands. Control programs using toxicants for prairie dogs have been found to be economically unfeasible when not combined with reductions in livestock grazing. Control programs also have negatively impacted some nontarget species of birds and small mammals. Livestock grazing is directly related to prairie dog densities. Prairie dog and livestock grazing activities are responsible for keeping plant phenological development in a suppressed vegetative stage with higher nutritional qualities that attract greater herbivore use. Prairie dog colonies create and enhance habitat for many wildlife species; in western South Dakota 134 vertebrate wildlife species have been documented on prairie dog towns. Scientific evidence strongly suggests that prairie dogs are valuable components of the prairie ecosystem. They are responsible for maintaining, creating, and regulating habitat biodiversity through soil and vegetative manipulation for a host of vertebrate and invertebrate species dependent upon prairie dog activity for their survival.
41716157|Named and described is Astragalus debequaeus Welsh from Mesa County, Colorado.
41712810|Two hundred forty-one species of birds have been identified from northern Black Mesa, Arizona. This region's avifauna was poorly known until the late 1970s when large-scale coal mining began. Vegetation of the region is predominantly Great Basin desert scrub, pinyon-juniper woodland, and mixed-conifer woodland. The latter vegetation type supports an assemblage of isolated montane bird species unique to the region. Numerous environmental changes have recently affected the bird life of Black Mesa. These include large-scale type conversions (pinyon-juniper clearing and surface mining), pond construction, and establishment of exotic vegetation.
41711484|Measurements were made of morphological characteristics of ephemeral and persistent leaves of three subspecies of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt.) grown in a uniform environment. No morphological feature clearly separated the subspecies. Genetic-environmental interactions on leaf morphology apparently reduce its value as a sole criterion for distinguishing the subspecies.
41713096|Four species of the genus Ephydra are commonly found in saline waters within the hydrologie Great Basin: E. hians, E. gracilis, E. packardi, and E. auripes. Though none of these brine flies is endemic (distributions also occur outside the Great Basin), they all inhabit distinctive habitat types and form the characteristic benthic insect fauna of inland saline-water habitats. The affinities of each species for different salinity levels and chemical compositions, and ephemeral to perennial habitats, appear to form the basis for biogeographic distribution patterns. Within any habitat, changing salinity conditions over time may impose physiological or ecological constraints and further alter patterns of population productivity and the relative abundance of co-inhabiting species. Based on the physiology of salt tolerance known for these species, high salinity conditions favor E. hians in alkaline water and E. gracilis in chloride water. At lower salinities, based on limited habitat data, E. auripes and E. packardi are often more common, again showing respective preferences for alkaline and chloride chemical conditions. Specialized adaptations for alkaline carbonate waters are found in the larval Malpighian tubule lime gland of the alkali fly E. hians, while high salt tolerance in E. gracilis appears to be conferred by high hemolymph osmolality. Adaptation to ephemeral and low salinity conditions may be accomplished by swift adult colonizing ability and rapid larval development rates. It is hypothesized that adaptive specializations in both physiology and life history and varied geochemistry of saline water habitats across the Great Basin produce the biogeographic pattern of distributions for species in this genus. This perspective on the genus Ephydra, and possibly other biota of mineral-rich Great Basin waters, suggests that interconnections among pluvial lakes may be less relevant to aquatic biogeography than chemical profiles developing in remnant lakes and ponds with the progression of arid post-pluvial climatic conditions.
41712115|Black knot disease of chokecherries, induced by Dibotryon morbosum (Schw.) Th. & Syd., is widely distributed in Utah. The incidence of black knot was measured by determining the ratio of total black knot gall length to total stem length of plants and then expressing that value as a percentage of diseased stems in the sample plot. The environmental site factors measured were elevation, exposure, slope, soil pH, soil depth, distance to surface water, plant moisture stress, and associated vegetation. Numerical values were determined for each of these variables at each of 18 randomly located plots. Correlation coefficients for plant moisture stress and soil temperature were -.439 (p = .065) and -.440 (p = .055). Multiple regression analyses using plant moisture stress and soil temperature gave a regression coefficient of -.641 (p = .05). As plant moisture stress and soil temperature decreased, incidence of black knot increased.
41711498|Relationships between water fertility (as measured by conductivity and alkalinity) of 17 Montana streams and the attainment of sexual maturity and fecundity of their resident female brown trout were studied. Fish from the streams having conductivity and alkalinity levels greater than 100 micromhos/cm and ppm CaCO, respectively, were younger at sexual maturity than fish from waters with lower levels. The attainment of earlier sexual maturity in fish from the former streams could not be completely explained on the basis of greater growth rates. Fish from the stream having the highest levels of conductivity had the slowest growth rate but became sexually mature at the youngest age. A positive relationship was found between chemical fertility of streams and the fecundity of their fish. However, in the stream having the highest levels of conductivity, fish were the least fecund. It was concluded that the chemical fertility of these streams is generally related to the age at sexual maturity and fecundity of fish.
41712040|Recent bottom sediments of eight lakes and reservoirs in northeastern Utah were examined. One hundred and sixty-four diatom taxa were identified and their relative abundances determined. Seven stand associations were evident by cluster analysis of similarity indices. These association patterns mirrored trophic status of the waters. Shannon-Wiener species diversity values were also determined. The diversities fell in patterns that were similar to the stand associations determined by cluster analysis. The most prevalent diatom taxa encountered in this study were found mostly in eutrophic waters. These taxa included Stephanodiscus astraea, Stephanodiscus astraea var. minutula, Asterionella formosa, and Fragilaria crotonensis. A wide variety of other taxa dominated various mesotrophic and oligotrophic sites.
41711691|Local distribution patterns of three rodent species (Perognathus parvus, Peromyscus maniculatus, Reithrodontomys megahtis) were studied in areas of high and low densities of harvester ants (Pogonomyrmex owyheei) in Raft River Valley, Idaho. Numbers of rodents were greatest in areas of high ant-density during May, but partially reduced in August; whereas, the trend was reversed in areas of low ant-density. Seed abundance was probably not the factor limiting changes in rodent populations, because seed densities of annual plants were always greater in areas of high ant-density. Differences in seasonal population distributions of rodents between areas of high and low ant-densities were probably due to interactions of seed availability, rodent energetics, and predation.
41712873|We compared diet of young-of-year Colorado squawfsh (Ptychocheilus lucius), an endangered cyprinid, with diets of other fish <75 mm total length (TL) collected from backwaters of the Green River between river kilometers 555 and 35 during summer and autumn 1987. Species included native Rhinichthys osculus, Catostomus discobolus, and C. latipinnis, and nonnative CyprneUa lutrensis, Notropis stramineus, Pimephales promelas, Ictalurus punctatus, and Lepomis cyanellus. For each species, diet varied with size and between upper and lower river reaches but not between seasons for fish of similar size. Larval chironomids and ceratopogonids were principal foods of most fishes. Copepods and cladocerans were important in diets of P. lucius <21 mm TL and L. cyanellus <31 mm TL. Catostomus discobolus was the only species that ate moderate amounts of algae. Fish (all larvae) were in digestive tracts of only 10 P. lucius (21-73 mm TL), about 1% of P. lucius analyzed. High diet overlap occurred between some size-reach groups of P. lucius and C. lutrensis, R. osculus, C. htipinnis, I. punctatus, and L. cyanellus. Potential for food competition between youngof-year P. lucius and other fishes in backwaters appeared greatest with the very abundant C. lutrensis.
41713011|The effect of myofibrogranuloma (skeletal muscle degeneration) on serum calcium levels in spawning walleye (Stizostedion vitreum) was examined. Mean serum calcium levels for healthy male walleye (11.7  1.5 mg/100 ml serum) was significantly lower (P < 0.05) than calcium levels for healthy female walleye (15.4  1.8 mg/100 ml serum). Significant increases (P < 0.1) in serum calcium were seen between healthy male and myofibrogranuloma-diseased male walleye (13.6  2.1 mg/100 ml serum) and between healthy and myofibrogranuloma-diseased female walleye (20.2  3.7 mg/100 ml serum). Elevations seen in mean serum calcium levels suggest the muscle degeneration and subsequent granuloma formation in later stages of myofibrogranuloma have a significant effect on serum calcium.
41712190|A study was made of the distributions of native, terrestrial, vascular plants occurring in 50 local floras from throughout the Basin and Range and Colorado Plateau physiographic provinces of the southwestern United States. The objectives of the study were to objectively define and describe the floristic elementsassemblages of species with roughly coincident geographic distributionoccurring in the southwestern United States and to determine what such assemblages reveal about the floristic history of the region. The total flora (native, terrestrial species only) of the Southwest is estimated at 5,458 species, 77% of which were recorded in 1 or more of the local floras. Nearly 22% of these species are endemic to the study region. A majority of the species were found to be relatively rare. The average range of a species included only 4 floras, and 90% of the species were recorded from 11 or fewer floras; only 81 species (1.5%) were recorded from 50% or more of the floras. Trees constitute 2% of the regional flora and have the widest average distribution; perennial herbs constitute 59% of the flora and have the most restricted distributions. Factor analysis was used to identify seven floristic elements for the region: a Great Basin element, a Mojavean element, a Colorado Plateau element, a Chihuahuan element, an Apachian element, and a Mogollon element. This factor analysis solution was shown to satisfy criteria of interpretability and consistency. The Mojavean, Colorado Plateau, and Apachian elements are believed to be autochthonous. The other four elements show high overlap in species composition with one or more adjacent regions. Each floristic element is mapped to show its geographic form and distribution. Analysis of these maps shows how the existence of objectively defined floristic elements is not contradictory to either the individualistic view of the distribution of a species or local continuity of vegetation and flora. The rarity of the majority of species and the clear association of floristic elements with rather narrowly circumscribed Holocene environments suggests that many Southwestern species have migrated little and are of rather recent, probably postglacial origin. Geographic "principles" derived from the distribution patterns of relatively few, widespread, dominant, usually woody species may not be applicable to entire, regional floras.
41711874|Described as new is Cryptantha welshii Thome & Higgins from the White River Valley of Nye County, Nevada.
41712201|Diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid populations of Atriplex canescens (x = 9) were examined for 18 isozyme systems. Of 24 interpretable loci, only one locus (Per) was polymorphic. Another locus (Per) showed a dosage effect. Genetic distance values, D, ranged from near 0 to 0.05, which are in the normal range for local species races. Results from clonal ramets gave identical results. The data and analyses support an essentially autopolyploid origin for the polyploid populations examined.
41711893|A comparison of the floral visitors of two closely related plant species, Penstemon cyananthus and P. eatonii, suggests that flower shape and color may affect the number and type of pollinators, and the ability of the plant to set fruit. Penstemon cyananthus, which is most attractive to hymenopteran visitors, has a blue flower, large in diameter, that is positioned as a convenient "landing pad." Although many types of insects visit the flower, the transport of pollen directly to flowers of another individual of the same species is somewhat inefficient, since fruiting success is low (66.7 percent). The tubular red flowers of P. eatonii are narrow and droop downward from the stem. The nectar is accessible to a specific and well-adapted visitor, the hummingbird. This less promiscuous, bird-pollinated species sets fruit more successfully (82.4 percent) than P. cyananthus.
41712505|A classification of the riparian vegetation of part of western Colorado was developed by cluster analysis and ordination of 115 samples of relatively undisturbed vegetation. The classification of plant associations contains five montane riparian forests, three subalpine riparian forests, four lower subalpine willow carrs, three upper subalpine willow carrs, and one subalpine wetland.
41712251|On 17 Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma [Torrey] L.) sites studied in Utah, Gymnosporangium inconspicuum was the most common rust fungus, followed in frequency and severity by G. nelsoni, G. kernianum, and G. speciosum. The incidence of G. kernianum was correlated with moderate temperatures and greater than average precipitation. True mistletoe, Phoradendron juniperinum Engelm., was present on seven sites. Incidence of foliage diseases of the mold-mildew type was low on sites with low spring and summer temperatures and high on sites with high summer and fall precipitation. Wood rot was common, and incidence seemed to be correlated with low winter temperatures and low soil nitrate but not with annual precipitation. Needle blight, shoot dieback, and needle cast symptoms were common and considered of abiotic origin. Their nonparasitic nature was indicated by lack of association with pathogenic organisms and the positive correlation of their incidence with winter injury and summer drought factors. Needle blight was also positively correlated with high soil salinity but negatively with high soil calcium regardless of salinity. A nonparametric model was developed that accurately predicted the frequency of the mold-mildew type diseases of J. osteosperma based on measured environmental site factors.
41712783|A search for characters to make the generic classification of Platypodidae more nearly objective resulted in the discovery of new anatomical features that appear to reflect patterns in phylogeny for this family. The Platypodidae are members of the Curculionoidea and are very closely allied to Scolytidae. Three subfamilies of Platypodidae are recognized: (1) Coptonotinae, containing Coptonotini (Coptonotus Chapuis, Protohylastes Wood, Scolytotarsus Schedl), Mecopelmini (Mecopelmus Blackman, Protoplatypus Wood), and Schedlarini (Schedlarius Wood [= Chapuisia Dugs]); (2) Tesserocerinae, containing Diapodini (Diapus Chapuis, Genyocerus Motschulsky [=Diacavus Schedl]), and Tesserocerini (Platytarsulus Schedl, Notoplatypus Lea, Tesserocranulus Schedl, Tesserocerus Saunders [= Damicerus Spinola, Tesseroplatypus Schedl, Tesserocephalus Schedl]), Spathidicerus Chapuis, Periommatus Chapuis [=Asetus Nunberg, Setanus Nunberg], Chaetastus Nunberg [=Symmerus Chapuis], Cenocephalus Chapuis, and Mitosoma Chapuis [=Platypicerus Nunberg, Coecephalonus Schedl]); and (3) Platypodinae, containing Platypodini (Platypus Herbst [=Cylindra Illiger, Stenoplatypus Strohmeyer, Platypinus Schedl, Austroplatypus Browne], Treptoplatypus Schedl, Crossotarsus Chapuis, Trachyostus Schedl, Neotrachyostus Browne, Platyscapulus Schedl [=Platyscapus Schedl, Costaroplatus Nunberg], Baiocis Browne, Cylindropalpus Strohmeyer, Triozastus Schedl, Mesoplatypus Strohmeyer, Doliopygus Schedl [=Scutopygus Nunberg, Pygodolius Nunberg, Mixopygus Nunberg, Mesopygus Nunberg], and 11 genera named as new to science derived from the genus Platypus of Schedl 1972. The following are new genera and their type-species: Peroplatypus (for Platypus truncatipennis Schedl), Dinoplatypus (for Platypus cupulatus Chapuis), Myoplatypus (for Bostrichus or Platypus flavicornis Fabricius), Oxoplatypus (for Scolytus or Platypus quadridentatus Olivier), Platyphysus (for Platypus obtusus Chapuis), Megaplatypus (for Platypus dentatus Dalman), Euplatypus (for Bostrichus or Platypus parallelus Fabricius), Epiplatypus (for Platypus desceptor Wood), and Teloplatypus (for Platypus concinnus Blandford). The archaic "Sektionen" used by Schedl in his 1972 classification of this family are eliminated. A key for the identification of genera, a discussion of characters, and remarks on phylogeny are included.
41712874|Water column invertebrates were sampled with 3.8-L activity traps in 15 sewage, industrial, and radioactive wastewater ponds at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory in southeastern Idaho. One collection was made per pond, per month, during all months the ponds were ice-free from June 1990 through July 1991. In addition, nutrient and selected heavy metal concentrations in pond water were determined in July 1991. Arsenic, barium, boron, lead, selenium, and mercury were detected in ponds. Sewage ponds generally had higher nitrogen and phosphorus levels than industrial and radioactive ponds. Of the 30 aquatic invertebrate taxa collected, the most ubiquitous were Rotifera, Daphnidae, Eucopepoda, Ostracoda, Acari, Baetidae, Corixidae, Notonectidae, Dytiscidae, and Chironomidae. Activity trap samples from sewage ponds contained more Rotifera, Daphnidae, and Notonectidae, whereas industrial ponds yielded more Chydoridae, Acari, and Baetidae. Numbers of Oligochaeta, Eucopepoda, Ostracoda, Corixidae, Dytiscidae, and Chironomidae collected were not significantly different between sewage and industrial ponds. Compared with natural systems, these ponds had fewer taxa, but a greater number of individuals of most taxa. The high number of invertebrates collected is attributed to the lack of fish in wastewater ponds and the high levels of nitrogen and phosphorus, particularly in sewage ponds.
41712084|Fifty-seven fish of three genera were taken from the Colorado River in west central Colorado and examined for external parasites. No external parasites were found on Ictalurus. Seven percent of the Hybognathus and 100 percent of the Catastomus were infected with a Hirudinean of the species Helobdella stagnalis.
41711594|The west slope of Basin and Castle peaks and the ridge between them displays a wind-generated tree line below 8500 ft, with dry alpine fell-field vegetation above. The butterfly fauna, although depauperate compared to that of the High Sierra farther south, includes some truly boreal elements such as Oeneis ivallda, Plebeius shasta, and Hesperia nevada. These species commonly occur 1500 to 4000 ft higher in the southern Sierra.
41711585|New synonymy of American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Phloeoborus Erichson (= Phloeotrupes Erichson), Phloeotribus Latreille (= Eulytocerus Blandford), Scolytodes Ferrari (= Epomadius Blandford), Carphoborus pinicolens Wood (= Carphoborus tuberculatus Bright), Coccotrypes indicus (Eggers) (= Dryocoetes subimpressus Eggers), Coccotrypes surinamensis Schedl (= Coccotrypes brevipilosus Eggers), Conophthorus coniperda Schwarz (= Conophthorus clunicus Hopkins, Conophthorus taedae Hopkins), Conophthorus ponderosae Hopkins (= Conophthorus scopulorum Hopkins, Conophthorus contortae Hopkins, Conophthorus monticolae Hopkins, Conophthorus flexilis Hopkins, Conophthorus lambertianae Hopkins), Conophthorus resinosae Hopkins (= Conophthorus virginianae Hopkins), Cryphahmorphus knabi (Hopkins) (= Cryphalomorphus minutissimus Schedl), Ips grandicollis (Eichhoff) (= Tomicus cribricollis Eichhoff), Ips perturbatus (Eichhoff) (= Tomicus interpunctus Eichhoff), Ips tridens engelmanni Swaine (= Ips yohoensis Swaine, Ips semirostris Hopping, Ips amiskwiensis Hopping), Leperisinus aculeatus (Say) (= Hylesinus imperialis Eichhoff), Leperisinus californicus Swaine (= Leperisinus hoferi Blackman), Phloeosinus serratus (LeConte) (= Phloeosinus neotropicus Schedl), Phoeotribus championi (Blandford) ) = Eulytocerus substriatus Schedl), Pseudohylesinus sericeus (Mannerheim) (= Pseudohylesinus yasamatsui Nobuchi), Pityophthorus boycei Swaine (= Pityophthorus siouxensis Bright), Pityophthorus deletus LeConte (= Pityophthorus inquietus Blackman, Pityophthorus monophyllae Blackman, Pityophthorus praelatus Bright, Pityophthorus brucki Bright), Scolytus opacus Blackman (= Scolytus abietis Blackman), Scolytus tsugae Swaine (= Scolytus reflexus Blackman, Scolytus wickhami Blackman), Scolytus unispinosus LeConte (= Scolytus fiskei Blackman). The following species are named as new to science: Phloeotribus hirtus, P. ingae, P. levis, P. minor, P. nebulosus, P. simplicidens (Colombia), P. amplus, P. fici, P. squamiger, P. tetricus, P. vesculus (Venezuela), Pityophthorus discretus (Mexico).
41712398|During a survey of the vertebrates in the Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area, 46 mammal, 210 bird, 9 reptile, 5 amphibian, and 28 fish species were found. Habitat structure and moisture were two environmental variables associated with species numbers across this 1,820-ha area. Eight distinct habitats were evaluated. In coniferous forests, 27% of the birds and 54% of the mammals were observed. Sagebrush/grasslands and upland shrublands were very arid and had relatively few vertebrates. Five introduced game birds occurred in sagebrush habitat. Riparian and wetland habitats had the largest number of unique vertebrates, 38 and 77 respectively. The establishment of Bighorn Lake in 1968 influenced the fisheries in streams and rivers as 10 introduced fish species are now there.
41712219|Based on forehead-rump length, growth rates of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fetuses in Piceance Basin, Colorado, were slower during severe winters than during moderate ones. Growth rates in both situations were slower than reported for both mule deer and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fetuses from captive does.
41712449|Cluster analysis and stepwise discriminant analysis were used to group waterfowl and shorebird use on water impoundments (bentonite, coal, livestock) on the Northern High Plains. Three bird-use categorieshigh, medium, and lowwere delineated by these analytical procedures. Eleven physical, chemical, and biological parameters of impoundments were related to bird use; water area, nitrogen, and low basin slopes were found to be important parameters in estimating bird use on impoundments. Spring and summer were the best seasons for surveying waterfowl and shorebird water impoundment use.
41712435|We examined stomach contents of 426 Clethrionomys, 217C. californiens from western Oregon and 209C. gapperi from widely scattered areas across North America. Clethrionomys californicus consumed fungi of 28 genera. Clethrionomys gapperi from the Rocky Mountains westward consumed fungi of 23 genera, whereas C. gapperi east of the Rocky Mountains consumed fungi of 7 genera. This study supports the conclusions of an earlier study, limited to Oregon and Washington, that food habits of C. californicus and C. gapperi are more closely related to habitat than to species or subspecies of vole.
41711730|Graphs allowing interconversion between various physical chemical parameters are presented for five Artemia habitats in the western USA. Both the mean osmosity and its typical yearly range differ greatly among habitats. Consequently, Artemia populations provide an interesting opportunity to study physiological and life history adaptations to differing degrees of habitat stability.
41711652|Twenty-two sites in central Idaho were sampled to determine the geographic range of Peromyscus maniculatus serratus. Isolating mechanisms which exist between the P. maniculatus subspecies of region require further investigation.
41711573|A total of 87 avian species were recorded on islands of Great Salt Lake by Behle, with 17 observed on Gunnison and Cub islands. This paper presents sightings and salvaged carcasses recorded on Gunnison and Cub islands, 1972-1974. Of the 112 species observed, 95 are first records for Gunnison and Cub islands and 49 are first records on or near any island of Great Salt Lake. Over 90 percent of species observed on the islands were transients.
41711984|Named as new species are Hymenoxys lapidicola Welsh & Neese, from Uintah County, Utah, and Perityle specuicola Welsh & Neese, from Grand County, Utah.
41712567|Northern pike, Esox lucius, stocked in the Yampa River in 1977, invaded the mainstream Green River by 1981 and subsequently increased in range and abundance. The speed of this invasion is indicated by two recaptured pike that moved 78 and 110 km, respectively, downstream in about one year. Pike stomachs (n = 123) were usually empty (54.5%), but some contained fish (43%) and nonfish items (2.4%). Red shiner, Notropis lutrensis, and fathead minnow, Pimephales prometas, predominated among the 12 fish species eaten. Walleye, Stizostedion vitreum, presumably introduced to the Green River drainage in the 1960s, was widely distributed but low in abundance. Most of 61 adult walleye stomachs contained food (60.7%); of 6 fish species eaten, channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus, and fathead minnow were most frequently consumed. Northern pike and walleye were captured in habitats occupied by endangered Colorado River fishes, particularly Colorado squawfish, Ptychocheilus lucius. Prdation on endangered fishes was not detected, but northern pike and walleye consumed at least three other native fishes. The northern pike may pose a threat to endangered fishes due to its population expansion, piscivory, and resource sharing. Diets of northern pike and walleye species should be further evaluated if their abundance increases.
41711392|Some ecological relationships and interspecies interactions (i.e., habitat, foods, and reproduction) between Microtus pennsylvanicus pullatus, M. montanus nanus, M. longicaudus mordex, and Clethrionomys gapperi galei were investigated in Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming. Trapping was conducted from June-July, 1968 and May-July, 1969 yielding 110 M.p.p., 171 M.m.n., 17 M.l.n. and 41 C.g.g. Six plant communities were defined structurally; all communities contained voles but varied considerably in numbers of species and individuals. Analyses of stomach contents showed similar diets. Embryo counts indicated that there was no significant interspecies differences in litter sizes. Females of all species were pregnant in about equal proportions. Almost all adult males showed descended testes and were reproductively active. Testicular and seminal vesicle weights and lengths fluctuated. M.p.p. mean body weights were largest: M44.7g (N=31), F38.1g (N=29); this was nearly twice the mean weights of C.g.g.: M20.4g (N=7), F23.3g (N=3). Weights for M.m.n. and M.l.m. fell between these extremes and were similar to each other. Trends in differential habitat use were clearly demonstrated and evidence suggests the four microtines are at least partially incompatible.
41711464|Eight spotted bats (Euderma maculatum) were captured and released along the Fort Pierce Wash, Washington County, Utah, in August 1974. Observations indicated that Euderma roosts in cracks and crevices.
41711648|The past and present use of the Uinta National Forest by birds of prey was determined from historical records and surveys conducted during 1973, 1974, and 1975. Data describing the history, present status, and physical characteristics of each nest site were collected, along with the type and intensivity of human activity within a half-mile radius of the nest. In addition, limited data on fall migration of raptors along the Wasatch Front and the food habits of Golden Eagles are presented. Management guidelines, based on the results of this study, are proposed.
41712957|We studied seasonal cattle grazing as an agent of ephemeral habitat fragmentation on a newly reintroduced population of California bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis califomiana) in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Idaho, 1988-89. We evaluated the hypothesis that bighorn sheep avoid cattle. We documented sheep response to the proximity to cattle by direct observation. The core areas used by bighorn and distances to escape terrain generally decreased as cattle moved closer to sheep. Likewise, sheep moved from cattle as cattle approached them. Severity of response we observed is in marked contrast with that reported for established bighorn populations, suggesting that newly reintroduced bighorn sheep are more highly sensitive to the presence of cattle.
41712909|Eighteen species of Scolytidae are reported from Washington state for the first time or raised from obscurity: Scierus annectens LeConte, Hylesinus californiens (Swaine), Phloeotribus lecontei Schedl, Carphoborus vandykei Bruck, Polygraphus ruflpennis (Kirby), Crypturgus borealis Swaine, Pityogenes knechteli Swaine, Ips mexicanus (Hopkins), Ips perturbatus (Eichhoff), Ips plastographus plastographus (LeConte), Ips woodi Thatcher, Trypodendron betulae Swaine, Trypophloeus striatulus (Mannerheim), Procryphalus mucronatus (LeConte), Procryphalus utahensis Hopkins, Pseudopityophthorus pubipennis (LeConte), Pityophthorus alpinensis G. Hopping, and Pityophthorus grandis Blackman. Host tree and collection data are given for these species. A total of 105 scolytid species known from Washington are listed.
41713001|One hundred forty-three species of Pompilidae are recorded from Colorado, slightly more than half the number occurring north of Mexico. Some of these occur principally at higher altitudes or in the northern part of the state; this group includes 5 species of Holarctic distribution. Others (such as the tarantula hawks, Pepsis) are prevalent across the southern third of the state and range south into New Mexico and often into Mexico. Still others are widely distributed wherever there is friable soil suitable for nesting. Certain genera are more or less restricted to preying upon certain spider taxa, while others are generalists and a few are cleptoparasites of other Pompilidae.
41712799|The purpose of this study was to determine the morphology and growth responses of Agropyron smithii Rydb. to various saline environments as evaluated in the laboratory. Agropyron smithii Rydb. (Rosana) seeds were germinated, transplanted into nutrient solutions with NaCl concentrations of 0, 50, 100, 150, and 200 mM, and grown for 80 days. Plant height, length of culm, and number of culms per plant were significantly reduced by the presence of NaCl in the nutrient solutions. As the external NaCl concentrations increased, values of root and plant ratio and leaf dry/fresh mass ratio increased significantly; biomass decreased significantly. However, the stomatal index, number of leaves per culm, and ratio of leaf length to leaf width were not significantly affected by the presence of NaCl.
41711537|Discovery of a small isolated population of the white fir dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. concoloris, in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona extends the southern distribution of this mistletoe 300 miles. The rare occurrence of the mistletoe in the southwest suggests that it once had a more southerly distribution but only survived past climatic changes in a few locations.
41713006|Recent radiotelemetry studies demonstrated that stream-dwelling trout are mobile, but few have compared sympatric species. We used radiotelemetry to simultaneously monitor positions of 20 brown trout and 21 rainbow trout from May or June 1994 to February 1995 in Silver Creek, a small spring-fed stream in south central Idaho. Our biweekly observations from May to September indicated that rainbow trout had larger home ranges (medians, 606 m v. 131 m) and moved greater distances (medians, 1109 m v. 208 m) than brown trout. Furthermore, rainbow trout used more positions than brown trout (means, 7 v. 3) over this interval. Hourly diel monitoring revealed no significant difference in 24-h home ranges of rainbow trout and brown trout (means, 77 m v. 105 m). However, activity patterns of the 2 species differed; rainbow trout activity was usually highest during the day, whereas brown trout activity tended to peak at night. Differences in foraging strategies and response to disturbance may be responsible for differences in mobility.
41712181|At Walker Lake, Nevada, tui chub were collected 19751977 for analysis of age, growth rate, and food habits. The fork length (FL)scale radius (SR) relationship was linear and described by the equation FL = 4.44 + 3.17 (SR). Age I, II, III, and IV chub were 116, 176, 218, and 242 mm fork length, respectively. Maximum longevity was six years. The length weight relationship was defined by the log transformed linear equation log weight = -4.65 + 2.93 (log FL). Chub collected from pelagic regions ate mostly zooplankton, whereas chub collected from littoral areas had a diet of zooplankton and benthic organisms.
41712584|Woodlands dominated by singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla Torr, and Frem.) and Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma [Torr.] Little) cover extensive areas in the Great Basin and Southwest. Both species are aggressive and can nearly eliminate the previous shrub-dominated community. Successional pathways from shrubdominated communities before tree establishment to the tree-dominated communities that follow are known only for a few specific sites. How site growing conditions affect successional patterns needs further study. We compared the relationship of foliage biomass and percentage of cover between paired shrub-dominated and tree-dominated plots over several sites. Sites studied are from different elevation and topographic conditions on one mountain range. Foliage biomass in shrub-dominated plots had about a three-to-one variation over the range of site conditions sampled. Tree-dominated plots varied by about two to one. Cover in shrub-dominated plots had a four-to-one variation; cover in the tree-dominated plots varied by about two to one. Total foliage biomass in both tree-and shrub-dominated plots correlated best with the site index of height at 200 years of age. Variation in percentage of cover in both tree-and shrub-dominated plots correlated best with elevation. Foliage biomass variation in shrub-dominated plots was proportional to the variation in the paired tree-dominated plots. A similar proportional relationship was present for percentage of cover between paired tree-and shrub-dominated plots. Foliage biomass was more sensitive to topographic differences than to cover. Variation in plant species sampled in the shrub-dominated plots correlated with total foliage biomass of the same plots. Species sampled also correlated with pinyon height at 200 years of age and total foliage biomass in the paired tree-dominated plots.
41711470|Two fortran IV computer programs were developed to facilitate reduction of meteorologie data from irrigated and nonirrigated plots at Provo, Utah. The first program compiles and tabulates daily, monthly, and yearly summaries of precipitation as rain and/or snow, snowfall, total snow cover, soil moisture, dew, relative humidity, potential evaporation, cloud cover, and wind. Temperature values are tabulated for measurements taken in a standard weather shelter, 5 cm beneath soil surface under grass cover, at soil surface under grass cover, and on bare ground. The second program enables complete computerized (Calcomp) construction, labeling, and graphing of 10 different meteorologie measurements and 3 calculated comparisons of temperature means. Advantages of the first computer program relate generally to that obviously noticeable with any computerized tabulation. Those of the second program relate more specifically to the greatly reduced cost of computerized graphs compared with those produced manually, as well as to the marked reduction of errors compared with the number frequently associated with the usual tedious and laborious plotting of voluminous weather data. Meteorologie data collected for the year demonstrated the beneficial effect of irrigation in the creation of microenvironments for living organisms.
41713120|Eight deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were attracted to bait stations in the field and filled their cheek pouches with seeds. Pouch capacity of the deer mice, which have small, internal cheek pouches, was 0.45  0.11 mL, about 12-27% of that carried by similar-sized heteromyid rodents. Cheek pouches of deer mice, although small, give them the capacity to carry 3-5 times more food than unspecialized mice. This presumably increases efficiency of deer mice in exploiting small, particulate food items that are patchily distributed.
41712293|Insect communities at recently burned and unburned sites in the Great Basin of northwestern Utah were studied by weekly sampling with pitfall and Malaise traps. More specimens were consistently collected at the burned site, although the numbers of species between the sites were about equal a month after the fire. Flying insects showing no preference for the sites were sciarids, phorids, and leafminer flies (all Diptera). Insects preferring the unburned site were mostly entomophagous flies such as pipunculids, chamaemyiids, and tachinids. Insects more common at the burned site were mosquitoes and phytophagous species of lygaeid bugs, leafhoppers, and moths. Seasonal trends in relative abundance of major families of flying insects are reported. Ground survivors included gryllacridids, carabids, tenebrionids, and ants. Silphids and buprestids immigrated into the burned area soon after the fire. Interrelationships between the burned area and the insect community are dicussed.
41711618|The Yellow-headed Blackbird (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) nests in marshes and is dependent on emergent vegetation for nest sites. Fluctuating water levels from year to year cause an increase or decrease in the amount of emergent vegetation and affect the time required for the vegetation to become suitable for nesting. Nests built in marshes are very susceptible to wind, rainfall, vegetation growth, and prdation. Many nests are abandoned before being used and the mortality of eggs and young is high. The reproductive strategy of the Yellow-headed Blackbird has been selected for flexibility and opportunism to compensate for the unpredictability of the marsh situation.
41711886|Phenology and abundance of the floral resources used by bees and other flower-visiting insects were recorded weekly from permanent quadrats for two years on two shortgrass prairie sites in the Laramie Basin, Wyoming. Each site was composed of three distinct plant communities. Results suggest considerable spatiotemporal variability in floral resources. Specifically, most species at both sites showed the following temporal variation: (1) bloom times between one and two weeks earlier in the second year; (2) differences of approximately 1-2 weeks in bloom span between years; (3) substantial differences in abundance of flowers between years. Species blooming during the last half of the census period were significantly more variable in flower abundance between years than those blooming earlier. Spatial variation was shown both by differences between sites and between plant communities within sites in the direction and magnitude of between-year changes in floral abundance. For example, floral production at Boulder Ridge in 1976 was much lower than in 1975, but at The Dirt Farm between-year differences were less pronounced and depended upon season. Similarity measures and cluster analysis suggest differences in the structure of the bloom season at both sites between years, and a relatively rapid turnover of floral composition within years such that bees face a very different flora over the latter part of their flight seasons relative to that encountered initially. Evidence from other reports support the hypothesis of spatiotemporal unpredictability of floral resources.
41711894|Habitat segregation trends have been observed and published for the sexes of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) based on elevation and slope exposure. Despite these brief descriptions, quantitative studies on habitat segregation by the sexes of mule deer are lacking. Results of research conducted in central Utah indicated no significant difference in elevation positions used by males, but did show significant difference in utilization of study sites based on slope exposure, relative percentage forb cover, and relative percentage hiding cover. Males were most common at sites characterized by low forb abundance and hiding cover, and on south-facing exposures. Females were most common at sites characterized by high forb abundance and hiding cover, and on north-facing exposures. Possible advantages of habitat separation to both sexes and management implications are discussed.
41712367|Maternal care of neonates has been documented in relatively few species of lizards representing four families. This study documents the occurrence of maternal care of neonates in the prairie skink, Eumeces septentrionalis. Observations made herein indicate that individual variation in maternal behavior exists in this species.
41713040|A total of 395 microtine rodent specimens recovered from Snake Creek Burial Cave (SCBC) are referred to Microtus sp. and Lemmiscus curtatus. Radiocarbon and Uranium series dates indicate an age for these fossils of between 9460  160 yr. B.P. and 15,1000  700 yr. B.P The sample of lower first molars of Lemmiscus includes 4-, 5-, and 6-closed triangle morphotypes. Earlier reports of the 4-closed triangle morphotype are from Irvingtonian deposits in Colorado, Nevada, and New Mexico and from early Rancholabrean deposits in Washington. The morphotype is not known in living populations of Lemmiscus. SCBC specimens constitute the youngest record of the 4-closed triangle morphotype and are the only specimens reported from the late Rancholabrean. The time of disappearance of Lemmiscus with this molar morphology is unknown, but populations with this morphotype possibly became extinct at or near the end of the Pleistocene.
41711190|In the original work on this race, Jacot (1938) neither figured nor adequately separated this form from the species auxiliaris. The race is figured and a short diagnostic description made for clarification.H.G.H.
41716160|Nutrients in soil covered by Carex exserta sod and in adjacent unvegetated gravel areas were compared at Siberian Outpost, Sequoia National Park, California. The comparisons were part of a study to learn if Carex exserta meadow can be reestablished and if herbaceous cover on gravel areas can be increased. Grazing capacity and aesthetic appeal of denuded areas would be improved by better vegetative cover. The sod had higher concentrations of calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, nitrogen, potassium, and zinc than did the gravel areas. And it had a higher soil pH and percent organic matter. Sod and gravel did not differ in concentrations of phosphorus and sulfur. The differences were as might be expected between climax and badly deteriorated (or early seral) situations, and the results suggest that fertilization may be a useful treatment.
41712482|Seeds of the perennial shrub Ambrosia dumosa germinated in abundance following 11 days of rain during August 1983 at a study site in the northern Mojave Desert. Seedling establishment, growth, and reproduction were observed in natural vegetation and in an area that had been previously cleared of vegetation. For 5,527 A. dumosa seedlings, percent survival in April 1986 averaged 3% in the undisturbed vegetation and 58% in the denuded area. Seedlings occupying the cleared area had grown to sizes up to 0.1 m by October 1984; some produced flowers and fruit in the spring of 1985. Surviving seedlings in the undisturbed vegetation were all smaller than 0.001 m and did not reproduce. These pronounced differences in growth, survival, and reproduction associated with the presence or absence of adult shrubs demonstrated an intense competition that is incompatible with indications of mild competition from nearest-neighbor analyses. I therefore hypothesize that competition for water occurred, not by competition for water in two dimensions but by rapid use of a common resource, as if several people were drinking with straws from a common cup. This temporal mechanism would strongly favor adults over seedlings.
41711524|The riverbottom forest community of St. Mary River, Lee Creek, and Belly River in southwestern Alberta, Canada, is a unique ecological entity characterized by poplar species having their major Alberta distribution along these streams. Stands in the community are dominated by three tree species, six shrub species, and nine herb species. Establishment of the community is dependent on climate and substrate; destruction is the result of progressive lateral stream-flow erosion. Soils are sandy loams above gravel, with pH values of 7.7 to 8.0 and soluble salt concentrations of 176 to 458 parts per million. Trees in mature stands averaged 23.0 cm in diameter and 40 years in age; maximum tree age was 250 years. The vascular flora consists of 291 species of which 41 are woody and 250 herbaceous. One species (Prunus nigra Ait.) new to Alberta and range extensions for 12 species are cited. There are no true community endemic species. Recreational and livestock-raising uses are present community modifiers. Fire is not important in current forest dynamics.
41712308|Vegetal composition was determined during 1974 and 1984 using 60 permanent 50 m plots within a mature pinyon-juniper community in northeastern Utah. Results indicated that not only was there little significant change in community composition, but with many species frequency and density remained nearly the same during the decade.
41712746|Three species of Elmidae occur in Death Valley National Monument: Stenelmis calida is in three springs in the Ash Meadows area; Microcylloepus formicoideus is only in Travertine Springs; and Microcylloepus similis is in several springs throughout Death Valley and Ash Meadows. Only permanent springs support elmids. Considerable morphological variation occurs in the disjunct populations of M. similis. The evolution of elmids in Death Valley National Monument is equivalent to that of the local pupfish (Cyprinodon spp.).
41711479|Twenty-seven species of wood-rotting Basidiomycetes are reported to decay junipers in Arizona. A key to the species, descriptions, and line drawings of microscopic characters are provided. Pyrofomes demidoffii, Daealea juniperina, Poria rimosa, and Phellinus texanus cause decay of heartwood in living trees. Hyphoderma deserticola Gilberts, et Linds. is described as new.
41711777|A colony of Columbian ground squirrels in the Idaho Primitive Area was observed from 1976 to 1978. Seven body measurements were recorded for juveniles obtained in 1978. There was a lack of sexual dimorphism among developing juveniles. The hind foot was the fastest developing feature. Juveniles obtain adult size their second year. Juvenile males exhibited the lowest interyear residency of either sex or age group examined.
41711489|Detailed distribution maps of Utah are provided for each of the 33 state species of Zygoptera. Notes on the general range, habitat preference, reproductive behavior, emergence data, and general biology of each species are also included.
41711662|Galls induced by tephritid flies (Diptera: Tephritidae) on Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. albicaulis, consimilis, graveolens, and salicifolius are useful in taxonomic identification of these subspecies in Utah. In this study, "callus" galls were found almost exclusively on ssp. albicaulis. "Cotton" galls were more frequent on ssp. consimilis and graveolens. "Mace" galls occurred on all four subspecies but were the only gall found on naturally occurring populations of ssp. salicifolius. Gall form specificity is not as well correlated with C. nauseosus subspecies in peripheral areas of the species range as in Utah. This decrease in specificity may be due to decreased competition for the host plant in outlying areas.
41712050|Blue Lake Warm Spring in Tooele County, Utah, contains a rich diatom flora with a significant number of taxa that are unusual in this region. We have identified a total of 136 taxa in our samples from this locality, several of which are new records for Utah and North America.
41716156|The distribution and breeding habitats of the Great Basin spadefoot toad (Scaphiopus intermontanus) were investigated in the Bonneville Basin of western Utah. The permanent springs and man-made reservoirs used for breeding were largely found below the 1600 m elevation. The pH's ranged between 7.2 and 10.4 and the total dissolved solids between 170 and 4800 mg/1. The springs were less alkaline than the rain-filled reservoirs. The lack of aquatic vegetation was a common feature of the reservoirs and most of the springs. Observations of breeding without rain are noted as well as the lack of breeding with rain. The snout-vent lengths of adult spadefoots are greater in the Bonneville Basin than in other parts of the Great Basin. Utilization of permanent water sources and stimuli for emergence and breeding, as well as the larger adult size of S. intermontanus in the Bonneville Basin, are discussed in relation to the diverse precipitation patterns, the sparseness of the water sources, and the Holocene history of the Great Basin.
41711520|The composition of four radiocarbon-dated, late Pleistocene woodrat middens is reported and analyzed. A date of 11,850 550 BP records the first reported macrofossil occurrence in this region of late Pleistocene Pinus monophylla-Juniperus osteosperma woodlands. A 7,800 350 BP date documents the most recent J. osteosperma woodlands in this presently coniferless desert area, while a date of 12,100 400 BP is the oldest record of juniper woodlands among the four middens. Other juniper and creosote bush desert flora radiocarbon dates along with six pollen profiles were obtained. The research suggests that as recently as 7,800 BP this part of the Mohave Desert was subject to a cooler, moister climate than at present, and that the aboriginal food resources of pinyon seeds and juniper berries were probably available to early prehistoric man in this area.
41712479|We report observations of the white-tailed prairie dog, Cynomys leucurus Merriam, digging and burrowing into mounds of the western harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex ocddentalis (Cresson), in Emery County, Utah.
41712766|We studied habitat selection patterns of Merriam's Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) hens with poults in a ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) ecosystem. Thirty-six radio-marked hens produced 19 broods, and we obtained 230 locations of hens with poults. We described vegetation of habitats using criteria from the Rocky Mountain Region, U.S. Forest Service, for determining effects of forest management and monitoring of wildlife populations. Most habitat units were 4-32 ha and corresponded to third-order habitats as described by Johnson (1980). Hens with poults selected large meadows and rarely selected dense ponderosa pine habitats. Younger poults used meadows more frequently than did older poults. Implementation of the Black Hills National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan in ponderosa pine habitats will not negatively impact hens with poults. Grazing by livestock reduces herbaceous biomass necessary for invertebrate food items of poults and cover for poults. Habitat selection patterns of hens with poults should be evaluated by age categories of poults.
41711726|A bite by Chiracanthium mildei L. Koch is described.
41712544|Zooplankton in meromictic Big Soda Lake, Nevada, were sampled in October 1982 to determine species composition and vertical distribution relative to the oxycline. Moina hutchinsoni was most abundant in the epilimnion, but prior to migrating into the anoxic hypolimnion, it aggregated at the oxycline. Brachionus plicatilis was most abundant below the oxycline. Concentrations of Brachionus and Moina near the oxycline corresponded with peaks in bacterial productivity found by previous investigators. However, further investigation should be conducted to verify feeding by Zooplankton primarily in the anoxic hypolimnion.
41711971|Six accounts of pronghorn antelope (Antifocapra americana) chasing or attacking coyotes (Canis latrans) are described: three chases by individual pronghorn does, two by herds of antelope, and one joint effort by a pronghorn doe and a Short-eared Owl (Asia flammeus). Modifications of Berger's (1979) ungulate antipredatory defense model are proposed.
41711465|Diploplectron brunneipes (Cresson) makes a shallow nest in compact clay-sand containing at least two cells. It is provisioned with immature Heteroptera. The larva resembles that of Astata in a general way but differs in several particulars.
41712099|Two recirculating aquaculture systems were constructed using a sequence of five tanks each. Each system contained two plant species, duckweed (Lemna minor) and chinese water chestnut (Eleocharis dulcis); two fish species, channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) and tilapia (Tilapia aurea); and a freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium rosenbergii). Duckweed production during the 132-day experiment reached as high as 87.2 tons/hectare/year (t/ha/yr). Water chestnut production was not successful in the restricted light situation of the lab, but in an outdoor test planting, corn production was 37.2 t/ha/yr. Four feeding trials were attempted using the following percent of fish body weight: 2.5% commercial feed; 5% wet duckweed; 15% wet duckweed; and 15% wet duckweed with 1% commercial feed. Feed to flesh conversion ratios averaged 1.97:1 for the three control tanks and 1.44: 1 overall for the treatment tank. The fish-fed duckweed and commercial feed grew as well or better than those fed commercial food alone.
41712963|The gastrointestinal tracts, lungs, and urinary bladders from 77 Bufo microscaphus, 61 Bufo woodhousii, and 8 of their hybrids were examined for helminths. One species of trematode (Glypthelmins quieta), 1 species of cestode (Distoichometra bufonis), and 5 species of nematodes (Aplectana incerta, A. itzocanensis, Rhabdias americanus, Physaloptera sp., and Physocephalus sp.) were found. The greatest prevalence (41%) and mean intensity (231.7) were recorded for Aplectana incerta in Bufo woodhousii. It appears hybrids harbor fewer parasites than either parent species.
41712881|A common submersed aquatic plant of Great Basin wetland and riverine systems, Potamogeton pectinatus L. (sago pondweed) is a key waterfowl food. Nutritional qualities of submersed aquatics in the Great Basin are little understood. The purpose of this study was to determine the seasonal element cycling and nutritional qualities of P. pectinatus drupelet, leaf, and root tissues from the lower Provo River. Leaf tissue protein was 27% (dry weight) in July, but declined to 15% by December. Drupelet protein content was 9% in July and 6.5% in October. Lignocellulose in leaf tissue was lowest in July at 34% and increased as the season progressed. Percent fat was highest in leaf tissue at 12% in July. Sugars were highest in P. pectinatus leaf tissues in December and July. Calcium and magnesium concentrations increased in P. pectinatus tissues over the entire season. Leaf tissue zinc was 329 ppm (dry weight) in October. Leaf iron concentration was highest in September at 1184 ppm, while root tissue iron was 7166 ppm. Manganese content in leaf tissue peaked in October at 4990 ppm. Copper concentrations in leaves and roots were variable. High protein in leaf tissue would benefit local nesting and brooding waterfowl populations that feed on this aquatic. Trace metal concentrations in leaf and root tissues, from possible anthropogenic activities, appear very high during fall migratory months. Metal bioaccumulation by this species in other Great Basin wetlands and possible metal toxicity in waterfowl warrant further study.
41712189|The impacts of adjacent landscaping activity and livestock presence on the brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) population of a small Black Hills stream were evaluated. Moderate changes in temperature, turbidity, and fecal coliform numbers did not influence brook trout densities. Stream morphometry, particularly factors affecting stream cover, appeared to have the greatest impact on numbers of trout. Brook trout were poor indicators of moderate changes in water quality, but they were adequate indicators of the physical perturbations within the stream.
41712240|A new species, Mentzelia (Section Bartonia) shultziorum , of the Loasaceae (Mentzelioideae) is described. A close relationship with M. multicaulis (Osterh.) Darl. and M. argillosa Darl. is suggested based on the morphology of the flowers, leaves, and seeds.
41711408|Germination studies of the pollen grains of a Scrophulariaceae plant, Torenia asiatica Linn. have revealed that the maximum percentage of germination and longer tubes were attained in 15 percent sucrose solution. Among the chemicals tried, calcium and boron enhanced germination. Less germination occurred among grains treated with potassium or magnesium salts. Abnormalities such as branched tubes with or without vesicles were found in chemically treated pollen grains.
41712388|This second report on the reptiles of Chihuahua deals with the lizards and turtles of western Chihuahua. Field work was done from 1956 to 1972 and was confined to the area west of Highway 45. General information pertaining to the ecology and geology reported in the section on snakes is not repeated. Ecological and life history information is included in the species accounts where data are available. In western Chihuahua 16 genera and 49 species and subspecies of lizards and 3 genera and 5 species of turtles are reported. Only one subspecies is described as new (Sceloporus poinsettii robisoni), and added data strengthen the diagnosis of others. Three genera (Sceloporus, Cnemidophorus, and Eumeces) contain 28 of the species and subspecies reported.
41712081|The spittlebug, Aphrophora canadensis Walley (Homoptera: Cercopidae), was discovered at Moscow, Idaho, in 1979 infesting Pinus mugo Turra, an exotic ornamental pine. Masses of spittle, densely populated with nymphs, have continued to be abundant since then. The nymphs congregated and fed mainly on cones and did not cause visible reddening of foliage that is typical of other pine-infesting spittlebugs. Immature stages and behavior are described for the first time and are compared to other nearctic pine-infesting species. Beginning in mid-August, eggs were laid under fascicle sheaths at the bases of needles, where they overwintered. Nymphs appeared in late April and began transforming to adults in mid-July. Mating occurred from early August to late September. Adults lingered in diminishing numbers until mid-October.
41712922|Consumption of diffuse knapweed (Centaurea diffusa Lam.) by 2 polyphagous grasshopper species, Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.) and Oedaleonotus enigma (Scudder), was studied using microhistological analysis of grasshopper crop contents. Grasshoppers were confined to cages containing C. diffusa and Sisymbrium altissimum L., a member of the mustard family known to be readily eaten by these 2 grasshopper species. Preference indices for knapweed were lower than for S. altissimum in 4 of 5 trials. An uncaged population of M. sanguinipes on a knapweed-infested site consumed only small amounts of knapweed until late summer when most other plants were senescent. Results suggest that diffuse knapweed's low palatability to generalist herbivores may confer to it a competitive advantage over other rangeland plants.
41711949|Utah prairie dogs were transplanted onto the site of a former colony, located in Capitol Reef National Park, Utah. Shrubs on the site were significantly taller than those found on active colonies in similar habitat located on the Awapa Plateau. Therefore, the transplant site afforded a test of the hypothesis that shrub height is a major inhibitory factor affecting occupation of sites by prairie dogs. Four sites of 5 ha each were used. Vegetation treatmentsrotobeating, railing, and 2,4-D herbicidewere carried out on three of the sites and the fourth was used as a control. Shrub height and percent cover were significantly reduced on all three treatment sites. Posttreatment effects on the vegetation showed that the greatest percent moisture of the herbage was found on the railed site, followed by the herbicide, rotobeaten, and control sites. Measurements of the visual obstructions to prairie dogs showed that the rotobeaten site had the greatest visibility, followed by the railed, herbicide, and control sites. Prior to release of prairie dogs on the study area, 200 artificial burrows per treatment were dug, using a power auger. In early summer, 1979, 200 Utah prairie dogs were live-trapped near Loa, Utah. An equal number by sex and age class were released on each treatment. In 1979 a significantly higher number of animals reestablished on the rotobeaten site. In 1980 and 1981 the rotobeaten and railed sites had significantly higher prairie dog numbers than the other sites. Reproduction occurred on both the rotobeaten and railed sites in 1980 and 1981. Results indicated that, when transplanting animals onto sites of former colonies presently overgrown with shrubs, the chances of a successful transplant could be increased by first reducing shrub height and density.
41712212|The effect of excluding shredders on leaf processing rates was studied in a Rocky Mountain stream in Utah and a cold desert stream in Washington. Experimentally excluding shredders significantly decreased the processing rate in both streams. Processing rates (k) were higher in the desert stream, and it is postulated that this is related to increased microbial activity due to the higher water temperatures.
41712266|A Trumpeter Swan (Cygnus buccinator) is reported from Pleistocene deposits in Utah.
41711840|Pyramid Lake fish populations were sampled with nets on a monthly basis from November 1975 through December 1977. Fish species were taken in the following order of numerical relative abundance: tui chub (Gila bicolor), Tahoe sucker (Catostomus tahoensis), Lahontan cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki henshawi) including cutthroat-rainbow hybrids, cui-ui (Chasmistes cujus), and Sacramento perch (Archoplites interruptus). Relative abundance estimates are discussed with respect to seasonal availability, spatial distribution of the fish, sampling bias of the fishing methods, and biomass of the fish. Recent temporal trends in the population structure of the lake are presented.
41713076|Males of Cavernocypris subterranea were found for the first time in an Idaho spring. The bisexual form is described based on soft body parts and valves. The genus Cavernocypris now includes 2 bisexual and 1 parthenogenetic species.
41711588|Two species of ticks were collected from mule deer and identified as Dermacentor albipictus (Packard) and Ixodes sp. The rate of occurrence of these ticks was found to be 99.6 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively. The infestation rate increased from 18.2 percent in January, to 87.5 percent in February, to 100.0 percent in March.
41712322|The butterflies of the Great Basin exhibit general patterns of distribution and speciation similar to those found for other taxa, particularly birds. Two major centers of infraspecific differentiation and coinciding distribution limits of taxa are identified, each with three subregions. Great Basin butterflies are characterized by pallidity and substantial endemism below the species level.
41713019|Pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) were counted at wastewater ponds at the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL) in southeastern Idaho 4 to 8 times per month from August 1989 through July 1991. Mule deer used wastewater ponds (n = 15) from June through December and were most commonly observed August through November. Pronghorn frequented wastewater ponds from May through November and were most common from July through September, the driest and warmest months; ponds were also used heavily in November 1990. Diel activity was studied from July through October. Mule deer use of ponds varied in relation to 8 diel time periods in August (P = 0.02) and September (P = 0.01) while pronghorn use varied by time period (P < 0.01) in all 4 months. Mule deer were more active at ponds during nocturnal than diurnal counts from July through September (P < 0.01). Pronghorn diurnal activity exceeded nocturnal activity (P < 0.01) August through October. Mule deer and pronghorn use of ponds was not related to distance from site facilities (groups of buildings used for research and other purposes). Pronghorn made greater use of individual ponds lacking additional nearby watering sites, and both pronghorn and mule deer were attracted to ponds with grass/forb and shrub cover around the upland periphery.
41712659|An established population of a neotropical cichlid fish, Cichlasoma managuense, was found in a spring pool in the Virgin River basin, Utah. Presence of this predatory species poses an additional threat to the native fish fauna of the Virgin River, which already has suffered multiple impacts of water development and introduced fishes.
41712125|Presented is a current evaluation of the status and distribution of Utah's rare plant species, including those officially listed as endangered or threatened, those under review for listing, those recommended by the Utah Native Plant Society, and those which recently have been removed from consideration. Taxa are discussed alphabetically. Information on status, distribution, habitat, elevation, and specimens deposited at Brigham Young University are included in the discussion of each species. Maps showing the state distribution of each listed or candidate plant are also provided. New combinations include Dalea flavescens (Wats.) Welsh var. epica (Welsh) Welsh & Chatterley and Schoenerambe suffrutescens (Rollins) Welsh & Chatterley.
41713101|Emergents of Pteronarcys californica, Calineuria californica, and Hesperoperla pacifica were captured with replicated emergence traps at 3 sites along the banks of Rock Creek, Montana. Pteronarcys emergence in early June was short (88% of individuals in 6 d) and attained rates of 5 m d (shoreline distance) and cumulative densities up to 19 m yr. Calineuria emerged synchronously (89% in 9 d) 2 wk later at densities up to 7 m d and 40 m yr. The less numerous Hesperoperla (5 individual m yr) had a longer emergence period partially coinciding with Calineuria. Median males of Pteronarcys and Calineuria emerged 23 d before median females; protandry was not significant in Hesperoperla. Sex ratios were female-biased in Pteronarcys and Hesperoperla but male-biased in Calineuria. Size trends through emergence were very weak although females showed a greater tendency toward larger size early in emergence.
41712796|Small mammal populations inhabiting radioactive waste disposal areas could be important vectors of contaminant redistribution, given sufficiently high numbers. Earlier studies conducted at the Subsurface Disposal Area (SDA) in southeastern Idaho found small mammal densities equaling or exceeding densities in native habitat. Our livetrapping study was conducted in 1988 and 1989 to assess the role of edge habitat (where SDA crested wheatgrass [Agropyron cristatum] plantings and native sagebrush habitat are separated by an earthen dike) in facilitating use of this highly modified site by small mammals. Small mammals had a significantly greater density in SDA edge habitat than in the interior. Total density of small mammals on and immediately around the SDA appeared to be less variable over time than density in native sagebrush habitat for years when data were available. This phenomenon was largely attributable to steady or increasing SDA population densities of the most common species, Peromyscus maniculatus and Perognathus parvus, during 1988-89, when most small mammal species had below-average densities in surrounding areas. The variety of foraging options in edge habitat may have allowed these relatively opportunistic species to avoid widespread population declines associated with drought years in 1988-89. Movements by P. maniculatus across the boundary were common, suggesting that this species did indeed utilize both habitat types. Preferences for edge habitat could potentially be used to formulate strategies that reduce use of the waste site by small mammals.
41713062|Forests of the southern Rocky Mountains are punctuated by persistent meadows called parks that are dominated by grasses and forbs. In an attempt to elucidate the maintenance of subalpine parks in the Gunnison Basin, Colorado, soil texture and tree morphology differences along 60-m transects spanning the forest-park ecotone were studied in 6 representative parks. Seedling survivorship, percent seed germination, and soil moisture available to plants were also studied along one of the transects in Willow Park. Soil analyses revealed 40% more silt and significantly less sand and clay in all 6 parks (P < 0.001), which supports the traditional hypothesis that edaphic factors are involved in restricting establishment of trees in parks. In Willow Park moisture available to plants in soils at field capacity varied significantly across the ecotone (P = 0.011), with 54% more water in forest than in park soils. Measures of growth rate obtained from tree height, dbh, and age were significantly higher nearer the ecotone (P < 0.001). The coefficient of variation of annual-ring width was significantly higher in forest than in ecotone trees (P = 0.002). These results suggest that stress of mature Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) is an unlikely explanation of park maintenance. P. engelmannii percent seed germination and seedling survivorship were significantly higher in the forest than in the park (P < 0.001). This may be largely due to the more severe seedling microclimate observed in the park. Results indicate that limited seedling establishment is primarily responsible for maintenance of subalpine parks in the Gunnison Basin.
41712155|The types and type specimens of Nevada species and varieties of Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) are alphabetically listed. Appropriate lectotypes are selected as necessary.
41712143|The spongillafly, Climacia californica Chandler, and its sponge host, Ephydatia mulleri (Lieberkuhn), are reported from the state of Idaho for the first time. Climacia californica has not previously been reported from E. mulleri. Collections were made in the Burley-Twin Falls area, and detailed water quality data are provided for the first time for spongillafly larvae. The water quality data also expand the known tolerance limits of E. mulleri for water temperature, conductivity, pH, hardness, silica, and residue.
41711807|Some relationships between home range, agonistic behavior, and reproductive patterns in thirteen-lined ground squirrels were investigated in Laramie Plains, Wyoming (August 1966-April 1969). Population size and densities fluctuated seasonally and annually. Adult male (N = 7) home ranges averaged 0.24 ha and were smaller than those of the female (N = 9), which averaged 0.35 ha. Agonistic interactions were more frequent during the natal period (late May-June) than during the breeding-gestation period (mid April-May). Most squirrels (86 percent) shared capture sites and had overlapping home ranges. However, a certain degree of spacing existed because of agonistic behavior.
41711776|The flea Anomiopsyllus amphibolus is reported from southeastern Oregon, a range extension of about 475 km from the nearest reported localities in northwestern Utah.
41711424|The following species are described as new to science: Corthylus nolenae, C. spinosus (Mexico), C. diligens (Guatemala), C. minimus (Honduras), C. granulifer, C. retusus, C. retusifer, C. oculatus, C. calamarius, C. cannularius, C. simplex, C. comosus, C. brunneus, C. calmicolens, C. zelus, C. trucis, C. pygamaeus, C. sobrinus, C. subserratus (Costa Rica), C. pumilus (Panama), C. donaticus, C. additus, C. cirritus (Venezuela), C. insignis, (Colombia), C. consimilis (Mexico and Guatemala), C. concisus (Mexico, Costa Rica, and Panama), C. sentus (Guatemala and Costa Rica), C. villifer, C. strigilis, C. trunculus, C. serratus (Costa Rica and Panama). A lectotype is designated for C. compressicornis (Fabricius).
41711955|Ring-necked pheasant behavior and habitat preferences were studied during late February along benches of the Wasatch Mountains in central Utah. Seven behavioral categories were used to classify pheasant activities during three time periods of the day. Eating, alert, and movement behavior were the most frequent activities during all periods of the day. Significant differences (p<.01) were found between morning and midday behavior and between midday and evening behavior. Pheasants fed in open areas during morning hours then retreated into heavy cover during midday periods. The birds remained in heavy cover until late afternoon. Pheasants then moved away from heavy cover into semiopen areas to feed as evening approached.
41712823|Owens Valley, California, was markedly different during the Wisconsin glacial stage from what it is today. Alpine glaciers bounded the Sierra Nevada, and pluvial Owens Lake reached highstands and overflowed its natural basin. We analyzed three layers from two packrat middens, dated to ca 23,000-14,500 yr BP, obtained from Haystack Mountain (1155 m) only 10 m above and < 100 m from the highstand strandline of pluvial Owens Lake. During this period vegetation near Owens Lake reflects the influence of the Tioga glacial advance and retreat on lake levels, and microclimatic effects on shoreline vegetation. Between ca 23,000 and 17,500 yr BP a Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) and single-needle pinyon pine (Pinus monophyllla) woodland existed at the site. In the layers dated to ca 17,500 and 16,000 yr BP, macrofossils document the presence of Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum), a species that no longer occurs in California. It is suggested that meltwater from the retreating glacial ice inundated the Owens River Lake chain causing pluvial Owens Lake to reach its highstand. This caused an increase in effective moisture, due to high groundwater, allowing the mesophytic Rocky Mountain juniper to exist at the site.
41712488|Cover and species richness of vascular and cryptogamic components of the plant community were inventoried in experimental grazing paddocks at the USDA/FS Desert Range Experimental Station, Millard County, Utah. The grazing treatments considered have been applied continuously for over 50 years. The effects of heavy (ca 17 sheep days/acre) grazing treatment applied in two different seasons (early winter versus a split between early and late winter) differed significantly between seasons. Cryptogamic cover and cryptogamic species richness both showed larger decreases under early-late as opposed to early winter only grazing. Vascular plant cover (relative to controls) was also reduced by early-late winter grazing, but not to a significant degree. Late season grazing, likewise, had no significant effect on number of vascular species per transect.
41712073|A checklist of vascular plants of the Canyon and Church mountains, Juab and Millard counties, Utah, is provided. Frequency, distribution, and flowering time of taxa within the study area are indicated. Collection numbers of voucher specimens are listed. Physiography, climate, and plant communities of the area are briefly described.
41712559|Burrow diameters of five small mammal species, Townsend's ground squirrel (Spermophilus townsendii), Wyoming ground squirrel (S. elegans), Ord's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii), montane vole (Microtus montanus), and deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus), were examined. Burrow cross sections were noncircular for all species with horizontal diameters 1.21.6 times wider than vertical diameters. Montane vole and deer mouse burrows were the smallest diameter, burrows of Wyoming and Townsend's ground squirrels were the largest, and kangaroo rat burrows were intermediate. Soil bulk density and texture significantly affected burrow diameters of montane voles and deer mice but not the other three species.
41712672|During summer pikas do not store fat for the winter months; hay piles are the main energy source in winter. All the hay piles collected in an area where pikas (Ochotona princeps) coexisted with marmots (Marmota flaviventris) contained marmot scats. Marmot scats had a higher energy density than the most abundant type of vegetation in hay piles. In feeding trials pikas on a diet of hay pile vegetation plus marmot scats consumed significantly less food per day than they did on a diet of hay pile vegetation alone. These findings suggest that pikas coexisting with marmots use marmot scats to supplement the energy contained in the vegetational component of hay piles.
41711550|A detailed study of the anterior osteology and myology of Callisaurus, Cophosaurus, Holbrookia, and Uma reveals the phylogenetic relationships among the sand lizards. An SPSS discriminant analysis of osteological characters combined with myological characters indicates that Callisaurus is most primitive, Cophosaurus and Holbrookia are most closely related, and Uma is the most distinct of the sand lizard genera. Because of close relationships between Cophosaurus and Holbrookia, it is postulated that earlessness evolved once, and Cophosaurus is returned to synonymy under Holbrookia.
41712538|The presence of cattle at Brownie Spring and Ash Springs in Pahranagat Valley, Nevada, impacted fish populations by causing an increase in ammonia (NH) and nitrite (NO) levels, an increase in Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aeromonas hydrophila, and increased mortality and morbidity. One of the affected fishes, the White River springfish, is listed as endangered by the Department of the Interior. After removal of the cattle from Ash Springs, NH and NO levels decreased and fish populations increased. At Brownie Spring the NH and NO levels are chronically elevated, cattle are still present, and the speckled dace population has not recovered.
41712913|We studied the foraging biology of recently fledged California Gulls (Larus californicus) at Mono Lake during August-September 1991. We made behavioral observations to collect information on the relative proportions of different prey types in the diet of these birds and took plankton tows to determine the relative abundance of each prey in the water column. These data show that alkali flies (Ephydra hians) were the primary constituent of the diet and that they were eaten at a much higher rate than one would expect based on their abundance. We also determined the number of feeding attempts and successful captures made during each behavioral observation. From these, we calculated the birds' feeding efficiencies on emergent adult alkali flies and on all other prey types combined. We found that foraging efficiencies on emergent flies were very high and significantly greater than those obtained on other prey types. These results suggest that flies were actively sought in preference to the alternative prey type, brine shrimp (Artemia monica), presumably because they are easier to capture and of greater nutritional value.
41713097|During July to September 19941996, I examined water temperatures at the lower end of the elevational distribution of redband trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss gairdneri) in 4 streams in the Owyhee Mountains in southwestern Idaho. Maximum water temperatures in Castle, Shoofly, Little Jacks, and Big Jacks creeks during low flows during a drought in 1994 ranged from 26.7C to 29.0C. Water temperatures fluctuated 9.511C during the 24-h period maximum temperatures were observed. Stream flows at the lower end of Big Jacks and Little Jacks creeks in 1994 were <0.003 m s and subsided underground 50130 m downstream of pools inhabited by trout. Trout were distributed to lower elevations where drainage basin area was larger in 2 of 3 yr (P < 0.03). Lower elevational limits of redband trout distribution in Big Jacks, Little Jacks, Castle, and Shoofly creeks were 920, 934, 972, and 1090 m above sea level, respectively, in 1994. With higher stream flows in 199596, trout were found 36 km farther downstream in Castle, Big Jacks, and Shoofly creeks at elevations of 860, 891, and 998 m, respectively, and tolerated maximum temperatures of 25.529.0C. Trout were not distributed farther down Little Jacks Creek because of poor channel conditions. Maximum daily water temperatures of 29.0C may have limited trout distribution in Big Jacks Creek, as flows and suitable channel conditions (but higher temperatures) continued >5 km downstream of the lowest pool inhabited by trout in 199596.
41711736|The swarming and mating of harvester ants was observed in Utah in July 1979. Workers groom the alate forms outside the mound before swarming occurs and are highly aggressive in protecting them. Mating pairs apparently are not disturbed by other ants. Fertile females likely use moving vehicles that extend their dispersal.
41712002|In two areas of hydrothermally altered rocks in the Great Basin, the native vegetation differs in composition and areal cover from unaltered to altered sites on the same geologic formations. Analysis suggests that physical rather than chemical factors may be the cause of the vegetation differences, especially permeability of bedrock, depth and texture of soils, and, possibly, amounts and types of clay minerals present. These characteristics influence the ability of soils to absorb and retain water. In the East Tintic Mountains, Utah, the soils from argillized or mixed argillized and silicified parent materials have more characteristics associated with dryness and support sparser vegetation and more species especially adapted to dry conditions than do soils from unaltered or silicified parent materials. In Battle Mountain, Nevada, unaltered areas have greater vegetation cover and have soil depth and texture that are more favorable for plants than do altered areas. Soil pH is higher in altered areas than in unaltered areas.
41711483|White fir (Abies concolor) appears to be invading vegetation dominated by big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) on the southeastern slopes of the Warner Mountains of extreme northeastern California. The time of initial tree establishment within the shrubs was determined by increment borings. Possible causes of the invasion involving specific climatic conditions, fire history, and grazing use of the area during years of the establishment were explored. Heavy grazing by domestic livestock, particularly sheep, appears responsible for altering the sagebrush-grass vegetation and allowing tree invasion.
41712079|Cottus greenei, a potentially threatened species endemic to Idaho, was collected from 49 localities in 25 springs/streams in south central Idaho. Most localities were along the north bank of the Snake River in waters of the Thousand Springs formation, Gooding County. One population was found in a spring in the main Snake River. Another sculpin, Cottus bairdi, was collected with C. greenei at 23 locations in 16 springs/streams. Confusion concerning the type locality of Cottus greenei is discussed.
41713095|The purpose of this study was to observe the dynamics of a meta-population of Mimulus guttatus. Changes in size and location of 16 original populations and the new populations established in their vicinities in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Salt Lake County, Utah, were observed for 25 yr. Twenty-three new populations appeared. Seven original populations and 13 new populations had become extinct by the end of the observation period in 1996. Many populations died out and were reestablished, often repeatedly, during the observation period. Altogether there were 54 population disappearances and 34 reappearances. Many populations changed size as much as 100-fold or more from year to year. There were spectacular examples of populations expanding to fill newly available, large habitats. Frequent extinctions were due overwhelmingly to the canyon drying trend, which led to the drying up of most Mill D North drainage springs, creeks, and ponds. Precipitation and minimum temperatures increased moderately during the observation period. The growing season lengthened almost 50%, a typical consequence of global warming. The drying trend, lengthened growing season, and disappearance of Mimulus populations in Big Cottonwood Canyon appear to be a clear, local example of global warming.
41712310|Helminth parasites of the Wyoming ground squirrel, Spermophilus elegans Kennicott, 1863, were surveyed from two environmentally different habitats within Wyoming. A total of four helminth species were identified. Three helminth species were found in 419 hosts collected in a mesic habitat including one species of adult cestode, Hymenolepis citelli, and two species of nematodes, Citellinema bifurcatum and Syphacia citelli. Only larval cestodes (Taenia taxidiensis) were found infecting 335 Wyoming ground squirrels collected from a xeric habitat.
41711785|Prior to 1960, when the senior author wrote a dissertation on the plant ecology of the Paunsaugunt Plateau forests of Bryce Canyon National Park, relatively little plant taxonomic work had been done in the area. A checklist was prepared in 1971 that included 218 species of higher plants. During the field seasons 1978, 1979, and 1980, additional plants were collected during a second plant community study of the forests. The junior author spent the summer of 1980 at the park collecting plants in additional plant communities and organizing the herbarium collection. This checklist includes the additional species collected and updates the nomenclature of the vascular plants presently known to occur within the boundaries of Bryce Canyon National Park.
41713135|Forty-two white-tailed deer fawns (Odocoihus virginianus dakotensis) were captured and fitted with radio transmitters and observed from June through September 1991 and 1992 to determine diurnal bed site use in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Fawns were monitored biweekly during daylight hours and 259 bed sites were located. In addition, 301 random sites were measured for comparison. Of 31 habitat variables measured, 8 were significant to determine use by fawns for a bed site when compared with random sites. Sites used by fawns were in relatively open stands of ponderosa pine (Pinns ponderosa) with mean basal area of approximately 11 m/ha compared to 16 m/ha in random sites. Fawn bed sites had greater mean vegetation cover, which ranged from 28.1% to 36.0%, compared with 19.9% and 33.8% at random sites in 1991 and 1992, respectively. Mean vegetation height was 101 cm at bed sites compared to 75 cm at random sites. Current timber harvest standards for stocking levels of pine range from 14 m/ha to 18 m/ha in the Black Hills, which are similar to our random sites. These levels preclude adequate development of understory characteristics used by white-tailed deer fawns for bed sites.
41711745|A site in the Rocky Mountain subalpine forest zone with which a series of hypotheses concerning ecosystem succession was tested is characterized. Succession from herb-dominated meadows to climax forests of Engelmann spruce and subalpine fir can follow at least four identified pathways. After fire, spruce and fir may reinvade a site directly, follow invasion by aspen, or follow invasion by lodgepole pine, the pathway depending on a combination of physical and biotic factors. In other cases, succession begins with long-established meadows which do not owe their existence to fire. In this latter pathway, aspen invades meadows by suckering and changes the environment near the soil surface so as to facilitate establishment of the climax tree species. The biota and soils of four characteristic serai stages (meadow, aspen, fir, spruce-fir) in this latter pathway are described.
41712432|Eight study sites were examined in Strawberry Valley, Utah, to assess the response of aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) to cutting activities of beaver (Castor canadensis Warren & Hall) and to determine patterns by which the animals utilize aspen stands. Sites utilized by beaver, along with adjacent control plots in mature, uncut aspen stands, were sampled. Age-class profiles of control plots were composed of a broad age distribution with trees ranging from 3 to 108 years old. Age-class profiles for aspen sprouts in areas previously used by beavers were composed of trees averaging seven years of age with a range of 1 to 24 years. Age distribution of sprouts in areas used by beaver show a tendency to be skewed toward younger age classes. Average density of aspen in areas used by beaver was 15,800 stems per hectare compared to 2,980 stems per hectare in controls. Stump densities in use areas ranged from 900 to 5,066 stems per hectare. Densities of stumps in the 05-cm size class were greater in areas used by beavers than in the corresponding size class in the mature forests. A regression equation describing age versus diameter relationships was calculated using data from 312 aspen trees. Total phenolics and mineral nutrients in the twigs and bark of mature aspen trees and aspen sprouts were also examined to determine if variations could explain foraging patterns of beaver in the valley. Total phenolics were highly variable between sampling groups, and differences were not significant. Twigs from mature aspen and aspen sprouts were significantly higher in nitrogen, phosphorus, and iron. Zinc was significantly higher in the bark of mature aspen trees and twigs of aspen sprouts. Calcium concentrations were significantly higher in mature aspen bark, and magnesium was significantly higher in mature aspen twigs.
41716161|New information on the ectoparasitic mites of the following species of mammals from Oregon is presented: (1) pikaOchotona; (2) squirrelsEutamias, Spermophilus, Tamiasciurus; (3) grasshopper mouseOnychomys; (4) woodratsNeotoma; (5) muskratOndatra; (6) jumping miceZapus; and (7) weaselsMustela, Spilogale. New records of species for the state and new host records are also given. Finally, a cross-referenced list of all known mites of wild mammals from Oregon is presented.
41712394|The fluctuating characteristics (numbers, biomass, condition, and young-adult ratios) of the Lahontan (Humboldt) cutthroat trout population in Chimney Creek, Nevada, are discussed in relationship to the unpredictable and unstable habitat in which the population occurs. One possible means of adapting to environmental capriciousness, staggered spawning, occurred during 1982, and clues as to the cause of this unusual event are sought by examining the runoff hydrographs of a nearby watershed for 1981 through 1984. The management values of the environmental tolerance of these native trout with respect to restoring viable trout fisheries in degraded Great Basin streams are also considered.
41711961|Recent distribution maps show raccoon as occupying only the extreme eastern-northeastern portion of Wyoming. However, there is substantial evidence that raccoon are common throughout Wyoming and currently inhabit all the major and many of the minor drainages throughout Wyoming.
41712772|Descriptions of Lesser Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus pattidicinctus) foods in New Mexico have not included comparison between autumn and winter seasons. We analyzed and compared prairie-chicken crop contents in autumn 1976 (n = 9) and 1977 (n = 17) and winter 1977 (n = 4) and 1978 (n = 2) in a shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) grassland in southeastern New Mexico. Autumn foods were a mixture of seeds (x = 43%), vegetative material ($\bar x$ = 39%), and insects (x = 18%), especially shinnery oak acorns and insect galls (x = 49%). Short-horned grasshoppers (Acrididae, x = 15%) also were an important food. Winter foods were shinnery oak acorns (x = 69%) and wild buckwheat (Eriogonum annuum, x = 14%). Use of vegetative material and insects decreased from autumn to winter, whereas use of acorns increased. High Plains Bluestem Subtype in the Southern Mixed Prairie is an important habitat that provides many of the foods eaten by prairie-chickens. Therefore, broad-scale disturbances of this community should be avoided.
41712001|Pine boxes nailed to trees in four habitat types in southeastern Utah as roosting sites for bats proved ineffective for bats but were utilized by house wrens in all but one habitat. Boxes were most often utilized in the aspen habitat. Hypotheses to account for differential utilization are presented.
41712972|Dispersal characteristics were measured for a population of yucca weevils (Scyphophorus yuccae) in a plot consisting of flowering and nonflowering Yucca whipplei. We compared weevil dispersal to yucca distribution, phenology, and caudex temperature. We also compared weevil movement to wind patterns and time of day. Captured weevils were marked and released into both flowering and nonflowering home plants in the field. Distance traveled, weevil flight direction, and target plant characteristics were recorded. We found that yucca weevils moved only between 1600 h on the release day and 0600 h of the following day. We recorded movement from both nonflowering and old flowering (> 1/2 stalk had reached anthesis) yuccas to new flowering (> 1/2 stalk pre-anthesis) yuccas. The pattern of weevil movement did not match the pattern of flowering yuccas in the field. Yucca weevils moved a mean distance of 33  8 m. Caudex temperature appeared to be important for maintaining a population of weevils on a plant. Wind direction was the best predictor of weevil dispersal direction. Weevils consistently moved into the wind, suggesting that they are active fliers. Dispersal characteristics of the yucca weevil have implications for the evolution of the semelparous flowering strategy of Y. whipplei and S. yuccae life history.
41711404|Numerical statistical methods were used to analyze the species in the genus Sceloporus using cranial osteology, external meristic and numeric characters, karyology, display behavior, and geographic distribution. A new classification for the genus is proposed with three major branches or groups. Group I contains 7 species in 3 species groups. Group II contains approximately 19 species in 5 species groups. Group III contains approximately 32 species in 5 species groups. This classification is supported by the cluster analysis of several different sets of data. Cranial osteology, zoogeography, behavior, and karyology are shown to be taxonomically significant as numeric characters. Stepwise discriminate analysis shows that this classification of the species of Sceloporus into 3 major groups and 13 species groups is significant at the .999 confidence level: It is concluded that the 3 major groups should be given taxonomic recognition.
41712695|Penstemon palmeri is a short-lived perennial herb colonizing disturbed sites in semiarid habitats in the western USA. In this study seed was harvested from six native and four seeded populations during two consecutive years. In laboratory germination trials at constant 15 C, considerable between-lot variation in primary dormancy and light requirement was observed. Four weeks of moist chilling (1 C) induced secondary dormancy at 15 C. Cold-induced secondary dormancy was reversed by one week of dark incubation at 30 C. This warm incubation treatment also reduced the light requirement of unchilled, after-ripened seed. Fluctuations in dormancy and light requirement of buried seeds have been linked to seasonal changes in soil temperature. Penstemon palmeri germination responses to temperature appear to be similar to those of facultative winter annuals.
41712317|An isolated stand of ponderosa pine (Finns ponderosa) is surviving on an extremely harsh site in southeastern Oregon. Seed production is low because of insects, primarily pine coneworm (Dioryctria auranticella), feeding in developing cones. Seedling establishment is infrequent and difficult because of drought and coarse, rocky soils. A rock-mulch soil surface probably reduces interspecific competition. Because stand size is small (< 2 ha, 57 individuals in 1977) and genetic variability is therefore limited, individual differences in diameter growth are probably due to microsite differences. Mycorrhizae, which could aid tree survival, were absent from a small sample of surface roots. Although the stand was enlarging in 1977, the site is sufficiently severe that local extinction is a possibility.
41711331|The Rhizopalmoxylon (petrified palm roots) species from the hills west of Redmond, Utah, were originally reported as from the Jurassic Arapien Shale. However, the Utah State Geologic Map upon which this was largely based is erroneous, and the strata containing the palm roots are in the Tertiary Dipping Vat Formation, rather than in the Jurassic Arapien Shale. From the palm roots previously reported, three new species have been identified: Rhizopalmoxylon behuninii, R. blackii, and R. scottii. Specimens of the new species, Palmoxylon gustavesonii, were collected from the Dipping Vat Formation east and south of Redmond. This formation unconformably overlies the Arapien Shale in the vicinity of the previously reported Jurassic palms. At the present time, the palm axes reported from the Arapien Shale cannot be conclusively demonstrated to have come from the Dipping Vat Formation. However, the presence of another species of petrified palm in the Dipping Vat Formation is sufficient to cast doubt on their existence in the Arapien Shale.
41711841|Native fishes in Aravaipa Creek, Arizona, cropped foods proportional to abundance of those foods within the system. Ephemeropteran nymphs and adults comprised the major prey of 5 of 7 fishes (Gila robusta, Medafulgida, Rhinichthys osculus, Tiaroga cobitis, and Catostomus insignis). The omnivorous Agosia chrysogaster ate almost as many nymphal mayflies as did the carnivores. Pantosteus clarki was herbivorous, taking animals only when they were abundant. When ephemeropterans decreased in abundance, a shift by some fish species occurred to other locally or seasonally abundant items. Other fishes continued to feed upon the same foods throughout the year. Abundance of invertebrates in Aravaipa Creek, coupled with marked spatial partitioning of habitat by fishes present, seemingly precluded severe interspecific interactions for food.
41711957|A survey of colony attributes and associated vertebrates on black-tail (Cynomys ludovicianus), Gunnison's (C. gunnisoni), and white-tail (C. leucurus) prairie dogs was made. A belt transect 1.6 km wide and 13,334 km long from Hobbs, New Mexico, to the Utah-Wyoming state line was surveyed. There were 47 colonies located (4760 ha comprising 2.2 percent) in the belt. Intercolony distances varied significantly. Three black-tail towns averaged 33 ha in area (SD = 26, range 10-61), 11 Gunnison's averaged 46 ha (SD = 43, range 16-150), and 33 white-tail towns averaged 125 ha (SD = 200, range 0.2-958). Badger activity was positively and significantly correlated to colony size and number of burrow openings on Gunnison's and white-tail towns. There were 107 vertebrate species and subspecies (one amphibian, 25 reptiles, 51 birds, 30 mammals) observed on prairie dog colonies. Results of our surveys are compared with prairie dog studies elsewhere. The role of prairie dogs and relationships to some vertebrates species are discussed.
41711859|Fifty-one of 62 sheep dogs in central Utah were successfully purged for diagnosis of cestodes in 1981. Tapeworms were identified in the purged fecal samples of 33 (64.7 percent) animals. Minimum infection rates in the dogs which were purged were: 9.8 percent for Echinococcus granulosus, 29.4 percent for Taenia pisiformis, 27.5 percent for T. ovis krabbei, 27.5 percent for T. hydatigena, and 2.0 percent for T. serialis. The prevalence of E. granulosus decreased from 27 percent in 1971 to 9.8 percent in 1981.
41712635|Size-density-age relationships in curlleaf mountain mahogany communities were studied in 25 study plots, each 30  30 m, in western and central Nevada. The influence of total vegetation cover (site potential) and relative mahogany cover (mahogany dominance) on the observed size-density-age relationships was investigated. A positive linear relationship was found between mean mahogany height and mean mahogany age. A positive nonlinear relationship was found between mean mahogany crown volume and mean mahogany age. Negative nonlinear relationships were found between mean mahogany density and mean mahogany age, and mean mahogany density and mean mahogany crown volume. Strong negative relationships were found between the mean combined density of established seedlings, juvenile, and immature mahogany and mean mahogany age and mean mahogany crown volume. Including total cover in the regression relationships between size, age, and density never increased the r value by more than .05. The addition of relative mahogany cover improved the r value for the relationship between mean mahogany density and mean mahogany crown volume by .28. The strong size-density and age-density relationships found indicate that intraspecific competition is probably occurring in the communities sampled, and that established seedlings, juvenile, and immature plants are the first individuals affected. Direct tests are needed to confirm these relationships.
41712836|We compared nectar production in wild populations and greenhouse-grown populations of the monkey flower species of section Erythranthe of the genus Mimulus. Nectar was sampled from over 1000 flowers. For each flower the volume of nectar was measured with a calibrated micropipette and the percentage of sugar with a hand refractometer. Percentage of sugar varied little from flower to flower in both field and greenhouse studies, but volume varied markedly from flower to flower in field studies and even more in greenhouse studies. This high variance in nectar volume appears to be intrinsic. The amount of nectar in greenhouse populations tended to increase with time in the absence of pollinators. The amount of nectar in field populations tended to remain the same with time despite withdrawals by pollinators. Thus, nectar appears to be replenished both with time and as a response to pollinator withdrawals. The latter conclusion was corroborated by sampling nectar at 2-h intervals all day and comparing the total volume produced by a flower to the volume of nectar produced in control flowers sampled only at the end of the day.
41712775|Published fish blood parameters are limited to commercially cultured species (e.g., rainbow trout [Oncorhynchus mykiss] and channel catfish [Ictalurus punctatus]). However, as walleye (Stizostedion vitreum) and other fish increase in value to the angler, hatchery and fish managers will require data on these species. Blood sera were collected. from live walleye in the field, creatinine values were determined colorimetrically, and health range values were established from these data. Creatinine levels of walleye serum (0.06-0.72 mg/dl) were higher in three species but lower than recognized in a recent catfish study. Creatinine levels may be important in predicting diseases in which the kidney is adversely affected.
41712281|The effects of grazing on the cryptogamic and vascular plant communities at two sites near Camp Floyd State Park, Utah County, Utah, were studied. The grazed site was subject to heavy grazing up until seven years prior to the study. The ungrazed site within the park boundaries had been protected from grazing for 20 years prior to the study and had a well-developed algal-lichen-moss crust. We found that the algae of the grazed site had recovered in terms of degree of crusting. There were no significant differences in the algal communities of the two sites when prevalent species were used as blocks in the ANOVAR analysis. However, when major algal groups were used as blocks, the analysis was significant, with the more recently grazed site having lower algal frequency. This difference, together with a few compositional differences, indicates that, although the algal community seven years following grazing is very similar to the algal community free of grazing for 20 years, the seven-year site is still in the process of recovery and community development. The diatom collections had a higher density in the grazed site, though the difference was not significant. Recovery of the lichen and moss community was not complete. The lichen Collema tenax and the mosses Bryum pallescens and Tortula ruralis were all significantly more abundant in the ungrazed area. Total cover of the lichen and moss components of the soil crusts was significantly lower in the more recently grazed area. Vascular cover was also lower.
41712905|Riparian ecosystems are important components of landscapes, particularly because of their role in biodiversity. A first step in using a "coarse-filter" approach to riparian biodiversity conservation is to determine the kinds of riparian ecosystems. These ecosystems vary substantially in plant species composition along a single river reach, as well as between rivers, and yet the river-reach scale has received little attention. We sampled the vascular plant composition of 67 contiguous patches of riparian vegetation along a reach of the Animas River, in southwestern Colorado's San Juan Mountains, that is relatively undisturbed by human land uses. Using cluster analysis and detrended correspondence analysis, we identified eight riparian community types along the reach. Using a new technique, we combined overstory size-class data and understory cover data to identify community types. The eight community types, which are in part the products of past floods, are spatially arranged along the reach in relation to variation in valley morphology, tributary location, and geomorphic landforms. These eight community types do not necessarily represent successional stages of a single potential vegetation type. This study at the river-reach scale suggests that sampling and analysis, as well as conservation, may need to be tuned to the scale of patchiness produced by flood disturbances in the riverine landscape, since vegetation varies significantly at this scale.
41711430|Sceloporus megalepidurus halli, subsp. nov., is described from San Jos Lachiguiri, Oaxaca, Mexico, from one adult male.
41712546|Growing numbers of elk (Cervus elaphus) on winter ranges might adversely affect sympatric wintering mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) if diets of the two species are similar. Diets of elk and deer on a northern Utah range were analyzed for overlap in winter with microhistological analysis of fecal samples. Diets overlapped 71%. No significant difference was found in use of grasses or shrubs between elk and deer; however, use of forbs was significantly different. Shrubs comprised the largest proportion of the diets of both elk and deer. Deer might be under more severe dietary stress than elk on poor winter ranges.
41711633|Seventeen genera and 60 species of diatoms were identified from four different substrates in a warm spring-fed pond near Goshen, Utah. The diatom forms sampled included both plankton and periphyton. A minimum of 400 individuals were counted from each sample. Diversity and similarity indices were calculated, and substrate relationships were identified on their basis.
41711753|New generic synonymy in the world fauna of Scolytidae includes: Acanthotomicus Blandford (=Isophthorus Schedl), Acrantus Broun (=Chaetophorous Fuchs, Chaetoptelius Fuchs), Cosmoderes Eichhoff (=Erioschidias Schedl), Ernoporicus Berger (=Ernopocerus Balachowsky), Ernoporus Thomson (=Euptilius Schedl), Hylurdrectonus Schedl (=Xylogopinus Schedl), Ozopemon Hagedorn (Dryocoetiops Schedl), Scolytogenes Eichhoff (=Cryphalomorphus Schaufuss), Stephanopodius Schedl (=Cryphalomimetes Browne), and Xylechinus Chapuis (=Squamasinulus Nunberg). Genera new to science and their type-species include: Anaxyleborus (Tomicus truncatus Erichson), Apoxyleborus (Xyleborus mancus Blandford), Cryphalogenes (Cryphalogenes euphorbiae Wood), Ernocfodius (Cryphalus corpulentus Sampson), Hadrodemius (Xyleborus globus Blandford), Leptoxyleborus (Phloeotrogus sordicauda Motschulsky), Microperus (Xyleborus theae Eggers), Taphrodasus (Xyleborus percorthylus Schedl), and Taurodemus (Xyleborus sharpi Blandford). The new name Hylurdrectonus corticinus is presented to replace H. araucariae (Schedl 1972). Dryocoetes coffeae Eggers is transferred to Eulepiops. The following genera are treated in a revised context: Crytogenius, Dryocoetes, Eulepiops, Ernoporicus, Ernoporus, Xyleborus, and Xylechinus. Cryphalogenes euphorbiae and C. exiguus (Sri Lanka) are named as new to science.
41712075|Thirty-five study sites were established in the meadow communities surrounding Utah Lake in central Utah. The study sites ranged across several community types. Glaux maritima was found in all sites but varied as to its ecological importance in these communities. Sixteen soil factors were measured relative to the stands studied. Cover of Glaux maritima correlated with parts per million sodium and total soluble salts in the soil. No other factors correlated significantly with the cover of Glaux maritima. Glaux maritima occupied only those sites with high levels of moisture throughout the growing season. The high moisture levels came from springs, seeps, elevated water tables, and early seasonal inundation. High levels of Glaux maritima cover corresponded to low numbers of species in the habitat.
41713133|We surveyed 7 species of predatory birds weekly during a 12-month period (December 1992 through November 1993) in the east Mojave Desert, California. The Common Raven (Corvus corax) was the most frequently observed species with an average of 6.9 sightings per 100 km. Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura), Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus), American Kestrels (Falco sparverius), Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos), and Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus) were seen in decreasing order of frequency of observation through the study period. Ravens, Red-tailed Hawks, Loggerhead Shrikes, American Kestrels, and Prairie Falcons were seen throughout the year. Turkey Vultures were not present during winter months, while Golden Eagles were seen only during November and December. Turkey Vultures, Red-tailed Hawks, and ravens were most numerous on agricultural lands, while Loggerhead Shrikes were most common at urban areas. Raven numbers increased with increasing number of linear rights-of-way parallel to the survey route. Perching was the most common behavior type, although Turkey Vultures and ravens were often observed soaring, flying, or standing on the ground near highways. Transmission powerline towers and telephone poles were used as perch sites disproportionately to availability.
41713136|Cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum L.) is a dominant weed that has increased the frequency of wildfire in the Great Basin since its introduction about 100 yr ago. This study examines characteristics of respiratory metabolism in several different populations. Seeds from 6 populations were germinated and metabolic heat rates (q) and dark respiration rates (Rco) of all seedlings were measured calorimetrically at 15 and 25C or (for 3 populations) at 5 intervals from 5 to 35C. Growth rates, substrate carbon conversion efficiencies, and Arrhenius temperature coefficients were calculated from the data. Results show that cheatgrass metabolism is most efficient at temperatures near 0C; at temperatures above 20-25C, efficiency goes to zero. Cheatgrass populations differ in their temperature dependencies of substrate carbon conversion efficiency and predicted growth rate. Measurements of respiratory heat and CO rates as functions of temperature can be made relatively quickly and used to aid understanding of metabolic adaptation by invasive and native species to the environment.
41711451|New synonymy is proposed as follows: Pityokteines Fuchs (= Orthotomides Wood), Araptus foveifrons (Schedl) (interjectus Wood), n. comb., Cryptocarenus seriatus Eggers (= bolivianus Eggers), Hylastes gracilis LeConte (= asper Swaine), Procryphalus utahensis Hopkins (= aceris Hopkins), Scolytodes mourus (Blandford) (= Hexacolus ellipticus Eggers), Scolytus hermosus Wood (= sylvaticus Bright), Xyleborus adelographus Eichhoff (=vitiosus Schedl), Xyleborus catulus Blandford (=intricatus Schedl), Xyleborus nepos Eggers (signatus Schedl), Xyleborus titubanter Schedl (= dissidens Wood). The following species and subspecies are named as new to science: Cnesinus electus (Costa Rica), C. pilatus (Mexico), Hylastes asperatus (New Mexico), Scolytus torulus (Costa Rica), S. laetus (Mexico), Scolytodes amabilis and S. lepidus (Mexico), S. obesus (Panama), Pseudothysanoes concentralis and P. tumidulus (Mexico), Thysanoes tuberculatus (Mexico), Pityokteines mystacinus (Washington), Ips pilifrons subsp. thatcheri (Nevada), Araptus attenuatus (Mexico), A. fossifrons (Mexico, Guatemala), Amphicranus parilis (Mexico), Corthylus cecropii (Costa Rica).
41712092|Hybridization between the pocket gophers Thomomys bottae and T. townsendii at Gold Run Creek in Honey Lake Valley, Lassen County, California, is examined by electromorphic and morphologic characters and by the distribution of ectoparasitic mallophagan lice. Hybrid formation is minimal (about 12% of the total sample of 104 individuals examined), but both F hybrids and a few presumptive backcross individuals are apparent. Nevertheless, no evidence of genic introgression based on five diagnostic allozyme loci is present in parental populations of either taxon within a mile of the hybrid zone. Similarly, louse species unique to each parental gopher host do not penetrate beyond the geographic limits of the genetic hybrid zone into the range of the opposite gopher species. A narrow zone of hybridization is thus concordantly defined by genetic, morphologic, and ectoparasitic parameters. These two gopher taxa are thus genetically if not reproductively isolated and should be considered separate biological species.
41711617|New synonymies and new data affecting North American Pityophthorus are proposed as follows: chalcoensis Hopkins (= herrerai Hopkins) and nigricans Blandford (= chiapensis Bright). Neotypes are designated for the following species described by Eichhoff: concentralis, cribripennis, infans, puchellus, and tuberculatus. New species are: carinatus (Canada), cavatus (Manitoba, Saskatchewan), euterpes (Mexico), hesperius (British Columbia), impexus (Mexico), intentus (Arizona), laticeps (Mexico), malleatus (Arizona), mesembria (Guatemala), montezumae (Mexico), scalptus (British Columbia, Colorado), trepidus (California), and vespertinus (Mexico).
41711469|Three desert Artemisia tridentata communities in Rush Valley, Utah, were trapped for small rodents during the summer of 1970, and population densities were estimated for each population category using Lincoln's index. Animals were weighed and rodent biomass calculated by species throughout the summer. Population, biomass, and other data were then analyzed to gain an understanding of the community relationships of the three study areas to each other as well as to the A. tridentata community types of the Great Basin. Peromyscus maniculatus, Eutamias minimus, and Reithrodontomys megalotis were common to area 1, whereas P. maniculatus, E. minimus, and Perognathus parvus were common to areas 2 and 3. The peak estimated standing crops were 182.8 (74.0), 143.1 (57.9), and 129.7 g/acre (52.5 g/ha) for areas 2, 1, and 3 respectively. The population and biomass of area 2 peaked in midsummer, area 1 early summer, and area 3 late summer.
41711889|Diatoms epiphytic on Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steaded stems were collected from a single clone at the southern end of Provo Bay, Utah Lake, Utah. Diatom populations from both living and dead stem sections were analyzed. Species diversity in each sample was high, indicating that the stems provide a relatively stable habitat for diatom epiphytes. Of the 23 genera found, only Gomphonema and Navicula showed significant trends toward stem preference. The diatoms in this study support the current view that Utah Lake is a slightly saline, eutrophic system.
41712006|Quadrat and propagule trapping studies were made on the moraine of the Schoolroom Glacier and in adjacent dry alpine meadow vegetation in the Teton Range in 1978-1979. Forty-six species of vascular plants were collected. Distributionally, three groups of species exist. One of these is concentrated primarily on the moraine, a second in the meadow, and the third in a narrow ecotonal band at the base of the distal slope of the moraine. The moraine slopes are steep and unstable, with vegetation cover ranging from 1 to 9 percent, dominated by Cirsium tweedyi (Rydb.) Petr. Along the more stable moraine crest the vegetation cover is heavier, and is similar to that in the meadow. The meadow vegetation cover is about 50 percent, dominated by Astragalus kentrophyta Gray. Using a combination of cover and frequency as a measure of importance, dominance-diversity curves were constructed for the moraine and meadow. Both approach geometric series, which are suggested as indicating harsh environments. Abiotically pollinated species are more successful on the moraine than biotically pollinated species, but the reverse is true for the meadow. Propagule trapping studies suggest that dispersal of anemochorous propagules onto the moraine is very low compared with dispersal in the meadow.
41712573|Collection data, bibliographic citations, and curatorial information on 52 names of New Mexico grass types are compiled. A bibliography of taxonomic research pertinent to the study of New Mexico grasses is cross-referenced with genera known to occur in the state.
41712861|Ecological and phytochemical factors potentially affecting winter dietary discrimination by porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum) in the mountain brush zone of Utah were studied. Porcupines utilized gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) as their primary winter food and roosting resource. Big-tooth maple (Acer grandidentatum) was the most common tree species in the study area but was rarely utilized by porcupines. Conifer species were used as a food and roosting resource significantly less often than they occurred in the study area, despite thermal advantages provided by their relatively dense canopies. Oak feed trees were successfully separated from conifer feed trees by discriminant analysis 100% of the time. Oak trees were correctly classified as feed and nonfeed trees 71% of the time. Gambel oak contained higher amounts of crude protein, fiber, and tannins, but was lower in ether extract fractions and fatty acid content than conifers. A layer of adipose tissue used as an energy reserve by porcupines may have relaxed energy intake demands sufficiendy to permit them to concentrate on a diet of oak tissue, which is high in protein, rather than a high-fat conifer diet. A diet relatively high in protein may have facilitated digestion of food material high in fiber. Temperature did not affect selection of tree species used for roosting. Rock and snow caves were utilized infrequently and the study population ranged widely. Three of 15 study animals were eaten by predators.
41712401|Previously, physiological studies of rubber and resin production during the growing season of Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. turbinatus indicated a negative correlation between rubber and resin content. The resin was highest in the spring and lowest in the summer, whereas rubber was highest in the summer and lowest in the spring. Individual compounds were followed during the growing season to see if they correlated with the rubber or resin trend. The total compounds in the cyclohexane fraction followed the resin pattern. Individual compounds varied in their changes during the growing season. Limonene, for example, was negatively correlated with rubber production, whereas  cubebene was positively correlated. The possible metabolic pathways between resin and rubber are discussed.
41711519|The aquatic and semiaquatic Hemiptera from 12 localities in Marble Canyon and Grand Canyon are reported, along with those from 1 locality in the Escalante Canyon. Fourteen species are recorded and compared to the water-bug fauna of the southwestern United States and western Mexico. Ochterus rotundus n. sp. is described from the Grand Canyon and the mountains of western Mexico.
41711858|Various aspects of the reproduction and embryology of Walker Lake Lahontan tui chub, Gila bicolor, were investigated during the spring-summer period of 1976, 1977, and 1981. Tui chub were found to spawn in littoral regions of the lake beginning in late May or early June. Early in the season male chub substantially outnumbered females over the spawning grounds, with a normal 1:1 sex ratio gradually approached as the season progressed. The developmental period between fertilization to hatch-out was shortened by increases in water temperature. Selected stages of embryonic development are described from egg fertilization through post-hatch.
41711406|Acute, short-term (96-hour) tests were conducted to determine the relative sensitivity of low oxygen concentrations to 20 species of aquatic insects. In addition, the longer-term effects of low oxygen levels on the survival, molting, growth, and emergence of 21 species were studied. This paper encompasses work conducted at the University of Montana Biological Station from 1968 to 1970 and at the University of Utah from 1966 to 1972. An evaluation of the average minimum dissolved-oxygen requirements of the different groups of aquatic insects tested indicates that the mayflies are the most sensitive, that the stoneflies are next, and that the caddis flies, freshwater shrimp, true flies, and damselflies follow, in that order. While two species of mayfly could tolerate as low a dissolved-oxygen concentration as 3.3 mg/1 for 10 days, a level of 4.6 mg/1 was required for 50-percent survival at 30 days. Fifty percent of the true flies and damselflies tested were able to survive at levels ranging from 2.2 to 2.8 mg/1 for periods ranging from 20 to 92 days.
41711660|The distributions of Cottus bairdi, C. rhotheus, and C. beldingi exhibited a highly significant positive degree of association. Conversely, the distribution of C. confusus exhibited a highly significant negative association with the distributional complex, C. bairdi, C. rhotheus, and C. beldingi. These species of sculpins can be grouped into two assemblages; one based on the distribution of C. confusus and the other based on the combined distributions of the other three species. The factor or factors limiting the downstream distribution of C. confusus or the upstream distribution of the other three species could not be positively identified. However, we hypothesize that competition between C. confusus and one or more members of the C. bairdi, C. rhotheus and C. beldingi complex is involved. In the area of overlapping distributions among C. bairdi, C. rhotheus, and C. bairdi we hypothesize that resource partitioning is occurring. However, the data did not allow evaluation of this hypothesis.
41711677|The first record of Patapius spinosus (Rossi) in Idaho and Nevada is reported, having previously been found in America only in California.
41712130|Growth rates estimated using the scale annuii of flannelmouth sucker, Catostomus latipinnis, did not differ between fish collected from the Gunnison and Colorado rivers, and the Green and Yampa rivers. However, body condition and fecundity were significantly greater in the former population. Age of first maturity for male and female fish from all rivers was IV; and most fish were mature by age VII. The smallest mature female collected was 405 mm, and the smallest mature male was 391 mm total length. Fecundity ranged from 4,000 ova in fish 450 mm long to 40,000 ova in a 500-mm fish: mean ovum diameter was 2.39 mm. Ripe male flannelmouth suckers were collected from early April through June; ripe females were collected from both study areas during May and early June.
41712193|Circumstantial evidence is presented that suggests the Mourning Cloak undergoes regular seasonal upand downslope movements in northern California. The species breeds at low elevations in spring and then disappears until autumn; its disappearance coincides with the appearance of fresh individuals in the Sierra Nevada alongside obvious hibernators.
41711492|In three ecological studies in the southern parts of Nevada, Idaho, and Utah, spiders of 138 species, scorpions of 10, solpugids of 29, and phalangids of 2 species were obtained by pitfall capture. Significant differences in species occurrence were noted between the three geographic and ecologically distinct areas. Within each geographic area, arachnids differed in species occurrence and abundance in different plant communities. Only three species of spiders and four species of scorpions were common to all three geographic areas.
41711772|This report includes data collected during an investigation by Brigham Young University personnel from 1971 to 1976, as well as a literature review. The fauna of the Kaiparowits Basin is represented by 7 species of amphibians (1 salamander, 5 toads, and 1 tree frog), 29 species of reptiles (1 turtle, 16 lizards, and 12 snakes), 183 species of birds (plus 2 hypothetical), and 74 species of mammals. Geographic distribution of the various species within the basin are discussed. Birds are categorized according to their population and seasonal status. Avian habitat relationships are discussed, and extensions of range are reported for 5 species of birds. Three threatened or endangered avian species occur in the basin. Four avian species seem to have declined significantly in numbers in recent years.
41712409|A fire history of the Paunsaugunt Plateau in southern Utah was developed using dendrochronological methods. Fire frequencies of individual ponderosa pine trees from three sites on the plateau varied from 19.5 to 47 years. Composite fire intervals for the three sites ranged from 15.2 to 18.4 years. The last recorded fires in these study areas occurred in 1892, 1902, and 1911, corresponding to the initiation of fire suppression policies in the West. The absence of fire since 1911 may be contributing to a recently documented decrease in ponderosa pine regeneration within the high-elevation, mixed-coniferous forests of the Paunsaugunt Plateau.
41711653|During 1976 and 1977, 798 fish representing 11 species from eight collection sites in Utah were examined for metacercariae of Diplostomum spathaceum, which causes the fish eye fluke disease, diplostomatosis. Eight species were infected. The infection rate ranged from 7 percent of 46 Salmo gairdneri from Soldiers Creek Reservoir to 100 percent in 7 species of fish from four collection sites. Summary charts for four years of data are given for collection sites, piscine hosts in Utah, and fish hosts for Strawberry Reservoir, Utah.
41713100|A new species of caddisfly, Psychoronia brooksi (Limnephilidae), is described from New Mexico, and Psychoronia brevipennis (Banks) 1904 is designated as a junior synonym of Psychoronia costalis Banks 1901. Additional distributional records and notes for 51 caddisfly species are also presented.
41712848|We examined patterns of habitat use by Greater Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis tabida) in the Intermountain West, April-October 1991-92, to determine whether cranes exhibited a specific preference for crops, fields, and areas within a field. This information will help farmers and wildlife managers direct nonlethal control methods to the sites where crane damage is most likely to occur. We conducted surveys along two 37-km transects weekly in Cache Valley, Utah, and biweekly in Bear River Valley, Rich County, Utah, and Lincoln County, Wyoming. We recorded 5814 cranes in 662 separate groups. Most were located in pasture/hay (34%), small grain (39%), alfalfa (9%), plowed (9%), fallow (4%), or corn (1%) fields. An index of feeding activity for each field and habitat type suggested cranes fed at approximately the same rate in each field and habitat type. Crane diurnal activity patterns during summer and fall revealed that grainfields were used heavily throughout the day.
41712489|We evaluated movement distance (an index of home range size) based on capture histories of 32 postbreeding Townsend ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendii) on a 15 X 15 trap grid in southwestern Idaho. Capture frequencies and movement distances of adult males were significantly greater than those of other sex/age groups. Members of the same sex/age group were rarely captured at the same grid location, evidence of mutual avoidance within sex/age groups. These results are compared with those for other species of ground squirrels.
41711954|Fertilized ova of razorback sucker, Xyrauchen texanus, were adhesive for 3 to 4 hours after fertilization. Cleavage was completed at 24 hours, gastrulation occurred at 34 hours, and blood circulation was established at 117 hours. Hatching occurred from 5.2 to 5.5 days after fertilization. Larvae were from 6.8 to 7.3 mm TL at hatching. Yolk was assimilated at 13 days (10 mm TL). All fins were formed and had ossified rays at 64 days (27 mm TL). The unique nuchal keel appeared about 200 days after fertilization.
41711950|The effect of complete defoliation, prior to flower stalk appearance, on the reproductive success of foothill deathcamas, a toxic range plant, was studied in northern Utah. Defoliated plants did not replace their leaves. Defoliation had no effect on total number of flower stalks produced but did significantly slow the rate of stalk emergence and reduce the number of plants that produced open flowers. The number of leaves produced by control plants was also positively associated with the probability of producing a flowering stalk. Few plants in either defoliated or control treatments set seed, probably because of inactivity of pollinators during a cold and wet spring. It is suggested that species, such as deathcamas, which either produce leaves early in spring or are liliaceous geophytes, may be especially vulnerable to herbivory.
41712501|Presented from a worldwide treatment of the Scolytidae are cases of new synonymy, replacement names for newly detected junior homonyms, and the descriptions of species new to science as follows. New synonymy includes: Acanthotomicus quadrituberculatus (Schedl) (= Mimips fallax Eggers), Amasa schlicht (Stebbing) (= Xyleborus glaber Eggers, Xyleborus brevipennis Schedl), Ambrosiodmus apicalus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus cristatus Hagedorn, Xyleborus fabricii Schedl), Ambrosiodmus asperatus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus citri Beeson, Xyleborus cristatuloides Schedl), Ambrosiodmus colossus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus szentivanyi Schedl), Ambrosiodmus declivispinatus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus tectus Schedl), Ambrosiodmus funereus (Lea) (= Xyleborus nepos robustus Schedl), Ambrosiodmus hagedorni (Iglesias) (= Ambrosiodmus guatemalensis Hopkins), Ambrosiodmus lewisi (Blandford) (= Xyleborus lewekianus Eggers), Ambrosiodmus obliquecaudata (Motschulsky) (= Xyleborus semirufus Schedl), Ambrosiodmus obliquus (LeConte) (= Xyleborus melanarius Schedl), Ambrosiodmus rubricollis (Eichhofi) (= Xyleborus taboensis Schedl, Xyleborus strohmeyeri Schedl), Arixyleborus canaliculatus (Eggers) (= Arixyleborus subsimilis Schedl), Arixyleborus imitator (Eggers) (= Xyleborus granistriatus Eggers), Arixyleborus leprosulus Schedl (= Arixyleborus aralidii Nunberg), Arixyleborus mediosectus (Eggers) (= Xyleboricus angulatus Schedl), Camptocerus major (Eggers) (= Camptocerus uniseriatus Schedl), Camptocerus orientalis Eggers (= Camptocerus tectus Eggers), Camptocerus suturalis (Fabricius) (= Camptocerus hirtipennis Schedl), Coccotrypes advena Blandford (= Dendrurgus philippinensis Eggers, Dendrurgus ternatensis Eggers, Dendrurgus minor Eggers, Thamnurgides tutuilensis Beeson), Coccotrypes barbatus (Schedl) (= Thamnurgides ater Eggers, Thamnurgides dipterocarpi Beeson, Thamnurgides bambusae Beeson), Coccotrypes carpophagus (Hornung) (= Coccotrypes trevori Beeson, Coccotrypes pilosulus Schedl, Coccotrypes ceylonicus Schedl, Coccotrypes grisseopuberulus Schedl, Coccotrypes exasperatus Schedl), Coccotrypes cyperi (Beeson) (= Poecilips subaplanatus Schedl), Coccotrypes dactyliperda (Fabricius) (= Coccotrypes borassi Beeson, Coccotrypes eleocarpi Beeson), Coccotrypes longior (Eggers) (= Poecilips oblongus Eggers, Poecilips nitidipennis Schedl, Poecilips apicatus Schedl), Coccotrypes myristicae (Roepke) (= Thamnurgides masoni Beeson), Coccotrypes nitidus Eggers (= Poecilips aterrimus Schedl), Coccotrypes nubilus Blandford (= Thamnurgides parvus Beeson, Thamnurgides himalayensis Beeson, Thamnurgides corticus Beeson, Thamnurgides brevipilosus Beeson, Poecilips mauritianus Browne), Coccotrypes papuanus (Eggers) (= Thamnurgides rubidus Beeson), Coccotrypes rhizophorae (Hopkins) (= Thamnurgides shanorum Beeson), Coccotrypes salakensis (Schedl) (= Thamnurgides opacifrons Beeson, Poecilips acuminatus Schedl), Conophthorus edulis Hopkins (= Conophthorus cembroides Wood), Conophthorus resinosae Hopkins (= Conophthorus banksianae McPherson), Coptoborus usagaricus (Eggers) (= Xyleborus usagaricus subadjunctus Schedl, Streptocranus hendrickxi Schedl, Xyleborus monticolus Schedl, Xyleborus fallaciosus Schedl), Coptodryas elegans (Sampson) (= Xyleborus concinnus Beeson), Coptodryas myristicae (Schedl) (= Xyleborus theae Eggers, Xyleborus brevipilosus Eggers, Xyleborus cylindripennis Schedl), Coptodryas nugax (Schedl) (= Xyleborus jragosus Schedl), Coptodryas reddens (Sampson) (= Xyleborus minutissimus Eggers), Coptodryas undulatus (Sampson) (= Xyleborus leprosulus Schedl), Cryphalus major Stebbing (= Cryphalus morinda Stebbing), Cryphalus ruficollis Hopkins (= Cryphalus fraseri Hopkins), Cryphalus scabricollis EichhofF (= Cryphalus discretus EichhofF, Cryphalus dilutus Eichhoff), Cryphalus sylvicola (Perkins) (= Cryphalus swezeyi Schedl, Cryphalus sylvicola obliquus Schedl), Crypturgus pusillus (Gyllenhal) (= Crypturgus minimus Eggers), Cyrtogenius luteus (Blandford) (= Carposinus pini Hopkins), Dryocoetes autographus (Ratzeburg) (= Dryocoetes brasiliensis Schedl), Dryocoetiops laevis (Strohmeyer) (= Poecilips loebli Schedl), Dryocoetoides paradoxus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus solitaripennis Schedl), Dryocoetoides pseudosolitarius (Eggers) (= Xyleborus pseudosolitarius schizolobius Schedl), Eccoptopterus gracilipes (Eichhofi) (= Xyleborus collaris Eggers), Eccoptopterus limbus Sampson (= Xyleborus squamulatus duplicatus Eggers), Eidophelus imitans EichhofF (= Phellodendrophagus elegans Krivolutskaya, Ptilopodius nitidus Schedl), Ernocladius corpulentus (Sampson) (= Margadillius corpulentus sundri Schedl), Ernoporus antennarius Schedl (= Euptilius papuanus Browne), Euwallacea andamanensis (Blandford) (= Xyleborus granulipennis Eggers, Xyleborus intextus Beeson, Xyleborus senachalensis Beeson), Euwallacea bicolor (Blandford) (= Xyleborus bicolor unimodus Beeson, Xyleborus rodgeri Beeson, Xyleborus rodgeri privatus Beeson), Euwallacea destruens (Blandford) (= Xyleborus pseudobarbatus Schedl, Xyleborus nandarivatus Schedl), Euwallacea fornicatus (Eichhofi) (= Xyleborus whitfordiodendrus Schedl, Xyleborus perbrevis Schedl, Xyleborus schultzei Schedl, Xyleborus tapatapaoensis Schedl), Euwallacea quadraticollis (Eggers) (= Xyleborus duplicatus Schedl), Euwallacea sibsagaricus (Eggers) (= Xyleborus dalbergiae Eggers), Euwallacea velatus (Sampson) (= Xyleborus assamensis Eggers, Xyleborus asperipennis Eggers), Euwallacea wallacei (Blandford) (= Xyleborus siporanus Hagedorn, Xyleborus ovalicollis Eggers, Xyleborus perakensis Schedl), Euwallacea xanthopus (Eichhofi) (= Xyleborus semirudis Blandford, Xyleborus rudis Eggers, Xyleborus semipilosus Eggers, Xyleborus neohybridus Schedl, Xyleborus artehybridus Schedl), Gnathotrupes bituberculatus (Blandford) (= Gnathotrichus impressus Schedl), Gnathotrupes longipennis (Blanchard) (= Gnathotrichus obnixus Schedl, Gnathotrichus corthyloides Schedl, Gnathotrichus corthyliformis Schedl, Gnathotrupes constrictus Schedl), Gymnochilus consocius (Blandford) (= Problechilus novateutonicus Schedl), Hypocryphalus mangiferae (Stebbing) (= Hypocryphalus opacus Schedl), Hypocryphalus sandakanensis (Schedl) (= Hypocryphalus maculatus Browne), Hypothenemus areccae (Hornung) (= Stephanoderes bambesanus Eggers, Hypothenemus bauhaniae Schedl, Stephanoderes occidentalis Schedl), Hypothenemus birmanus Eichhoif (= Stephanoderes nibarani Beeson, Stephanoderes ampliatus Eggers), Hypothenemus californicus Hopkins (= Stephanoderes zeae Schedl), Hypothenemus crudiae (Panzer) (= Cryphalus mucronifer Wollaston), Hypothenemus donisi (Schedl) (= Ericryphalus madagascarensis Schedl), Hypothenemus eruditus Westwood (= Cryphalus tectonae Stebbing, Cryphalus striatopunctatus Lea, Cryphalus tantillus Lea, Hypothenemus tuberculatus Hagedorn, Hypothenemus pusillus Eggers, Hypothenemus argentinensis Schedl, Hypothenemus cylindricus Schedl, Hypothenemus asaroriensis Beeson, Hypothenemus mauiensis Schedl, Stephanoderes nanulus Schedl, Hypothenemus parilis Schedl, Hypothenemus obscuripes Schedl, Stephanoderes tigrensis Schedl, Hypothenemus parcius Schedl, Hypothenemus cylindripennis Schedl, Hypothenemus vianai Schedl, Hypothenemus mesoleius Schedl, Hypothenemus minutulus Schedl, Cryphalus minutus Schedl), Hypothenemus fuscicollis (Eichhoff) (= Stephanoderes sundaensis Eggers, Hypothenemus ghanaensis Schedl), Hypothenemus hampei (Ferrari) (= Stephanoderes glabellus Schedl), Hypothenemus ingens (Schedl) (= Cryphalomorphus grandis Schedl), Hypothenemus plumeriae (Nrdlinger) (= Stephanoderes cylindricus Hopkins, Hypothenemus guadeloupensis Schedl, Stephanoderes ituriensis Schedl), Hypothenemus pubescens Hopkins (= Hypothenemus minutissimus Schedl), Hypothenemus seriatus (Eichhoff) (= Cryphalus aulmanni Hagedorn, Hypothenemus cassavaensis Schedl, Stephanoderes hawaiiensis Schedl, Hypothenemus striatulus Schedl, Hypothenemus marovoayi Schedl, Hypothenemus asperatus Schedl), Hypothenemus stigmosus (Schedl) (= Stephanoderes garciae Schedl), Leptoxyleborus concisus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus incurvus Eggers), Leptoxyleborus depressus (Eggers) (= Xyleborus sejugatus Schedl), Leptoxyleborus semigranulatus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus artemarginatus Schedl), Monarthrum chapuisi Kirsch (= Monarthrum bolivianum Eggers), Monarthrum ingens (Eichhoff) (= Pterocyclon assequens Schedl), Pityophthorus deodara (Stebbing) (= Cryphalus himalayensis Stebbing, Pityophthorus sampsoni Stebbing), Sauroptilius sauropterus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus sauropteroides Schedl), Scolytogenes knabi (Hopkins) (= Cryphalomorphus alienus Schedl), Scolytomimus pusillus (Eggers) (= Scolytomimus kalshoveni Schedl, Scolytocleptes insularis Schedl), Scolytoplatypus mikado Blandford (= Scolytoplatypus sinensis Tsai & Huang), Scolytoplatypus papuanus Eggers (= Scolytoplatypus luzonicus Eggers), Scolytoplatypus siomio Blandford (= Scolytoplatypus kunala Strohmeyer), Scolytopsis puncticollis Blandford (= Scolytopsis cubensis Wood), Terminalinus crucipennis (Schedl) (= Xyleborus metacrucifer Browne), Terminalinus hirtus (Hagedorn) (= Xyleborus hirtuosus Beeson), Trypodendron laeve Eggers (= Trypodendron piceum Strand), Theoborus ricini (Eggers) (= Xyleborus solitariceps Schedl), Webbia quattuordecimspinatus or 14-spinatus Sampson (= Webbia quattuordecimspinatus or 14-spinatus Schedl), Xyleborinus andrewesi (Blandford) (= Xyleborus persphenos Schedl), Xyleborinus artestratus (Eichhoff) (= Xyleborus rugipennis Schedl), Xyleborinus gracilis (Eichhoff) (= Xyleborus neogracilis Schedl), Xyleborinus saxeseni (Ratzeburg) (= Xyleborus subspinosus Eggers, Xyleborus pseudogracilis Schedl, Xyleborus retrusus Schedl, Xyleborus paraguayensis Schedl, Xyleborus cinctipennis Schedl), Xyleborus adelographus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus accomodatus Schedl), Xyleborus adusticollis (Motschulsky) (= Xyleborus vestitus Schedl), Xyleborus approximatus Schedl (= Xyleborus potens Schedl), Xyleborus biconicus Eggers (= Xyleborus bicinctus Schedl), Xyleborus bidentatus (Motschulsky) (= Xyleborus quadridens Eggers), Xyleborus caraibicus Eggers (= Xyleborus variabilis Schedl), Xyleborus crinitus Schedl (^ Xyleborus nigericus Browne), Xyleborus emarginatus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus emarginatus semicircularis Schedl), Xyleborus eximius Schedl (= Xyleborus apicenotatus Schedl), Xyleborus fallax Eichhoff (= Xyleborus amphicranulus Eggers), Xyleborus ferrugineus (Fabricius) (= Xyleborus rufopiceus Eggers), Xyleborus grossmanni Schedl (= Xyleborus acuminatus Schedl), Xyleborus mascareniformis Eggers (= Xyleborus onerosus Schedl), Xyleborus multispinatus Eggers (= Xyleborus acanthus Schedl), Xyleborus mutabilis Schedl (= Xyleborus itatiayaensis Schedl), Xyleborus perforam (Wollaston) (= Xyleborus criticus Schedl), Xyleborus perlongus Eggers (= Xyleborus pulcnerrimus Schedl, Xyleborus pulcheripes Schedl), Xyleborus similis Ferrari (= Xyleborus novaguineanus Schedl, Xyleborus dilatatulus Schedl), Xyleborus subcostatus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus subcostatus dearmatus Eggers), Xyleborus sulcicauda Schedl (= Xyleborus tenuipennis Browne), Xyleborus volvulus (Fabricius) (= Xyleborus silvestris Beeson, Xyleborus granularis Schedl), Xylosandrus ater (Eggers) (= Xyleborus retusiformis Schedl), Xylosandrus cylindrotomicus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus semitruncatus Schedl, Xyleborus ramulorum Schedl), Xylosandrus mutilatus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus sampsoni Eggers). The species Cosmocorynus vagabundus Schedl is transferred to the genus Amphicranus, and the species Xyleborus lineatopunc tatus Eggers is transferred to the genus Cyrtogenius. New names are proposed for junior homonyms as follows: Araptus frontis (for Gnathocranus frontalis Schedl 1978, now in Araptus), Araptus guadeloupanus (for Brachydendrulus guadeloupensis Schedl 1970, now in Araptus), Coccotrypes brunnipes (for Coccotrypes brunneus Nunberg 1973), Coccotrypes robustulus for Poecilips robustus Schedl 1972, now in Coccotrypes), Coccotrypes striatulus (for Thamnurgides striatus Eggers 1927, now in Coccotrypes), Hypothenemus aterrimulus (for Lepiceroides aterrimus Schedl 1957, now in Hypothenemus), Hypothenemus ruginosus (for Pachynoderes rugifer Schedl 1977, now in Hypothenemus), Mimiocurus monticulus (for Mimiocurus montanus Schedl 1957), Monarthrum boliviensis (for Cosmocorynus bolivianus Schedl 1970, now in Monarthrum), Monarthrum dentatulum (for Monarthrum dentatum Eggers 1935), Monarthrum sexdenticulum (for Anchonocerus sexdentatus Eggers 1935, now in Monarthrum), Pityophthorus abietinus (for Pityophthorus abietis Kurenzov 1941 and P. sibericus Nunberg 1956), Pityophthorus brighti (for Pityophthorus blackmani Bright 1977), Pityophthorus micrograptinus (for Breviophthorus micrographus Schedl 1972, now in Pityophthorus), Pityophthorus subsimilans (for Breviophthorus subsimilis Schedl 1966, now in Pityophthorus), Scolytogenes papuensis (For Xyloeryptus papuanus Schedl 1975, now in Scolytogenes. The following names are described as new to science: Cryphalus dipterocarpi (India), Cryphalus felis (India), Cryphalus fulmineus (India), Gnathotrupes colaphus (Venezuela), Gnathotrupes nectandrae (Venezuela), Mimiocurus beesoni (India), Pityophthorus cedri (India), Pityophthorus chilgoza (India), Pityophthorus glutae (India), and Scolytogenes indiens (India).
41704199|The Psoralea lanceolata complex is widely distributed in western North America from Saskatchewan to Texas and westward to Washington, Oregon, Nevada, and Arizona. The complex has received many interpretations, mostly on the basis of provincial floras and manuals. The present paper attempts to summarize the treatments of previous workers and to present an overview of the complex. The Psoralea lanceolata var. stenophylla is proposed. Distribution maps and illustrations of all entities are included.
41713004|Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) brood-rearing sites have been described for portions of their range, but brood-rearing habitat use and characteristics of brood-rearing sites used by Rio Grande Wild Turkeys (M. g. intermedia) in the Pacific Northwest were unknown. We described cover types at 362 brood-rearing sites and measured habitat characteristics at 64 of these sites used by a recently established Rio Grande Wild Turkey population in southwestern Oregon during May-September 1989 and 1990. Hens with broods used 9 of 10 available cover types. Meadows, mixed hardwood/conifer woodlands, and savannas were used more often than expected (47% of observations, P 0.05). Broods used mature mixed conifer and dense sapling/pole mixed conifer cover types less than expected and did not use brushfields. Many brood-rearing sites were characterized by a parklike appearance. Understory vegetation averaged <20 cm tall and occupied 44-52% of brood-rearing sites, whereas bare ground accounted for 35-55%. Brood-rearing sites were on southeast slopes more often than expected and north slopes less than expected (P  0.05). We suggest that land managers maintain mixed hardwood/conifer woodland and savanna cover types adjacent to meadows on south slopes to provide brood-rearing habitat for Rio Grande Wild Turkeys in southwestern Oregon.
41712120|A classification of the natural vegetation of Colorado is presented. This classification, which uses the Plant Association as the basic unit, was developed by sorting data in the scientific literature, supplemented by field research. The classification uses a standardized nomenclature. Citations are given for the literature from Colorado and adjoining states for each Association. The classification includes a total of 403 Plant Associations, with 28 Angiosperm Forests/Woodlands, 2 Mixed Angiosperm-Gymnosperm Forests/Woodlands, 114 Gymnosperm Forests/Woodlands, 100 Shrub Associations, 74 Grassland Associations, 38 Graminoid Associations, and 47 Herb Associations.
41712941|We investigated the roosting ecology of silver-haired bats (Lasionycteris noctivagans) in the Black Hills of western South Dakota. Using radiotelemetry, we located 39 roosts, 10 of which were maternity aggregations containing 6 to 55 bats. The roosts were mostly in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) snags that averaged 39 cm diameter at breast height. Solitary bats preferred roosting under loose bark or in crevices in trees, regularly moving among trees. All maternity aggregations were found in tree cavities, primarily those created by woodpeckers. Roost trees were located in patches of forest with relatively high snag densities, about 21 snags/ha. This study suggests that snags play an important role in maintaining silver-haired bat populations in ponderosa pine ecosystems.
41712180|A cafeteria-style study was conducted during the winter for two years with tame mule deer to determine if there were preferential differences between accessions of forage kochia (Kochia prostrata). Deer consumed significantly more of P.I. numbers 314929, 330708, and 356826 than any of the other accessions. Other plant adaptive characteristics and nutritive qualities are also reported.
41712834|Erigeron kachinensis is a rare endemic of the Colorado Plateau in southeastern Utah. This perennial composite grows in small, isolated populations at seeps and alcoves arising along canyon walls in Cedar Mesa Sandstone substrates. Characteristics of six Erigeron kachinensis sites in Natural Bridges National Monument, San Juan County, Utah, were studied to determine habitat requirements for this species. Sites were analyzed with respect to geology, soil chemistry, physical properties, and vegetational characteristics. The alcoves studied were very saline, often with soil surfaces covered with a white crust of salt. Living cover was enhanced by perennially moist soils, diminished amounts of solar radiation, soil salinity, and above-average amounts of available soil phosphorus. Kachina daisy vegetative growth appears to be favored by these same abiotic factors. The most commonly associated plant species on E. kachinensis sites were Aquilegia micrantha, Calamagrostis scopulorum, Zigadenus vaginatus, and Engeron kachinensis. These species and the daisy accounted for more than 75% of the total living cover in the alcoves studied. A principal components analysis procedure was developed for evaluating site suitability for Erigeron kachinensis. This daisy has been successfully introduced to a site selected using that model.
41712709|Soil compaction was measured at four sites within two abandoned mining camps in the western Great Basin Desert, Nevada. Bulk density and macroporosity values were generated from soil samples collected in areas of different land use intensities in camps that had been abandoned for approximately 70 years. Results show that significant differences remain in bulk density values between abandoned roads ana undisturbed areas in both towns, and that the areas around foundation peripheries are still significantly more compacted in one town. There were no significant differences between land use groups as measured by macroporosity. Estimated soil recovery, based on a linear model using bulk density values, suggests that approximately 100 to 130 years are necessary for complete loosening to occur for abandoned roads, and that 100 or fewer years are necessary for complete amelioration of the foundation periphery areas. The wetter townsite, with more freeze-thaw days, finer-grained soils, and greater plant cover, had shorter recovery estimates. These findings suggest that the results of human-use impacts in arid areas may still be apparent long after disturbances cease.
41712177|Insectivorous fishes were sampled from March, 1983 to February 1984, in Flint Creek, Delaware Co., Oklahoma. There was insignificant habitat segregation between Etheostoma spectabile and E. punctulatum and seasonal habitat partitioning between Cottus carolinae and both darters. Mature E. spectabile ate primarily chironomids and mayflies, whereas juveniles fed primarily on microcrustaceans. Mature E. punctulatum consumed fewer Ephemerella and Leptophlebia than E. spectabile , feeding on Stenonema and other crustaceans. Juvenile E. punctulatum fed mainly on amphipods and mayflies, and juvenile E. spectabile ate primarily microcrustaceans. Cottus carolinae elected primarily mayflies in spring-summer and chironomids in January-February. Coefficients of dietary overlap were highest between larger E. spectabile and juvenile E. punctulatum and lowest between immature E. spectabile and mature E. punctulatum. Overlap between the two darters was significantly correlated with differences in mean prey size (p<0.0005). Overlap between sizes of E. spectabile was also significantly correlated to differences in mean prey sizes. Etheostoma spectabile generally preferred smaller prey than E. punctulatum. All three species avoided Stenelmis. Cottus carolinae avoided microcrustaceans. The study showed that resource partitioning among these three insectivorous fishes is affected by complex interactions of habitat and prey electivity, and prey size selectivity.
41712102|This paper presents data on the distribution of Pinus longaeva on the Markagunt Plateau, Utah; and the Snake, Egan, and White Pine ranges of eastern Nevada. It also presents data on the present-day density and age structure of three P. longaeva populations and the growth rates of individual trees within these populations. Conifer species richness and the relative abundance of P. longaeva varies clinally from the Markagunt Plateau to the White Pine Range. The Markagunt Plateau has relatively high conifer species richness (10 species) and low relative abundance of P. longaeva (1%). The White Pine Range has low conifer richness (4 species) and high P. longaeva relative abundance (34%). Individual tree growth rates were low but highly variable in all populations studied. The three populations studied had mixed age structures with a general trend of more younger individuals at the lower elevations. Possible explanations for the present distribution of P. longaeva and the population structures observed are discussed.
41712153|The second nesting record for the Great-tailed Grackle (Quiscalus mexicanus) in Nevada is reported from the central part of the state approximately 240 km north of the previous record. Since 1912 this species has undergone a dramatic northward extension of its previous range in the United States, presumably as a result of increased agricultural irrigation in areas that were previously desert or short-grass prairie.
41711153|A comparative study was made of an exclosure in the mountain brush vegetation of the Wasatch Mountains, Utah. The exclosure is located in Pole Canyon, near Provo, Utah, and was initially analyzed in 1948 and 1949 by Allman (1952, 1953). The dominant woody species of the vegetation in the exclosure were bigtoothed maple (Acer grandidentatum) and Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii). Results indicated that the maple had increased in relative cover whereas the oak decreased Serviceberry (Amelanchier alnifolia) had increased in both relative cover and frequency. Frequency data of forbs and grasses showed a general increase in early flowering annuals and perennials. Starf lower (Tellima parviflora) and wyethia (Wyethia amplexicaulis) were two of the more prominent species which were new in the exclosure. The complete disappearance of western wheat grass (Agropyron smithii) from 67 percent frequency and the increase of Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) represented the greatest changes of grasses in the exclo sure. Precipitation was recorded from May 1, 1958, to April 30, 1959. Soil data obtained included pH, soluble salt content, cation exchange capacities, mechanical analyses, and content of available calcium, magnesium, and potassium. Soils were analyzed at sixinch intervals to a depth of 24 inches.
41712655|The genus Capnia in North America is reviewed and compared to other genera in the family. The genus is divided into 10 species groups. A key to the 51 species of Capnia in North America is given along with a listing of type localities, type repositories, diagnoses, and distributions. New illustrations of structures bearing characters important for identification and classification are presented. An annotation of the list of Capnia of North America given by Stark, Szczytko, and Baumann (1986) reflecting current generic placement of species is produced. From this list Capnia bakeri and sugluka are moved to Mesocapnia. Capnia barbota Frison is placed in synonymy under Capnia decepta. The movement of cygna (synonym of venosa), elevata, fibula, manitoba, venosa, and wanica to Capnura (Nelson and Baumann, 1987b) is noted. Capnia disala and ensicala are placed in Paracapnia.
41711698|The borage Family Boraginaceae is treated for the southwestern United States. Treated are 18 genera, 113 species, and 24 varieties from Arizona, New Mexico, and the desert regions of southeastern California. A key to the genera and species is included along with detailed descriptions, distribution data, chromosome counts when known, and comments for many of the taxa. A proposed new combination is Pbgiobothrys scouleri (H. & A.) I. M. Johnston var. cusickii (E. L. Greene) Higgins.
41712410|Common ravens are usually rather shy birds around their nests and avoid nesting too near human activity. We here report the use of overpasses along heavily traveled Interstate Highway 84 in Idaho and Utah for nest placement. Nests are within 6 m of passing vehicles.
41711495|One species of copepod (Ergasilus elongatus), one trematode (Diclybothrium hamulatum, two nematodes (Camallanus oxycephalus and Contracaecum sp.), and two cestodes (Marsipometra hastata and M. parva) were recoverd from 17 paddlefish (Polyordon spathula) collected from the Yellowstone River, Montana, on 11 and 18 May 1973. The male paddlefish averaged 69.4 nematodes 157.6 cestodes per infected fish while the females averged 12.0 nematodes and 415.7 cestodes. The higher intensity of cestode infection in female paddlefish was attributed to their larger size and consequent greater intake of food resulting in more exposure to the cestode intermediate hosts (Cyclops bicuspidatus).
41712272|Ultrastructure of the chloroplasts of white rubber rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Pallas) Britt. ssp. albicaulis) was observed with electron microscopy. In addition, leaf anatomy was observed with light microscopy. Previously, it had been reported that the leaves of this desert shrub exhibited a relatively high rate of photosynthesis when compared to other C plants. Comparisons with chloroplasts of other C and C plants emonstrated a reduced amount of granal stacking in the rabbitbrush. However, the classification of rabbitbrush as a C plant is confirmed. RUBP-carboxylase concentration is reported at about 450 mg  ml stromal space based on the estimation of 1 mg of chlorophyll per 25 ul of stromal space in a normal C chloroplast and data from an assay to determine the ratio of RUBP-carboxylase to chlorophyll.
41711820|Bird species density, diversity, and species richness in relation to habitat and seasonal variations were studied in the Betatakin Canyon area of Navajo National Monument, Arizona. The two most prominent habitat types are a riparian forest deep in the canyon bottom and a mature pinyon-juniper woodland on the mesas and slopes above the canyon. One hundred thirty-five species of birds were encountered during the study and recorded by season and habitat. The avifauna assemblages demonstrate definite habitat selection into groups associated with the riparian and pinyon-juniper woodland communities. Diversity, density, and species richness were greatest in the riparian habitat during the spring and summer months. The differences in bird community composition were greater between seasons than between habitats. Pinyon pine and Gambel oak were highly selected as perch sites in the pinyon-juniper and riparian areas, respectively.
41713075|Population density, reproduction, and survivorship were compared between 2 populations of Sceloporus grammicus occurring at different altitudes (3700 m and 4400 m) on the eastern slopes of Iztaccihuatl Volcano, Puebla, Mxico. Lizards in both populations matured at the same age (14-15 mon) and size (39-42 mm SLV). Population density was slightly greater at high altitude (131-163 per ha) than at low altitude (52-83 per ha). Survivorship and Ro were higher at the low-altitude area, but in general there were no significant demographic variations between altitudes that have been reported in lizard population at higher latitudes. Studies of lower-elevation populations might reveal some differences because previous studies indicate that litter size increases at lower altitudes, although they do not differ between our 3700 m and 4400 m populations.
41712465|This is a study of the populations of Thamnophis sirtalis that occur in Chihuahua, Mexico, and the adjoining U.S. state of New Mexico. Reference is made to previous studies dealing with geographical and systematic relationships. Additional data are provided for the New Mexico subspecies (dorsalis), and the relationship of T. s. parietalis to the New Mexico population is discussed. The Chihuahua population is described as a new subspecies.
41712679|An artifact constructed from a bison (Bison bison) hornsheath was recovered from the surface of a sandstone shelter also containing skeletal remains of bison and bighorn (Ovis canadensis). Radiocarbon dating of bison, bighorn, and the artifact indicate that all co-occurred on the central Colorado Plateau, southeastern Utah, either between A.D. 1405 and A.D. 1420, or between A.D. 1535 and A.D. 1605. Skeletal remains of the bison imply that the animal was of the local faunal community during the transition between Protohistoric and Historic time.
41711385|New synonymy affecting North and Central American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Arapius Eichhoff (= Neodryocoetes Eggers, Thamnophthorus Schedl, Sphenoceros Schedl), Coccotrypes Eichhoff (= Poecilips Schaufuss), Gnathotrichus Eichhoff (= Ancyloderes Blackman, Prognathotrichus Bright), Gnathotrupes Schedl (= Gnathotrypanus Wood), Araptus hymenaeae (Eggers), n. comb., (= Neodryocoetes insularis Eggers, Neodryocoetes caribaeus Blackman, Neodryocoetes guianae Blackman, Neodryocoetes hoodi Blackman), Araptus laevigatus (Eggers), n. comb. (= Neopityophthorus insularis Eggers, Neodryocoetes guadeloupensis Schedl), Araptus macer Bright, n. comb. (= Neodryocoetes tuber culatus Bright), Araptus politus (Blandford), n. comb. (= Neodryocoetes hubbardi Blackman), Araptus tabogae (Blackman), n. comb. (= Neodryocoetes vinealis Bright), Cnesinus elegantis Wood (= Cnesinus zapotecus Bright), Coccotrypes advena Blandford (= Thqmnurgides persicae Hopkins), Corthylocurus barbatus (Blandford) (= Corthylocurus cincinnatus Bright), Corthylocurus mexicanus (Schedl) (= Corthylus anomalus Bright), Cor thy lus mexicanus Schedl (= Corthylus glabinus Bright), Crypturgus pusillus (Gyllenhal) (= Crypturgus atomus LeConte), Dendrocranulus carbonarius (Ferrari) (= Xylocleptes floridensis Hopkins, Xylocleptes anonae Hopkins), Dendrocranulus cucurbitae (Le-Conte) (= Xylocleptes californicus Hopkins, Xylocleptes venturina Hopkins, Xylocleptes punctatus Hopkins), Dendrocranulus macilentus (Blandford) (= Dendrocranulus grossopunctatus Schedl), Hylastes salebrosus Eichhoff (= Hylastes scobinosus Eichhoff), Hypothenemus seriatus (Eichhoff) (= Stephanoderes pulverulentus Eichhoff), Ips spinifer (Eichhoff) (= Orthotomicus sabinianae Hopping), Leperisinus aculeatus (Say) (= Hylesinus imperialis Eichhoff), Micracis lignator Blackman (= Micracis truncatus Wood), Micracis swainei Blackman (= Micracis photophilus Wood), Micracis suturalis LeConte (= Micracis meridianus Blackman), Monarthrum querneus Wood (= Monarthrum bifidus Bright), Orthotomicus caelatus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus vicinus LeConte, Xyleborus punctipennis LeConte), Coccotrypes indicus (Eggers) (= Xyleborus conspeciens Schedl, Coccotrypes insularis Eggers, Poecilips eggersi Schedl), Phloeoborus asper Erichson (= Phloeoborus ovatus Chapuis, Phloeoborus rugatus Blandford), Phloeoborus rudis Erichson (= Phloeoborus elongatus Chapuis, Phloeoborus rugipennis Eggers), Phloeotribus armatus Blandford (= Phloeotribus mixtecus Bright), Phloeotribus demessus Blandford (= Phloeotribus tuber culatus Eggers), Phloeotribus pilula (Erichson) (= Phloeotribus obliquus Chapuis, Phloeotribus manni Blackman), Phloeotribus setulosus Eichhoff (= Phloeotribus asperatus Blandford), Pityoborus frontalis Wood (= Pityoborus seyerus Bright), Pityoborus secundus Blackman (= Pityoborus tertius Blackman, Pityoborus immitus Bright, Pityoborus intonsus Wood, Pityoborus ramosus Bright), Pycnarthrum hispidum (Ferrari) (= Nemobius lambottei Chapuis, Pycnarthrum gracile Eichhoff, Pycnarthrum quadraticolle Eichhoff, Pycnarthrum transversum Blandford, Pycnarthrum reimoseri Schedl, Pycnarthrum reticulatus Schedl), Pseudopityophthorus declivis Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus truncatus Bright, Pseudopityophthorus curtus Bright), Pseudopityophthorushondurensis Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus montanus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus micans Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus squamosus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus opacicollis Blackman (= Pseudopityophthorus aesculinus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus pruinosus (Eichhoff) (= Pseudopityophthorus pulvereus Blackman, Pseudopityophthorus tropicalis Wood, Pseudopityophthorus convexus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus singularis Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus acuminatus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus tennis Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus hirsutus Bright), Stenocleptus sulcatus (Bruck) (= Stenocleptus ceanothi Blackman, Stenocleptus rhois Blackman), Thysanoes texanus Blackman (= Thysanoes vachelliae Blackman, Thysanoes ratamae Blackman), Trypophloeus striatulus (Mannerheim) (= Trypophloeus nitidus Swaine), Xyleborus capucinus Eichhoff ), Xyleborus rufithorax Eichhoff), Xyleborus pubescens Zimmermann (= Xyleborus pini Say of Eichhoff), Xylosandrus curtulus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus biseriatus Schedl). Carphotoreus, n. gen., is described for Chaetophloeus alni Bright. Coccotrypes sannio (Schaufuss) is treated as a taxon distinct from Coccotrypes advena Blandford; and Gnathotrichus consentaneus Blandford is a valid species distinct from Gnathotrichus sulcatus LeConte. Gnathotrichus bituberculatus Blandford and all described South American species of Gnathotrichus are transferred to Gnathotrupes.
41712004|Examination of stomach contents indicated that second-year Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum larvae consumed Limnephilus sp. larvae but rarely ingested the case. Feeding observations of captive salamanders on caddisfly larvae supported this finding. Extraction of caddisfly larvae from their case was accomplished only when larval salamanders quickly seized the anterior portion of ambulatory Limnephilus sp. extended from their case and vigorously shook the trichopteran from side to side.
41711363|The Physaria species which occur in Utah are revised. This study is based on the treatment of this genus by Rollins (1939) and Mulligen (1967). Keys, descriptions, distribution maps, herbarium specimen citations, and discussions of the taxonomy of the genus are presented.
41711561|Two mule deer herds were studied on comparable, adjacent winter ranges in Utah. Significant differences in overwinter fawn survival were attributed to intensive predator control.
41712407|The characteristics of kokanee (Oncorhynchus nerka) spawning stocks in the Green River and Sheep Creek (tributaries to Flaming Gorge Reservoir) are described as observed in fall 1985 and spring 1986: the time of spawning; length, age, and sex structure of the stocks; fecundity and egg retention; density of eggs in redds; and the timing of downstream drift of emerging fry. The time of spawning, length-frequency distributions of spawning fish, and egg density in redds differed between the two stocks, but other differences were not observed.
41711688|A successful ground nesting by Swainson's Hawks, Buteo swainsoni, is reported for central Utah. Unusual aggressive nest defense behavior is described for this ground nesting pair.
41711686|Selected stonefly genera found in North America are classified as to their occurrence in: cold lotie, warm lotie, or lentie habitats. Most genera occur only in the cold lotie, but several occur both in cold and warm lotie systems. Few are found exclusively in warm lotie habitats and almost none in lentie. Lake or true lentie inhabits are found to usually be cold lotie species which have adapted to life in the wave-washed shores of cold mountain lakes. Even though data at the specific level would be even more useful, especially where different faunal regions are involved, stoneflies are probably the best insect indicators of aquatic environmental quality at the generic level.
41711838|The nest of the ant Formica propinqua W. M. Wheeler is reported from Washoe Co., Nevada.
41711733|Michel Gandoger, a notorious "splitter," proposed several new entities in the plant genus Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) in a 1906 paper published in Belgium. Because he used the term species at two different ranks, in violation of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature, many of his names are invalid. Unlike his papers published in France, this one was apparently edited so that some names were validly published and some are invalid. A review of the 1906 Eriogonum paper shows that a majority of both specific and infraspecific entities proposed are valid, but some names, long in use and assumed to be valid, are, in fact, invalid. Even so, most of his names are synonyms. Each name proposed by Gandoger is reviewed and a nomenclatural and taxonomic disposition made. Two new combinations are made within E. luteolum Greene, var. caninum (Greene) Reveal and var. pedunculatum (S. Stokes) Reveal.
41712879|A new subspecies of Artemisia arbuscula is described, A. arbuscula ssp. longicaulis Winward & McArthur, ssp. nov. This taxon is a landscape dominant in portions of northwestern Nevada and adjacent California and Oregon at elevations from 1050 to 2000 m on shallow or argillic (clayey) soils. It differs from A. arbuscula ssp. arbuscula in its long floral stalks and large leaves. Morphological, chemical, ecological, and cytological data suggest that it is of hybrid origin. It is hexaploid (6x). We hypothesize that 2x A. arbuscula ssp. arbuscula and 4x A. indentata ssp. wyomingensis are its parents.
41712867|This study investigated local distribution and foraging behavior of the spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) in Dinosaur National Monument, Colorado-Utah, by monitoring audible echolocation calls. The occurrence of this species was verified in a variety of habitat types in canyon bottoms and other relatively low elevation sites, indicating that the animals are widely distributed and locally common in the area. Foraging spotted bats concentrated flight activity in the open-air space above meadows and occasionally exploited near-canopy habitat (within 8 m of foliage). Bats began to forage shortly after dark, and activity levels were relatively constant throughout the night. Foraging spotted bats attacked airborne prey every 2.15 min on average. Consistent with published observations, spotted bats maintained exclusive foraging areas. Distinct vocalizations indicating agonistic encounters occurred when a bat encroached on the foraging area of a conspecific.
41711678|Collections of diurnal insects from a population of Phlox bryoides on shortgrass prairie in southeastern Wyoming showed the flowers to be visited predominantly by Synhalonia fulvitarsis, a long-tongued bee. Analysis of pollen loads carried by captured bees revealed that almost all individuals were collecting Phlox pollen. P. bryoides may be an exception to the generalization that the genus Phlox is exclusively pollinated by Lepidoptera.
41712612|Six species of the coccidian genus Eimeria (E. larimerensis [prevalence = 17%], E. bilamellata [12%], E. beecheyi [34%], E. morainensis [43%], E. callospermophili [21%], and E. spermophili [5%]) were recovered from Wyoming ground squirrels (Spermophilus elegans elegans) collected during 1983, 1984, 1985, and 1986. Infected ground squirrels were found to harbor from one to five species simultaneously. The 1007 hosts examined were collected from two different habitats: (1) a xeric desert shrub-steppe and (2) an irrigated alfalfa-brome field. All species of Eimeria occurred at each study site during all years, although the prevalence of each species varied between years. This is the first report of these congeries of species infecting this host. In a second study of sympatric populations of Wyoming ground squirrels and white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus), we found three species of Eimeria present in both host populations (E. beecheyi [white-tailed prairie dog prevalence = 83%, Wyoming ground squirrel = 52%], E. morainensis [22%, 52%], and E. bilamellata [17%, 10%]). This is the first report of these three species infecting white-tailed prairie dogs. Eimeria larimerensis was found in Wyoming ground squirrels but not in prairie dogs.
41711746|This paper is the third in a series dealing with a revision of the flora of Utah. Treated herein are 9 genera and 23 species, including both commonly cultivated, escaped, and indigenous representatives. Proposed new taxa include Sphaeralcea grossulariifolia (H. and A.) Rydb. var. moorei Welsh, Sphaeralcea leptophylla (Gray) Rydb. var. janeae Welsh, and Sphaeralcea psoraloides Welsh.
41711684|Stenopelmatus mescaleroensis is described from New Mexico as new to science. A key to the Stenopelmatus of the United States is presented with notes on chaetotaxy used for these crickets.
41711399|Rodent trapping was conducted in representative northern Great Basin habitat types for six consecutive years to determine the magnitude of density change, the specific habitat affinities, and the effects of habitat alteration on rodent density. Although species responded differently, total rodent density was greater in depleted shadscale and sagebrush communities than in comparable pristine sites. However, disturbed sites with nearly pure stands of weedy introduced annuals supported few rodents. Several species exhibited abrupt and concurrent yearly changes in density. The factors causing these changes were not identified. Until this information is available, we can develop only crude models to predict the direction and magnitude of population change.
41712555|Radiotelemetry was used to evaluate lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) nesting response to herbicidal conversion of sand shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) rangeland to grassland. Hens selected nest sites in residual grasses within lightly grazed sand shinnery oak habitat with > 75% vertical screening in the first 0.33 m and 50% overhead cover.
41712491|Annual plant populations in northwestern New Mexico were found to be spatially and temporally highly variable. During favorable years annual plant species have patterns of dominance and diversity that are different from those of perennial species. Measurement of perennial plant diversity in plant communities is a poor predictor of productivity. Both perennial and annual components of plant communities should be considered in measurements of diversity and productivity.
41711870|Analysis of morphological characters of Arceuthobium apachecum and A. blumeri indicates there are several geographically consistent differences between these taxa, which supports their current classification at the specific level. Shoot height and perianth lobe number exhibited considerable geographic variation, and some morphological characters examined were continuous. Peak flowering and seed dispersal periods for these species differed slightly. Altitudinal, seasonal, and latitudinal variations in flowering and seed dispersal were detected and may be responsible for the differences in phenology between these taxa.
41712726|The present distribution of the Mexican vole (Microtus mexicanus) is not entirely the product of post-Pleistocene forest fragmentation and extinction; recent dispersal also is indicated. Literature records further suggest that this phenomenon may reflect a general pattern of northward range expansion in many southwestern mammal species.
41711540|A survey of the helminth parasites of 100 stray cats and 50 dogs was conducted. Each host was euthanized, and the internal organs were excised and examined for parasites. Helminths identified from cats included the tapeworms Dipylidium caninum and Hydatigera taeniaformis, and the nematodes Physaloptera sp. and Toxocara mystax. Two species of coccidia, Isospora felis and I. rivolta, and one ectoparasitic mite, Cheyletiella parasitivorax, were also recovered from cats during sugar flotation of the feces. Helminths identified from dogs included the tapeworms D. caninum, Taenia hydatigena, T. krabbei, and T. pisiformis, and the nematodes Filaroides milksi, Toxascaris leonina, and Toxocara cards. Of those parasites collected, D. caninum, T. canis, and T. mystax are known to cause accidental infection in humans and could represent potential health hazards in this region.
41712795|Globemallows (Sphaeralcea spp.) are arid land forbs suitable for seeding with crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum [L.] Gaertner). However, little is known about the quantitative role of total nonstructural carbohydrates (TNC) in relation to globemallow tolerance of grazing, or about seasonal dynamics of mineral elements. The objectives of this study were to compare TNC and element pools (concentration X biomass) in the roots, crowns, and shoots of clipped versus undipped S. munroana (Dougl.) Spach. Seedlings of S. munroana were transplanted to a northern Utah field site in 1985. Interplanted crested wheatgrass provided a uniform competitive background. One-half of the globemallows were clipped to 5 cm on 10 May 1986 when stems were elongating and root and crown TNC pools were low. The remaining globemallows were not clipped. Root, crown, and shoot pools of TNC and elements (N, P, K, Ca, and Mg) were determined on 1 May, 20 May, 7 June, 11 July, 22 September, and 5 November 1986, and 29 May 1987. Defoliation did not affect shoot weights during a 1-year period. Experiment-long TNC and element pools also were not affected by clipping. Results indicate that S. munroana shoot recovery from a single spring grazing during a 1-year period would not be impaired by low root and crown TNC pools, and that TNC stored in the roots and crowns would account for only 7% of the regrowth produced. Furthermore, TNC and element pools of roots and crowns were generally constant from May to September but increased from September to November. TNC and element pools in shoots increased from May to September and then generally declined by November. TNC pools of roots and crowns declined during winter.
41711734|Twenty Catostomus latipinnis and 50 Catostomus discobolis from La Verkin Creek and the Fremont River in southern Utah were collected and surveyed for parasites. Data from the survey indicated that 83 percent of the fish were infected with at least one parasite, with the fish from La Verkin Creek harboring more parasites. Twelve genera and 12 species of parasites were identified from these fish. A monogenetic trematode, Gyrodactylus elegans, which was found in 90 percent of the fish, was the most common parasite. Comments are included on habitat and host variations for the parasitofauna from suckers taken from the two locations.
41711993|The 27-acre Kramer Palouse Natural Area located in southeastern Washington State represents the best remaining example of what was once the most productive portion of the original Palouse Prairie. This area is being maintained in its pristine condition as a key to the past and as a memory to a unique and once extensive prairie land by the Department of Forestry and Range Management at Washington State University.
41712699|In Platypodidae the new name Genyocerus strohmeyeri replaced the junior homonym G. albipennis Strohmeyer, 1942, and the new name Platypus apphnatulus replaced the junior homonym Platypus applanatus Schedl, 1976. New names are presented in Scolytidae as replacements for junior homonyms as follows: Cryphalus brownei for Cryphalus artocarpus Schedl, 1958; Cyclorhipidion dihingicum for Xyleborus dihingensis Schedl, 1951; Hypothenemus aterrimulus for Lepiceroides (now Hypothenemus) aterrimus Schedl, 1957; Hypothenemus krivolutskayae for Hypothenemus insularis Krivolutskaya; Pityophthorus africanulus for Neodryocoetes (now Pityophthorus) africanus Schedl, 1962; Scolytogenes papuensis for Xylocryptus (now Scolytogenes) papuanus Schedl, 1975; Scolytogenes paradoxus for Scolytogenes papuanus Schedl, 1979; Xyleborinus spiniposticus for Eidophelus (now Xyleborinus) spinipennis Schedl, 1979; Xyleborus formosae for Xyleborus formosanus Browne, 1981. New combinations for fossil Scolytidae include Dryocoetes diluvialis for Pityophthoroidea diluvialis Wickham, 1916, and Hylesinus hydropicus for Apidocephalus hydropicus Wickham, 1916. Phloeotribus zimmermanni Wickham, 1916, is transferred to the family Curculionidae. In Scolytidae, Cryphalophilus Schedl, 1970, is a junior generic synonym of Scolytogenes Eichhoff; Macrocryphalus Nobuchi, 1981, is a junior generic synonym of Hypothenemus Westwood, 1836; Nipponopolygraphus Nobuchi, 1981, is a junior generic synonym of Polygraphus Erichson, 1836; Pseudocosmoderes Nobuchi, 1981, is a junior generic synonym of Cosmoderes Eichhoff, 1878; Taphrocoetes Pfeffer, 1987, is a junior generic synonym of Taphrorychus Eichhoff; Trypanophellos Bright, 1982, is a junior generic synomym of Liparthrum Wollaston. New specific synonymy in Scolytidae includes: Brachyspartus moritzi Ferrari (=Corthylus obtusus Schedl), Carphoborus minimus (Fabricius) (=Carphoborus balgensis Murayama), Coccotrypes dactyliperda (Fabricius) (= Coccotrypes tropicus Eichhoff), Cryphalus scabricollis Eichhoff (=Cryphalus brevicollis Schedl), Ficicis despects (Walker) (=Hylesinus samoanus Schedl), Hylastes plumbeus Blandford (=Hylurgops fushunensis Murayama), Hylurgops interstitialis (Chapuis) (= Hylurgops niponicus Murayama), Hylurgops spessivtsevi Eggers (=Hylurgops modestus Murayama), Ips stebbingi Strohmeyer (=Ips schmutzenhoferi Holzschuh), Phloeosinus rudis Blandford (=Phloeosinus shotoensis Murayama, Polygraphus kaimochi (Nobuchi) (= Polygraphus querci Wood), Polygraphus proximus Blandford (=Polygraphus magnus Murayama), Scolytogenes braderi Browne (=Scolytogenes onentalis Schedl), Scolytoplatypus parvus Sampson (=Scolytoplatypus ruficauda Eggers), Sphaerotrypes querci Stebbing (=Chramesus globulus Stebbing, Sphaerotrypes tectus Beeson), Sueus niisimai (Eggers) (=Sphaerotrypes controversae Murayama), Tomicus brevipihsus (Eggers) (=Blastophagus khasianus Murayama, Blastophagus multisetosus Murayama). The European Hylastes opacus Erichson is reported as an established breeding population in New York (USA). Phloeosinus armatus Reitter of Asia Minor is reported as causing economic damage as a new introduction to Los Angeles County, California. The following species are named as new to science: Cyclorhipidion subagnatum (Philippine Islands), Dendrotrupes zealandicus (New Zealand), Polygraphus thitsi (Burma), Triotemnus pilicornis (India), and Xyleborus magnificus (Peru).
41712422|A list of the algal species that have been reported from the state of Utah is presented. Also listed are the habitats from which these algae were collected. A total of nearly 1,900 taxa have been identified to the species level or below. Diatoms comprise the largest group, with nearly 1,000 taxa, followed by the green algae with over 550 taxa.
41711699|The subfamily Anomiopsyllinae in North America consists of five genera: Anomiopsyllus Baker; Callistopsyllus Jordan and Rothschild; Conorhinopsylla Stewart; Megarthroglossus Jordan and Rothschild; and Stenistomera Rothschild. The revision of Anomiopsyllus was the subject of a previous paper, and the remaining four genera are treated herein. The North American genus Jordanopsylla Traub and Tipton and the Palearctic genus Wagnerina Ioff and Argyropulo had been included in the subfamily Anomiopsyllinae by Ioff and Argyropulo, but these two genera possess characters which are not consistent with the current definition of the subfamily. All species are considered to be "nest fleas," but modifications for a nest habitat are more pronounced in some species than others. Diagnoses, descriptions, and keys are given for genera and most species. In addition, illustrations, host records, and geographical distribution are given for each of the 21 species.
41712600|Efforts between 1982 and 1990 have failed to recover and secure three natural populations of endangered Sonoran topminnow (Poeciliopsis o. occidentalis) at Bylas Springs, Arizona. Flooding in the Gila River in 1977-78 allowed ingress by predatory mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), and topminnows began to decline. Since that time (1) one stock has been replaced twice and is again nearly gone because of depredations by mosquitofish that resisted two eradication attempts; (2) topminnows at a second spring were extirpated through vegetation encroachment after fencing to protect the habitat from livestock; and (3) a third population was lost to mosquitofish, restocked after the nonnative was removed, and the restocked population is again in jeopardy, or extirpated, since mosquitofish reinvaded. Recommendations for a more intensive program of recovery are based on reassessments of past efforts and new suggestions for eradication and exclusion of mosquitofish.
41711878|During the years 1965-1971, considerable data were gathered that included information concerning species not previously reported. These included Chionactis occipatalis talpina, Coleonyx variegatus utahensis, Crotaphytus colforis bicinctores, Cnemidophorus tigris tigris, and Sauromalus obesus obesus. Although complete information concerning their life histories is not reported, some information concerning growth and reproduction is included.
41704202|The taxonomic history of the genus Gymnodamaeus is reviewed for North American species. A new species, Gymnodamaeus chalazionus, is described from Colorado and compared with species from both the western and eastern U.S. Among other features, the new species differs from G. veriornatus Higgins, 1961, in the shorter interlamellar hairs and the surface structure of the notogaster and genital plates. The new species is also compared with G. quadricaudatus Jacot, 1937, G. pearsei and minor Banks, 1947; with G. gildersleeveae and ornatus Hammer 1952, from Canada, and with G. elegantulus Hammer, 1958, from South America. Twelve scanning electron micrographs are used to delineate some of the details of integument and other features.
41712192|Reviewed are the oak taxa as they are presently understood in Utah. Keys and descriptions are included, occurrences are cited, and problems of hybridization are discussed. Named as new varieties from Utah are Quercus gambelii Nutt. var. bonina Welsh and Quercus havardii Rydb. var. tuckeri Welsh. Both varieties occur in southeastern Utah. Quercus eastwoodiae Rydb. is proposed as a hybrid.
41712150|The efficacy of cutting (haying) versus burning was compared for control of marsh vegetation in Utah. Cutting reduced production of hardstem bulrush (Scirpus lacustris), alkali bulrush (S. maritimus), and cattail (Typha spp.) compared to levels found on burned plots, but differences were significant (P < 0.05) only within the alkali bulrush vegetation type. Clipping saltgrass (Distichlis spicata) plots greatly reduced production upon reflooding, which produced results similar to prescribed burning and reflooding. Heat penetration into the sediments during the fire was not sufficient to cause substantial belowground mortality. Without belowground mortality, prescribed burning alone did not change aboveground production or species composition. Flooding after fire did eliminate saltgrass, but a single prescribed burning or cutting was not an effective management tool for reducing production of cattail, hardstem bulrush, and alkali bulrush.
41712862|The chronology of Juniperus occidentalis (western juniper) expansion in eastern Oregon, the effect of plant canopy and interspace on J. occidentalis seedling establishment and growth rates, and the age of J. occidentalis maximum reproductive potential were determined. Measurements were recorded in twenty-two 0.4-ha plots established in sagebrush-grassland communities and six 0.1-ha plots in Populus tremuloides (quaking aspen) communities. J. occidentalis began increasing during the 1880s in stands containing trees > 130 yr old. Relatively steady establishment ensued into the 1950s and then began to progress at a geometric rate in the 1960s. J. occidentalis encroachment into aspen stands began between 1910 and 1920. The largest proportion of juvenile trees established beneath Artemisia species in sagebrush-grassland communities. J. occidentalis trees appeared to reach full reproductive potential at >50 yr of age. The ratio of male: female trees increased from 1.7 in scattered J. occidentalis stands to 3.8 in closed stands. The initiation of J. occidentals encroachment during the late 1800s coincides with optimal climatic conditions for Juniperus berry production and establishment, reduced fire-return intervals, and heavy livestock grazing. The accelerated increase in J. occidentalis expansion since 1960 may be due to the continued absence of fire, abundant woody plant cover, and the large increase in J. occidentalis seed production.
41712566|Patterned ground consisting of Mima-type earth mounds and associated sorted stone circles and nets is widespread on the Columbia Plateau of western North America. Studies of the geometric relationships of mounds and stone nets to slope aspect and steepness were carried out at the Lawrence Memorial Grassland Preserve, north central Oregon, in June 1987. Mound and moundfield characteristics were sampled on randomly chosen 1-ha plots on slopes of different aspect and steepness. Mounds were largest, most circular and symmetrical in form, and most fully encircled by beds of size-sorted stones on level sites. On slopes of increasing steepness, mounds decreased in size, showed increasing asymmetry and downslope elongation, and became connected into lines oriented up-and downslope. Encircling stone beds became more weakly developed or disappeared on upslope and downslope sides of the mounds, and the lateral beds developed downslope extensions that eventually merged with those of adjacent upslope and downslope mounds. These patterns are interpreted as reflecting changes in the manner of soil translocation by northern pocket gophers, Thomomys talpoides, due to their responses to tunneling on slopes and to the modification of the flow of water across the slope because of the presence of mounds.
41711803|In this study, mule deer population trend data (deer-days-use/hectare) were statistically analyzed with range area data that were extracted from LANDSAT satellite imagery. The remote sensing techniques developed use multidate, winter images of an area in central Utah. Snow-covered areas and vegetational areas mapped from the imagery were composited into 26 maps representing the approximate winter range available to mule deer on 26 dates over a five-year period (1972-1977). Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources pellet-group transect data were statistically analyzed with range data measured from the satellite imagery. Range area accounted for a fairly large proportion of the variation in deer-days-use/hectare (r = .83). This result seems reasonable since deer population density should increase as available range decreases.
41712439|Five species of Ciconiiforms breed in Wyoming: the American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus), Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), and White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi). Field surveys conducted from 1984 through 1986 indicate that at least 151 Great Blue Heron colony sites exist in Wyoming, making it the most abundant and widespread Ciconiiform in the state. Only small breeding populations have been discovered for the remaining species. Except for the Snowy Egret, where numbers of active nests have remained relatively stable, population trends are unknown for the other species. We believe most colonies have been found in Wyoming, but additional inventories may result in the discovery of other nesting areas, especially for the Great Blue Heron.
41712142|Crystal Ball Cave is located in a small outlier of the Snake Range in Snake Valley 1.7 km (1 mile) west of Lake Bonneville at its highest level. Original vertebrate skeletal material (mostly mammalian) has been found in shallow dry dust 61 m (200 feet) inside the cave. Radiocarbon dates show that fossils have been accumulating since at least 23,000 Y.B.P. It appears that wood rats and possibly small carnivores transported the fossils into the cave because only the smallest elements of large mammals are represented. The fossil assemblage represents a much more boreal community than the present local fauna. Fish, Ondatra zibethicus, and Musteh cf. vison, which require perennial water, were recovered, as were Ochotona princeps, Lepus cf. americana, Microtus cf. pennsylvanicus, Vulpes vulpes, and Maries americana, which have also been extirpated from the Snake Range. Marmota flaviventris, Neotoma cinrea, cf. Cervus elaphus, and Ovis canadensis were recovered but now occur only at higher elevations in the range. Extinct taxa recovered are Smilodon cf. fatalis, Equus species, Camelops cf. hesternus, Hemiauchenia cf. macrocephala, cf. Symbos cavifrons, and a new species of Brachyprotoma, herein named B. brevimala. This is the first recovery of Brachyprotoma from the western United States.
41711348|Observations indicate that Formica obscuripes flies earlier in Nevada than in other parts of the country where the flights have been recorded. The alate males are the first to emerge from the nest. These are eventually succeeded by alate females, and finally only females are seen. F. obscuripes flew during periods when air temperatures were 20.526.5 C, when relative humidities were about 18%, and when solar input was about 1.35 langleys. Slight winds approaching 3 mph did not keep the ants from flying but may have influenced their direction of flight. The nests of F. obscuripes observed near Reno differ from those reported in other areas in that they do not have such an extensive thatch covering them.
41712510|Habitat use and selection by Merriam's Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) in Wasco County, Oregon, was studied during 1981-82. This turkey population selectively used forested cover types (such as ponderosa pine-Douglas-fir-oak, ponderosa pine-oak) characterized by a variety of structural features, species, and age classes. The population used single species forested cover types (oak, ponderosa pine) less than expected, used nonforested cover types in proportion to their availability, and avoided forested cover types with structure simplified by logging activities. The four age and sex classes had large seasonal home ranges ($\bar X$ = 1,615 ha); the smallest home ranges were exhibited by adult males in winter and the largest were shown by subadult males in fall. In most instances, turkeys used cover types as they were available. We suggest that structural complexity of vegetation, both within and among cover types, is an important component of habitat for Merriam's Wild Turkeys that should be considered in the evaluation of potential release sites and in habitat management plans.
41712175|From 1972 to 1982 three exceptionally large sauropod scapulocoracoids and other equally large sauropod bones were collected from the base of the Brushy Basin Member of the Upper Jurassic, Morrison Formation, in western Colorado. Two of the scapulae are conspecific, but the third represents a second genus and possibly a new family. The two conspecific specimens are described here as: Supersaurus vivianae; the second genus is described as Ultrasaurus mcintoshi, and a large, robust anterior dorsal vertebra of unique form is described as Dystylosaurus edwini. Various miscellaneous elements are referred to the three genera.
41712769|Shrub-form and tree-form Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) stands contain a potentially significant fuelwood resource. Information on their growth characteristics can form a basis for future stand management. Stem analyses showed that height growth of shrub-form stems essentially ceased after age 50, while tree-form stems continued to increase in height until approximately age 100. Both stem forms continued to increase in basal area and volume at a relatively constant rate as the stems increased in age and size. Increases in all size measures were substantially greater in tree-form stems than in shrub-form stems. Mean bole volume for tree-form stems at age 100 was over 16 times that of shrub-form stems. Sprouts from tree-form stands would reach minimum size for fuelwood marketing in approximately 45 years.
41711938|Named as a new species is Penstemon albifluvis J. L. England. The species is known from the Uinta Basin of Utah and Colorado.
41713051|Reexaminaron of a semiarid foothill rangeland, first evaluated in 1948, indicated that secondary succession continues to shift toward a perennial grass-forb community formerly dominated by xeric shrubs, particularly big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata spp. vaseyana). The direct role of livestock grazing in establishment and maintenance of shrub-dominant plant communities appears confirmed in the decline of shrubs upon cessation of livestock grazing in summer and continued browsing by mule deer in winter. The reduction of shrub forages on mule deer winter ranges is a major factor in population declines.
41712336|At four sites in Idaho, frequency was measured separately with three different-sized plots (10  25, 15  33.5, and 20  50 cm) arranged in a nested configuration. These individual frequency values were added together to create a summed "frequency." This summed value was compared to the original frequency values generated by each individual plot size in respect to its ability to detect range trend. The summation procedure consistently detected smaller changes in frequency than any individual plot size. In addition, the summed values detected a significant change in more species at each site. Summing the frequency values usually detected changes at a lower alpha level than did any single plot (0.10 vs. 0.20).
41712144|The 23 species and subspecies of Poa that occur in New Mexico are described in detail. Collection locations of these species in New Mexico are given in dot distribution maps. A descriptive key to the species of Poa that occur in Arizona, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, and New Mexico, including general distribution for species not in New Mexico, is provided. Three new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Poa arctica subsp. aperta; P. fendleriana subsp. longiligula ; P. f. subsp. albescens. Subgeneric affinities of species of the southern Rocky Mountain region are indicated. Of the 25 species that occur within the region, the geographic affinities are; circumpolar (P. alpina, P. arctica, P. glauca, P. interior, and P. leptocoma), Beringian (P. lettermanii, and P. pattersonii), Eurasian weeds (P. annua, P. bulbosa, P. compressa, P. palustris, P. pratensis (also circumpolar), and P. trivialis), Pacific Northwest (P. bohnderi, P. cusickii, P. nervosa, and P. stenantha), northern Great Plains (P. arida), southern Great Plains and South American Pampas (P. arachnifera), Great Basin-Californian (P. fendleriana and P. secunda), and Middle and Southern Rocky Mountain (P. bigelovii, P. curta, P. occidentalis, P. reflexa, and P. tracyi). The only native diploid Poa species known in the Southern Rocky Mountains, the contiguous United States, and southern Canada are P. lettermanii and P. occidentalis.
41711821|A clutch of 8 eggs was incubated. Three hatchlings emerged and were weighed, measured and color pattern indicated.
41711426|Six new species of Microvelia are described from North and Central America: depressus, glabrosulcata, leavipleura, paura, psilonota, and reflexus. These species are compared to Microvelia austrina Bueno, and the austrina group is designated to hold them. The habitats and phoresy of the group are discussed.
41712117|Monthly percent nutrient and moisture levels of plant species on two summer ranges in the River of No Return Wilderness Area of Idaho were determined. Festuca idahoensis exhibited the highest average crude protein content of graminoids on both study areas. Achillea millefolium and Balsamorhiza saggittata at Rush Point and Trifolium spp. and Achillea millefolium at Cold Meadows possessed the highest mean crude protein content of the forbs examined. Grasses exhibited greater average seasonal levels of crude fiber, and forbs generally contained significantly larger levels of Ca, P, and moisture.
41712091|A four-season live trapping study in the Whirlwind Valley, on the Lander and Eureka county lines near the Humboldt River, yielded two species previously unrecorded from both counties, Ammospermophilus lencurus and Peromyscus truei. Both records represent minimal airline range extension of 113 and 105 km. It is suggested that the distribution of A. leucurus may include the entire northeastern quadrant of Nevada. The occurrence of P. truei in sagebrush habitat 21 km from the nearest pinyon woodland is unusual and suggests that this species may occur patchily distributed throughout the lower elevation ranges in the northern portion of the state.
41712588|The soil fungal community beneath pinyon (Finns edulis Engelm.) and one-seeded juniper (Juniperus monosperma [Engelm.] Sarg.) tree canopies is described and compared with fungi from adjacent interspace soils dominated by blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis [H.B.K.] Lag.). Significantly higher organic matter contents and fungal propagule levels were found in soils beneath pinyon and juniper trees than in interspace soils. Soils under pinyon and juniper trees contained similar chemical, physical, and biological properties and, consequently, many groups of fungi in common (64% of the species isolated were common to both). In contrast, soil fungi in adjacent interspace soils were vastly different from those collected in soils beneath pinyon and juniper canopies (44% and 48% species in common, respectively). Soil fungi that were isolated more often from pinyon-juniper soils than from interspace soils included Absidia spp., Beauvaria spp., Gliocladium spp., Mucor spp., Penicillium cyclopium, P. fascicuhta, P. frequentons, P. restrictum, Thamnidium spp, and Trichoderma spp. Soil fungi that were isolated more often in interspace soils than in pinyon or juniper soils included Aspergillus alutaceus spp., A. fumigatus, some Fusarium spp., Penicillium luteum, and P. talaromyces.
41712296|Hatching chronology of Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) in northeastern Oregon was determined from 431 immatures examined from 1981 to 1985. Young hatched from 1 May through 8 July; median hatching dates for the five years ranged from 27 May to 5 June. Peak hatching in Oregon occurred from one to four weeks earlier than in most portions of the range of Blue Grouse but were similar to north central Washington and Idaho. Variations in hatching dates possibly were related to rainfall.
41711689|Populations of reptiles were examined in grazed and ungrazed habitats dominated by sagebrush (Artemisia trdentata) or by crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cirstatum) on the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL) Site in southeastern Idaho. The sagebrush lizard (Sceloporus graciosus) and the short-horned lizard (Phrynosoma douglassi) were the only species of reptiles encountered in sufficient numbers to permit statistical analysis. Both of these species preferred sagebrush habitats to areas dominated by crested wheatgrass. The sagebrush lizard was most abundant in the native, ungrazed, sagebrush habitat, and the short-horned lizard was most plentiful in the sheep-grazed area dominated by big sagebrush.
41711374|Notes are given concerning distribution and habitat for Och terus barberi Schell, Hydrometra aemula Drake, Metrobates artus Anderson, Metrobates denticornis Champion, Rhagovelia becki Drake and Harris, Velia beameri Hungerford, Velia summersi Drake, Abedus (Abedus) breviceps Stal, Abedus (Deinostoma) herberti Hidalgo, Ambrysus buenoi Usinger, and Ambrysus thermarum La Rivers. The following synonymies are noted: Hydrometra aemula Drake 1956 = Hydrometra ciliata Mychajliw 1961, new synonymy; Gerris paludum Fabricius 1794 = Gerris uhleri Drake and Hottes 1925, new synonymy. The macropterous form of Velia beameri is described.
41712875|A two-year field experiment was conducted to investigate factors hypothesized to affect the reproductive potential of Astragalus kentrophyta var. implexus and to test the importance of trade-offs between growth and reproduction in this species. Levels of mineral nutrients, water, herbivory, and competition were manipulated. Seed output and growth of individuals in treatment groups were compared against control plants. Neither water nor mineral nutrients alone were shown to affect growth or reproduction. Herbivory was shown to be similarly unimportant in affecting growth and reproduction. Competition with other species influenced growth but not reproduction. No significant tradeoffs between growth and reproduction were detected within years. However, there did appear to be a trade-off between these major fitness components when compared between years.
41711643|New synonymy of American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Coccotrypes cyperi (Beeson) (=Thamnurgides indicus Eggers), Pityophthorus attenuatus Blackman (= Pityophthorus pusillus Wood), Pityophthorus digestus LeConte (= Pityophthorus aphnatus Schedl), Pseudohylesinus sericeus (Mannerheim) (= Pseudohylesinus yasamatsui Nobuchi), Xyleborus mutabilis Schedl (= Xyleborus meridensis Wood). New names are proposed to replace junior homonyms as follows: Pityophthorus indigus for Pityophthorus indigens Wood, 1977 (nee Wood 1976), and Xyhborus devexulus for Xyleborus devexus Wood, 1977 (nee Schedl, 1977). The following species are named as new to science: Conophthorus echinatae (Missouri), Lymantor alaskanus (Alaska), Pityophthorus delicatus (Mexico), P. rubidus (Arizona and Mexico), P. vesculus (Panama), Scolytodes comitabilis, S. crinalis, S. crinitus, S. decorus, S. genialis, S. habilis, S. libidus, S. perpussilus, S. semipunctatus (Venezuela).
41712233|The major hanging gardens and associated water seeps in Zion National Park were surveyed for the presence of the Zion Snail (Physazionis). Environmental parameters, including water depth, water velocity, substrate slope, and algal cover, were measured to determine their effect on the local distribution of the snail. Large populations (densities 125 to 250/m) were found in the Virgin River Narrows area of the park and at a hanging garden and seep located 1.0 km north of Scout Lookout. Densities in other localities were low in comparison. Snails were not found in all hanging gardens or seeps. The major factor controlling within seep distribution was determined to be water velocity. Experiments were conducted to test the ability of the snail to remain attached during differing water flows. The snail showed an ability to remain attached during high flows, but few snails were found in areas of high flow.
41712641|Understory phytomass production in a western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis) woodland was examined relative to tree size in central Oregon in 1983 and 1984. Vegetation was sampled in two zones, the canopy zone (beneath the canopy) and the intercanopy zone (the space between canopies), on two adjacent sitesa lower slope site with shallow soil and an upper slope site with deeper soil. Sampling was stratified into three tree size classes. Individual species production was significantly affected by tree size and location relative to tree canopy. Production of bottlebrush squirreltail, bluebunch wheatgrass, cheatgrass, miscellaneous annual grasses, perennial forbs, and annual forbs increased with increasing tree size. Sandberg bluegrass production was greater in the intercanopy than the canopy zone, while production of bottlebrush squirreltail, bluebunch wheatgrass, miscellaneous annual grasses, and both perennial and annual forbs was greater in the canopy zone. Production of cheatgrass was determined by the interaction of tree size and zone. Phytomass relationships were expressed to a greater degree on the upper slope site, where total production exceeded that of the lower slope site by approximately 50% the second year of the study. Individual trees appear to exert a great influence on associated vegetation as western juniper woodlands progress from the seedling (tree establishment) phase to closed stands of mature trees. Original community dominants appear to be spatially segregated beneath tree canopies and associated with large trees, while formerly less common species, such as cheatgrass, come to dominate the entire site.
41712493|A bulk sampling of gastropods collected near Great Salt Lake, Utah, revealed several fish bones of Gila atraria (Girard). The early date of this find, coupled with the relationship of the Gilbert lake transgression and successive regression of approximately 11,000 years B. P., reveals a death assemblage induced by a series of saline inundations into the freshwater paludal environment.
41712554|The development of black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) burrow mounds was monitored for three years. Entrances were flagged at points where a prairie dog was observed digging into the ground (primary entrances, n = 22) and digging out of the ground (secondary entrances, n = 8). In all samples it was observed that primary entrances became dome mounds and secondary entrances crater mounds. It is suggested that, although induced airflow (presently, a popular model) may partly explain the presence of mounds, architectural types (dome vs. crater mounds) are the result of energy constraints associated with building materials that differ at the two entrances.
41711472|The evolutionary divergence of five closely related populations of the yellow monkey flower, Mimulus guttatus, was compared with the length of time the populations could have occupied the site and with the ability of the populations to intercross. Populations from the younger sites were found to be morphologically intermediate to populations from the older sites. Ability to intercross was not correlated with morphological divergence at this stage of evolution.
41712545|The observed distribution and relative abundance of two morphologically similar species of sucker, Catostomus, have shifted dramatically over the past four decades in Sagehen Creek and nearby streams in eastern California. The mountain sucker, C. platyrhynchus, formerly abundant and more numerous than the Tahoe sucker, C. tahoensis, has become relatively rare and during this study was consistently less abundant than the Tahoe sucker at all eastern California sites in 1983. Similar shifts in abundance were not seen at the three Nevada sites. Behavioral observations and data on spatial and temporal patterns of habitat use, collected in Sagehen Creek between May and September 1982 and 1983 using a snorkel survey method, indicate nearly complete overlap between mountain and Tahoe sucker habitat use and an absence of any agonistic behavioral interaction between species. The decline of the mountain sucker in these areas is likely the result of an interaction of loss of habitat due to reservoir construction and destructive management practices. These changes may have led to the elimination of isolating mechanisms between the two species and may be increasing the opportunity for introgressive hybridization.
41712318|Historical notes extracted from a taxonomic revision of American representatives of Sitona Germar are presented. Described as new to science are Sitona alpinensis (Utah to Northwest Territories), bryanti (Arizona), and oregonensis (Oregon to Washington).
41712035|Nests of Plain Titmice and Blue-gray Gnatcatchers are reported from Wyoming for the first time. Both species probably breed fairly commonly in southwestern and south central portions of the state.
41711381|The natural history of Sceloporus magister was studied in populations at the Nevada Test Site, Mercury. Individuals were marked and kept under surveillance from 1965 through 1970. Reproductive cycles were examined by field observation and by autopsy. Hatchlings appear in the population in July and August. Growth is rapid for the first year. Sexual maturity is reached before the second hibernation or soon after emergence from it. Territoriality is a pronounced behaviorism; individuals have been observed to remain in a small area for several years. Food consists of arthropods, with ants the predominant item. Reproduction occurs during May and/or June with only one clutch per year. Density is variable and depends on the appropriateness of the habitat.
41712743|Changes in vegetation including area occupied, canopy cover, and maturity class of cottonwoods (Populus spp.) within lower-elevation zones of the Colorado River and Rio Grande in Colorado were monitored over 25-and 37-year intervals, respectively, using photo-interpretative methods. Estimated loss of cottonwoods along the Colorado River was 2 ha/km (17.5%), and remaining stands had become more open and older. Cottonwoods along the Rio Grande increased 1.6 ha/km (9.3%) with minor canopy cover and maturity class changes. Area occupied by shrubs and river channel changed little along the Colorado River, but declined along the Rio Grande. Loss of hay meadow occurred along both rivers, whereas developed land increased along the Colorado River and farmland increased along the Rio Grande. Wildlife habitats along the Colorado deteriorated much more rapidly than those along the Rio Grande during monitored intervals.
41712994|Coleogyne ramosissima is a desert shrub that forms a nearly monospecific shrubland and occupies a well-defined elevational band between approximately 1050 and 2150 m on mountain ranges in southern Nevada. The Coleogyne shrubland shares relatively broad upper and lower ecotones with Pinus-Juniperus and Larrea-Ambrosia plant communities, respectively. We characterized the extent that environmental factors correlate with Coleogyne density and examined variation in biotic and abiotic factors along the lower elevational boundary of Coleogyne in Lucky Strike Canyon near Las Vegas, Nevada. Coleogyne density was positively correlated with gravimetric soil moisture, soil organic matter, Coleogyne water potential, Coleogyne stem and leaf phosphorus, and Coleogyne leaf biomass. However, Coleogyne density was negatively correlated with soil temperatures, soil compaction, and Coleogyne stem and leaf nitrogen. Coleogyne stem biomass and elongation were generally negatively correlated with Coleogyne density. Coleogyne density was weakly correlated with soil pH, soil depth, soil nitrogen, soil and leaf phosphorus; these variables did not exhibit a consistent pattern with increasing elevation. Edaphic factors, particularly soil moisture and soil organic matter, appear to play a major role in determining the distribution of Coleogyne shrublands in southern Nevada.
41716170|Colonization of macroinvertebrates in a headwater mountain stream was monitored using basket and Surber samplers. Taxa showed differences in colonization ability based both on dispersal ability and feeding strategy. Collector-gatherer feeding groups that could actively enter the water, i.e., Baetis mayflies, were the first organisms to colonize bare or new substrate. The slowest colonizers were heptageniid mayflies that colonized primarily from upstream migration. All organisms examined increased drifting behavior in response to decreases in discharge.
41716185|Little is known about the basic characteristics of the western harvester ant (Pogonomyrmex owyheei) in the absence of anthropogenic disturbances. We examined the role of P. owyheei as an agent of disturbance in an area of semiarid vegetation in central Oregon known as the Horse Ridge Research Natural Area (HRRNA) that has been largely free of livestock grazing and other significant anthropogenic influences for over 23 yr. We determined density and size characteristics of nest sites and estimated total area cleared by P. owyheei activities on HRRNA. From random sampling of twenty-five 0.04-ha plots we found a mean nest density/standard error of 1.6 ( 0.16) nests/0.04 ha. Mean area cleared per nest site was 4.8 m, which results in an estimated barren area of 46,080 m on the 240-ha HRRNA. Comparing our findings to others on P. owyheei and P. occidentalis, we found nest density and mean cleared area to be in the middle range of reported observations under a variety of land-use influences. The literature suggests that moderate disturbance may increase nest site density, but little relationship exists between disturbance history and mean size of nest sites.
41713022|We conducted an experiment on eastern fence lizards (Sceloporus undulatus) during August-September 1995 near Los Alamos, New Mexico, (1) to ascertain if lizards that were relocated short distances exhibited homing, (2) to investigate a possible barrier to movement, and (3) to determine the effect of translocating individuals from a transplant area on lizards in a recipient area. We relocated 15 of an estimated population of 39 (95% CI 36-45) lizards an average distance of 46 m. Fourteen of 15 translocated lizards returned to within 6.81 (${s_{\bar x}}$ = 1.43) m of the original capture location. Movement distances did not vary (F = 0.76; 1,53 df; P = 0.381) between resident and translocated lizards during the pretreatment period and did not vary for resident (F = 2.86; 1,12 df; P = 0.1166), but varied between pretreatment and posttreatment periods for translocated (F = 14.65, 1,7 df, P = 0.0065) lizards. Translocated lizards did not affect the resighting probability of resident lizards (F = 0.96; 1,14 df; P = 0.34), but this may be related to low power (1   = 0.15) and translocated lizards moving out of the area quickly.
41712971|Pinus aristata Engelm. forest vegetation in Colorado was studied to determine vegetation composition and the relationship between vegetation and environment. Species percent cover, tree size class, and environmental variables were recorded for 49 plots. Previously collected data for 4 plots from New Mexico were included. Environmental variables included latitude, longitude, elevation, slope, aspect, topographic position, parent material, percent rock cover, mean rock size, litter depth, estimated plot age class, and evidence of anthropogenic disturbance. Soils were analyzed for texture, depth, and percent carbon and nitrogen. Pinus aristata foliage was analyzed for percent nitrogen and phosphorus. Direct and indirect gradient analyses (CANOCO) were used to determine environmental factors associated with community composition. Vegetation in P. aristata forests is influenced primarily by elevation and soil pH. Substrate, soil texture, topographic position, and geographic location are secondary factors. Six plant associations were identified using cluster analysis (listed in an elevational sequence from low to high): Pinus aristata / Festuca arizonica Vasey, Pinus aristata / Festuca thurberi Vasey, Pinus aristata / Juniperus communis L., Pinus aristata / Vaccinium myrtilus L., Pinus aristata / Ribes montigenum McClatchie, and Pinus aristata / Trifolium dasyphyllum Torr. & Gray.
41716175|Three acts of predation by Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica hudsonia) on small mammals indicate that magpies will not only attack prey opportunistically encountered at close range, as suggested by recent literature, but will also pursue prey detected at long distances.
41712895|The small deciduous tree Celtis reticulata (netleaf hackberry) reaches its northern limit in Idaho, where, contrary to most of its western range, it often occurs as an overstory dominant. Two hundred fifty stands of this tree were sampled throughout Idaho. Celtis is slow-growing, averaging 4 m tall at 50 yr, and long-lived (to 300-400 yr). It occurs in a variety of habitats, from riparian to rocky uplands. Trees grow best where topographically sheltered, such as in draws and narrow canyons, and where soils are loamy. Although plants grow more slowly as surface rock cover increases, stands are often associated with rock, with a mean surface cover of 39% rock. Differences in growth rates were unrelated to parent material and aspect. Most stands are reproducing, in spite of habitat degradation caused by overgrazing, alien plant invasion, and increasing fire frequencies. Stands are typically represented by one dominant cohort; however, young, even-aged stands are rare and are generally found along waterways on stream terraces or at the high-water line. Although slow-growing, C. reticulata shows promise for land managers interested in site enhancement. This native species is long-lived, produces fruit used by wildlife, and provides structural diversity in a semiarid landscape (with a maximum height of 12 m) in areas that are becoming increasingly dominated by exotic plant species.
41712194|Microhabitat characteristics of blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were analyzed in breeding and wintering habitats in southeastern Idaho. Breeding habitats typically were open sagebrush (Artemisia spp.), mixed shrub, mountain mahogany (Cercocarpus ledifolius), and maple (Acer grandidentatum) stands on east to south facing aspects of slopes below 2100 m elevation. Breeding blue grouse selected areas with approximately a 50:50 or greater open to cover ratio. Blue grouse selected areas with higher tree coverage than available on average within the mixed shrub vegetation type. Hens with broods preferred sites with relatively tall (>50 cm) herbaceous vegetation. During autumn and winter, blue grouse preferred high elevation (>2285 m) stands of open (50% tree cover) conifer. Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) were preferred as winter roost trees. Sites selected in winter had significantly more Douglas-fir than those selected in autumn.
41711863|Vegetation and soil differences with respect to slope position were studied on foothill knolls in the Uinta Basin of Utah. Plant communities on windswept ridges (top of slope) exhibited several unique characteristics when compared to the other slope communities. These communities at the top and base of slopes were sufficiently different in respect to plant life form composition, plant cover, wind-adapted growth forms, and percent exposed rock that they should be considered separate community types. Mineral concentrations in plant tissue and soil samples declined downslope in some cases and increased in others. Diversity decreased downslope as shrubs became dominant over grasses and forbs. Management of these communities should require special consideration due to the changes in the community structure with slope position.
41711491|Partial correlation analysis indicates that Beechey ground squirrels show a strong preference for digging burrows under and around large objects, may show a weaker tendency to locate their burrows under the cover of tree canopies, and avoid digging burrows in areas with both treecanopy and ground cover (stones, logs). These relationships hold for large but not small burrow systems. The need for unobstructed visual surveillance and an autumn food supply are proposed to be determinants of these preferences.
41711509|Diplostomum spathaceum (Trematoda: Diplostomatidae) causes a disease known as diplostomatosis (eye fluke disease) and has been found to be widespread throughout the fish of Utah. Totals of 756 snails (5 species), 893 fish (21 species) and 6 species of birds were examined for the presence of larval and adult D. spathaceum from 17 collecting sites throughout Utah. Pathologic effects such as blindness, subacute inflammatory reactions, cornea perforation, and ruptured globe due to diplostomatosis upon the fish host are listed. Fish host and parasite infection data of D. spathaceum for the major lakes of Utah are given.
41713087|Throughfall and stemflow are important components of hydrologie processes in forests, but relative contributions of multiple factors, including precipitation volume, plant size, and folivory (leaf removal by defoliators), on throughfall/stemflow have not been reported. This paper reports the relative influences of precipitation volume (0-230 L m), sapling size (1.46.7 cm diameter at root collar; 0.07-0.45 kg calculated dry foliage mass), and manipulated folivory (0-20% foliage removal) on throughfall volume and N, K, and Ca fluxes as evaluated with stepwise multiple regression in a young Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) ecosystem. Precipitation volume explained most variation in throughfall volume (R = 0.81). Folivory and sapling size each had significant but minor effects on throughfall volume and nutrient fluxes. These data indicate that folivore effects, while significant, are masked by precipitation in this wet ecosystem. Wider ranges in sapling size and folivory and/or drier conditions likely would improve interpretation of their influence on throughfall volume and chemistry.
41712290|Bear Lake is a large, relatively pristine lake located in a graben valley. The lacustrine environment is more than 35,000 years old. Over that period of time, the Bear River intermittently flowed into Bear Lake. Approximately 10,000 to 8,000 BP, the Bear River ceased flowing directly into the lake. Between 1912 and 1924, channels were dug that diverted Bear River flows into the lake. An analysis was conducted to determine the impacts of Bear River flows upon the hydrologie and nutrient budgets of the Bear Lake ecosystem. In addition, the resulting limnological conditions were evaluated. Based upon eight years of historical data (1976 to 1984), regression relationships were developed that allowed an estimation of the historical conditions in Bear Lake (1923 to present) with and without the influence of the Bear River.
41712755|Microbial spatial heterogeneity and bacterial composition of homogeneous surface soils showing evident microbiotic crust development located under Utah juniper canopies in Colorado National Monument were studied. Four distinct homogeneous sampling sites positioned along a 12-m transect were compared on the basis of bacterial density and taxa composition. Bacterial densities showed a range differing by several orders of magnitude. In comparisons of adjacent soil samples or samples taken from two different sampling sites within close proximity, adjacent samples showed no more similarity to each other on the basis of bacterial density or taxa composition than did more widely separated samples. The bacterial composition of these soils included members of the genera Bacillus, Micrococcus, and Arthrobacter. Actinomycetes were also prevalent.
41712437|Time-activity budgets of drake Gadwall and Northern Shoveler ducks were studied in the winter of 1985. Total duck numbers peaked in mid-March. Gadwall numbers increased from late January to mid-March and then declined, while Northern Shoveler numbers declined from late January to mid-February and then increased to mid-March before declining. Behavior categories considered in the time-activity budgets were flying, preening, swimming, courtship, feeding, and resting. Time allocated to these different activities varied for both duck species, with feeding being the only behavior pattern wherein differences were significant. Gadwalls spent 58% of their time feeding, Northern Shovelers only 26%. Possible reasons for these differences are suggested.
41712338|The native bee fauna visiting and pollinating a population of sweetvetch in Grand Teton National Park was surveyed. The papilionaceous flowers were exploited by 37 bee species, most of which had long mouthparts. Most species collected pollen as well as nectar. Bees foraged most heavily in early afternoon when pollen was most abundant. However, there was no indication that bee species were competing for limited pollen resources: there was no difference among three time periods in percent sweetvetch pollen carried in the scopal pollen loads of bees nor was there any evidence that some species were displacing the foraging times of others. The advantages of developing a native species as a commercial pollinator of sweetvetch are discussed and several potential candidates are mentioned.
41712107|Eight new records of vascular plants indigenous to North America and one significant range extension are reported for the flora of Colorado.
41712859|Thirty-one stonefly species representing eight families were collected during the March 1987 to May 1990 study period. Genera represented by more than one species included Capnia, Utacapnia, Taenionema, Suwallia, Triznaka, Isogenoides, and Isoperla. Peak species richness was recorded on or near the summer solstice in 1988 and 1989. Climatic differences between years were reflected in nymphal development and emergence phenology of most species. New or important corroborative life history data are presented for 11 stonefly species of this assemblage. The hyporheic nymphal development of most chloroperlid species limited the number of early instars sampled and our capacity to interpret voltinism. Limited nymphal data suggested a univoltine-slow cycle for Plumiperla diversa (Frison). Adults of Suwallia pallidula (Banks) and S. wardi (Banks) were present for an extended summer period, but the bulk of their respective emergence times was temporally separated. Isogenoides zionensis Hanson, Pteronarcella badia (Hagen), and Pteronarcys californica Newport were all shown for the first time to have a 910-mo egg diapause, and all three species have a semivoltine life cycle. Skwala americana (Klaplek) and Isoperla fulva Claassen were further confirmed to have univoltine-slow cycles. Univoltine-fast and univoltine-slow life cycles are reported for the first time in I. phalerata and I. quinquepunctata, respectively. Regression analysis revealed that six of the eight abundant species had extended emergence patterns (slopes of <5%/d), while only two had synchronous patterns. Warmer spring and summer temperatures in 1989 increased the slopes for five of the eight species studied, but did not change their synchrony designation. Nine of 11 abundant species advanced their median emergence date in 1989 over 1988. This and the higher slope values are consistent with a hurried nymphal development and narrower emergence period due to the warmer thermal regime of 1989.
41711685|Three experiments were conducted to determine if water from the Great Salt Lake altered in chemical composition and dilution can be used successfully to sustain a species of hermit crab Pagarus sp. and the American Lobster (Homarus americanus). Great Salt Lake water altered by freshwater dilution will not sustain the hermit crab or the American lobster. Great Salt Lake water can be altered chemically by dilution to support growth of the American lobster. American lobsters maintained in Instant Ocean synthetic sea water (control) grow at a more rapid rate than animals sustained in altered Great Salt Lake water. A plastic primer coat used for plastic tank repair appears to be a moult inhibitor for the American lobster. Lobsters afflicted by the primer coat are not able to reverse the damage by continued moults.
41712803|An examination of death certificates at the Utah Bureau of Health Statistics from 1900 through 1990 indicates that Utah has a very low incidence of human fatalities due to venomous bites and stings. During this 91-year period, 20 fatalities were recorded from bee (10) or hornet (1) stings, spider bites (4), and rattlesnake bites (5). There were eight additional fatalities during the early part of this century recorded from "insect bite," "apparently insect bite," or "unknown agent poisoning," some of which may have included spiders. No deaths were recorded from Gila monster or scorpion envenomizations, although in 1962 one death in San Juan County was recorded as "venom poisoning, unknown agent, possible scorpion." Utah statistics follow the national pattern, indicating that bee stings cause more fatalities than spider bites or rattlesnake bites. Rapid deaths (within minutes) occurred in the majority of bee sting fatalities, resulting from allergic reactions (anaphylaxis), whereas protracted death times of days or months, resulting from infection, followed most spider and unknown insect bites. Only two spider bite fatalities occurred within 1-3 days, suggesting black widow envenomization. Two of the five fatalities from rattlesnake bite resulted from handling the offending snake, one fatality was recorded as a homicide, and one other envenomization occurred in Arizona, with subsequent death in Utah.
41712613|Douglas-fir beetle-infested Douglas-fir trees were partially caged to determine the emergence period and beetle production. Beetles began emerging in April, but emergence peaked between 10 and 26 June. In 1987 and 1988 beetle emergence averaged 20 or more per sq. ft. of bark. Annual growth of the infested trees showed a decline prior to the beetle outbreak followed by an increase during the outbreak.
41711848|Vegetative and atmospheric parameters were evaluated at 16 different nest sites of ring-necked pheasants in Utah County, Utah, to determine which parameters are influential in the nest site selection process. These data indicate that total vegetative ground cover, high amounts of cover immediately surrounding the nest cavity, and drying power of the air are the parameters most influential in nest site selection.
41711535|One male each of Splendidofilaria columbensis n. sp. and S. hibleri n. sp. was found in the subcutaneous fascia of the thighs of a single band-tailed pigeon. The relationship of female worms could not be correlated with the males. Chandlerella robinsoni n. sp. was recovered from the blood vessels of the liver and the fascia of the thighs of six birds. Keys to the males of the species of both genera, together with drawings of the spicules of each species, when available, are included.
41712787|This study was designed to describe dietary changes by comparison of information on long-term diet and plant food availability of California Quail (Callipepla californica) in western Oregon. We examined crops from 222 California Quail collected in 1976-78 and 1985-87. Diets included 14 key plant foods (annual frequency > 15%) among 53 taxa consumed; 10 of the 14 key foods were similar between time periods. Collectively, key foods contributed 87% of the diet by aggregate dry mass during 1985-87; six species of legumes (family Leguminosae) composed 67% of diet. Relative rankings of availabilities of key foods were similar between 1976-78 and 1985-87. This study revealed that quail were opportunistic within the group of key foods because 9 of the 14 key foods were consumed in different frequencies between the two periods. Legumes were an important dietary component in western Oregon because they composed the bulk of the diet, were among the most frequently consumed, and most were taken in substantially greater proportions than available.
41711969|Cryptogamic soil crusts of Betatakin Canyon in Navajo National Monument were investigated to understand the influence of such crusts on soil moisture relationships and potential sediment production. Crusts sampled were part of the pinyon-juniper community and were studied in paired units. The presence of crusts on soils significantly increased the depth of water penetration and decreased runoff. Soils showed reduced infiltration of water where lichen and algal crusts were present and enhanced infiltration rates where mosses were present. Crusts appear to cause surface sealing and therefore likely reduce surface evaporation rates as well.
41712943|This study analyzed spatial location patterns of Cercocarpus ledifolius Nutt. (curlleaf mountain mahogany) plants, classified as current-year seedling, established seedling, juvenile, and immature individuals, at a central Nevada study site. Most current-year seedlings were located in mahogany stands in which large, mature individuals had the greatest abundance. These stands had greater litter cover and a thicker layer of litter than areas with few current-year seedlings. Most established young Cercocarpus were located in adjacent Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (mountain big sagebrush) communities, or in infrequent canopy gaps between relatively few large, mature Cercocarpus. We discuss potential roles of plant litter, root growth characteristics, nurse plants, and herbivory in the establishment and renewal of Cercocarpus communities.
41711171|Pinus ponderosa occurs in abundance on the Pine Ridge escarpment in northwestern Nebraska. Within and adjacent to the Pine Ridge are areas of mixed-grass prairie. Transects were run in the middle and along fringe areas of pine stands to determine if P. ponderosa was encroaching upon the grasslands of the surrounding mixed prairie areas. Results indicated that encroachment was taking place, especially in areas of soil disturbance or where a more open type of vegetation existed.
41711845|Franklin's Gulls first arrived in southeast Oregon in 1943, but the first nest was not located until 1948. From 1949 to 1964 gull numbers showed annual fluctuations. An increase began in 1965 and continued through 1980. By 1980 an estimated 2500 Franklin's Gulls were nesting on Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, Harney County, Oregon. The species arrives in April and nesting begins by 1 June. Average nest and egg measurements were similar to those from other areas within the species range.
41711558|Thelypodiopsis argMacea Welsh and Atwood sp. nov. is described from specimens collected on the Green River Shale Formation in Uintah County, Utah.
41713069|A total of 66 algal species representing 32 genera were recovered from soils of 10 sites in the Catavifia region of the Central Desert of Baja California, Mexico. The most common species encountered were the cyanophytes Nostoc commune and Schizothrix calcicola, the chlorophyte Myrmecia astigmatica, and the diatoms Hantzschia amphioxys, Hantzschia amphyoxys f. capitata, Luticola cohnii, Luticola mutica, and Pinnularia borealis var. Scalaris. Nine species not found in any previous studies of North American desert soils were present in our study sites, including 3 taxa new to science: Cylindrocystis brebissonii var. deserti, var. nov.; Elakatothrix obtusata, sp. nov.; and Fasciculochloris mexicana, sp. nov. Attempts to correlate species composition with soil chemical and physical parameters were unsuccessful apart from a pH effect on cyanobacterial distribution. Overall composition of the soil algal community in the Catavifia region is distinct from other desert sites we have studied, although some cosmopolitan desert soil taxa were present.
41712017|In 1981, 20 sediment-collecting tanks and troughs were installed on range and timbered sites of the Caribou National Forest. Measured erosion losses from the first year of study were contrasted to Universal Soil Loss Equation (USLE) estimates utilizing three different vegetative factors. State of Idaho C factors, National Rangeland C factors, and the Vegetative Management (VM) factors were studied. The erosion estimates of all three USLE tests were significantly different than measured soil losses. All equations overestimated the measured mean soil loss, 0.52 megagrams/ha/yr (0.23 tons/ac/yr), by 33, 3,000, and 2,000 percent, respectively. The soil erodibility factor (K), Rangeland C, and VM showed significant relationships to soil loss. The K and VM factors accounted for 88 percent of the variability in sediment loss in multiple regression models. Erosion equations suitable for use on this study area are presented.
41711881|Phalacropsylla morlani, from New Mexico is described as new to science and figured. It is separable from the other species in the genus by the possession of 18 spines in the pronotal comb and by the distinctive shape and setation of the male distal arm of sternum IX. Other species in the genus have 14 to 16 spines in the pronotal comb. Host and distributional records for P. allos are given.
41711504|This paper is a revision of the Hydrophyllaceae of Utah. Nine genera and 52 species are treated. Keys, descriptions, synonymy, illustrations, distribution maps and citations for representative specimens are included.
41712571|Summer food habits of coyotes (Canis latrans) in the River of No Return Wilderness Area, Idaho, were determined. Analysis of 51 scats (fecal samples) revealed that Columbian ground squirrels (Spermophilus columbianus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) exhibited the greatest frequency of occurrence for identified food items, being detected in 57%, 27%, and 16%, respectively, of scats examined.
41712105|The Columbian ground squirrel (Spermophilus columbianus (Ord)) is represented by two recognized subspecies, S. c. columbianus (Ord) and S. c. ruficaudus (A. H. Howell), that occupy allopatric but adjacent geographical areas in Washington, Oregon, and Idaho. Since numerical cranial characteristics of these subspecies have not been documented, we measured 8 cranial characteristics on 94 adult and 32 juvenile Columbian ground squirrels in an area considered to be occupied by S. c. columbianus. Body weights and standard body measurements were recorded for adults and juveniles. The study area included portions of the River of No Return Wilderness Area in central Idaho. Howell's (1938) original descriptions seemed to differentiate S. c. ruficaudus from our sample of Columbian ground squirrels. Juvenile Columbian ground squirrels did not attain full cranial development until their second season. Length of maxillary tooth row in juveniles, especially females, may closely approximate adult dimensions by the end of their first summer.
41712174|Mating system variation in anuran amphibians of the Arizona-Sonoran Desert was reviewed. Male density and breeding period duration were negatively correlated in seven bufonids and pelobatids. Variation in male mating behavior and ability of females to freely select their mates unhindered by active-searching males also was related directly to male density. These observations support hypotheses relating ecological factors to mating system organization. It is suggested that male calling behavior, and anuran lck mating sytems in general, may be significantly influenced by prdation on vocalizing males.
41712765|In March 1991 a 10-year return flood (368 ms) occurred in the Hassayampa River, a perennial stream (0.1 ms base flow) within the Sonoran Desert. Depth of the floodwater ranged from 2.64  0.20 m (mean  SD) near the stream to 0.47  0.31 m in the highest floodplain zone (Prosapis forest). Flow velocity was 1.7  0.6 m s and 0.9  0.4 m s in these same zones. An average of 8 cm of sediment was deposited on the floodplain, with maximum deposition (to 0.5 m) on densely vegetated surfaces 1-2 m above the water table. Native riparian vegetation showed resistance and resilience to the flood disturbance. Plants on high floodplains (e.g., Prosopis velutina trees and saplings, and Populus fremontii and Salix gooddingii trees) had low mortality. Populus fremontii and S. gooddingii "pole" trees and saplings were on less aggraded floodplains and sustained varying mortality depending on floodplain elevation and depth of flood waters. For example, P. fremontii pole trees on 1-2-m-high floodplains averaged 6% mortality, compared to 40% for those on low floodplains (<1 m above the water table) where standing water was >2 m. Seedlings of Populus fremontii and Salix gooddingii established abundantly after the flood along overflow channels and main channel sediment bars, contributing to age-class diversity for these episodically recruiting species. The exotic species Tamarix pentandra had greater mortality of pole trees (62%) and low post-flood recruitment compared to P. fremontii and S. gooddingii. Survivorship of shrub species also corresponded to floodplain elevation. Zizyphus obtusifolia grew on high-elevation floodplains and had no mortality. Shrub species of lower-elevation floodplains underwent mortality but revegetated after the flood via asexual reproduction. For example, stem density of the dominant shrub (Baccharis salicifolia) declined by half but recovered to pre-flood levels by late summer primarily via stem sprouting. Dominant herbaceous plants on stream banks and low floodplains (i.e., the rhizomatous perennial grasses Paspalum distichum and Cynodon dactylon) similarly compensated for a 50% decline in cover by vegetative spread. The post-flood herbaceous understory vegetation in high-elevation floodplain zones (i.e., Prosopis velutina forests) remained sparse throughout the summer and shifted in composition from nearly monotypic stands of exotic annual species to more diverse mixtures of native and exotic annual grasses and forbs.
41712893|Benthic macroinvertebrates from four habitat types (river channel, ephemeral side channel, river backwater, and seasonally inundated wetland) were examined from the Green River at the Ouray National Wildlife Refuge, Uintah County, UT, June-August 1991. Four major taxa (Nematoda, Oligochaeta, Diptera: Ceratopogonidae, and Chironomidae) were quantified. Cluster analysis of densities showed that habitat types with comparable flow conditions were the most similar. Highest to lowest overall benthic invertebrate densities of the four habitats were as follows: ephemeral side channel, river backwater, seasonally inundated wetland, and river channel. Nematodes were the most abundant taxon in all habitat types and sample dates except the August sample of the river channel and river backwater and the July sample of the seasonally inundated wetland.
41711887|A questionnaire survey was conducted in Sanpete County, Utah, to determine the knowledge of dog owners concerning hydatid disease and an identification of some basic sheep management practices there. The households surveyed included 21 (Group I) that had one or more dogs infected with Echinococcus granulosus tapeworms at more than one annual field clinic, and 19 others (Group II) that had one or more dogs infected when the study first began in 1971-72, but had not had any infected dogs identified at field clinics during subsequent years. The results showed that 92.5 percent of households knew the cause of the disease and how it is transmitted, and that 90 percent knew of someone who had been operated on for surgical removal of hydatid cysts. There was no significant difference in the level of knowledge of the disease between the two groups of respondents, nor in their sheep management practices. Even though the level of infection of the parasite in dogs has decreased since the project started, certain sheep management practices persist among respondents in both groups that allow for continued transmission of the parasite in this region.
41712247|Average linear movement by populations of Dipodomys ordii, Microtus montanus, Perognathus parvus, and Peromyscus maniculatus was investigated over a 15-month period by live trapping on a low-level, radioactive waste disposal area in Idaho. No significant differences in movement among habitats were observed seasonally, excepting M. montanus in spring. Average linear movements within habitats ranged from 20 to 70 m for all species, but some patterns varied seasonally and among age classes for individual species. Although predation on contaminated small mammals from the disposal area is a vector of radionuclide transport, local movements by these rodents do not appear to be of sufficient magnitude to contribute significantly to redistribution of radioactive particles.
41711962|Intercanine crown distances of 605 wild South Dakota red foxes and 249 badgers of unknown age were measured; adults and juveniles were diagnosed by radiographs of canine teeth. In foxes, T-tests between similar age, between similar sex, and between combined age groups were significant at .01. In badgers, significance was found only between adult males and juvenile males and between adult males and adult females at .05.
41712304|The influence of artificial shade on the distribution and abundance of juvenile chinook salmon was studied in a side channel of the South Fork Salmon River, Idaho. Fish biomass and abundance were greater in shaded than in unshaded areas when compared to both cumulative incident light reaching the study sections during the 72-hour test runs and instantaneous incident light conditions at the end of the 72-hour test runs. Because conditions may be atypical at the time of instantaneous light measurement, we prefer cumulative incident light for relating light and shade conditions to daytime distribution (abundance and biomass) of juvenile chinook salmon.
41711482|Noteworthy records of reptiles from the state of Jalisco, Mexico, are presented. The first state records of Coleonyx elegans nemoralis, the second state record for Geophis tarascae, and notes on the distribution and reproduction of Eumeces breviroslris indubitus are discussed.
41711811|An investigation of the avifauna of Mt. Dellenbaugh, Arizona, and nearby areas on the Shivwits Plateau was conducted during fall 1974 and during spring and summer 1975. A total of 92 species of birds was recorded, of which 56 were considered resident. Species composition is discussed in relation to habitat.
41712771|Growth of smallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieu) was described for three widely spaced areas progressing downstream in Flaming Gorge Reservoir, Wyoming-Utah. Significant differences among areas were detected only for age-1 fish. Growth in the reservoir was compared with that of populations in other lentic habitats of varying growing season lengths in North America; slow growth in the reservoir was related to the relatively short growing season (less than 90 days).
41711384|A primary factor limiting plant species diversity in desert grasslands seems to be soil texture. Loamy soils consistently support more species than do adjacent sands. This is probably related to the increased micro-environmental differences associated with heavy textured soils. Such soils would be expected to have more micro-topographic and soil moisture variations than sandy soils.
41711603|Nectar-sugar concentrations and major flower visitors were determined for 15 species of plants in the Eagle Lake area of Northeastern California. Sugar concentrations for 12 of these are reported for the first time, with means ranging from a low of 10 percent in Mentzelia hevicaulis to a high of 63 percent in Ranunculus uncinatus. The utilization of the various nectar concentrations varied with the type of flower visitor as well as with the habitat and distributional ranges of the plant and/or animal. Hummingbirds and hawkmoths were not observed visiting the flowers they typically visit in other areas (e.g. Aquilegia and Ipomopsis, or Oenothera), but here preferred more concentrated nectar (Cirsium spp., with ${\bar x}$ of 57 percent sugar). Specialization in nectar use is reported at the generic and specific level in Hymenoptera and Lepidoptera; solitary bees, as a whole, used slightly less concentrated nectar (${\bar x}$ = 38 percent sugar) than butterflies (${\bar x}$ = 44 percent sugar).
41711614|The study revealed representatives of 9 families, 22 genera, and 59 species occurring within the study area. No new species and no new state records were collected, but a number of new localities have been added.
41711578|Hydroperla crosbyi in Texas exhibited a univoltine, fast life cycle over the three-year study period. Adults emerged in February-March when mean daily stream temperature reached ca. 15 C. Reared females in the lab deposited up to three egg masses. Mean fecundity of dissected females was 787 eggs/female. Oviposition in the field was observed and described. Eggs were triangular in cross section, brown, and measured 400 m  535 m. They underwent an ca. seven-month diapause until mean daily stream temperature decreased to 18 C. Eyespots appeared, and hatching followed in two to three weeks. First instar nymphs were measured and described. Male and female nymphs underwent 12 and 14 instars, respectively, and could be sexed by the sixth. Fast growth occurred in the coldest season and Simuliidae and Chironomidae larvae were preferred food throughout development. Eggs contained a mean of 6.21 cal/mg. Ash-free mean caloric value of last instar nymphs was 6.0 cal/mg. Adult males and females lost 33.8 percent and 57.6 percent, respectively, of their caloric pool through their ca. 12 days of life.
41712381|Microvelia rasilis Drake was taken in Montezuma Well, Yavapai Co., Arizona, along with Microvelia hinei Drake and Hydrometra aemula Drake (Heteroptera: Hydrometridae). These are all new to this locality; however, the latter two species are previously known from Arizona.
41712711|A new genus, Aplanusiella (type-species, Aplanusiella utahensis, n. sp.) and two new species, A. utahensis and A californiensis, are described and illustrated. The two species are allopatric and coexist on the same host genus, (Atriplex) with members of a closely allied leafhopper genus, Aplanus. Notes on distribution of hosts and leaflioppers as well as leafhopper intergeneric relationships are also given.
41712005|In 1968 and 1973 in southwestern Idaho, 275 Uta stansburiana were collected. Uta occupies low hills with rocky outcrops and flat sparse vegetation consisting of the following shrubs: Artemisia tridentata, Grayia spin osa, Atriplex confertifolia, Chrysothamnus nauseosus, and Atriplex canescens. Emergence from hibernation occurs from mid-March to early April and the first yolked follicles appear in early April, with oviducal eggs present in late April. Testicular cycle begins with the emergence of males, and spermatozoa are produced from April through July. Uta reaches sexual maturity in one year at a SVL of 40.0 mm in males and 43 mm in females. Overall clutch size is 3.75 eggs (1-2 clutches per year). Fat body size at emergence is not known, but what is present shows a decline in males and females until July, when a substantial increase occurs. Sex ratios are about 1:1 in all months and seasons except June 1968, according to chi-square analysis.
41712758|In both field and greenhouse studies, cyanobacteria and cyanolichens of cold-temperate deserts often enhance growth and essential element uptake by associated herbs. That effect is associated with better seedling establishment and larger seedlings. The following are possible mechanisms for these effects: (1) the microbiota concentrate essential elements in available forms in soil surface layers, (2) the microbial surface covers are usually darker colored than the soil itself and produce warmer soils during cool seasons when soil water is most available, (3) the gelatinous sheaths of several cyanobacterial genera common on alkaline deserts contain chelating compounds, and (4) conditions that favor persistent microbial growths on soil surfaces also favor maintenance of larger populations of microorganisms that form mycorrhizal and/or rhizosheath associations with seed plants. There is evidence that associated animals maybe nutritionally benefited by the enhanced mineral content of forage plants growing in well-developed cyanobacterial crusts.
41712853|June sucker (Chasmistes liorus) spawned in the Provo River, Utah, over a 2-wk period in early June during both 1987 and 1988. Emergent larvae emigrated from the river to Utah Lake over a 2-to 3-wk period. Drift into the lake peaked between 1200 and 0400. During daylight hours, emergent larvae tended to occur in pools. Peak emergence of larval drift was approximately 1.2 larvae/m during late June in 1987 and 1988. Recruitment failure of June sucker is not due to reproductive failure.
41711731|The least chub, Iotichthys phlegethontis (Cope), a relict fish in Utah, spawned successfully under laboratory conditions.
41711609|The floristic composition of Navajo National Monument is presented. The flora of the monument consists of 293 species of vascular plants, representing 177 genera and 66 families. The species are scattered throughout 12 plant communities found within the monument. The flora is dominated by forbs (60 percent), followed by shrubs (16 percent), grasses (12 percent) and trees (5 percent). Betatakin canyon exhibits the greatest floristic richness with 223 species being represented and 123 species found only in that area. This is due primarily to two factors: (1) the greater variety of habitats available in the area, and (2) the much longer time the area has been protected from grazing and other manmade disturbance.
41712512|Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus columbianus) and Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) leks were compared in an area of sympatry in south central Wyoming. Sharp-tailed Grouse leks had more (P < .05) shrub cover, taller shrubs, more forb, grass, and shrub species, and less visibility than did Sage Grouse leks. Reduction in shrub cover or the diversity of herbaceous species could potentially have greater influence on the use of lek sites by Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse than by Sage Grouse in areas of sympatry in Wyoming.
41712804|Five species of Naididae (Ophidonais serpentina, Uncinais uncinata, Arcteonais lomondi, Dero (Dero) digitata, and Slavina appendiculata) and six species of Tubificidae (Tasserkidrilus harmani, Aulodrilus limnobins, A. pluriseta, A. pigueti, A. americanus, and Branchiura sowerbyi) are reported for the first time from Washington. T. harmani, A. pigueti, and A. americanus are also new to the fauna of the western United States. Descriptions and distribution ranges are provided for the new records. A checklist of the freshwater species occurring in Washington is presented.
41712069|Mesembrioxylon stokesi, sp. nov., from the Lower Cretaceous Cedar Mountain Formation of Utah is described and compared with other species of Mesembrioxylon. Mesembrioxylon stokesi is similar to Aptian members of this genus in having a combination of wood parenchyma and septate tracheids. This lends some support to the Cedar Mountain Formation being partially Aptian in age.
41712264|Nineteen study sites were established in areas infested with saltcedar bordering Utah Lake in central Utah. Saltcedar cover on the sites averaged 57% but varied widely from community to community. Seventeen soil factors were measured relative to the stands studied. Cover of saltcedar was regressed against the different soil factors, but no patterns were detected. Saltcedar functioned equally well at all levels of each gradient studied and appeared able to accommodate wide variations in all factors studied. It is suggested that saltcedar has evolved a general-purpose genotype that contributes to its being a vigorous and troublesome weed. Criteria as to why it is such an aggressive weed are listed.
41711341|The 736 scorpions representing nine species collected in Utah, listed in order of greatest to least abundance, are Vaejovis boreus, V. utahensis, Anuroctonus phaeodoctylus, V. confusus, Hadrurus spadix, V. becki, V. wupatkiensis, H. arizonensis and Centruroides sculpturatus. Centruroides sculpturatus, H. arizonensis, V. becki, V. confusus and V. wupatkiensis are reported from Utah for the first time. Vaejovis boreus is the most widely distributed of the Utah scorpions. Vaejovis boreus and V. confusus occur in both the Great Basin and the Colorado River Basin. Centruroides sculpturatus, Hadrurus arizonensis, H. spadix, V. wupatkiensis, and V. utahensis occur only in the Colorado River Basin, whereas Anuroctonus phaeodactylus and V. becki are confined to the Great Basin. Anuroctonus phaeodactylus, V. boreus and V. confusus occur from the southern to the northern border of the state. Both males and females were taken from May through October, with greatest numbers in May, June, and July. Females were taken in greater numbers than males. This may be related to their mating habits during the collecting periods, and does not necessarily indicate other than a 1:1 ratio in normal populations. Morphological variations associated with distribution were distinguishable in two of the species collectedAnuroctonus phaeodactylus and Vaejovis boreus. The mean and standard error computed for the carapace, preabdomen, postabdomen, and telson on these two species indicate a significant morphological variation in the size of the preabdomen between the northern and southern populations.
41713118|Most ornithological literature for Utah reports the status of the Merlin (Falco columbarius) as rare or scarce. Only the most recently published checklists (Behle and Perry 1975, Behle et al. 1985) record it as uncommon. Likewise, a 1998 printed checklist (Utah Ornithological Society 1998) lists it as uncommon. Also misrepresented in the literature are the status and distribution of the 3 rather distinct subspecies, each of which occupies dissimilar habitats during the breeding season. We made random observations of Merlins in northern Utah beginning in the 1950s and then studied them continuously between 1992 and 1997 in Utah County, Utah. During the 1992-1997 period, we were able to clearly allocate 95 males and 76 females to subspecies, including within our count 58 falcons trapped (some fitted with radio telemetry). The winter habitat in which they occurred was categorized as either urban (mainly dense residential area) or rural (agricultural lands, dairy farms, or scattered homes). There was a statistically significant ( < 0.001) difference in habitat use, with the boreal forest-breeding F. c. columbarius frequenting urban areas 68% of the time, and prairie parkland-breeding F. c. richardsonii frequenting rural habitats 78% of the time.
41712270|Petrified wood specimens from the Dakota Formation of Utah are here described as Agathoxylon lemonii . This new species is characterized by having distinct growth rings, araucarian tracheary pitting, resin plates or plugs in its tracheids, abundant axial parenchyma, low uniseriate rays and 14 small, slightly bordered pits with circular to oval included apertures per crossfield. This is the first report of petrified wood from the Dakota Formation of the western United States and the first record of Agathoxylon from North America.
41711525|The genus Stenogonum Nutt. (Polygonaceae) is reestablished and distinguished from Eriogonum Michx. with which it has been synonymized since 1853. The genus, as outlined here, differs from Eriogonum in having two whorls of three foliaceous bracts surrounding the flowers instead of the normal, united tubular involucre. Stenogonum contains two species, S. flexum and S. salsuginosum; they are restricted primarily to the Colorado Plateau of Wyoming southward through eastern Utah and western Colorado to northwestern New Mexico and adjacent northern Arizona. Both species are illustrated and their respective ranges mapped.
41712134|Important bee species inhabiting the study area are listed, including those observed and collected foraging on Astragalus monoensis, a California rare plant. The significance of each species as a potential pollinator is assessed, based on frequency of occurrence in collecting, observed and published host plant records, and morphology. Three pollinator categories are proposed: observed and/or collected on the plant, probable visitors, and possible visitors. New host plant records for these species are listed. Current sheep grazing practices in the A. monoensis habitat endanger pollinators in four ways: (1) destruction of potential nest sites, (2) destruction of existing nests and contents, (3) direct trampling of adult bees, and (4) removal of food resources. Exposure of the major bee species to each of these factors is assessed utilizing experimental data and published information.
41712452|Measurements taken at three-year intervals between 1977 and 1985 of channel morphology and vegetation cover between sections inside and outside a cattle exclosure showed that channels increased in depth and width on all plots. Tree canopy cover decreased significantly between 1977 and 1985, but changes in density of trees and shrubs and herbaceous cover were small. Exclusion of cattle use did not prevent channel erosion or deterioration of vegetation; rather, changes were attributed to a wildfire in the headwaters and subsequent storm events that temporarily upset the dynamic equilibrium of the stream.
41712727|Southwestern Idaho desert shrub-bunchgrass rangeland is being invaded by fire-prone exotic annuals that permanently dominate the landscape following wildfires. This study was undertaken to describe diets of Townsends ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendii idahoensis) at four study sites with varying degrees of exotic annual invasion to determine if the squirrels could utilize high proportions of exotic annuals in their diets. Townsends ground squirrels were collected in March and May of 1987 and 1988, and stomach contents were analyzed using a microhistological technique. Grasses comprised 37-87% of Townsends ground squirrel diets at the four sites. Native species, especially Sandbergs bluegrass (Poa secunda), winterfat (Ceratoides hnata), big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) and six-weeks fescue (Vulpia octqflora) constituted 7-96% $\left( {\bar x = 47.2\% } \right)$ of the diet, whereas exotic species, especially cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), tumbleweed (Salsola iberica), and tansymustards (Descurainia spp.) made up 4-68% $\left( {\bar x = 48.0\% } \right)$ of the diet. At each site 2-4 species comprised > 90% of the diet. There was no apparent correlation between the importance values of exotic species at a site and their importance in Townsends ground squirrel diets.
41711737|Ten individuals from each of four tree species were selected, and their associated understory and adjacent open-area communities were sampled for both environmental and vegetational parameters, including light intensity, pH, litter depth, soil depth, and percentages of exposed rock, litter cover, living cover, shrubs, forbs, grasses, and annuals. The four tree species were ponderosa pine, Rocky Mountain juniper, Gambel oak, and snowbrush ceanothus. The study site was in the lower Uinta Mountains about 10 miles east of Kamas, Utah. Correlations among the various biotic and abiotic parameters were examined. The interplay of these factors in differentiating the understory and open-area communities is discussed.
41712077|The county by county distribution of the tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) and night snake (Hypsiglena torquata) in Idaho from previous reports is presented. This is augmented and expanded from recent findings.
41716187|A native California perennial grassland was sampled for grasshopper populations. The grassland is managed for the preservation of the native perennial bunchgrass, Nassetta pulchra Hitch. Grasshopper density, biomass, diversity, and richness were measured from July 1993 to October 1994. Average density of all grasshoppers was 2.30 hoppers/m (0.66 s) for 1994 (June through August). Overall forage consumed for 1994 was 140 kg/ha, suggesting that grasshopper populations exist at economically damaging levels. Grasshoppers do not appear in the grasslands until late spring, after annual grasses have set seed. Biomass of grasshoppers peaks in July when adults are predominant. Both grasshopper density and biomass were higher in 1993 than in 1994, and a total of 5 species were found throughout the study. Melanoplus sanguinipes Fabricus dominated the acridid communities and accounted for more than 95% of the individuals.
41713134|Our objective was to clarify the effects of 10 identified variables on snipe activity (winnowing and calling) by demonstrating correlations between the variables and snipe activity. We monitored snipe at 2 study areas in southwestern Montana and northwestern Wyoming at all hours of the day and night during the 1996 and 1997 breeding seasons. We measured 10 variables at established points along transects that were situated through the middle of each study site (8 study sites total). A total of 1200 monitoring periods were conducted throughout the course of this study. Effects of each factor on snipe activity were considered by examining general trends in each factor's graphical representation. Our results identified 6 factors (season, time of day, lunar cycle, solar radiation, wind speed, and temperature) that are associated with snipe activity. Snipe were most active early in the breeding season during 2 twilight periods during the first and last quarters of the lunar cycle. Low solar radiation levels, wind speeds, and temperatures were also most ideal conditions for snipe activity. All 6 factors should be considered when attempting to detect, survey, or estimate snipe populations.
41711813|A spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) was taken at Mickey Springs, 28 km northeast of Andrews, Harney County, Oregon. This represents a 225 km range extension and a new record for Oregon.
41712696|Late Quaternary-age arthropods were recovered from dry cave deposits and packrat middens located in the Grand Canyon, Canyonlands, and Glen Canyon region of the Colorado Plateau. This Quaternary data resource has not been analyzed before from the Colorado Plateau national parks. Radiocarbon dates on the various deposits containing arthropods range from 1510 to 30,660 yr B.P. The fossil assemblages yielded 57 identified taxa of insects, arachnids, and millipedes, including 15 taxa taken to the species level. The information from the fossil insect record of the Colorado Plateau is not yet sufficiently detailed to permit precise paleoenvironmental reconstructions. However, preliminary conclusions suggest a cooler, moister climatic regime during the late Wisconsin glacial and a mosaic of vegetation types, such as grassland and shrubby communities, unlike the present vegetation at the localities.
41711436|Behavior and activity of the rodent bot fly, Cuterebra tenebrosa Coquillett, was studied at a natural aggregation site in central Washington. Daily flight activity extended from 1700 hr to 2030 hr (PDT) beginning in mid-July of 1970 and 1971. The peak of flight activity, in August, was followed by a decline in activity through September. Male flies aggregated on the vertical faces of basalt cliffs, where they awaited females. Daily activity reached a peak at temperatures of 30-35 C. Eggs were laid in rock crevices without regard to the proximity of Neotoma wood rat hosts. Developing fly pupae were found in litter in wood rat tunnels in basalt cliffs.
41712397|Benthic macroinvertebrates were collected during the ice-free season (1 July-20 October) over a five-year period from a chain of alpine lakes and intervening streams in the Green Lakes Valley (3,347-3,615 m) in Boulder County, Colorado. A list of taxa was developed for 1981 and 1982, with taxonomic additions for 1983-1985 and comments on community structure, seasonal and elevational changes in species abundance, and noteworthy occurrences. A total of 111 taxa was collected, of which 84% occurred in streams, 58% being exclusively lotie. Dipterans composed 73-81% of total abundance in streams. The littoral benthic zone of lakes was predominantly trichopterans and dipterans, 44-60% and 24-39%, respectively. Numerically important organisms in various lakes and streams were chironomids, simuliids (particularly Metacnephia), oligochaetes, and the bivalve Pisidium casertanum. An isolated lake and its outlet stream, with unique characteristics, were the sole locations of Gammarus lacustris (Amphipoda) and Glossiphonia complanata (Hirudinea). Manipulated lowering of a lake along the main drainage exposed abundant and luxuriant colonies of the bryozoan Fredericella sultana. This organism was found on 43% of all rocks sampled, a preponderance heretofore unknown for this, or any, ectoproct in alpine or arctic lakes.
41711644|Additional specimens of Eridiphas slevini from Baja California del Sur are reported and discussed and the first specimen from Baja California del Norte is reported. Specimens from San Marcos Island are distinguished from mainland stock with the description of the new subspecies E. s. marcosensis.
41711622|The morphometry of four Idaho species of Cottidae were compared. Pectoral ray counts allowed separation of Cottus beldingi and C. confusus from C. bairdi and C. rhotheus but not from each other. Preopercular armature also allowed identification of the same two groups of two species. Palatine tooth development generally allowed separation of each species as did body prickle development. Body ratios involving caudal peduncle depth allowed separation of C. rhotheus and C. bairdi. Development of lateral lines allowed differentiation of C. rhotheus from the other three species. A key was developed based on the combination of characters studied.
41712384|The ability to measure leaf area and biomass on a plant community basis has many important ecological applications. These include quantification of gas exchange, use of water resources on the site, nutrient pools, and construction of models simulating production and resource allocation. To test a nondestructive technique for estimating leaf area and leaf biomass of western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis Hook.), sapwood area and basal circumference were evaluated as predictors of total leaf biomass and leaf area. Nineteen trees, ranging in size from 9.0 to 263 cm in circumference, were destructively sampled. The entire leaf biomass was harvested and measured, and regression equations were developed. Both sapwood area and basal circumference significantly (P < .01) correlated with projected leaf area and leaf biomass (r values = 0.98).
41712421|Aquatic macroinvertebrate populations inhabiting reaches of a stream within areas excluded from livestock grazing for a decade were markedly different from those in grazed areas when density, biomass, biotic condition indices, and mean chi square indices of the two populations were compared. Increased densities and biomasses of more tolerant forms of macroinvertebrates were observed in grazed reaches. Because pretreatment data were not available, differences in macroinvertebrate populations and relative tolerances of taxa in grazed and ungrazed areas could be as easily attributed to linear changes in stream habitat as to removal of domestic livestock. Results of this study have implications for the design of future research on the effects of livestock grazing on stream environments and biota: (1) baseline/pretreatment information is prerequisite, and (2) the study should take a watershed (ecosystem) approach.
41712498|Snake Creek Burial Cave (SCBC), east central Nevada, is a unique paleontological deposit. The cave is the first natural trap excavated in the Great Basin and one of the few localities describing a valley-bottom community. The recovery of extinct Camelops sp. (camel) and Equus spp. (horse), in addition to radiometrie dates, indicates at least some of the deposits to be of late Pleistocene age. Eight mustelid species have been identified from SCBC, including three species not previously reported from the late Rancholabrean of the Great Basin: Mustela nigripes (black-footed ferret), M. nivalis (least weasel), and Guio guio (wolverine). A review of late Pleistocene deposits indicates that there are more species of mustelids recovered from Snake Creek Burial Cave than from any other locality in the Great Basin.
41711591|A nesting population of Ferruginous Hawks (Buteo regalis) at the eastern edge of the Great Basin in west-central Utah was studied for three nesting seasons, 1972-1974, during which time a significant decline in jackrabbit numbers occurred. The total number of hawks and nesting pairs varied throughout the study. In 1972, 16 pairs occupied territories and only 1 pair failed to nest. By 1974, however, only 5 pairs and 2 single birds occupied territories. The number of young fledged ranged from 31 in 1972 to 3 in 1974. The nesting phenology of the Ferruginous Hawk and the reproductive period of black-tailed jackrabbits are clearly correlated. Of the jackrabbit remains collected from hawk nests, 90 percent were from rabbits younger than 13 weeks. The decline in hawk numbers is thought to be directly correlated with a drop in the jackrabbit population.
41711823|Reproduction in L. pyromelana infralabialis Tanner is reported. Eggs were measured and weighed and incubation time and hatching reported. Hatchlings were measured and weighed, and feeding was observed.
41712616|The status of the name Oxytropis borealis DC. is reviewed as it applies to North American plants. A summary of the infraspecific taxa is presented, and several nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Oxytropis borealis DC. var. hudsonica (Greene) Welsh; O. borealis var. sulphurea (Pors.) Welsh; O. borealis DC. var. viscida (Nutt.) Welsh. One new taxon, Oxytropis borealis DC. var. australis Welsh, is described from Utah and Nevada, USA.
41713005|Tylobolus utahensis Chamberlin, the only representative of the genus occurring in the southwestern deserts, ranges from central Inyo County, California, to the western periphery of Kane County, Utah. This distribution roughly corresponds to the northern limit of the Mojave Desert ecosystem and is also shown by the milliped Piedolus utus Chamberlin (Spirobolida: Atopetholidae) and the centipede Theatops posticus (Say) (Scolopendromorpha: Cryptopidae). Tyhbolus fredericksoni Causey, ostensibly from Douglas County, Kansas, is designated a "nomen dubium" and disregarded pending collection of fresh material; Narceus gordanus (Chamberlin) is deleted from South Carolina and Tennessee. Tybbolus uncigerus (Wood) occurs north of the Columbia River in Klickitat County, Washington, and Hiltonius thebanus Chamberlin is referrable to Onychelus Cook in the family Atopetholidae.
41712692|We have adapted techniques developed for the extraction of DNA from formalin-fixed, paraffin-imbedded human tissues for use on preserved fish tissues. DNA was successfully extracted and the d-loop region of mitochondrial DNA was amplified with the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The sequences of the amplified DNA from preserved and modern samples were identical. These techniques were also applied to fin tissue treated with a variety of preservatives. Extraction of DNA from ethyl alcohol and air-dried fin tissues gave yields equivalent to those from frozen tissues. Extraction of DNA from preserved museum specimens of rare or extinct taxa could significantly increase the scope of systematic and phylogenetic studies. Similarly, extraction of DNA from fin tissues provides a nonlethal sampling strategy allowing biochemical systematic analyses of rare or endangered taxa.
41712927|Trachytes kaliszewskii, n. sp., is described from the Great Basin, Utah, USA. SEM photography illustrates morphological detail. An annotated list is included of currently recognized species of the genus Trachytes, with comments on their distribution and habitat characteristics.
41712668|This paper addresses how habitat manipulations in a black sagebrush (Artemisia nova) -dominated area, John's Valley of southern Utah, affected resident desert rodent populations. Rodents studied included the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus), Great Basin pocket mouse (Perognathus parvus), sagebrush vole (Lagurus curtatus), Orel's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii), and least chipmunk (Eutamias minimus). The experimental design involved analyses of treatment and control (nontreatment) plots rather than pre-and posttreatment of all plots. Habitat manipulations emphasized cutting of shrubs (rotobeating), treatment of plants with a herbicide (2,4-D), and reseeding with a mixture of grasses, forbs, and shrubs. Posttreatment trapping indicated the deer mouse was the most abundant rodent in treatment and control plots. Data indicate the prescribed habitat treatments had no significant negative affects on the deer mouse demes on the control or treatment plots. Habitat treatments may have negatively impacted recruitment in pocket mice. Least chipmunks were not captured in plots treated by rotobeating. Our habitat manipulations may have contributed to interspecific competition in this rodent community through the reduction of both food and cover.
41712882|Seven fish species were found in the Bitter Creek drainage of southwest Wyoming, but only speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus), flannelmouth sucker (Catostomus latipinnis), and mountain sucker (Catostomus platyrhynchus) were indigenous. No relationships were found between fish standing stocks and habitat features, but species richness was related to elevation and stream width. No fish were found above an elevation of 2192 m. Only the most downstream study reach had more than three species present. Two indigenous species, speckled dace and mountain sucker, and a nonnative species, fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas), were predominant fishes in the drainage. These three species withstand intermittent stream flows that are common in the drainage.
41711459|Distributional data are presented for 30 species of New Mexico Plecoptera including 8 species new to the state list. Previously, many of the included species were known from a single location in the state. A revised checklist of 46 confirmed species is presented for the state.
41712370|Allelic variation at 21 of 39 electrophoretically resolved enzyme loci was used to examine patterns of geographic differentiation and population structure in six allopatric samples of Eutamias dorsalis. Coefficients of genetic similarity for paired combinations of E. dorsalis samples ranged from 0.955 to 0.975, except for one population that was 0.900. Conservative genie divergence among five populations is proposed to be the result of relatively recent isolation events. High positive FIS values and chi-square analyses confirm a significant excess of homozygotes at several loci at the five localities for which sample sizes were statistically adequate. This may be partly attributable to inbreeding, a Wahlund effect, linkage disequilibrium, posttranslational modification, or some combination of these; but at present some of these alternatives cannot be excluded in favor of a single explanation. Some samples were collected across altitudinal gradients of over 800 m, suggesting that a Wahlund effect may be the most likely explanation for low levels of heterozygosity in these populations.
41712018|Twenty-two species of winter emerging Plecoptera were collected in New Mexico from 1979 to 1982. Distributional records are given for 13 that are new state records, including 2 new species, and 9 previously reported species.
41712376|Avian use of scoria outcrop habitats was compared to use of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.)/grassland habitats. Outcrop habitats exhibited higher species richness, total population density, density of lark sparrows (Chondestres grammacus), and density of rock wrens (Salpinctes obsoletos). Western meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta) and vesper sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) were more abundant in sagebrush/grassland habitats than in scoria outcrops. Habitat relationship models indicated that the unique plant community and structural diversity provided by the scoria outcrops were correlated with increased avian use.
41712302|Sequence and timing of epiphyseal fusion of the postcranial skeleton of Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis canadensis) was examined. Ages up to four years can be determined. Slight differences were found in the time of fusion between males and females. These do not prevent determining the age of a skeleton within a period of two or three months, an accuracy comparable to existing techniques that involve tooth eruption schedules, horn annulations, or incisor cemental annulations.
41711675|Ecological and community relationships of 10 different plant communities in the Uinta Basin, Utah, where Eriogonum corymbosum was found to grow were studied and described. Each community was sampled to determine the amount of ground cover, percent composition, frequency, and density of participating species. Physical site factors, viz., soil texture, total soluble salts, pH, cation exchange capacity, and amounts of calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium were determined. The 10 communities were compared to determine the degree of similarity between them. Correlations between individual plant species and measurable characteristics of the community were attempted. Evidence is presented that the distributional patterns of some species are related to these measured characteristics. Eriogonum corymbosum, Chenopodium leptophyllum, Atriplex confertifolia, Stipa comata, Artemisia tridentata, and Agropyron smithii showed correlation to both vegetational and edaphic factors of the community. Total vegetative cover increased from desert to mountain in the Uinta Basin. As the vegetative cover increased, soil depth also increased. Eriogonum corymbosum decreased in importance in the higher elevation communities. Eriogonum corymbosum was studied taxonomically, which demonstrated the presence of a previously undescribed variety. It is suggested that E. corymbosum var. corymbosum, found generally in the desert areas of the basin, is composed of a series of ecotypes that inhabit shallow soils and prefer communities that show high degrees of disturbance, little competition, fairly high levels of soluble salts in the soil, and are found at elevations below 5500 feet. Eriogonum corymbosum var. erectum, on the other hand, does best in communities above 6000 feet that show less disturbance than the desert areas, have deeper soils, and low levels of soluble salts.
41712990|Observational data from spring and fall 1996 and spring 1997 for the region near Muleg, Baja California Sur, Mexico, are summarized in tabular form. In addition, new or noteworthy data for 17 species are annotated to provide clarification of previously published records. A uniquely plumaged bird, too far south for a female American Robin (Turdus migratorius) in basic plumage and too far north for the endemic "San Lucas" Robin (Turdus migratonus conflnis) and intermediate in coloration between the two, was recorded. Range expansions are documented for several species including European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris), Anna s Hummingbird (Calypte anna), Western Meadowlark (SturneUa neglecta), White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chichi), and White-fronted Goose (Anser albifrons). Least Grebes (Tachybaptus dominicus), a species of concern which is apparently declining in numbers, and Belding's Yellowthroat (Geothlypis beldingi), a species endemic to Baja California Sur, were observed in the freshwater marsh during all 3 study periods.
41712549|The population dynamics of litter and foliage arthropods in undisturbed and intensively managed sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) and bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata) habitats in southeastern Wyoming were assessed by the measurement of density and the determination of indices of diversity, richness, and evenness. Brush management consisted of either mowing to a 20-cm stubble or applying the herbicide 2,4-D butyl ester. A total of 63 arthropod species were found in foliage and 150 species in litter. Mowing and herbicide applications resulted in significant changes in the density of 16 of the 46 major arthropod foliage species and 56 of the 70 major litter species. Diversity increased, except in Hymenoptera and Coleoptera, in both mowed and herbicide-treated foliage. In foliage, richness generally increased in all orders following mowing, and evenness tracked diversity. In litter, the diversity of Coleoptera decreased following mowing and herbicide application in Collembola, Homoptera, and Diptera. Evenness followed diversity in trends in both treatments. Soil arthropods were absent in this habitat before and after treatments.
41713111|The overwhelming majority of bird species in the Great Basin region are found in riparian habitats. However, most previous research on the impact of change in habitat condition through degradation on these bird communities failed to account for the large intersite differences in both habitat type and extent of degradation. We examined songbird communities in 4 riparian habitat types (meadows, willow-, birch-, and aspen-dominated forest stands) during summers 1994 (last year of a 7-yr drought) and 1995 (following the 6th wettest winter recorded) in the Toiyabe Mountain Range of central Nevada. Habitat degradation significantly influenced bird species richness in riparian areas, but the impact was dependent upon habitat type. While meadow bird communities were affected adversely by habitat degradation, with significant drops in species richness on degraded sites, bird species richness in forested riparian habitats was consistently greater on degraded sites. Data for the 6 most common species seen during our study indicated that degradation may have influenced distribution of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia), but habitat type was the best predictor of abundance for House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon), Red-naped Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus nuchalis), Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus), and Brewer's Blackbirds (Euphagus cyanocephalus). Avian species diversity in meadow habitats may be linked to moisture levels during specific times of the year. Diversity increased during the pre-migratory period of the dry year (1994) when compared with that of the breeding season, but was unchanged in the wet year (1995).
41712656|Of the 13 lakes in the central Wasatch Mountains with tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) populations, salamander mass mortalities occurred in four seepage lakes that experienced extensive lowering of the water levels during the summer. The largest of these lakes, the oligotrophic Desolation Lake, was studied to determine the cause of the mortality phenomenon. The recurrent annual mass mortality involved both breeding adults and young-of-the-year. Rate kinetics suggest that mortality rate doubles with a fivefold increase in the number of aquatic young salamanders. The proximate cause of the mass mortality was identified as a bacterium, Acinetobacter sp. Desolation Lake and a seepage lake that did not experience the mass mortality were studied for the presence of Acinetobacter. Both lakes experienced two bacteria cycles: the first in early summer involved gram-positive bacteria, and the second in late summer involved gram-negative bacteria (mostly coliform bacteria and Acinetobacter). The mass mortalities were associated with the late-summer gram-negative bacterial bloom, and Acinetobacter was found in large numbers in Desolation Lake. Algae, as well as other photosynthetic plants, were not present in large numbers. Since these lakes are growth-limited with respect to nitrogen and not with respect to phosphate, and since Desolation Lake had extensive lowering of the lake level during the summer, the biological cycle of the lake is proposed to be due to atmospheric and sheep-produced nitrogen products within the watershed. In this unstable lake system, bacteria are primarily responsible for incorporation of nitrogen in the food chain. The timing of the cyclical events depends on total winter precipitation.
41711850|Stems bearing egg masses of the western tent caterpillar (Malacosoma californicum), collected in Arizona and northern New Mexico during 19771980, had mean diameters between 2.9 and 4 mm. Mean lengths of the egg masses were consistently between 11 and 14 mm.
41712785|Cover types and vegetative characteristics (e.g., grasses, forbs, shrubs) used by female Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) during summer were compared with available habitat on two study areas in southeastern Oregon. Broodless hens, which constituted 114 of the 125 (91%) radio-marked hens studied, selected big (Artemisia tridentata subspp.) and low sagebrush (A. arbuscula) cover types at both study areas. At Hart Mountain, broodless hens did not select specific vegetative characteristics within cover types. However, at Jackass Creek, forb cover was greater (P = .004) at broodless hen sites than at random locations. Differences in habitat use by broodless hens between study areas were associated with differences in forb availability. Broodless hens used a greater diversity of cover types than hens with broods. Broodless hens gathered in flocks and remained separate from but near hens with broods during early summer. By early July broodless hens moved to meadows while hens with broods remained in upland habitats.
41711577|Four Texas Spiny Softshell Turtles (Trionyx spiniferus emoryi) were collected near St. George, Utah. This represents a range extension of 65 km northward into Utah from Nevada.
41711724|Gila boraxobius is a dwarf species of cyprinid endemic to a thermal lake in southeastern Oregon. Despite a relatively depauperate fauna and flora in the lake, 24 food items were found in intestines of G. boraxobius. Ten of the 24 foods, including six insects, were of terrestrial origin. The relative importance of food items fluctuated seasonally. Diatoms, chironomid larvae, microcrustaceans, and dipteran adults were the primary foods during spring. In summer, diatoms decreased and terrestrial insects increased in importance. During autumn important foods were terrestrial insects, chironomid larvae, and diatoms. Diatoms and microcrustaceans increased in importance during winter. Chironomid larvae were of importance in winter, when the importance of terrestrial food items decreased substantially. Similar food habits were observed between juveniles and adults, except that adults consumed more gastropods and diatoms and juveniles consumed more copepods and terrestrial insects. Gila boraxobius feeds opportunistically with individuals commonly containing mostly one food item. Fish typically feed by picking foods from soft bottom sediments or from rocks. However, fish will feed throughout the water column or on the surface if food is abundant there. Gila boraxobius feeds throughout the day, with a peak in feeding activity just after sunset. A daily ration of 11.1 percent body weight was calculated for the species during June. A comparison of food habits among G. boraxobius and populations of G. alvordensis during the summer shows that all are opportunistic in feeding, but that G. boraxobius relies more heavily on terrestrial foods.
41712877|Carbon isotope discrimination () was measured for leaves of Atriplex confertifolia along a salinity gradient in northern Utah. Over this gradient, the variation of  values was high for a C species, and the  values were positively correlated with salinity in both years of the study. Of the possible explanations for this pattern, the  results are consistent with the notion that salinity induces an increase in the bundle sheath leakiness of these C plants.
41712083|Many bristlecone pines in the White Mountains, California, are members of multistem clumps. We propose that these clumps have arisen by multiple germinations from seed caches of Clark's Nutcracker, as occurs in several other pine species. The commonness of nutcrackers and their caching of singleleaf pinyon seeds in the study area provide supporting evidence. Other vertebrates appear unlikely to be responsible for the stem clumps. Seed burial may be required to establish regeneration on these adverse sites where bristlecone pine attains great longevity.
41712116|The Common Loon, White Pelican, Double-crested Cormorant, recurvirostrids, and most grebes, waterfowl, gulls, and terns have become more abundant in Uintah County, Utah, since 1937 (Twomey 1942) due to the establishment of Pelican Lake and adjacent water bodies and the ponds and marshes at Ouray National Wildlife Refuge and Pariette Wetlands Wildlife Management Area. The incidence of herons, egrets, thrushes, nuthatches, and icterids has generally remained about the same since 1937. Diurnal raptors have largely declined in abundance in the desert region of Uintah County since Twomey's (1942) study. Plovers, sandpipers, phalaropes, and the White-faced Ibis were generally less common in 1977-1982 than in 1937, perhaps chiefly due to their displacement from wintering grounds by human population expansion and agricultural and industrial development. The incidence of owl species remains constant. Most flycatchers, swallows, warblers, vireos, orioles, and emberizids have diminished in number since 1937, probably because of the shrinkage of their winter habitats in Latin America and the southwestern U.S. The Blue Grosbeak and Black-throated Sparrow were not recorded in Uintah County in 1937 but were found there during this study and may represent a range extension northward since 1937. The Blue-gray Gnatcatcher is more common now than in 1937 due to the northward extension of its range. The Starling and Rock Dove and, more recently, the Common Grackle, Great-tailed Grackle, and Cattle Egret have invaded Uintah County due to the expansion of their ranges. It is not clear why the Pine Siskin, House Finch, and most corvids are presently less common than in 1937.
41712539|An extant, indigenous desert tortoise population is reported from the cape region of Baja California Sur, Mexico. This population is described and figured as a new species, Xerobates lepidocephalus, distinct from all other North American tortoises including Xerobates agassizii, X. berlandieri, Gopherus flavomarginatus, and G. polyphemus. Xerobates lepidocephalus, or the scaly-headed tortoise, whose range is known only from an extremely small area in the gulf-drainage mountains just south of La Paz, appears to be a peninsular relict whose closest living relative is probably X. agassizii. However, carpal bone affinities connote a close relationship between X. lepidocephalus and the Oligocene species X. laticunea from Wyoming and Colorado, suggesting that the former species may be one of the more primitive contemporary tortoises of the Xerobates lineage. Such evidence indicates that X. lepidocephalus is not of vicariant origin resulting from the formation of the cape of Baja California. Scaly-headed tortoises likely ranged, and may yet be discovered, in other medium-elevation mountain ranges of the cape.
41711510|Metacercariae of Apatemon gracilis (Rudolphi 1819) (Trematoda: Strigeidae) were found to encyst primarily in the posterior half of their leech hosts (Helobdella stagnalis, Placobdella parasitica, Erpobdella punctata) in numbers of from 1 to 13 larvae per cyst. Presumably the posterior localization of these larvae in their leech hosts is determined by the host's behavior in response to cercarial penetration. It is possible also that leeches may become infected by ingesting snail tissues containing mature cercariae.
41712159|Vegetation patterns in relation to slope position were studied on four foothill knolls in the Castle Cliffs area of Washington County, Utah. Study plots were established at four different slope positions: ridge top, upper slope, lower slope, and floodplain. Exposed rock was highest on the ridge top; exposed soil was highest on the floodplain; soil depth increased downslope. Plant life form varied with respect to slope position. Grass, annuals, and cryptogamic crust cover was highest on the ridge top and shrubs were most prominent on the midslope. Forb cover gradually increased downslope. Succulents were restricted to the ridge top or floodplain. Species distribution was distinct and strongly correlated to slope position. Two sets of congeneric species showed strong patterns of niche separation. The vegetation of the slopes is highly distinct at the ridge top and floodplain and grades toward the midslope from both ends.
41712396|We conducted a greenhouse study in which 'Hobble Creek' mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana) seeds were planted at various depths in soil to determine the optimal planting depth. Results showed that the optimal planting depth is 5 mm or less.
41712197|A new genus, Stenolidia, and new species, S. magna (type species), are described and illustrated. Stenolidia from Guyana is the fifth genus in the tribe Tinobregmini and the third that has come to light since the tribe was revised in 1975.
41716172|On 5 July 1981, 13 adult Colorado squawfish were found in spawning condition at river mile 16.5 in the Yampa River, a major tributary to the Green River. An investigation was undertaken to quantitatively describe this section of the river to gain insights on the spawning requirements of this endangered species. The substrate at the suspected spawning site was cobble with large interstitial spaces devoid of organics, silts, or clays. It appeared that larvae of several fish species utilized these cobble areas and the associated voids. Diurnal sampling indicated that larval drift occurred between 0100 and 0125 hours. Substrate size also appeared to be a dominant factor in fish distribution. Feeding intensities of these fish corresponded to macroinvertebrate drift.
41712798|Burrows of small mammals can impact a variety of soil processes including organic turnover, aeration, and mineralization rates. The structure of burrows, depth, length, and complexity can influence the extent of the impact burrows have on soil processes. Soil properties, in turn, are thought to affect burrow structure. To increase our understanding of burrow-soil dynamics, we compared maximum depth, total volume, total length, volume: length ratio, and complexity of burrows of five small mammal species with bulk density and soil texture in multiple regression analyses. Burrows of Wyoming ground squirrels (Spermophilus elegans) were deeper, longer, and more complex as percentage of silt and clay increased and percentage of sand and bulk density decreased. Average maximum depth of montane vole (Microtus montanus) burrows increased as soils became sandier. Length and volume of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) burrows increased with increases in bulk density and percentage of clay. Volume, length, and complexity of kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii) burrows were greater in soils with higher amounts of clay and silt. Townsend's ground squirrel (Spermophilus townsendii) burrows did not appear to be affected by the soil properties measured.
41712780|In a greenhouse experiment, effects of nitrogen form and concentration on productivity and dry matter allocation differed between two species native to semiarid ecosystems of the Great Basin. Aboveground production of green surface area and of dry matter were consistently enhanced by increased nitrogen for the rhizomatous grass Elymus lanceolatus, but not for the bunchgrass Oryzopsis hymenoides. These differences were likely due to inherently low growth rates of O. hymenoides. Aboveground dry matter allocation also differed between the two species. O. hymenoides had more leaves per tiller with increased nitrogen, whereas leaf size but not number increased for E. lanceolatus. Furthermore, increases in tiller density with increased nitrogen for E. lanceolatus were almost three times greater than those for O. hymenoides. E. lanceolatus, but not O. hymenoides, was sensitive to the form of nitrogen supplied to the plants. When NH-N was the only form of nitrogen supplied, high concentrations of NH-N inhibited aboveground production of E. lanceolatus.
41711563|Beetles of Trypophloeus populi attacked green bark of unhealthy aspen (Populus tremuloides) and hastened the death of the tree. Beetles of Procryphalus mucronatus favored dead bark and were of little significance in the death of the aspen. These two beetle species were distinguished from each other by their primary galleries, eggs, larvae, larval mines, and mating behavior. In T. populi, there were three larval instars and one to one and one-half generations per year; only larvae overwintered, and the eggs of the first generation were present by mid-July. In P. mucronatus, there were two larval instars and one and one-half to two generations per year; both larvae and adults overwintered, and the first eggs of the new season were present by late May.
41712287|Named as new is Sclerocactus schlesseri Heil & Welsh. The taxon is described and its relationships discussed.
41712403|Occurrence of agonistic behavior patterns in Spermophilus beecheyi at a concentrated artificial food source was studied. Our data from 851 encounters are compared with previously published information from unmanipulated populations. Eight new behavior patterns (rump block, kick, forward shove, pounce, displacement grooming, circle fight, roll fight, and boxing fight) are described.
41711480|A five-year study of Belding ground squirrels was conducted at high altitude in the Sierra Nevada. Body weight and body length varied seasonally depending upon the fat depletiondeposition cycle, age, and sex. Adult males tended to be heavier arid longer than adult females, particularly in the last half of the active season. A similar pattern was present in yearlings. Yearling squirrels were often distinguishable from adults on the basis of body size. Mean body weights were greater in adults throughout the season, and mean body lengths were greater in adults through the first half of the season. Adults also had larger internal organs than yearlings at the beginning of the season. In liver and heart this difference was sustained. Sex ratios in adults and in yearlings were 1:1 but there was considerable spatial and temporal asymmetry in distribution of the sexes. Males tended to live in areas peripheral to lush meadows occupied by females and young.
41711661|Recent efforts to integrate phytoseiid predators in pest (mite) management programs for apples have been somewhat successful and economical in several fruit growing areas of North America. Convenient descriptions and reviews of the literature for species which have been collected from Utah are provided to stimulate further local work. Seven species of Amblyseius and five Typhlodromus are described (none new), with notes provided concerning their respective geographic distributions and biologies.
41712460|A synecological study of sagebrush-dominated rangelands was conducted on the Humboldt National Forest, northeastern Nevada, between 1983 and 1986. A total of 372 relatively undisturbed sites were sampled for both vegetation and soil parameters, with 35 grass, 39 shrub, and 140 forb species identified. Plant species production data were used to develop a hierarchical, floristic-based community type classification with TWINSPAN. Seventeen sagebrush community types were identified in this analysis and named by their dominant shrub and grass species. The dominant sagebrush species of the community types are Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (5 community types), A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis (3 community types), A. tridentata ssp. tridentata (2 community types), A. arbuscula (3 community types), A. nova (3 community types), and A. longiloba (1 community type). Multivariate analysis revealed that all community types contain significantly different plant species compositions. Shrub species are more effective in discriminating between community types than grass species, which, in turn, are more effective than forb species.
41711851|Ten fully stocked pinyon-juniper stands contained a total of 73 species in the understory, but the number of understory species in any one stand was moderately low (x = 20). On each stand, species of at least five different plant groups were present in the understory (shrub, perennial grass, perennial forb, annual grass, or annual forb). A perennial grass, Sandberg bluegrass (Poa sandbergii), and a group of annual forbs with relatively high cover and constancy among stands appeared best adapted to coexist with the pinyon-juniper overstory. The proportion of total plant cover was greater on tree-associated microsites (duff and transition) than in the interspace between trees because of the greater surface area of the former in most stands. The transition microsite was the most favorable for understory species and provided understory cover in disproportionately greater amounts than the area it occupied.
41711771|Antelope bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata) is a preferred browse species that is susceptible to decreases in population density due to fire. The reduction in density of this species due to fire was determined by sampling areas within and adjacent to the burn. The 1975 burn caused a significant reduction in the population density of bitterbrush. It was also determined that rate of growth was lower for plants within the burn.
41712953|Species-environment relationships were determined for filter-feeding macroinvertebrates from 55 Rocky Mountain stream sites to establish species distribution patterns. Species abundance and 20 environmental variables were measured at each site with species-environment relationships determined using canonical correspondence analysis and stepwise multiple regression. Results suggest that the distribution of several taxa was strongly related to upstream-downstream environmental gradients. Arctopsyche grandis abundance increased with stream size (width and depth) and decreased with increasing turbulence (Reynolds number). Brachycentrus abundance also increased with stream size (depth). Hydropsyche abundance increased with increasing baseflow. Parapsyche elsis abundance demonstrated negative correlation with depth, Froude number, and conductivity. Taxa followed previously reported patterns, partitioning habitat according to stream size. Arctopsyche grandis, Brachycentrus, and Hydropsyche were found in larger (3rd-to 6th-order) streams, while Parapsyche elsis was observed in small headwater (1st-and 2nd-order) streams. Other filter-feeding taxa such as Simulium, Pisidium, and ostracods exhibited little or no apparent habitat partitioning among stream sites.
41711554|Studies were undertaken to examine the degree of divergence in four populations of pika in Colorado. Separation of blood proteins was accomplished utilizing acrylamide-gel disc electrophoresis. Separate analyses of variance were carried out for the relative mobilities of two of the transferrins (designated RM and RM), the mean relative distance diflFerence of the two tranferrins (DM), and the density of the most prominent albumin () and transferrin () bands. Although the four populations were characterized by a general similarity of the gel patterns, both interpopulational and sexual variations were observed. Variations between the sexes had to do with the amounts of protein, not with differences in protein mobility. The only significant populational differences were found in reference to density and DM. The interpopulational differences may serve as an indicator of populational divergence that has not been indicated by standard morphological characters. The significant patterns of variation observed in the blood proteins of the four populations studied may reflect a lack of gene flow between isolated populations.
41713098|Triglochin maritima L. (arrow grass), an herbaceous perennial in the family Juncaginaceae, is widely distributed in inland and coastal salt marshes of North America Triglochin maritima seeds from a population growing in a salt marsh at Faust, Utah, were germinated at 4 temperature regimes (12-h night/12-h day, 515C, 525C, 1020C, and 1525C) and 5 salinities (0, 100, 200, 300, 400, and 500 mol m NaCl) to determine optimal conditions for germination and level of salt tolerance. Ungerminated seeds were returned to distilled water after 20 d to determine whether seeds could recover from salinity treatments. Maximum germination occurred in distilled water, and increases in NaCl concentration progressively inhibited seed germination. No seeds germinated at concentrations higher than 400 mol m NaCl. A temperature regime of low night (5C) and high day (25C) temperature yielded maximum germination; all other temperature regimes significantly inhibited seed germination relative to this optimum. Recovery of germination was highest at 525C and lowest at 515C. Recovery of seed germination when seeds were transferred to distilled water from salt solutions was highest at 525C (72%) for seeds exposed to the 500 mol m NaCl pretreatment and significantly reduced at other temperature regimes. The recovery germination response indicates a synergistic inhibitory interaction effect on germination when seeds were exposed to high salinities at suboptimal thermoperiods.
41712851|Experimental manipulations and observations in one population of Gentiana newberryi Gray flowers over 2 years showed significant variation in seed production relative to pollinator and soil water availability. When pollinators were rare, there was a significant relationship between number of bees present and number of mature seeds produced, and supplemental hand cross-pollination (xenogamy) did improve seed set in Gentiana newberryi Gray. When pollinators were abundant, supplemental hand cross-pollination did not increase seed set. Self-fertilized seeds (autogamy) germinated at the same rate as cross-pollinated seeds. Seed production in unvisited flowers is probably limited anatomically and is not influenced by the type of fertilization. There was a significant relationship between soil moisture and flower size in G. newberryi, with larger flowers found in wetter areas.
41712128|New synonymy in Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Camptocerus opacicollis (Eggers) (= Camptocerus aquilus Wood), Cladoctonus corumbensis (Eggers) (= Hoplitophthorus bolivianus Wood), Cladoctonus interruptus (Eggers) (= Hoplitophthorus sentus Wood), Cnemonyx errans (Blandford) (= Ceratolepis barbatus Schedi), Cnemonyx flavicornis (Chapuis) (= Cnemonyx vianai Schedi), Cnesinus dividuus Schedi (= Cnesinus dryographus Schedi, Cnesinus laevicollis Schedi), Cryptocurus spinipennis Schedi (= Hyloperus caudatus Browne, Hyloperus bicornis Browne), Dendrosinus ater Eggers (= Dendrosinus hirsutus Schedi), Hylesinus aculeatus Say (= Hylesinus imperialis Eichhoff), Hylesinus cordipennis Lea (= Hylesinus papuanus Eggers), Hylesinus macmahoni (Stebbing) (= Hylesinus alternans Schedi, Leperisinus fraxinoides Beeson, Leperisinus fraxinoides Schedi), Hylesinus niligrinus Eggers (= Trogloditica robusta Schedi), Phloeosinopsoides triseriatus (Schedi) (= Xylechinus papuanus Schedi), Phloeotribus scarabaeoides (Bernard) (= Phloeotribus americanus Dejean), Scolytogenes darwini Eichhoff (= Nigritus similis Eggers, Nigritus major Eggers, Scolytogenes cryptolepis Schedi), Scolytodes notatus Eggers (= Hexacolus pseudobicolor Eggers, Hexacolus subparalleus Eggers, Hexacolus pelicerinus Schedi), Scolytopsis puncticollis Blandford (= Scolytopsis argentinensis Schedi, Scolytus bruchi Schedi, Scolytopsis toba Wichmann), Tomictis piniperda (Linnaeus) (= Blastophagus khasianus Murayama), Xylechinus spathifer Schedi (= Pteleobius lomatiae Schedi). Species new to science are described as Acanthotomicus ipsimorphus (Costa Rica), Acrantus opimus (Indonesian New Guinea), Bothrosternus hirsutus (Venezuela), Cnesinus discretus (Venezuela) Cnesinus minor (Costa Rica), Corthylus trunacatus (Peru), Hylurgus indicus (India), Pachycotes minor (Australia), Phloeosinopsoides pumilus (Papua New Guinea), Xylechinosomus pilosus (Brazil).
41712157|Basic aspects of photosynthesis were investigated in white rubber rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus nauseosas (Pallas) Britt. ssp. albicaulis), a common C deciduous shrub native to arid regions of the western U.S. Under favorable field conditions, net photosynthesis (Pn) ranged from 36 to 73 mg CO dm  hr , which is relatively high for a woody species. The leaves from the actively growing flowering shoots exhibited higher Pn than those on the vegetative shoots. Pn also varied according to the age of the leaves and the location of the plants. Pn did not light saturate even at quantum flux densities (QFD) equivalent to full sunlight. The light compensation point was relatively high (ca 100 mol.m.S), perhaps due to the presence of a tomentose vestiture on the leaf surface. At high QFD's, the stomatal conductance was high (ca 520 mmol  m.S) for a woody species. RUBP-carboxylase content of the leaves ranged from 20 to 22 mg per gram F. W., which is similar to that found in most C crop species. These results suggest that rabbitbrush is able to maintain high rates of Pn , at least under nonstressed conditions.
41712924|We surveyed historic collecting localities in south central Arizona during July, August, and September 1993-94 to determine the presence of 3 little-known Sonoran Desert anurans, Bufo retiformis, Gastrophryne olivacea, and Pternohyla fodiens. All 3 species were present at most historic localities visited under appropriate conditions (following rainfall in July and August). Pternohyla fodiens was restricted to San Simon Wash and associated tributaries in south central Pima County. Gastrophryne olivacea ranged from Vekol Valley in extreme southern Maricopa County south to the Mexican border, and southeast near Tucson and Nogales in Pima and Santa Cruz counties. Bufo retiformis occurred over the widest area, from southern Rainbow Valley in Maricopa County southwest to the vicinity of Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, and southeast to the vicinity of Tucson and Sasabe in Pima County.
41712467|Patterns of change in the woody vegetation (trees and shrubs) of the riparian communities of three streams draining the slopes of the Pine Valley Mountains in Washington County, Utah, were examined. Thirty-nine study sites were established adjacent to the streams along an elevational gradient where vegetation, plant population, and species data were taken. Vegetation and species patterns varied with respect to elevation and geographical location. Vegetation of the high-and low-elevation areas was distinctly different, while that of the mid-elevations was transitional to both. Geographical patterns showed a north-south transition in vegetation between the Mojave and Great Basin deserts. Size-class distribution curves for 11 tree species showed varying degrees of survival with respect to age and location. Root sprouting was highly important in the reproductive effort of six of the trees. Species distribution patterns followed transriparian and intrariparian gradients within the riparian community.
41712511|A biosystematic study on the Gerridae of Idaho was undertaken to clarify and describe the taxonomy, species distribution, and biology of this aquatic hemipteran family. Three genera and 7 species were collected in the state. Keys to three genera and 10 species are provided. General descriptions, diagnoses, and distributional ranges are given for species occurring within and adjacent to Idaho.
41712206|Monotropa hypopithys L., rarely collected in Colorado, was taken five times during 1984. Coupled with previous collections, it is now known from 10 Colorado counties. The cool, moist August of 1984 may have contributed to its apparent ubiquity.
41711444|Astragalus iselyi and A. stocksii are described as new species. The former is from the La Sal Mountains of Grand and San Juan counties in eastern Utah, and the latter is from the Henry Mountains in eastern Garfield County, Utah. Yucca toftiae is described as new from materials collected along Glen Canyon in San Juan and Kane counties, Utah.
41711965|The Pyramid Lake Lahontan cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki henshawi) population was sampled on a monthly basis from November 1975 through December 1977. A subsample of 676 trout, stratified by fish size and lake habitat, provided biological data. The entire population is presently derived from hatchery production, stocked at lengths of approximately 75 to 300 mm. Peak annulus formation occurs in March and April, followed by the period of maximum growth. Scale patterns illustrate a variable growing season. Maximum growth in length is in the first three years of life; after that males begin to grow faster than females. Males attained a greater age in our sample; i.e., the oldest male was seven years old compared to six years for females. The Pyramid Lake Lahontan cutthroat trout exhibit nearly isometric growth. The legal sport fishery removed <20,000 adult fish in 1977 (>380 mm); other decimating factors are poorly understood. No evidence of the following diseases or pathogens was found in the Pyramid Lake population, presuming a carrier incidence of 2 percent at the 95 percent confidence level: infectious pancreatic necrosis, infectious hematopoietic necrosis, viral hemorrhagic septicema, bacterial kidney disease, enteric redmouth, furunculosis, whirling disease, blood fluke; however, 7 of 235 (3 percent) adults sampled at the Marble Bluff fish way were positive for furunculosis. Small trout feed primarily on Zooplankton and benthic invertebrates; cutthroat trout >300 mm are piscivorous, feeding almost exclusively on tui chub (Gila bicolor). The spawning migration of Pyramid Lake cutthroat trout to the Marble Bluff egg taking facility in spring 1976 and 1977 peaked in April and May. Females mature at three or four years (352-484 mm), and males mature at two or three years (299-445 mm). Mean diameter of mature eggs is 4.51 mm; both ovum size and fecundity are a function of fish size. Fecundity ranges from 1241 to 7963 eggs, with a mean of 3815. Lahontan cutthroat trout comprise <2 percent of the numerical relative abundance and <7 percent of the total fish biomass. Distribution patterns vary on a seasonal basis, with maximum activity during late fall and winter. Management objectives are presented and recommendations are discussed.
41711754|Hanging gardens and wet wall habitats have been studied for the past several years in many arid regions of the Intermountain West. One unusual large wet wall habitat in Zion National Park was found to be covered with a mucilaginous red-colored growth of the filamentous gliding bacterium Thioploca ingrica Visloukh. This is the only habitat we have examined where the predominant matrix-forming organism was a bacterium rather than an alga.
41712569|A four-year study of five populations has revealed influences on seed production and seedling establishment of the Southwest riparian tree Juglans major. Germination is abundant after production of large seed crops (masts), but masts are produced infrequently. Within years, germination is stimulated by summer rains, enabling seedlings to establish on riparian terraces as well as streambanks. Traits such as capacity for dormancy during summer drought allow some seedlings to survive on terraces, but abundant rainfall is essential for high rates of seedling success. Ranges of moisture tolerance vary among seeds collected from different populations, suggesting that ecotypes may exist between riparian sites with dissimilar moisture regimes. Population-based differences are associated, in part, with differences in seed size.
41712724|Medusahead is another in the extensive list of annual herbaceous species to invade the temperate desert rangelands of the Great Basin. Medusahead is not preferred by large herbivores and apparently is not preferred by granivores. Herbage of this annual grass enhances ignition and spread of wildfires. Medusahead is highly competitive with the seedlings of native species and is probably the greatest threat to the biodiversity of the natural vegetation that has yet been accidentally introduced into the Great Basin. Despite the obvious biological disruptions that are associated with medusahead invasion, the species offers a wealth of opportunities for students to examine the mechanism by which this species is so successful. Students of evolution, plant physiology, and ecology may find this species to be an excellent model for colonization.
41711598|A variety of amphibian, reptilian, avian, and mammalian hosts were used in experimental development of Posthodiphstomum minimum. Results of this study indicate that the organs of reproduction (testes and ovary) as well as the vitelline gland and egg underwent host-induced morphological variations. Due to the lack of host specificity of P. minimum as well as the overlap of reported egg and body sizes of species of Posthodiphstomum, it is apparent that several reported species are not valid.
41712100|Eight species previously unreported for Wyoming are listed. A range extension is noted for Erigeron humilis, and Cymopterus bipinnatus is verified as occurring in Wyoming.
41711544|A new species of Suctobelba, S. tumulata, and a new genus and species, Parisuctobelba septenia, are described from collections of oribatids taken in coal strip-mining spoil banks near Hayden, Colorado. The new species are compared with members of the family from North America and Europe. The new genus is differentiated by a smooth, narrowed sensillum and seven pairs of genital setae., Taxonomic and ecological data are also discussed.
41711462|Eumeces capito Boucourt, 1879, is a senior synonym of Eumeces xanthi Gnther, 1889. No exception to application of the Law of Priority is recommended in this case. The type locality of E. capito as originally published ("La cte oriental des Etats-Unis") is erroneous. Undoubtedly the correct locality is China, but it is not restricted at present.
41711861|Height-diameter (basal or canopy) relationships for Juniperus scopulorum trees taken from wet and dry sites were quite different, but total aboveground weight-diameter relationships for trees taken from the two sites did not differ. It is shown that log total weight (kg) = approximately 1.7 + 2.26 log basal diameter (cm) = -2.55 + 2.98 log canopy diameter (cm). Though the first relationship (r = 0.98) is stronger than the second (r = 0.80), the canopy diameter-weight relationship may be useful for estimating tree weights from aerial photos. Root-shoot ratios for wet site trees 5, 12, and 31 cm in basal diameter were 37, 27, and 26 percent, respectively.
41713083|A baseline study was conducted on an 83-km free-flowing reach of the Snake River between Swan Falls Dam and the Idaho-Oregon border. The research had 2 components: (1) field characterization and inventory of existing riparian flora, vegetation, and environment (soils, topography, streamflow), and (2) determination and mapping, using a geographic information system, of historic changes in riparian vegetation based on a time series (193839, 1957, 1969, 1987) of aerial photographs. The flora was diverse, with 185 species of vascular plants identified, 63 of which were exotics. Vegetation was structured vertically along the riverbank gradient into lifeform-defined habitat types: emergent, riparian shrub-forb, tree, transitional grass-shrub, and upland. Riverbank seepage, probably of agricultural origin, blurred zonation patterns on some sites and added species to the overall flora. Upstream-downstream differences existed in the physical characteristics and vegetation of river subreaches. Coverage of riparian woodland, island riparian and total riparian vegetation, and area of islands increased since the 1930s, with the greatest changes in the 19691987 interval. Possible contributing factors were (1) significant declines in annual minimum flows since the 1950s, (2) decreases in peak flows following completion of Swan Falls Dam and some upstream dams since the 1920s, (3) introduction and spread of exotic tree species (Elaeagnus angustifolia and Tamarix spp.), and (4) possible effects of intensive agriculture on river sediment load and soil nutrients. The introduction and proliferation of purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria) could have considerable future effects on vegetation-channel dynamics in the middle Snake River.
41712211|Relationships of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) to livestock grazing were studied from 1973 to 1983 on the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge and the Fort Belknap Indian Reservation in northeast Montana. A total of 154 prairie dog colony sites was examined, and most were in association with livestock watering sites and/or areas where the topsoil was disturbed by human activity. Roads and cattle trails were found in 150 of the prairie dog colonies. Prairie dog colonies were found to be located significantly (p < 0.001) closer to livestock water developments and homestead sites than randomly located points. Observations showed cattle to occur significantly (p < 0.05) more on quarter sections with prairie dog colonies as opposed to quarter sections without prairie dog colonies. Forage utilization at one prairie dog colony was estimated at 90% by midsummer. Prairie dogs consumed about a third of the vegetation, with grasses the predominant forage class used.
41711948|Understory vegetal response was found to significantly increase with the degree of thinning in an early regenerating, dense stand of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta). The value of the increased vegetation for deer and elk was determined to be important through comparisons with known dietary and habitat preferences.
41712468|Collections from several scattered western localities have (1) extended the ranges in Nevada of two sagebrush vole fleas, Oropsylla bacchi johnsoni and Megabothris clantoni princei, (2) provided a second record for Utah of the rarely collected flea, Delotelis telegoni, and (3) included additional examples of unusual and seldom reported host-flea relationships for the area.
41712098|We recorded the occurrence of hip glands in a population of montane voles (Microtus montanus) in southeastern Idaho. Sexual maturity was positively associated with the presence of hip glands in both males and females. Significantly more males than females possessed hip glands. Males and females with hip glands were significantly heavier than individuals without glands. The possible function of hip glands in scent marking, aggression, and population fluctuations is discussed.
41712111|Prescribed burning of Texas wintergrass (Stipa leucotricha Trin. & Rupr.) communities reduced soil water contents for two to six months, and additional reductions occurred when the subsequent crop of cool-season grasses and forbs began growth. These soil water reductions occurred despite reduced plant production following burning. Soil water reductions were greater at 15 to 45 cm depths than in the upper 15 cm and greater following spring burning. Soil temperatures were higher on burned plots for most of the first year following burning.
41712283|Nitrogen-fixing bacteria, as demonstrated by the acetylene reduction method; yeasts, and actinomycetes were found in feces of mammals collected from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, to the North Carolina-Tennessee border. The mammals, representing four orders and 19 species, occupy a wide variety of habitats and may play an important role in dispersing microorganisms vital to the ecosystem.
41711595|Geographic variation in plumage color between populations of Contopus sordidulus is minor. The differences in color between the races described by Burleigh (1960) is largely the result of postmortem color changes of museum skins. Variation in wing chord and length of tail between samples does not support recognizing additional races of C. sordidulus. Contopus virens is monotypic. The relationships between sordidulus and virens is unclear.
41716168|Fifteen widely separated sites within the pinyon-juniper woodlands of the Great Basin were cleared of trees. Understory response was recorded for 2 to 4 years. The array of postharvest plant assemblages were classified into one of four phytosociological groups using discriminant analysis. Pre-and postharvest plant assemblages from the same site appeared in the same phytosociological group, which indicates postharvest response could be predicted from the preharvest plant assemblage. Initial postharvest response appears cyclic in nature, and cycles are controlled by both residual plants and the rapid immigration of shrub species. Perennial plant density generally declined following tree harvest, but the fewer remaining plants produced significantly more cover than in preharvest stands.
41711461|A study was made of the soil mites from under different vegetative types near a coal-burning power plant in the Yampa Valley near Hayden, Colorado. The following new species of oribatids were found: Zygoribatula apletosa n.sp., Multoribates haydeni n.sp., Paraphauloppia cordylinosa n.sp., Passalozetes moniles n.sp.
41711802|Seven large caves in the Uinta Mountains, Utah, were surveyed for their invertebrate faunas. Thirtyeight species were found, and 30 of these are typical cave inhabitants. Dptera are the predominant group. Caverestricted species are an amphipod, two diplurans, and possibly a Rhagidia mite. The caves were probably uninhabitable in the past glacial because of severe periglacial environmental conditions, and the faunas have moved into the present cave sites since deglaciation of the Uintas.
41711810|The hypothesis that temperature influences the toxicity of copper to thermophilic Cyanophyceae was tested in a laboratory study with Synechococcus lividus. This thermophile was tested at copper concentrations from 0 to 200 ug/l, and temperatures from 40.0 to 50.0 C. It was found that an interaction between increased copper and temperature significantly decreased the rate of carbon assimilation, chlorophyll content, and photosynthetic efficiency.
41712311|Observations were made on the behavior of a captive herd of Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus). Comparisons in general behavior patterns were made between captive and wild deer. Similar behavior was exhibited by captive and wild deer. Captive deer (as well as other species) may be useful for study of certain behavioral aspects of their wild counterparts.
41711865|The previously unknown female of Phafocropsylla hamata Tipton & Mendez is described and an allotype is designated. A key is provided to aid in distinguishing females of this genus.
41712812|Pollen grains of plants with well-defined flowering seasons may persist on insects through episodes of dormancy, such as hibernation. When readily recognizable and possibly confounding taxa can be excluded, these pollen grains can serve as direct evidence of life-history phenomena that are notoriously difficult to verify in the field. Pollen of the autumn-flowering composite Chrysothamnus nauseosus was used to demonstrate that the common montane skipper, Hesperiajuba, hibernates as an adult in the Sierra Nevada. This is the first demonstration of adult overwintering in a temperate-zone hesperiid and may represent the smallest butterfly known to overwinter in a cold climate.
41712303|Between 1983 and 1985, 97 mottled sculpin, Cottus bairdi Girard, were examined from five collection sites in central Utah for parasites. Eight different species of parasites were observed, representing seven genera of Protozoa (Plistophora, Myxidium, Myxobolus, Ichthyophthirius, Trichodina, Apiosoma, Eimeria) and one genus of Nematoda (Rhabdochona) . The highest number of parasites was found in sculpin from the Provo River near residential areas, while the lowest number was recorded from Hobble Creek, a nearby pristine area. A complete list of parasites for C. bairdi with literature citations is presented. Each observed parasite is discussed emphasizing pathogenesis to the host.
41711261|Four species of lizards (Uta stansburiana, Callisaurus draconoides, Cnemidophorus tigris, and Dipsosaurus dorsalis) were studied at Saratoga Springs, Death Valley National Monument, California, during their seasons of activity. Effects of the environment on activity, and on seasonal and diel changes in body temperature were observed. The lizards were found to respond differently to the environmental factors of air temperature, substrate temperature, black-bulb temperature, wind, rain, and cloud cover. Temperature is the factor primarily affecting activity in all species. Seasonal acclimatization of Tb is suggested in Uta and Dipsosaurus. Diel thermal lability is shown in Uta, Callisaurus, and Cnemidophorus. The species appear to be effectively partitioned within the thermal environmental factors studied.
41711627|Two Onychomys torridus longicaudus Merriam were captured at a site 22 miles W Winnemucca, Humbolt Co., Nevada. This record extends the known range of O. torridus 165 km to the northeast.
41712045|An understanding of the mechanisms of phytoplankton species interaction is dependent on a precise knowledge of what species exist within the community. The centric diatoms of Lake Tahoe, California-Nevada, which are often the dominant component of the phytoplankton community, are presented in both light and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) photographs. Specific attention has been given to initial cell forms of CycloteUa stelligera Cleve and Grunow and C. comta (Ehrenberg) Ktzing through the aid of the SEM.
41712615|Mortality of nontarget small mammals was determined after application of three black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) rodenticide treatments (prebaited zinc phosphide, prebaited strychnine, and strychnine alone) in western South Dakota. Immediate (September 1983) and long-term (September 1983 through August 1984) impacts on deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) relative densities were evaluated, and the three rodenticide treatments were compared for efficacy. The three treatments had no significant ( < .10) immediate impacts on deer mouse relative densities, although zinc phosphide did lower them; that impact was not, however, long term. Long-term impacts of the two strychnine treatments were variable, with an increase in deer mouse densities with the strychnine only treatment. Overall, comparisons among the three treatments indicated that zinc phosphide was more effective than either strychnine treatment in reducing deer mouse densities.
41711941|Presented herein is an index to approximately 800 authors of vascular plant names of Utah. A standardized abbreviation is presented for each author. These are listed alphabetically. Following each abbreviation is the full name and birth and death dates (where available) of each individual. In some cases the date of publication is given when biographical information is not known.
41712036|Thelesperma pubescens Dorn is described as new to science from Uinta County, Wyoming.
41712215|Samples of pupfish from Crystal, Marsh, and Point of Rocks springs, Ash Meadows, Nevada, were examined to determine the subspecific identity of Cyprinodon nevadensis presently inhabiting Crystal Spring. Meristic and morphometric analyses indicate that Crystal Spring is inhabited by C. n. mionectes . The presence of this subspecies is most likely explained by their precarious survival in the spring's outflow after they were eliminated by transplanted largemouth bass in the spring pool, and their subsequent reestablishment throughout the spring system after the extirpation of the bass.
41712252|The Fish Creek Springs tui chub, Gila bicolor enchila, is present in large numbers throughout its native habitat in spite of extensive man-caused habitat disturbance. This subspecies occurs further downstream in Fish Creek than previously reported.
41712074|In vitro digestibility was determined for 13 accessions of Kochia prostrata. Vegetative samples were collected in February and April. No significant differences in digestibility were detected due to month sampled or among accessions. The mean in vitro digestibility of the 13 accessions was 32.2% of dry matter digested. The accessional range was from 20.2 to 38.0% of dry matter digested.
41712754|Spatial heterogeneity in visually similar sites under Utah juniper canopy in Colorado National Monument was examined. Sample sites were arranged in a transect 24 m long, such that distances between samples were 0.013 m, 0.03 m, 1.0 m, 12 m, and 24 m. Twenty-five taxa of algae were observed, mostly belonging to Cyanophyta. Algal density varied by more than an order of magnitude within the 46 samples examined. The coefficients of variation for each distance class were very similar, demonstrating that algal patchiness can be as significant on a scale less than 0.013 m as it is on a scale of 24 m. Goodalls random pairing analysis of spatial pattern supported this conclusion by indicating that the minimal area for sampling soil algal crust populations at this site was equal to or less than 0.013 m. Because of the microscale heterogeneity in algal communities in this study, we recommend that future researchers take composite samples if they wish to quantify algae of microbiotic crusts.
41712297|Ten new species of Docalidia are described and illustrated. These are pennyi, gracilitas, zanoli, triquetra, paracrista, convexa, setacea, and caterva from Brazil and vesica and vella from Peru. A key to males of 37 species described since the last revision of the genus is included. The number of known species is now 116, making Docalidia the largest teruliine genus.
41711521|An investigation was made of Elymus simplex to evaluate the current taxonomy and cytology. The study included herbarium specimens from Wyoming and Colorado and population samples from the type location in Wyoming. The most important taxonomic characters noted are numbers of spikelets per node, lemma awn length, and habitat. The chromosome number of E. simplex is reported as 2n=28. E. simplex is a distinct species and should not be confused with E. salina, from which it differs morphologically.
41712160|Invasion of plant species onto recently exposed beaches of Mono Lake, California, was documented. Three vegetation zones were evident on these beaches. The first was formed entirely of annual species. The second was composed of annuals mixed with salt grass, and the third was formed entirely of salt grass. Stabilization of these beaches was accomplished by the aggressive growth of salt grass rhizomes.
41711642|Introductory topics include "The High Altitude Environment," "Ants Recorded from High Altitudes," "Adaptations of Ants," "Mountain Ants of North America," and "The Mountains of Nevada." A Nevada mountain ant species is defined as one that inhabits the Coniferous Forest Biome or Alpine Biome or the ecotone between them. A table gives a taxonomic list of the mountain ants and shows the biomes in which they occur; it also indicates whether they occur in lower biomes. This list comprises 50 species, which is 28 percent of the ant fauna we have found in Nevada. Only 30 species (17 percent of the fauna) are exclusively montane; these are in the genera Myrmica, Manica, Stenamma, Leptothorax, Camponotus, Lasius, and Formica. The article concludes with "Records for Nevada Mountain Ants." All known records for each species are cited. For each record we give first the county, next the mountain range, then the peak (or other local feature), and finally the elevation.
41712328|Construction of a 10-MWe solar thermal power plant in Daggett, California, involved clearing and leveling 53 ha of desert land. Transient offsite effects of this construction were apparent as a reduced density of annual plants within 100 m downwind of the edge of the cleared area. Schismus arabicus populations recovered within four years, but Erodium cicutarium populations did not. The effects appeared to be related more to an interaction of seed-dispersal mechanisms with the large, open space than to the obvious sand movement and deposition associated with the clearing operations.
41711596|Based on a synthesis of recent work on distribution of mammals in Utah, the hierarchy of ecogeographic distributional units proposed by Durrant (1952) is reevaluated by numerical methods. Areographic faunal elements, distinguished on the basis of shapes of distributional ranges in North America, are identified. Relationships are shown between ecogeographic faunal units and areographic faunal elements, and their historical implications are discussed.
41711395|Artemisia arbusculo, A. longiloba, and A. nova are dwarf sagebrush species that occur extensively throughout the shrub steppe of northern Nevada. These species are similar ecologically in that they occupy habitats strongly influenced by edaphic factors. Nine major habitat types on which these shrubs are dominant are recognized in this region. The A. arbusculo habitat types are most prevalent in extreme northern Nevada. Southward, they generally become restricted to altitudes above the Pinus-Juniperus woodland zone. A single A. longiloba habitat type is described, occurring in northeastern Nevada. The A. nova habitat types are most prevalent in north central and east central Nevada. Four features appear consistently among soils of these habitat types: (1) shallowness, (2) high profile gravel volume, (3) presence of a clay B horizon close to the soil surface, and (4) presence of large quantities of mineral carbonates throughout profiles of most A. nova habitat types.
41713059|The historic range of the bison (Bison bison) on the Great Plains has been well documented. In Colorado the range of bison included both the eastern grasslands and higher-elevation ridges and mountain parks, up to an elevation of 3900 m. Based on the commensal relationship of the brood-parasitic Brown-headed Cowbird (Mohthrus ater) with the bison, we suggest that the cowbird had a larger historical elevational range in Colorado than previously known and consequently has had a long-term host-parasite relationship with high-elevation breeding songbirds.
41711982|Three new taxa are named and described: Thelesperma subnudum Gray var. alpinum Welsh, Townsendia jonesii (Beaman) Reveal var. lutea Welsh, and Townsendia montana var. caelilinensis Welsh.
41712502|An extensive study of larvae and adult Trichoptera of the Sagehen Creek basin, Sierra Nevada, California, USA, revealed 77 species representing 14 families and 41 genera. Twenty-six species were restricted to small water bodies (spring sources, seeps, spring streams, temporary ponds, and intermittent streams); 27 were restricted to Sagehen Creek, a second-order stream, and the mouths of two large spring streams. Similarity between species caught at black lights and those in emergence traps was 43%. There were two major peaks in adult emergence by species, midsummer and late summer-fall. A few species emerged during winter or throughout most of the year. The species composition of the community showed affinity with Oregon, the Great Basin, and the Rocky Mountains but very little similarity with the California Coast Range. Four of the most abundant species in the basin have very restricted distributions. Ecological separation of several groups of closely related species could be explained by major differences in larval habitats or by different emergence periods.
41711571|A general analysis of the populations of Crotaphytus wislizeni in the Great Basin is presented. A new subspecies, C. wislizeni maculosus, for the Lahontan Basin, Nevada, is described and comparisons of color pattern, some scale patterns, and skull measurements are presented.
41711825|Three specimens of Microdipodops megacephalus nasutus were captured in the Wassuk Mountains of western Mineral County, Nevada, which provide a second place of occurrence for the subspecies and a new altitudinal record of 2455 m for the genus. This is the first time this species has been found in the pinyon-juniper belt.
41712405|New replacement names for junior homonyms are presented as follows: Acanthotomicus tuberculifer for A. (Mimips) tuberculatus Schedl 1967, Chaetoptelius versicolor for C. (Acrantus) tricolor Schedl 1958, Hylesinopsis angolanus for H. (Aridiamerus) angolensis Schedl 1982, Hylurgops tuberculifer for H. tuberculatus Schedl 1947, Pseudothysanoes spinatifer for P. spinatus Wood 1956, Scolytodes aterrimus for S. ater (Hylocurosoma atrum Eggers) 1941, Scolytodes boliviensis for S. (Prionosceles) bolivianus Eggers 1928, Scolytodes brasilianus for S. (Hexacolus) brasiliensis Schedl 1935, Scolytodes discriminatus for S. discedens Eggers 1943, Scolytodes elongatissimus for S. elongatus (Hylocurosoma elongatum Eggers) 1943, Scolytodes gennaeus for S. genialis Wood 1978, Scolytodes laevigatulus for S. (Hexacolus) laevigatus Schedl 1962, Scolytodes laevicorpus for S. laevis (Hylocurosoma laeve Eggers) 1943, Scolytodes majus for S. major Eggers 1943, Scolytodes medialis for S. medius Eggers 1943. New synonymy is reported for Dactylipalpus niger Schedl (= D. unctus Wood), Dendroctonus armandi Tsai & Li (= D. prosorovi Kurenzov & Kononov), Sinophloeus porteri Brthes (= S. destructor Eggers). Species new to science include: Acacicis bicornis (New Guinea), Acacicis zeylanicus (Sri Lanka), Sphaerotrypes bengalensis (India), Sphaerotrypes costatus (North Andaman Island), Sphaerotrypes cristatus (Sri Lanka), Sphaerotrypes pentacme (Burma), Sphaerotrypes ranasinghei (Sri Lanka), Xylechinus ougeiniae (India), Xylechinus padus (India).
41711936|A spotted bat (Euderma maculatura) was picked up at the headquarters of Browns Park National Wildlife Refuge, Moffat County, Colorado, on 29 August 1981.
41711979|A revision of the sunflower family, Compositae (Asteraceae), is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 613 taxa in 100 genera. Keys to genera, species, and infraspecifc taxa are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and pertinent discussion. Many nomenclatural changes have been necessary to bring Utah composites into line with contemporary interpretations of the family. They include: Artemisia tridentata Nutt. var. wyomingensis (Beetle & Young) Welsh; Aster kingii D. C. Eaton var. barnebyana (Welsh & Goodrich) Welsh; Brickellia microphylla (Nutt.) Gray var. watsonii (Robins.) Welsh; Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Pallas) Britt.  var. abbreviatus (Jones) Welsh, var. arenarias (L. C. Anderson) Welsh, var. glareosus (Jones) Welsh, var. iridis (L. C. Anderson) Welsh, and var. nitidus (L. C. Anderson) Welsh; Cirsium arizonicum (Gray) Petrak var. nidulum (Jones) Welsh; Cirsium cahareum (Jones) Woot. & Standl.  var. bipinnatum (Eastw.) Welsh and var. pulchellum (Greene) Welsh; Cirsium neomexicanum Gray var. utahense (Petrak) Welsh; Cirsium undulatum (Nutt.) Spreng, var. tracyi (Rydb.) Welsh; Crepis runcinata (James) T. & G. var. glauca (Nutt.) Welsh; Erigeron speciosus (Lindl.) DC. - var. mollis (Gray) Welsh and var. uintahensis (Cronq.) Welsh; Gutierrezia petradoria (Welsh & Goodrich) Welsh; Gutierrezia pomariensis (Welsh) Welsh; Haplopappus racemosus (Nutt.) Torr.  var. sessiliflorus (Greene) Welsh and var. prionophyllus (Greene) Welsh; Haplopappus watsonii Gray var. rydbergii (Blake) Welsh; Lygodesmia grandiflora (Nutt.) T. & G.  var. arizonica (Tomb) Welsh and var. dianthopsis (D. C. Eaton) Welsh; Machaeranthera canescens (Pursh) Gray  var. commixta (Greene) Welsh, var. leucanthemifolia (Greene) Welsh, and var. vacans (A. Nels.) Welsh; Petradoria pumila (Nutt.) Greene var. graminea (Woot. & Standl.) Welsh; and Senecio spartioides T. & G. var. multicapitatus (Greenm. in Rydb.) Welsh.
41704204|A Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) was found dead at the west end of the Utah Uinta Mountains at approximately 11,000 feet. Rain, fog, and very low cloud ceilings reducing visibility to almost zero causing directly or indirectly the heron's death was postulated.
41712047|Of the eight most frequently collected spiders at a northern Utah study site, each of two species employed one of the following hunting strategies: pursuing, web building, jumping, and ambushing. Within each pair, size differences between species were substantial for all but the ambushers. The ambushers had different seasonal activity patterns, as did the web builders.
41711362|The nesting behavior of a small aggregation of the digger wasp Steniolia elegans near Fort Collins, Colorado, is described. The prey was found to consist primarily of bee flies (Bombyliidae), the egg being laid erect on the first fly placed in the cell. Nests were shallow, unicellular, and were closed at all times when the female was away.
41711956|The cyclical phenomenon of soft and hard formation of feces in desert black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californicus deserticola, Mearns) was investigated. Sixty-nine blacktails were shot between 0525 hours and 1508 hours over a 4-day period. The average age was 314 days for all black-tails. The large intestine was removed and linear measurements taken. Overall length of the large intestine averaged 163.3 cm; mean length of the colon was 51.5 cm and average length of the rectum was 111.8 cm. Moisture content for soft and hard pellets averaged 79.5 percent and 74.1 percent, respectively. Protein content of soft and hard pellets averaged 45.8 percent and 14.3 percent, respectively. The black-tails began the transition from hard to soft pellets as early as 0414 hours, and nearly all had completed the reverse transition by 1508 hours. Female black-tails began both early morning and afternoon transitions significantly later than the males. Reasons for the apparent sexual partitioning are proposed.
41712813|We quantified nest site characteristics, breeding densities, and migratory chronology of Long-billed Curlews at Great Salt Lake, Utah. The species is apparently declining in Utah, and little is know about their breeding ecology in the eastern Great Basin Desert. This study was designed to provide wildlife biologists with baseline data useful for their successful management. Curlews arrived in northern Utah in late March and generally departed by mid-August. Nest densities at Great Salt Lake ranged from 0.64 to 2.36 males/km. The habitat at curlew nest sites consisted of significantly shorter vegetation than nearby random locations (<tex-math>$\bar x = 5.7$</tex-math> versus 9.0 cm, respectively; P < .01). Nests tended to be located in small patches of vegetation near barren ground. Maintenance of relatively short vegetation appears to be important in managing curlew habitat. In addition, only 2 of 10 nests we monitored in 1992 were successful, with most lost to mammalian predators. Further research is needed to determine the impact of mammalian predators on curlew populations.
41711658|Diatoms from core samples obtained from the edge of Lily Lake, Summit County, Utah, were studied. Populations from each 15 cm of the core and niche metrics of the important species were analyzed. This study demonstrates four periods of history in the lake as mirrored by the diatom populations. The first period was mesotrophic and alkaline. This graded into an acidic, dystrophic period which in turn yielded again to a mesotrophic alkaline period. The most recent period can be characterized by a return to dystrophy.
41713009|The moss species Pseudocrossidium obtusulum (Lindb.) Crum & Anderson is reported for the state of Montana. Recent systematics of the genus Pseudocrossidium in North America is discussed.
41713132|We describe habitat characteristics of 8 small mammal species occurring in the Manti-LaSal National Forest in southeastern Utah. Thirty-seven grids across 7 vegetation types were sampled by live-trapping from May though October 1994 and 1995. Logistic regression models of habitat measurements correctly classified small mammal presence 36%-87% of the time. Except for 1 instance, 4 Peromyscus species present in a specific vegetation type were negatively associated with forb or grass cover. Microtus montanus was present primarily on mesas and was positively associated with tall tree and low shrub cover. Neotoma mexicana was present only in canyons and was found primarily in the pinyon-juniper (Pinus edulis-Juniperus osteosperma) vegetation type. Tamias spp. was present in all vegetation types. Our results allow better management of these species by providing greater understanding of their use of habitat within vegetation types.
41712132|Due to an error in printing quality of an earlier article, the distribution maps for the night snake (Hypsiglena torquata) and the tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) in Idaho are reprinted.
41711796|Eastern cottontail rabbits, Sylvilagus floridanus, introduced into Linn County, Oregon, in 1941, occupied 378.1 km in 1953, 637.7 km in 1970, and 1501.9 km in 1980. Hiatuses within the range were related to absence of adequate coverts on conifer-dominated ridge tops and in intensively cultivated areas. Flooding of riparian zones seven times during the first 12 years after introduction and three times during the 17-year interval between the first and second surveys (especially the devastating floods of December 1964 and January 1965) was believed to have retarded dispersal or periodically reduced the area occupied. Flood-control dams constructed between 1941 and 1968 on drainage systems that affect the area limited floods to two winters since 1965 and were believed responsible for cottontails extending their range within the county nearly two and one-half fold since 1970. The absence of burrow-constructing associated species was believed relatively insignificant in retarding dispersal. Removal of brushy coverts, particularly by agricultural practices, tended to increase the size of unoccupied areas within the 1970 range of the species.
41711600|Carebareia, n. gen., and its type-species, C. johnstoni, n. sp., are described. The genus Quadraseta Brennan, 1970, is redefined and a key to the 11 included species given. Four new species, Quadraseta tachirensis, holotype ex Akodon sp., Q. rotstieri, ex Proechimys guyannensis, Q. mirandae, holotype ex Oryzomys albigularis, and Q. falconensis, ex Sylvilagus floridanus, are described.
41712237|Ball Mountain is an isolated, mostly heavily forested peak reaching the subalpine zone (2,330 m) in eastern Siskiyou County north of Mt. Shasta, California. It supports a rich fauna of at least 68 butterfly species showing affinities to the faunas of the Trinity Alps and Eddies, the Warners, and the Cascades. Rare or endemic entities include Speyeria mormonia, Lycaena heteronea gravenotata , and melanic forms of Speyeria atlantis and Agriades "glandon." Several zones of intergradation or hybridization impinge on the fauna as well.
41711649|Two new species of Meringis are described. Meringis disparalis, n. sp., has been most commonly taken from Dipodomys merriami but has also been taken from D. ordii and Onychomys leucogaster. Collection localities include the counties of Dona Ana, Eddy, and Luna in southern New Mexico. Meringis facilis, n. sp., has been taken from D. ordii, several other rodents, and Sylvilagus audubonii. Collection localities include Crowley County, Colorado, and Bernalillo, Chaves, and Valencia counties in New Mexico. A key to the species of Meringis is given.
41712090|A total of 145 species of diatoms was collected from 13 sites in the Middle Fork of the Salmon River drainage, Idaho, USA. Achnanthes minutissima was the prevalent species with an importance index of 19.25. Cluster analysis revealed 2 main site groupings, sites above the entrance of Loon Creek and sites below. The entrance of Loon Creek (6th order) increases the Middle Fork of the Salmon River to a 7th order stream. Shannon-Weiner diversity values were generally high.
41712377|Ground beetles from Rotger's collection of Colorado specimens have been identified, principally by the author, and a faunal list of 161 species from 80 localities is presented. The list includes 35 species not previously recorded from Colorado. Comparisons are made with Armin's (1963) carabid list from Boulder County and the diversity of species along transects through four elevational zones from the plains to the alpine.
41713048|This article documents spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa Lam.) in 30 campsites and along 5 trails in the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness and assesses the role of disturbance and environmental factors in controlling infestation. Spotted knapweed was present in only 6 of 30 surveyed campsites and limited portions of all 5 trails that were sampled. All spotted knapweed in camps was below 1700 m elevation, in open canopy, and in areas with an opportunity class disturbance ranking of 3 or 4. Overall disturbance levels measured using U.S. Forest Service Site Impact Worksheets (SIWs) did not help predict occurrence of spotted knapweed, although bare mineral soil, vegetation loss, and development variables of SIWs provide some explanation of spotted knapweed presence or absence. There was no significant difference in knapweed frequency between areas used predominantly by horses and those used by humans within camps. Over 95% of spotted knapweed along trails was found within 0.5 km of the trailhead, occurred within 4.6 m of the trail, and had low reproductive potential. If the Bitterroot portion of the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness is representative of forested wilderness areas in the Northern Rockies, then the perceived threat of spotted knapweed to wilderness areas may substantially exceed the actual danger in many instances. Study findings indicate that managers should conduct surveys before initiating costly control measures in wilderness areas, that eradication may be a viable alternative when spotted knapweed numbers are this low, and that regulations promoting minimum-impact camping should reduce spotted knapweed infestation.
41712456|A revised list of the mosses of the Intermountain West, including all of Utah and Nevada and parts of surrounding states, is presented. Recorded are 342 species in 122 genera and 39 families in this region. Nomenclatural and taxonomic changes as well as floristic additions since the publication of Seville Flowers's book are included.
41712313|Artemisia tridentata/Symphoricarpos oreophilus and Symphoricarpos oreophilus/Artemisia tridentata plant associations were studied in northeastern Nevada. A 60-stand reconnaissance followed by a detailed study of 37 stands differentiated five important habitat types using an association table approach. Data reduction with DECORANA and TWINSPAN also described five plant associations that were differentiated by species occurrence and geographical distribution. All stands were found at elevations between 2,200 and 3,100 m in areas where snow accumulates and is late to melt. Stands are found on 15 families of soils that are relatively deep, often skeletal, dark colored, and productive. The dominant perennial grasses included Agropyron spicatum, Agropyron trachycaulum, and Festuca idahoensis.
41712000|A review of the ecological distribution and successional roles of lodgepole pine and trembling aspen in the Southern Rocky Mountains suggests that the two species have different strategies for occupying disturbed sites. Lodgepole pine's easily dispersed seeds and faster growth from seed in unsuppressed conditions allows it to colonize severe burns, even from remote seed sources. Aspen appears to compensate for ineffective development from seed by vegetative reproduction from durable root stocks, which promotes geographic persistence. Such persistence is achieved by the maintenance of a forest structure conducive to light surface fires, which stimulate suckering and retard conifer invasion, and by the accumulation of soil organic matter, which improves site nutrient retention and water availability.
41711572|A petrified wood related to genera of the family Myrtaceae was collected from the Deccan Intertrappean Series of India. On comparison with fossil woods of this family, it most closely resembles Syzygioxylon Ingle (1973). The specimen differs from described species of Syzygioxylon and, therefore, it is proposed as the new species Syzygioxylon chhindwarense.
41712760|Recovery rates of cyanobacterial-lichen soil crusts from disturbance were examined. Plots were either undisturbed or scalped, and scalped plots were either inoculated with surrounding biological crust material or left to recover naturally. Natural recovery rates were found to be very slow. Inoculation significantly hastened recovery for the cyanobacterial/green algal component, lichen cover, lichen species richness, and moss cover. Even with inoculation, however, lichen and moss recovery was minimal. Traditional techniques of assessing recovery visually were found to underestimate time for total recovery. Other techniques, such as extraction of chlorophyll a from surface soil and measurement of sheath material accumulation, were used and are discussed.
41711567|Extensive feeding experiments were undertaken to determine if physiological host specificity was a major characteristic of Posthodiplostomum minimum. This involved the feeding of experimentally infected sunfish livers containing metacercariae of P. minimum to amphibian, reptilian, avian and mammalian hosts. Host-induced morphological variations of adult P. minimum were shown to be associated with the genus and class of host employed as well as with the inherent variability of P. minimum exclusive of host factors. Morphological characters such as body size and shape and tegumental surface and spines are indicated as undergoing morphological variation. Of all the experimental definitive hosts used, avian and mammalian are the most suitable for normal development of P. minimum. Amphibian and reptilian hosts demonstrate marked variation in the adult worm development usually manifested by pronounced size decrease.
41712259|Pseudoxylechinus indicus is decribed as new to science from India.
41711822|Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. iridis was named from material taken in Sevier County, Utah.
41713088|Wetwood is a condition of Populus fremontii and other tree species characterized by staining and water soaking in the heartwood, bleeding from wounds and stem junctions, and leaf and branch dieback. A field survey indicated that wetwood symptoms were present in populations of Populus fremontii at all 17 riparian sites surveyed in Arizona. However, incidence and severity of bleeding symptoms varied within and among sites. Within sites, incidence and severity increased with tree size. In the smallest size class of trees (1-32 cm dbh), incidence (% of trees with wetwood bleeding symptoms) ranged among sites from 14% to 83%, and mean severity ranged from 1.1 to 2.6 (on a 5-point scale). Closer host spacing (i.e., greater density), more homogeneous stand composition, finer substrate texture, and channel instability all were significantly correlated with increased expression of wetwood symptoms. Bleeding symptoms also were significantly correlated with canopy effects. As the severity of bleeding symptoms increased, so did canopy decline independent of changes in host density.
41711829|Four observations made in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, indicate that coyote-badger associations are best considered as phoretic (accidental and nonobligatory) rather than a form of social symbiosis as has been previously suggested.
41712558|Wyoming lacks a rich molluscan fauna due to its considerable elevation, extremes of temperature, the short period between killing frosts, scanty moisture, and intermittent creeks. Recent mollusks found in the state total 42 genera (109 species), including 6 genera (23 species) of bivalves, 15 genera (42 species) of freshwater gastropods, and 21 genera (44 species) of land gastropods. Synonymy, the counties in which each species was collected, and habitat notes are given.
41711419|This revision discusses two closely related species of Plagiobothrys (Boraginaceae) found in the southwestern United States and central Chile. One of the two species, P. collinus, is composed of five varieties that range from southern California and western Arizona to central Chile in South America. The following new combinations are proposed: P. collinus var. cali fornicus, P. collinus var. gracilis, P. collinus var. ursinus, and P. collinus var. fulvescens. Detailed keys, synonymy, and descriptions are given for each entity.
41711855|A revision of the rose family, Rosaceae, is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 115 species and 9 varieties of indigenous and introduced plants in 35 genera. A key to the genera and species is provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and pertinent comments. Proposed as a new taxon is Crataegus douglasii Lindl. var. duchesnensis Welsh. New combinations include Potentilla concinna Richards var. bicrenata (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston; P. concinna var. modesta (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston; P. concinna var. proxima (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston; P. glandulosa Lindl. var. micropetala. (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston; P. ovina J. M. Macoun var. decurrens (Wats.) Welsh & Johnston; P. pensylvanica L. var. paucijuga (Rydb.) Welsh & Johnston.
41712712|We studied summer habitat use by Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus columbianus) in western Idaho during 198385. Vegetative and topographic measurements were recorded at 716 locations of 15 radio-tagged grouse and at 180 random sites within the major vegetation/cover types in the study area. The mean size of summer home ranges was 1.87  1.14 km. Of eight cover types identified in the study area, individual grouse used the big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) cover type more than or in proportion to availability, the low sagebrush (A. arbsculo) type in proportion to availability, and avoided the shrubby eriogonum (Eriogonum spp.) type. Characteristics of the big sagebrush cover type that Sharp-tailed Grouse preferred include moderate vegetative cover, high plant species diversity, and high structural diversity. Grouse used areas of dense cover (i.e., mountain shrub and riparian cover types) primarily for escape cover. Compared with random sites, grouse selected areas with (1) greater horizontal and vertical cover, (2) greater canopy coverage of forbs typically decreased by livestock grazing, (3) greater density and canopy coverage of arrowleaf balsamroot (Bahamorhiza sagittata), and (4) greater canopy coverage of bluebunch wheatgrass (Asropyron spicatum) in the big sagebrush cover type in 1984 and the low sagebrush cover type in 1985. The importance of the native perennials arrowleaf balsamroot and bluebunch wheatgrass became apparent during a drought year when many exotic annuals dried up and provided no cover. Overall, grouse selected vegetative communities that were least modified by livestock grazing.
41711934|Thirteen of 265 deer (4.9 percent) from central Utah were positive for Elaeophora schneiden, and 180 (67.9 percent) were infected with Onchocerca cervipedis. The rate of infection for E. schneidert and O. cervipedis increased significantly with age of the host (chi-square of 17.5 and 15.5, respectively, p < 0.005). The lack of elaeophorosis in elk from the region is presumably due to the low density of the parasite in mule deer.
41712474|Additional records of the spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) from Inyo County and Shasta County, California, are reported. The latter record represents the northernmost locale for this species in California.
41711668|This is a compilation of tularemia research conducted in Utah, particularly at U.S. Army Dugway Proving Ground (DPG), Utah, and an evaluation of this information in relation to the current status of tularemia studies. A brief history of tularemia in Utah and a review of field and laboratory studies are included. Human cases of tularemia occur throughout Utah during all seasons of the year. An analysis of recent human disease reveals a concentration of cases in rural areas, with a greater seasonal occurrence in late summer and early fall.
41712205|The apple maggot, Rhagoletis pomonella (Walsh) is reported from Utah County, Utah, where it has adapted to sour cherries. It has been taken repeatedly from pheromone traps in the vicinity of hawthorn (Crataegus douglassii), but there are no Utah data that suggest it has adapted to apples.
41716180|Two roadside surveys were conducted for dwarf mistletoes parasitizing lodgepole pine and Douglas-fir on the Sawtooth National Forest, Idaho. One survey used variable-radius plots located less than 150 m from roads. The 2nd survey used variable-radius plots established at 200-m intervals along 1600-m transects run perpendicular to the same roads. Estimates of the incidence (percentage of trees infected and percentage of plots infested) and severity (average dwarf mistletoe rating) for both lodgepole pine and Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoes were not significantly different for the 2 survey methods. These findings are further evidence that roadside-plot surveys and transect-plot surveys conducted away from roads provide similar estimates of the incidence of dwarf mistletoes for large forested areas.
41711332|An examination of additional specimens of Crotalus lepidus from western Durango and the adjacent parts of Sinaloa and Nayarit have demonstrated the validity of Klauber's (1956) suggestion that a new subspecies may occur. The new subspecies (C. l. maculosus) is described and compared to other subspecies.
41712547|Semiweekly mark and recapture livetrapping was conducted July-October 1985 to determine the effectiveness of wheat treated with indomethacin, a prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor, to control the productivity of a wild population of montane voles (Microtus montanus) in southeastern Idaho. Before treatment, control (C) and experimental (E) groups, each on ca 0.3 ha, were statistically equal in population size (x  SD; C = 50  21, E = 45  14), adult female: male ratio (C = 1: 0.8, E = 1:0.7), juvenile: adult ratio (C = 0.16:1, E = 0.13:1), number of juveniles per 100 females (x  SD; C = 27  8, E = 21  18), and percentage of pregnant females (x  SD; C = 44  10, E = 46  17). After the 15-week experiment all population categories were unchanged for the control group and significantly (P .05) lower for the experimental group, which ended with a final population of (x  SD) 17  6, with 7  21 juveniles per 100 females and an 11  14% pregnancy rate.
41711729|The height of oak (Quercus gambelii Nutt.) stems was measured on several fire scars within the Uinta National Forest and vicinity and compared with the height of oak stems on adjacent, nonburned areas. A significant relationship exists between the recovery rate of oak after fire and elevation, with the recovery rate being greatest at low elevations. A trend also exists showing that recovery tends to be greater on south to westerly exposures than on north to easterly exposures.
41711683|The study evaluates growth variations in mixed stands of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco) and White Fir (Abies concolor Hoopes) from the Bighorn Ranch in northern Sanpete County, Utah. The study area lies 26 km southwest of Thistle, Utah. Tree-ring width, annual branch growth and needle length for the period 1970-1976 were obtained from Douglas-Fir and White Fir individuals distributed along an altitidinal and moisture gradient. Elevation ranged from 2257 m to 2500 m above sea level. Temperature and precipitation are shown to exert a significant influence on needle and annual branch growth and width of the annual rings. It was found that multiple correlation coefficients were always larger than the simple correlation coefficients. This suggests that the trees are responding to both temperature and precipitation. Annual branch growth is shown to be positively correlated with ring width and needle length. The influence of precipitation on growth is synchronized with 1 October-1 June precipitation. Best growth occurs in cool, moist years and at lower elevations.
41711413|The type-specimen of Glauconia boettgeri Werner, 1899, is consubspecific with L. h. slevini Klauber, 1931. The valid name of the Baja California Cape wormsnake accordingly is Leptatyphlops humilis boettgeri (Werner).
41711749|A new species of Hesperoperla is named from northern California. The adult male and female, nymph, and egg are described and figured. HesperoperL  hoguei adds a second species to this previously monotypic genus.
41712236|The generic concept of Paralidia Nielson, type-species, Coelidia plaumanni Linnavuori, is reelucidated after five additional new species were found in South America. These are described and illustrated. Four species, all from Brazil, include spinata, retrorsa, denticulata, and bispinosa . One species, singularis, is from Ecuador. A key to males of the six known species is also presented.
41713023|Discussed are relationships of the species within Astragalus section Conjuncti; A. conjunctus var. rickardii Welsh, Beck, & Caplow var. nov. is proposed.
41712135|Six subalpine snow avalanche paths studied in 1975 were revisited in the summer of 1983, with the purpose of examining geomorphic and vegetational change that may have occurred during this eight-year period. Repeat photography and field reconnaissance were used to assess vegetational and geomorphic change. Vegetational responses to avalanches were apparent on several of the avalanche paths, generally by an increase in brush cover. Geomorphic changes were not apparent, suggesting that avalanches need not be geomorphically effective to initiate substantial vegetative disruption.
41711496|The reproductive cycle in Belding ground squirrels was studied in the Sierra Nevada Mountains at two locations, one at 2,100 m elevation, the other at 3,000 m. Adults emerged from hibernation completely prepared physiologically for reproduction. Males tended to emerge slightly ahead of females and yearlings tended to emerge later than adults. Yearling females were fertile but produced smaller litters than adults, 4.48 vs. 6.31. Yearling males were infertile. They exhibited a slight seasonal cycle in testicular growth but did not reach sexual maturity. Testicular growth and spermatogenesis were incipient in many adults and in yearlings prior to hibernation.
41711528|New synonomy is proposed as follows: Metacorthylus Blandford (= Paracorthylus Wood), Corthylus spinifer Schwarz (= Corthylus tomentosus Schedl), Cryptocarinus brevicollis Eggers (= Cryptocarenus coronatus Wood), Dendrocranulus guatemalensis (Hopkins), n. comb. (= Dendrocranulus parallelus Schedl), Dendroterus mexicanus Blandford (= Conophthocranulus umbratus Schedl), Hypothenemus cylindricus (Hopkins) (= Hypothenemus guadeloupensis Schedl), Hypothenemus erectus LeConte (= Stephanoderes discedens Schedl), Hypothenemus javanus (Eggers) (= Stephanoderes pistor Schedl, Stephanoderes prosper Schedl), Xyleborus pseudotenuis Schedl (= Xyleborus tenuis Schedl), and Xyleborus villosulus Blandford (= Xyleborus coccotrypoides Eggers, villosus Schedl). Scolytodes punctiferus n. n. is proposed for Scolytodes punctifer Wood, 1971 (nec Wood 1969). The following species are named as new to science: Amphicranus argutus, A. fulgidus, A. micans, Pityophthorus inops, P. debilis, P. strictus, P. galeritus, P. sobrinus, P. laetus, P. lenis, P. conspectus, P. medialis (Costa Rica), P. perexiguus (Costa Rica and Panama), P. scitulus (Panama), P. costatulus, P. costabilis, P. detentus, P. nebulosus, P. melanurus, P. indigens, P. burserae, P. molestus, P. diligens, P. corruptus (Mexico), P. tenax, P. nugalis, P. minutalis (Guatemala), P. nemoralis, P. morosus, P. hermosus (Honduras), Araptus gracilens (Mexico).
41711940|The abundance and diversity of lizards in nine habitat types from Oregon were studied from May through October 1980. Eight species were from eight habitat types. The most common species were Sceloporous occidentalism Uta stansburiana, Sceloporous graciosus, and Cnemidophorus tigris. Phrynosoma douglassi was uncommon and Eumeces skiltonianus was not observed. Temporary streams in nonbasaltic areas were the most productive habitat in terms of lizard abundance but sagebrush areas were the most productive habitat in terms of species diversity. No lizards were recorded from grassland conversion areas. The conflict between a land management policy that emphasizes both vegetation conversion and conservation of present wildlife stocks is discussed.
41712162|Named as a new species from the House Range of Millard County, Utah, as Primula domensis Kass & Welsh.
41711608|Endangered and threatened plants of Utah are reevaluated. The lists are brought up to date, and species now known to be common are recommended to be removed from the proposed lists. Additional species are proposed to be added, including the new species, Astragalus montii Welsh.
41712097|Quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) stands were accidentally sprayed with 2,4-D in a sagebrush control program in western Wyoming in 1958. We visited the site during the summer of 1981 to evaluate the long-term effect on the aspen trees and the associated vegetation. Initially, some observers believed that the aspen had been "destroyed." Subsequent data indicate just the oppositeaspen stocking appeared to have been improved by the treatment. On two of the sampled clones, 22 years after spraying, there were approximately 17,000 more suckers/ha on the sprayed than on the unsprayed plots. These are adequate numbers to restock the site to pretreatment densities. Although undergrowth vegetation appeared to be changed as a result of the treatment, this cannot be attributed solely to the herbicide because heavy grazing, mostly by domestic livestock, has occurred on the grazing allotment. A similarity index was calculated between sprayed and unsprayed portions of the same aspen clones. Forbs were still less on the sprayed areas, whereas grasses were similar on the sprayed and unsprayed areas. Spraying apparently does not have as adverse an effect on aspen communities as some conservationists originally thought.
41712156|Seventy-three species of Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) are reported for Nevada. A key is provided for the identification of these species along with brief notes on their distribution in the state and elsewhere.
41712557|Thirty-seven chukars (Alectoris chukar), fitted with conventional poncho-type radio transmitters, were released on Antelope Island in Utah's Great Salt Lake. Twenty-seven removed their radios, averaging three days after release. The remaining 10 died from predation (average 15 days). Twenty-two chukars with pleated and six with harness ponchos were then released. Five of the pleated ponchos were removed (average four days), and 17 resulted in mortality (average two days). All six harness poncho-equipped birds were dead the following day. A consequential laboratory study comparing various attachment methods (conventional, pleated, harness, and "irreversible" flange poncho vs. bellystrap and wingstrap backpack) favored the wingstrap backpack. The effectiveness of 30 conventional ponchos and 30 wingstrap backpacks was compared on game farm chukars. Twenty-nine removed their ponchos within one day. One remained attached throughout the 30-day trial. All of the wingstrap backpacks remained attached with no apparent problems.
41711844|Samples from soils and other xeric substrates in Navajo National Monument, Navajo County, Arizona, were collected in 1978. After being moistened with deionized water for three days, these samples were analyzed for algae. Thirty algal taxa were identified. Five species of filamentous Cyanophyta comprised the majority of the biomass. Diatoms were ubiquitous in the soils although low in density. Diatom floras were very similar throughout the monument. Well-developed algal crusts were common in sites where grazing and excessive litter were absent.
41712164|Described is Sclerocactus blainei Welsh & Thorne, sp. nov. from Nye County, Nevada.
41712126|Utah Lake is a slightly saline ecosystem containing more than 700 algal taxa. During the past decade a total of 106 algal taxa has been found that has not previously been reported in this water. These new records are reported herein, together with a comprehensive listing of all algal taxa reported from Utah Lake to date.
41712114|Insect damage to second-year cones was generally not significantly different between crown levels, but was significantly different among areas and among trees within areas for Conophthorus, Megastigmus, and Cydia. Both cone length and width were not significantly different between lower and middle crown, but cone length was significantly greater in the upper crown. Seeds per cone ranged from 34 to 66, but the percent of sound seed per cone varied significantly according to the amount of insect damage.
41712770|Four populations of the spotted frog, Rana pretiosa, occur in western Bonneville Basin. Only the Tule Valley populations occupy aquatic habitats associated with warm (28C) and slightly saline (1700-2700 mhos/cm) springs. The spotted frog in Tule Valley breeds in cold-water portions of the peripheral wetlands, which exhibit maximum temperature variations (1-25C), maximum conductivity up to 3200 mhos/cm, and maximum pH values up to 9.7. Adult frogs are found in habitats with temperatures of 29C, conductivity of 4700 mhos/cm, and pH above 9.0 in the summer. The increased summer salinity and pH in frog habitats returns to lower values by the next breeding season due to underground recharge. Breeding in Tule Valley occurs earlier than in other Bonneville locations because of the warm-water sources. Spatial and temporal distribution of the spotted frog since the regression of Lake Bonneville 15,000 years ago and threats to present habitats are discussed.
41711728|Common mallow (Malva neglecta Wallr.) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum L. var. Ace 55) were compared as to certain characteristics: CO fixation properties, ribulose diphosphate carboxyl activities, (RuDPCase) photosynthesis, respiration, and compensation points. Significant differences in these factors were observed in all cases except dark respiration. Mallow enzyme (RuDPCase) activities were higher per unit of enzyme than those of tomato. The Mallow RuDPCase exhibited slightly higher activity at 5 to 25 C. Mallow leaves retained their capacity for photosynthesis and respiration after long periods of exposure to siibfreezing temperature. The cold adapted mallow had a higher CO compensation point, suggesting a lower efficiency for CO fixation. The results suggest that cold acclimation in common mallow affects photosynthesis but has little effect on respiration.
41713061|We used retrospective analyses to investigate cause-specific mortality and survivorship among 5 populations of mule deer (N = 168 telemetered animals) wintering in the western Great Basin during 1986-1994. These populations existed under similar environmental conditions, but survivorship functions differed among them. Monthly survival ranged from 0.964 to 0.990, and annual survival ranged from 0.643 to 0.884. The proportion of deaths attributed to prdation and malnutrition or anthropogenic causes did not differ among the 5 populations. Prdation was the leading cause of mortality; mountain lions were responsible for approximately 90% of the deer killed by predators. No difference existed among these populations in the proportion of telemetered deer that were killed by mountain lions, but proportionally more females than males were killed by these large felids. Prdation by mountain lions is the primary source of mortality and a widespread phenomenon among the populations of mule deer we investigated.
41716158|Described as a new species is Oreoxis trotten Welsh & Goodrich from Utah.
41711789|Erogonum divaricatum, an annual herb of clay slopes and flats in the Green and Colorado river drainage basin of the western United States, was found at the turn of the century in three locations in southern Argentina. The South American material was described in 1902 as a new species of Erogonum, E. ameghinoi Speg., and this name was the basionym for a new monotypic genus, Sanmartinia M. Buchinger, proposed in 1950. The species has not been rediscovered in Argentina, and the presence of the species in South America was probably the result of a long-distance dispersal event involving shore birds.
41712088|Nymphs of the type or other representative species of the 22 North American Perlodinae genera are comparatively described and illustrated for the first time. The first complete generic key for the subfamily incorporates recent nymph discoveries and revisions in classification. References to all previous nymph descriptions and illustrations and major life cycle and food habits studies are given for the 53 North American species in the subfamily, and a listing of species and their current distributions by states and provinces is provided for each genus. The previously unknown nymph of Chernokrilus misnomus is described and illustrated.
41712662|The kangaroo rat, Dipodomys deserti Stephens, was observed capturing and killing insects that were flying about an ultraviolet lamp. The white-lined sphinx moth, Hyles lineata (F.), and the carrot beetle, Bothynus gibbosus (DeGeer), were put into the cheek pouches and carried away from the collection area.
41712776|The purpose of this study was to determine whether the western rattlesnake (Crotalus virdis) aims its predatory strike at the head/thorax region of mice primarily on the basis of cues related to direction of prey movement. We hypothesized that when rattlesnakes strike at anesthetized, backward-moving mice, most strikes would be aimed at the forward-most-moving region, i.e., the posterior (abdomen/tail) region of prey. However, most mice were struck in the anterior (head/thorax) region, implying that the visual-infrared image of mice, rather than directional movement, guides the aim of predatory strikes.
41711506|Twenty-three species of spider mites (Tetranychidae) are recognized for Utah and Idaho; three of these are described as new: Bryobia neoribis, Pseudobryobia knowltoni, and Schizotetranychus agropyron. Eleven species of Tenuipalpidae are recorded.
41711442|Miloderes allredi, from Utah, and M. tingi, from California, are described as new to science.
41712187|The Pine Butte Fen, situated east of the Rocky Mountains in north central Montana, is a boreal, patterned peatland occurring in a relatively dry climatic region. It is one of the southernmost mires of its kind in North America. The vegetation communities present in the fen are described, and possible causes of vegetation patterning are discussed. The Pine Butte Fen is a minerotrophic fen with 93 species of vascular plants represented in an area of approximately 450 ha. Floristic similarities between the Pine Butte Fen and 11 other peatlands in North America reported in the literature are low. Similarity of this fen to other peatlands tends to decrease with increasing distance between the sites and decreasing pH of surface water at other sites. Possible causes for these trends and the floristic uniqueness of the Pine Butte Fen are discussed.
41711335|A lectotype designated for Bostrichus asperatus Gyllenhal resulted in the clarification of the status of Cryphalus Erichson and the removal of Trypophoeus Fairmaire from synonymy. All species described by A. D. Hopkins in Hypothenemus Westwood and Stephanoder es Eichhoff were reviewed. New synonymy included: Bostrichus asperatus Gyllenhal (= B. abietis Ratzeburg); H. birmanus (Eichhoff) (= H. maculicollis Sharp, S. perkinsi Hopkins, S. sterculiae Hopkins, S. psidii Hopkins); B. crudiae (Panzer) (= B. plumeriae Nrdlinger, Cryphalus hispidulus LeConte, S. differens Hopkins, S. paraguayensis Hopkins, S. polyphagus Costa Lima, S. uniseriatus Eggers, S. hivaoea Beeson, S. lebronneci Beeson); H. calif ornicus Hopkins (= H. tritici Hopkins); H. dipterocarpi Hopkins (= H. mangarivanus Beeson); H. erectus LeConte (= H. validus Blandford, S. puncticollis Hopkins, S. cubensis Hopkins); H. eruditus Westwood (= Cryphalus basjoo Niisima, Cosmoderes schwarzi Hopkins, H. bradfordi Hopkins, H. ferrugineus Hopkins, H. flavipes Hopkins, H. flavosquamosus Hopkins, H. heathi Hopkins, H. koebelei Hopkins, H. lineatifrons Hopkins, H. mali Hopkins, H. myristicae Hopkins, H. nigricollis Hopkins, H. parvus Hopkins, H. punctipennis Hopkins, H. sacchari Hopkins, H. tenuis Hopkins, H. webbi Hopkins, S. elongatus Hopkins, S. flavicollis Hopkins, S. pygmaeus Hopkins, S. subconcentralis Hopkins, S. unicolor Hopkins, H. intersetosus Eggers, S. erythrinae Eggers, H. dubiosus Schedl).
41711487|The status of 382 vascular plant taxa with distribution in Utah is presented. Some 66 species are possibly endangered, 198 threatened, 7 extinct, and 20 extirpated within the state; 4 species have questionable taxonomic status. Included in the list are nearly 225 species of endemic plants, many of which are among the possibly endangered, threatened, and extinct or extirpated plants. Bibliographic citations, type locality, status, and distribution by counties is included for each species or infraspecific taxon. Two new species are described: Psoralea pariensis and Eriogonum natum. One new name, Astragalus barnebyi, is proposed; and one new variety, Eriogonum umbel latum var. deserticum, is proposed. The following new combinations are made: Cycladenia hum ilis var. jonesii; Aralia racemosa ssp. bicrenata; Heterotheca jonesii; Hymenoxys depressa; Xanthocephalum sarothrae var. pomar iense; Thelypodium integrifolium var. complanatum; Thelypodium sagittatum var. ovalifolium; Arenaria kingii var. plateauensis; Psorothamnus thompsonae; Najas caespitosus; Oenothera gouldii; Eriogonum corymbosum var. revealianum; Penstemon humilis var. obtusifolius; Penstemon lentus var. albiflorus; and Viola purpurea var. charlestonensis.
41711463|Four decades of the author's records indicate that Spaniacris deserticola (Bruner) is confined within the periphery of the Colorado Desert. It is usually found, near or within a few hundred feet of sea level, marking the shore line of ancient Lake Cahuilla (except for the Dale Lake record). The preferred host plant is Coldenia palmeri growing on the lower fringes of bajadas, with C. plicata on drift sand being second in preference. Spaniacris can tolerate sand and rock temperatures of 60 C. (believed to be a maximum for Colorado Desert life). Mating takes place at that and lower temperatures. When they are disturbed while on the tops of host plants, their flight is low and direct and of short duration, and they come to rest on the torrid soil for long periods of time. The female, much larger than the male, can sustain the male in flight while mating. The study verified spatial longevity of Spaniacris at Indio, California, after approximately 70 years and for the Kane Springs area after 52 years.
41712226|Wintering mule deer showed differential browsing preference among 21 accessions of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) grown on gardens on three different mule deer herd ranges. The Hobble Creek accession of big sagebrush was significantly preferred over the other 20 accessions across all three sites and for all three years. Accessional preference means for the study period for all sites combined ranged from 28.3 to 57.5%. The data collected support the planned release of the Hobble Creek accession as a superior cultivar of big sagebrush for use on mule deer winter ranges. Plant coumarin content was primarily under genetic control, but site factors also had an effect. Assay for coumarin compounds is useful in determining subspecies of A. tridentata but not for precise prediction of mule deer browsing preference.
41711842|Zigadenus paniculatus is a toxic plant common on sagebrush foothills at middle elevations in the western United States. Plants produce several racemes from a single stalk. Flowering commences at the base of each raceme and proceeds upwards. The terminal raceme begins blooming first and is followed by lower racemes in sequential order. Flowers are markedly protandrous and incapable of autogamy. Observations do not support the idea that apomixis is a viable reproductive strategy. Plants are mostly self-incompatible; a few seeds were produced from geitonogamous hand pollinations. The pollen/ovule ratio was high, also suggesting outcrossing as the predominant mode of sexual reproduction. A self-incompatibility mechanism may have evolved because the movements of syrphid flies on the inflorescence render protandry alone insufficient to prevent some selfing. The probable presence of toxic substances in the pollen and nectar appears to have reduced the number of potential pollinator species but increased the flower constancy of those species capable of utilizing the floral rewards.
41712337|Fungal spores in the stomach contents and/or feces of 696 Peromyscus spp. showed that about half had eaten fungi: of 486 deer mice (P. maniculatus), 48%; of 160 white-footed mice (P. leucopus), 59%; of 40 canyon mice (P. crinitus), 12%; and of 10 pion mice (P. truei), 90%.
41712284|Observations are presented on 117 bird species seen in a 250-km area of northwestern Colorado adjacent to Utah and Wyoming. Three previously unreported species and seven status changes are listed for the Rangely, Colorado, latilong block.
41712504|Selenium is critical in livestock nutrition; forage can be either potentially deficient or toxic in this element. Selenium is accumulated in excessive amounts by a relatively few species of plants. Several of these plants, termed indicator species, occur in the western Great Basin; however, selenium toxicity is not a problem in Nevada for domestic livestock. The detection of marginal dietary deficiencies of selenium is of much greater economic importance to the livestock industry than an excess of this element. Selenium occurs as a trace element in the composition of various minerals. Selenium levels are very low in volcanic rocks of recent origin. Accumulations of this element require concentration through secondary dispersion and subsequent sedimentation. Therefore, excesses of selenium are usually associated with siltstone, sandstone, or other sedimentary rocks. Selenium is usually found in soils as selenate, a water-soluble mineral. The selenium concentration of plants is directly related to the selenate concentration in soil. In soils low in selenate, the ability of plants to accumulate selenium is similar. In soils with high levels of selenate, indicator species accumulate 10 times as much selenium as other species. The foliage of most indicator plants is generally avoided by grazing animals. Deficiencies in dietary selenium are associated with the occurrence of white muscle disease, retained placentas, and general unthriftiness of animals. Insufficient dietary selenium can be overcome through injection, intraruminal pellets, or supplementation with salt mixtures.
41713072|Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) brood-habitat use was examined during 1992 and 1993 at the Yakima Training Center in Yakima and Kittitas counties, Washington. During the 2 yr we followed 38 broods, of which 12 persisted to 1 August ($\bar x$ = approximately 1.5 chicks/brood). Food forb cover was greater at all brood locations than at random locations. Hens with broods in big sagebrush/bunchgrass habitat (Artemisia tridentata/Agropyron spicatum) selected for greater food forb cover, total forb cover, and lower shrub heights; broods in altered big sagebrush/bunchgrass habitats selected greater tall grass cover and vertical cover height; broods in grassland showed no preference for any measured vegetation characteristics. During the early rearing period (post-hatching-6 wk) each year, broods selected sagebrush/bunchgrass. Broods in 1993 made greater use of grasslands than in 1992 and selected grassland during the late brood-rearing period (7-12 wk). Broods selected for sagebrush/bunchgrass during midday, but 52% of brood locations in the afternoon were in grassland. Tall grass cover was greater at morning (0500-1000 h) and afternoon (1501-2000 h) brood locations than at midday (1001-1500 h) and random locations. Midday brood locations had greater shrub cover and height than morning and afternoon locations. Selection of habitat components was similar to the results of other studies, but habitat conditions coupled with a possible lack of alternate brood-rearing cover types resulted in low survival of chicks.
41712840|Populations of Purshia in central Arizona are intermediate in some characters between Purshia subintegra, an endangered species, and Purshia stansburiana, the common cliffrose. These intermediates may represent forms derived from a history of hybridization and introgression between the putative parent species. Morphological data were obtained from 216 pressed specimens of P. subintegra, P. stansburiana, and introgressed forms. Over 50 separate discriminant function analyses (DFA) and principal components analyses (PCA) were run on numerous combinations of raw and log-transformed data. The best variable suite, providing the clearest discrimination between groups, used log-transformed data on 15 morphological characters, but DFA post-hoc identifications were 90-100% correct with only 7 characters using raw data. DFA distinguished four separate nodes of variation. Two groups consisting of 122 P. subintegra and 29 P. stansburiana were easily discriminated in DFA and were distinguished in PCA as well. Introgressed forms were consistently identified in two much less well-defined groups of 46 and 19 specimens. Introgressed forms are not intermediate between the two supposed parents in some characters, appearing most similar to P. stansburiana in most measured characteristics. Principal distinguishing characteristics of the four groups are as follows: P. subintegrausually eglandular, has 0-2 leaf lobes and short hypanthia-pedicels; P. stansburianaalways abundantly glandular, has 4 leaf lobes and short hypanthia-pedicels; the introgressed form "Tonto" is usually eglandular, has 4 leaf lobes and long hypanthia-pedicels; the introgressed form "Verde" is usually glandular, has 4 leaf lobes and slightly shorter hypanthia-pedicels.
41712103|Burrows, hibernaculums, and nests of an exhibit colony of the Utah prairie dog, Cynomys parvidens, are described.
41712643|Habitat use and food selection data were collected for deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), montane voles (Microtus montanus), Ord's kangaroo rats (Dipodomys ordii), and Townsend's ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendii) near a sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata)/crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum) interface in southeastern Idaho. Significantly more captures occurred in the native sagebrush habitat than in areas planted in crested wheatgrass or in disturbed sites. Crested wheatgrass, a prolific seed producer, still accounted for over 30% of the total captures. Montane voles and Townsend's ground squirrels (during periods of aboveground activity) used the crested wheatgrass habitat throughout the summer, while deer mice and Ord's kangaroo rats exhibited heavy use after seed set.
41712430|Mean monoterpene content of singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla [Torr.] Frem.) litter from stands growing on two soil series was 340  310 ug/g air dry weight (adw). Individual monoterpene hydrocarbons suggested as potential allelopathic compounds occur in extremely small amounts, 0.5110 ug/g adw. Mineral soils contained 50 times less total terpene, 6.6 ug/g  4.8 adw, than the litter immediately above. Results suggest that allelopathic effects would more likely occur in litter than mineral soil. These findings are substantiated by previous reports of decreased emergence and growth of herbaceous species in pinyon litter but not mineral soil.
41712195|The early fall diet of Oregon blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus pallidus) from Wallowa County, Oregon, was determined from 145 crops obtained during 1981 and 1982. Of more than 50 plant and animal foods in the diet, short-horned grasshoppers (Acrididae), prickly lettuce (Lactuca sernola), yellow salsify (Tragopogon dubius), wild buckwheat (Eriogonum spp.), and snowberry (Symphoricarpos albus) occurred in 30% or more of the crops and collectively amounted to 68% of the diet by weight. Seven of the 12 most common foods were consumed differentially by the four sex and age classes of birds. Results indicated that blue grouse foraged in forest and grassland habitats.
41711511|Peat cores along transects of seven minerotrophic peatlands (fens) in the Sagehen Creek basin were made in 1972. The areas were all shallow, sloping peatlands from 67 to 206 cm in maximum depth. Cores from one fen contained layers of charcoal and clay that suggested fire followed by fen regeneration. Profiles from Mason Fen suggested that the peat mass was moving downslope, creating splits and ridges with surface pools at right angles to the slope. Comparison of a profile made in 1958 with 1972 showed further evidence of downslope mass movement and expansion of the surface area.
41712152|Five new species of Mexican Pityophthorus in the Juglandis group are described: P. ablusus (Hidalgo), P. costifera (Guerrero), P. cracentis (Morelos), P. desultorius (Puebla), and P. insuetus (Morelos). New locality or host records are given for P. costabilis Wood, P. costatulus Wood, and P. diligens Wood. Previously published keys are modified to accommodate these species.
41711400|Species described include: Microcorthylus demissus and M. invalidus n. spp. (Mexico); M. debilis and M. vescus n. spp. (Guatemala); M. pusillus n. spp. (Guatemala and Honduras); M. concisus and M. ocularis n. spp. (Costa Rica); M. inermis, M. lassus, and M. pumilus n. spp. (Costa Rica and Panama); M. dilutus n. spp. (Colombia); M. contractus, M. curtus, M. diversus, M. hostilis, M. umbratus n. spp. (Venezuela).
41712191|Eighty-four taxa in 30 genera of the parsley family, Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) are treated for Utah. Four of the genera with one species each that escape from cultivation are included in the key but not in the text. Keys to genera, species and infraspecifc taxa are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and pertinent comments. Proposed new taxa are Cymopterus acaulis (Pursh) Raf. var. parvus Goodrich and Lomatium scabrum (Coult. & Rose) Mathias var. tripinnatus Goodrich. New combinations include: Cymopterus acaulis (Pursh) Raf. var. fendleri (Gray) Goodrich and var. higginsii (Welsh) Goodrich; Cymopterus purpureus Wats. var. jonesii (Coult. & Rose) Goodrich and var. rosei (Jones) Goodrich; Cymopterus terebinthinus (Hook.) T. & G. var. petraeus (Jones) Goodrich.
41711427|Thirty-nine species of Coleoptera not previously reported for the Nevada Test Site are listed.
41711740|Clearcutting and selective logging effects on red-backed voles (Clethrionomys gapperi) and deer mice (Peromyscus manicuhtus) were studied (September-November, 1975; June-October, 1976) in Bridger-Teton National Forest, Wyoming. Five selective cuts (total 137 ha) removed 57 percent (range 34-74 percent) of the trees. One clearcut (9.6 ha) eliminate 84 percent of the trees. Soils remained mesic in selective cuts, but became xeric in the clearcut. Snap-trapping indicated that voles were most abundant on the unlogged and selectively cut mesic sites (76 percent of 408 captures), whereas deer mice were more common on the xeric clearcut (80 percent of 60 captures). Species composition remained unchanged on selective cuts following logging (77 percent voles of 256 captures), but changed from predominantly voles to mostly deer mice (80 percent of 60 captures) in the clearcut. Intraspecifc age and sex ratios, litter sizes, and morphological measurements were compared between logged and unlogged areas.
41712920|In this paper we evaluated traffic characteristics and vegetative and topographic features associated with mule deer kills on 3 highways (US 40, SR 32, SR 248) in northeastern Utah. We also compared number, and sex and age composition of roadkills to that of the living population observed during spotlight counts. From 15 October 1991 to 14 October 1993 we documented 397 deer roadkills: 51.6% were does, 18.9% bucks, 21.7% fawns, and 7.8% could not be classified. Sixty-seven percent of adult kills were 2.5 yr of age. Kill composition compared closely to spotlight counts. Of 1515 spotlighted deer, 65.2% were does, 8.9% bucks, and 25.9% fawns. Spotlight density and deer mortality were strongly correlated from summer 1992 through summer 1993 (r = 0.94). Traffic conditions, topographic features, and vegetative characteristics contributed to mortality levels. Roadkills were highest along US 40 (68% year 1, 55% year 2) where traffic volume and speed were significantly higher than along either state route. Large drainages intersected highways in 78% of designated kill zones. Roads adjacent to agricultural areas along all routes sustained the fewest highway mortalities. Percent cover was higher (40%) in kill zones than in other areas (29%).
41712032|Based on personal birding experience, interviews with local birders, written comments and responses to a preliminary check-list, and a review of state and federal agency records and the ornithological literature, a list of 333 species of birds known to occur in southwestern Idaho is presented. The preferred habitat, season of use, breeding status, and relative abundance of each species are given.
41712700|New synonymy in Scolytidae includes Cryphalus piceae (Ratzeburg, 1837) (= Cryphalus subdepressus Eggers, 1940), Gnathotrupes longiusculus (Schedl, 1951) (=Gnathotrupes ciliatus Schedl, 1975), Hypothenemus eruditus Westwood (=Stephanoderes communis Schaufuss, 1891). In Platypodidae the new name Platypus abruptifer is proposed as a replacement for the junior homonym Platypus abruptus Browne, 1986; type-species designations are proposed for the genus-group names Scutopygus Nunberg, 1966, Pygodolius Nunberg, 1966, Mixopygus Nunberg, 1966, Mesopygus Nunberg, 1966, Asetus Nunberg, 1958, Stenoplatypus Strohmeyer, 1914, Platypinus Schedl, 1939, Platyscapus Schedl, 1939, Treptoplatypus Schedl, 1939, Tesseroplatypus Schedl, 1935; previously unpublished specific synonymy is presented for Crossotarsus externedentatus (Fairmaire, 1849) (=Diapus talurae Stebbing, 1906), Crossotarsus terminatus Chapuis, 1865 (= Crossotarsus nicobaricus Beeson, 1937), Platypus abditus Schedl, 1936 (=Platypus transitus Schedl, 1978), Platypus rugosifrons Schedl, 1933 (=Platypus pretiosus Schedl, 1961), Platypus tiriosensis Reichardt, 1965 (=Platypus schedli Wood, 1966), Treptoplatypus multiporus Schedl, 1968 (=Platypus fastuosus Schedl, 1969).
41712997|Winter populations of raptors and scavengers were surveyed along 175 km of rural roads in Moffat County, northwestern Colorado. The survey began in 1988 and is currently continuing. Over the 7 yr of the survey reported here, we found Golden Eagles in high abundance ($\bar x$ = 5.8 km/eagle) compared to most studies in similar habitat. Bald Eagles were less abundant, but increasing compared to 20 yr earlier. American Rough-legged Hawks were in low abundance, probably due to the predominance of sagebrush habitat along the route. Northern Ravens were seen in low numbers in 4 yr. American Crows were seen in 2 yr. Black-billed Magpies were nearly as abundant ($\bar x$ = 6.5 km/magpie) as Golden Eagles and often scavenged with them. Magpie and Golden Eagle numbers were significantly correlated over the years of study. We conclude that northwestern Colorado is a significant overwintering area for Golden Eagles.
41712332|Burrows of the sagebrush vole (Lemmiscus curtatus) were analyzed by injecting them with expanding Polyurethane foam. Average mean depth  1 SE of four burrows was 12.5  2.6 cm. Tunnels were wider than high and flat on the bottom. Three of four burrows were nearly linear, with an average of five entrances. Burrows usually contained one nest made of Artemisia tridentata bark. No middens or communal nests were found. The burrow structure in sagebrush habitat suggests that sagebrush voles occur singly or in pairs rather than in colonies.
41716167|The combination Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. spiciformis (Osterhout) Goodrich & McArthur comb, nov. is made. This high elevation taxon was originally described at the species level and more recently has generally been treated as a form of A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana. The subspecies designation is supported by its parallel nature to the other A. tridentata subspecies and by its relatively widespread and locally abundant populations. Also, a new variety of A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana is proposed.
41711804|Time budget of free-living adult Spermophilus elegans differed significantly from that of juveniles in the Front Range of the Rockies during 1974-1975. No differences were found between males and females. Hour of day, day since emergence, air temperature, cloud cover, and presence of predators all correlated with the frequency of various components of the time budget.
41711556|Western jumping mice, Zapus princeps, were live-trapped during the summer of 1975 in an aspen forest in the Front Range of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Home range sizes were calculated using the exclusive boundary strip method, and it was discovered that males had larger home ranges (298-3315 m,  = 1743 m) than females (680-1275 m,  = 1041 m). Mean range length was 96.5 m for males and 78.5 m for females. Spatial relationships showed that females tended to be more territorial than males, based on the females' higher percentage of exclusive home ranges, greater distance between centers of activity, and more uniform spacing.
41712179|A general botanical inventory of a part of northwestern Moffat County, Colorado, resulted in the location of "remnants" of the presettlement vegetation spectrum that are largely unaltered by grazing, logging, or other recent human-related land uses. The 69 samples taken from these remnants were classified into 22 plant associations. Composition, structure, environmental location, geographical range, and response to disturbance are discussed for each association, and a photograph of each is presented. Seven of the 22 associations are apparently restricted to the study area. Restricted associations occur in the more extreme environments of the study area, such as on calcareous substrata or very xeric sites. More mesic sites along ephemeral creeks, on north-facing slopes, or on sandstones support plant associations that have much wider ranges, many of them extending across the northern Great Basin.
41712486|Two new genera and two new species of leafhoppers in the tribe Teruliini are described and illustrated. New genera include: Perspinolidia, type-species Perspinolidia peruviensis, n. sp., and Brevicapitorus, type-species Brevicapitorus elongatus, n. sp. Both genera are monobasic and occur in the Neotropical region.
41711752|Described as new to science are Abronia argillosa Welsh & Goodrich, from Utah and Colorado; Androsace alaskana Cov. & Standl. var reedae Welsh & Goodrich, from Kohlsaat Peak, Alaska; Lepidium ostieri Welsh & Goodrich, from Beaver County, Utah; Lygodesmia entrada Welsh & Goodrich, from Grand County. Utah; Pediocactus despainii Welsh and Goodrich, from Emery County, Utah; and Senecio toiyabensis Welsh and Goodrich, from the Toiyabe Range in Nye County, Nevada.
41712585|External morphological variation in the Lopidea nigridia "complex" of western North America was examined using principal component analysis and showed continuous variation among populations in most characters. External morphology did not parallel paramere structure and did not substantiate previously recognized species. There was little correlation between dorsal coloration and paramere structure. Cluster analysis (UPGMA) using paramere and color characters failed to group populations coded as the same species and also failed to group all specimens of any one population. The variation in structure of the parameres and vesicae among populations of the nigridia complex was no greater than the interpopulational variation of these structures in the congeneric species marginata Uhler. Lopidea nigridia Uhler is treated as a polytypic species comprising three subspecies: Lopidea nigridia nigridia Uhler, a fuscous-white form from the sagebrush steppe of the Great Basin and the chaparral of southern California; Lopidea nigridia serica Knight, a solid red form from the eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains from Alberta to Colorado and east across the northern Great Plains to southern Manitoba; Lopidea nigridia aculeata Van Duzee, a polymorphic form varying from solid red to fuscous red and white from the Cascade Mountains and eastern slopes of the coastal ranges of British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon, the Blue and Wallawa mountains of Oregon and Washington, and throughout the Coastal and Sierra Nevada ranges of California. The following new synonymies are created: Lopidea nigridia nigridia Uhler = Lopidea raineri Knight, Lopidea sculleni Knight, Lopidea rolfsi Knight, and Lopidea wilcoxi Knight; Lopidea nigridia aculeata Van Duzee = Lopidea nigridea hirta Van Duzee, Lopidea usingeri Van Duzee, Lopidea discreta Van Duzee, Lopidea fallax Knight, Lopidea yakima Knight, Lopidea audeni Knight, Lopidea eriogoni Knight, Lopidea calcaria Knight, Lopidea chamberlini Knight, Lopidea angustata Knight, Lopidea rubrofusca Knight, and Lopidea flavicostata Knight and Schaffner; Lopidea nigridia serica Knight = Lopidea medleri Akingbohungbe.
41712552|Great Salt Lake wetlands were inundated in 1983, displacing approximately 20,000 nesting waterfowl. Ten protected marshes in the Great Basin were surveyed for changes in numbers of breeding pairs of waterfowl during each of four years preceding Great Salt Lake flooding and four years following flooding. The hypothesized increase in numbers of breeding birds did not occur, indicating that flood-displaced waterfowl did not move into nearby suitable habitat to nest.
41712253|Ponderosa pine conelets in 10 stands on the Coconino and Kaibab national forests were observed periodically from July 1982 until they matured in September 1983. Abortion, ponderosa pine cone beetles (Conophthorus ponderosae Hopkins), and ponderosa pine coneworms (Dioryctria sp., probably Auranticella [Grote]) were the significant mortality factors. Cattle, tip moths, and squirrels rarely destroyed conelets or cones.
41711460|However "just" it might be to credit LeConte, 1828, with Siren intermedia, both Harlan, 1826 (not 1827 as often cited), and Barnes, 1826, antedate LeConte's proposal of the name. As the earliest, Barnes, 1826, stands credited with it. In analysis of precedent for these conclusions, types of taxonomic plagiarism (calculated vs. innocent, homoplagiarism vs. heteroplagiarism) and the distinctions between nomina nuda and nomina dubia are reviewed, giving examples of each category.
41711828|Winter crude protein content was determined for the current year's growth of 43 accessions of fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens) grown on a uniform garden. The crude protein level varied among accessions from 6 percent to 14 percent of dry matter. Individual plants (215) ranged from 5.3 percent to 17.1 percent. The mean winter crude protein level was 9.6 percent. Because these data were generated on even-aged plants, it appears that genetic variation plays an important role in determining the level of crude protein in fourwing saltbush.
41712436|Feeding sites of wintering sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) were located, one each in stands of three subspecies of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata: ssp. tridentata, basin; ssp. vaseyana, mountain; and ssp. wyomingensis, Wyoming). Evidences of differential use of plants within subspecies were observed. Whole leaves from fed-on and nonfed-on big sagebrush plants were examined for intrasubspecies chemical comparisons of crude protein, phosphorus, in vitro digestibility, and monoterpenoids. No significant differences were detected except for in vitro digestibility of Wyoming fed-on and nonfed-on big sagebrush and monoterpenoid content of basin big sagebrush. Nutritive content of all three subspecies was high, which may in part help to explain wintering sage grouse weight gains.
41711937|We record eight species of exotic fishes as established, reproducing populations in certain springs in Clark, Lincoln, and Nye counties, Nevada. These include an unidentified species of Hypostomus, Cyprinus carpio, Poecilia mexicana, Poecilia reticulata, a Xiphophorus hybrid, and Cichlasoma nigrofasciatum. Tifopia mariae, established in a spring near the Overton Arm of Lake Mead, and Tilapia zilli, established in a golf course pond in Pahrump Valley, are recorded for the first time from Nevada waters. Though populations of transplanted Gambusia affinis persist, other populations of Poecilia latipinna are apparently no longer extant. Cichlasoma severum, Notemigonus crysoleucas, Poecilia latipinna, and Carassius auratus were apparently eradicated from Rogers Spring in 1963.
41711866|Pygmy rabbits are reported for the first time in southwestern Wyoming. The range for this species is thus extended 240 km and 145 km from the nearest records in Idaho and Utah, respectively.
41712158|This study presents the first food habit assessment for the western whiptail lizard (Cnemidophorus tigris) in the shinnery oak-mesquite habitat (Quercus havardii-Prosopis glandulosa) of southeastern New Mexico. Short-horned grasshoppers, termites, antlions, beetles, and spiders formed the major portion of the diet during the four-year study. Discriminant analyses were used to evaluate annual, seasonal (monthly), and sexual variation. Incidental food categories were responsible for most of the annual and seasonal variation. Dominant foods varied little between months and years. Sexual variation was more evident; it may act to reduce intraspecific competition for food resources and may be associated with secondary sexual size dimorphism.
41712587|Observations of 23 dwarf shrews (Sorex nanus) at Fracas Lake in Arizona extend the range of this uncommon shrew northward on the Kaibab Plateau and provide further information regarding the ecology and habitat requirements of this species. Shrews were captured in a previously unreported habitat type (Rocky Mountain montane conifer forest; Brown 1982). This study illustrates the usefulness of intensive, long-term studies and faunal surveys using pitfall traps.
41712453|Cited are distribution records for Alaska of Cicuta bulbifera L. It was discovered growing in the Nowitna National Wildlife Refuge in north central Alaska in 1984 and again in 1987. An earlier record is also known from near Fairbanks.
41712031|New distributional records or the status for 33 species of birds that have occurred within Utah, adjacent southeastern portions of Idaho, or along the border of states surrounding Utah are reviewed. Four species, the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus), Great-tailed Grackle (Quiscalus mexicanus), and Common Grackle (Quiscalus quiscula), represent new Utah breeding records established within the past decade, and they are commented upon. One other, the Black-tailed Gnatcatcher (Polioptila melanura), may be breeding in Utah. The Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottes) may likewise be breeding in southeastern Idaho adjacent to Utah.
41711586|Biomasses of climax Rocky Mountain forests studied ranged from less than 50 to more than 300 tons/ha. Total biomass was approximately 1.5 times the biomass of normally merchantable boles. When compared with conventional bole harvest, the nutrient exports associated with harvest of all aboveground parts in these stands would apparently be at least three times higher for nitrogen, six times higher for phosphorus, four times higher for potassium, and three times higher for calcium.
41713050|Parasitic larval mites including Thyasides sphagnorum were collected from mosquitoes captured in New Jersey light traps over a period of 6 yr and from landings during 1 collecting season in Natrona County; Wyoming. Overall mite prevalence on mosquitoes was 0.42% and abundance was 0.76%. Prevalence on Aedes dorsalis was significantly greater than on other host species. Comparison of light trap data and landing data suggests that parasitized mosquitoes may seek blood meals more frequently than non-parasitized mosquitoes.
41711827|The Salt Creek pupfish, Cyprinodon salinus, is adapted to fresh water in aquaria.
41711361|In 1964, 135 male and 223 female Dermacentor andersoni Stiles were collected at 48 national forest recreation areas in Utah. Using guinea pigs immunological tests were performed on each of 62 samples to determine the presence of the Rocky Mountain spotted fever rickettsia. Thirteen of the samples (21 percent) were positive. These 13 samples contained 35 males and 34 females yielding an infection rate of at least 3.6 percent, assuming one infected tick was in each sample.
41712784|American marten (Martes americana) are medium-sized mammalian carnivores inhabiting forest communities across northern North America. Martens are susceptible to local extinction from habitat alterations, trapping, and other factors. We (RCL) developed a population model called VORTEX to estimate extinction probabilities for marten populations as a management tool. The model permits managers to simulate various levels of timber harvesting, commercial trapping, and other factors to estimate their effects on marten populations. This paper describes this model and illustrates its benefits by using marten data from the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem of northwestern Wyoming. Results are preliminary. Populations of 50 and 100 martens were simulated. The most optimistic scenario with populations of 100 individuals, no trapping, no logging, and no migrants showed a probability (66%) of surviving 100 years. Extinction probabilities were sensitive to immigration and emigration rates. Numerous scenarios were simulated and showed a range of results. Results of population viability analysis can be translated into area requirements if densities are known or can be estimated. In turn, various habitat patches and interconnecting corridors can be examined for their ability to support viable marten populations. Population modeling is invaluable to "adaptive management" of martens as well as other species.
41712542|The architecture of burrows of the white-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) is poorly known. For this reason and for comparative purposes, one recently active burrow of this species was excavated in southern Montana; the detailed methodology is described. Data were compiled on the dimensions of the 29.3 m of excavated passages, and interpretations of several features are discussed. A "turning bay," sleeping quarters, two hibernacula, and a maternity area are described, the last feature for the first time in print. In addition, we report Cynomys using their teeth to dig, also for the first time. Further, an inadvertent remodeling of the burrows is ascribed to normal animal traffic and appears to confirm a prediction based on late Pleistocene fossil burrows in Alberta.
41712824|Redband trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss gairdneri) were observed approximately every 2 weeks in an intermittent southwest Idaho stream between August and December 1991. Instantaneous daytime dissolved oxygen concentration and water temperature declined from 4.0 to < 2 mg/L and 17 to 2C, respectively, during this period. Redband trout declined from a maximum captured of 48 on 28 August to 1 on 8 November in one series of pools. As conditions approached hypoxia, trout exhibited little movement and positioned themselves in water just deep enough to cover their dorsal fin. High densities of speckled dace (Bhinichthys osculus) were also present in each pool until drying. The response of these fish to such extreme habitat conditions is probably a primary factor accounting for their distribution within arid landscapes.
41712551|A survey of terrestrial vertebrates was conducted at the Scotts Bluff National Monument (SBNM), Nebraska, to determine species composition, relative abundance, and distribution by habitat of the existing amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Various sampling methods were used to detect animal species richness and to estimate population densities. The seven major habitat types at SBNM contained 4 species of amphibians, 8 reptiles, 96 birds, and 28 mammals. The only endangered or threatened species observed was a dead bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus). The racer (Coluber constrictor) and prairie rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis) were the two most abundant snakes. The prairie falcon (Falco mexicanus) was a common raptor that nested in Scotts Bluff. Sympatric populations of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) appeared to be hybridizing. The riverine woodland contained the greatest number of fauna species with only 4% surface area of SBNM. Sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) and pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana), absent from the Monument, are two potential native species for reintroduction.
41712003|Seeds of 12 populations of Mimulus guttatus representative of the Wasatch Mountain ecotype were incubated for 17 months (one natural season plus a year) in five artificial climates found in phytotron studies to be important to the growth of the plants of that form of monkey flower. In all but the coldest climate, germination occurred promptly (3-8 days, on average), peaked during the first three weeks, and then tapered off gradually well into the second season. Generally, the amount and timing of germination was plastic, showing much the same range of responses in widely different climates both overall and for individual populations. However, in some cases, there were significant differences between populations indicative of polymorphism within the species. For example, germination was significantly slower, more variable, and less in amount the higher the elevation of origin of the populations. The responses of the population suggest the presence of both much plasticity and much polymorphism for germination characteristics in this form of M. guttatus.
41712171|A mark-recapture study of the short-horned lizard (Phrynosoma douglassi ) and the sagebrush lizard (Sceloporus graciosas) was performed from 1976 to 1977 in southeastern Idaho. Both species had mean cloacal temperatures of approximately 33 C. However, P. douglassi had more variable cloacal temperatures, particularly during morning and evening periods. This was caused by differences in sleeping sites chosen by the two species. Adults of both species were active from mid-April through late August, with peak activity in June. Juvenile P. douglassi displayed a seasonal activity pattern similar to that of adults. Juvenile S. graciosus were most active later in the year (August), when adults were disappearing. In both species, young-of-the-year appeared in early to mid-August. Adult and juvenile P. douglassi were active during all daylight hours and displayed no activity peaks, whereas young-of-theyear displayed a bimodal activity pattern. Adult and juvenile S. graciosus were active over all daylight hours but had peak activity between 1200 and 1500 h. Ants (Pogonomyrmex) were the lizard's principle prey. However, only young-of-the-year P. douglassi had activity patterns that paralleled that of ants on their mounds.
41712291|Seed rain was collected on six paired tree harvest and undisturbed plots in singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylh)-Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) stands. Approximately 14,600 seeds were collected during four years. Seed rain in undisturbed plots was similar to levels in mixed forest communities. Seed rain on harvest plots was similar to disturbed sites and grasslands. Seed rain levels reflect the current successional stage rather than the climax community type for the site. Seed rain increased in numbers and seed production per unit of plant cover following tree removal and especially on transition soil microsites. Only three to four of the plant species present on a site contributed greater than 10% of the total seed rain. Seed rain composition was similar on harvest and undisturbed plots (Jaccard Similarity Index Values = 47% to 67%) and explains in part the rapid reestablishment of predisturbance understory communities.
41711478|The seven species of Clinohelea known to inhabit North America are described and illustrated, and a key is provided for identification. Two species groups are recognized: the unimaculata group and the bimaculata group. Clinohelea longitheca and C. pseudonubifera are new. Clinohelea nebulosa (Malloch) is a synonym of C. curriei (Coquillett) NEW SYNONYMY.
41711856|Seasonal foods of coyotes (Canis latrans) inhabiting the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory site were examined using step-wise discriminant analysis. Significant differences (P < 0.01) were detected among seasons in food consumption by coyotes, where univariate statistical analysis failed to recognize differences. Recognition of seasonal changes in foods consumed by coyotes is essential to understanding coyote feeding strategies. The role opportunistic behavior plays in coyote food selection on the study area is questioned.
41712677|Herbaceous vegetation pattern and soil properties around individual Juniperus pinchotii Sudw. trees were studied on a grazed and a relict grassland in western Texas. Herb standing crop and soil samples were obtained under the canopy, at canopy edge, and beyond the canopy edge of three to five trees on each of four dates. Standing crop was lowest midway between the bole and canopy edge. Soil organic matter was highest under juniper canopies on both sites. Soil pH and P were not related to distance from tree bole on either site. Herbaceous pattern from under the canopy to canopy edge apparently depended primarily on individual tree size. However, trees had little influence on herbaceous vegetation pattern 3-5 m beyond canopy edge, a response attributed to distance-independent interaction between J. pinchotii and herbaceous vegetation. Given a shallow soil underlain by indurated caliche and tree densities ranging from 288 (relict size) to 2123 (grazed site) trees/ha, the interaction between J. pinchotii and herbaceous vegetation did not change over a distance of 3-5 m from tree canopy edge in our study area.
41712183|The taxa centering around Phlox austromontana Coville are revised. Named as a new variety is P. austromontana var. lutescens Welsh from eastern Garfield County, Utah. A new combination is provided as P. austromontana var. jonesii (Wherry) Welsh.
41712217|Stomach contents of 650 clouded salamanders (Aneidesferreus), collected monthly throughout the year from Curry County, Oregon, were examined. Samples from three age classes were involved: (1) 489 adults, (2) 131 juveniles, and (3) 30 hatchlings. Foods did not vary by sex, but did vary by age and by season. Hatchlings ate small items, particularly mites, springtails, flies, and small beetles. Juveniles fed mainly on flies, isopods (sowbugs), beetles, mites, and centipedes in winter; beetles, ants, and isopods in spring; ants and beetles in summer; and isopods, beetles, and ants in fall. Adults ate isopods and beetles as their major foods in winter, spring, and fall and isopods, ants, beetles, and earwigs in summer. Four species were exceedingly important as foods for these salamanders: an unidentified isopod, the snout beetle (Trachyphloeus bifoveatus), the European earwig (Forficula auricularia), and an ant (Lasius alienus).
41711989|Life forms and floral characteristics of plants at Arches National Park (desert communities), the Mt. Nebo complex, and a subalpine meadow in the Uinta Mountains (montane and subalpine communities) were compared. Characteristics observed were (1) life form, (2) longevity, (3) pollination system, (4) flower structure, (5) flower symmetry, and (6) flower color. Common families in each flora were also compared. Results showed that there is a significant overrepresentation of shrub species at Arches, and an underrepresentation of perennial forbs. Relative number of perennial forb species was significantly higher at Mt. Nebo and the subalpine meadow than at Arches National Park. Native annuals and wind-pollinated species were significantly overrepresented at Arches. Flowers with open structure that permit free access of most insects to nectar and pollen were overrepresented at Mt. Nebo and in the subalpine meadow. The distribution of flower colors also differs significantly among these ecologically contrasting floras, with yellow being best represented in the desert and white in the mountains.
41711351|A male indigo bunting (Passerina cyanea) and a female Say's pheobe (Sayornis saya) were taken at Salt Lake City, Utah on 20 May 1966 and 2 February 1966, respectively. Both birds are the northernmost records for Utah in the season in which they were taken.
41712170|Helminth parasites of white-tailed jackrabbits, Lepus townsendi, were surveyed from southern Wyoming and northwestern Colorado. A total of eight helminth species were identified, including two species of adult cestodes, Mosgovoyia pectinata and M. varabilis; three species of larval cestodes, Multiceps senalis, Taenia pisiformis, and Taenis sp.; and three species of nematodes, Dermatoxys veliger, Passalurus ambiguus, and a filariid, Micipsella brevicauda. In addition, eggs of an unidentified species of Nematodirus were found in pooled fecal samples. The cysticercus larva of Taenia sp. is a species new to science and will be reported elsewhere. Mosgovoyia varabilis and Micipsella brevicauda are new records for the white-tailed jackrabbit.
41712166|Twelve adult and five juvenile coyotes and 20 adult kit foxes were implanted with radio transmitters using relatively simple surgical procedures. Four foxes were successfully implanted in the field. None of the animals implanted exhibited noticeable behavioral effects, and no deaths were confirmed to result from implantation. Implants were attached to the peritoneum in adult coyotes and kit foxes and were left free-floating within the abdominal cavity of the coyote pups. Both procedures produced satisfactory results. Radio signals transmitted from implants had less range than those from traditional neck collar transmitters. Implants offered benefits unavailable with traditional collar transmitters: no external packaging to influence behavior, ability to radio monitor small or juvenile animals, and ability to acquire various physiological data on free-ranging individuals.
41711533|Presumed paludal and alluvial deposits in a small mountain basin in north central Utah have yielded the first terrestrial Pleistocene fauna from the state. Twenty-five mammalian and four nonmammalian species are present, most of which have not previously been reported as fossils from Utah. At 6,400 feet the elevation of this site is much too high to have been part of the Lake Bonneville deposition. Three mammals, Ovis, Symbos, and Bootherium, not existing in the present fauna, have been identified in the northern part of the state. They probably did not reach this area until later in the Pleistocene or else favored more rugged terrain. Previous reports of the Woolly Mammoth, Mammuthus primigenius, from Utah are considered to be in error. M. columbi is probably the represented species. A so-called giant bison, Bison ? latifrons, is represented in the fauna by relatively numerous specimens. The variation in size of these elements strongly suggests that the size range between the largest males and smallest females was much greater than previously assumed. Most faunal constituents and current topography suggest that the Late Pleistocene habitat at the fossil site was a marsh encircled by a brush-interrupted grassland. The rare remaining faunal components were evidently part of a distant wooded community. A slightly moister but no colder climate than the present one is postulated on the basis of the fauna. Radiocarbon dating establishes a time for the Silver Creek local fauna in excess of 40,000 YBP. The particular combination of extinct and extant species indicates a Late Sangamon to Early Wisconsin age.
41712232|An investigation of the diet of the Common Barn-owl (Tyto alba) on Antelope Island, Great Salt Lake, Utah, yielded four mammal species not previously known to occur on any island in the Great Salt Lake (Microtus pennsylvanicus , M. montanus, Ondatra zibethicus, and a Sorex sp.). Two other species, known from other islands, were added to the list of fauna of Antelope Island (Perognathus parvus and Reithrodontomys megalotis). The barn owl diet on Antelope Island was remarkably like that of barn owls feeding in farmlands adjacent to the Great Salt Lake despite major vegetational differences.
41711817|Germination results were obtained from seed stored in an open warehouse in Sanpete County, Utah, over a 15-year period for 18 shrub and 14 forb species. Seed viability was not appreciably affected for 14 species stored at least 15 years. Seed viability did, however, significantly decrease for two species stored 10 years, for five species stored 7 years, for seven species stored 5 years, for three species stored 4 years, and for one species stored only 3 years.
41712876|Calileuctra is proposed as a new genus in the family Leuctridae, with Calileuctra ephemera designated as the type species. All stages of Calileuctra ephemera are described. Calileuctra dohryi is described in the male and female stages. Both species inhabit the Mediterranean climatic region of California. A phylogenetic analysis of the genera in the family Leuctridae is given, which places Calileuctra near the genus Perlomyia.
41712446|Thirty-eight accessions of 20 taxa (species and subspecies) of Chrysothamnus from a range of environments were grown in a uniform garden. During mid-June, terminal and lateral leaves were removed, fixed, and processed for light-microscopy studies. Area and perimeter measurements of ink tracings of midleaf vein cross sections were measured using computer-scan techniques. Leaf area and perimeter were compared with vein perimeter and area measurements. Area and perimeter of these Chrysothamnus leaves varied in response to the environment at the collection location. Plants native to hot, dry conditions had small, thick leaves, whereas plants native to cooler, more mesic conditions had relatively large, thin leaves. Similarly, leaves with round veins were adapted to hot, dry environments and leaves with elliptical veins were adapted to cooler, more mesic environments. Both terminal (young) and lateral (older) leaves were sampled. Terminal leaves showed significant (p < .05) correlational responses to environmental parameters, whereas the lateral leaves, while fronding in the predicted morphological directions, did not generally show significant responses. The different responses of terminal and lateral leaves may have been due to canopy position and uniform environmental conditions of the garden. Leaves with large cross sections characteristically had large veins, and leaves with small cross sections characteristically had small veins. Large leaf cross sections were normally flat. Small leaf cross sections were normally round. Decreasing leaf size and increasing leaf thickness were correlated with aridity.
41712540|In this report emphasis is placed on the dorsal skull characters of the genus Spea and the three species, bombifrons, hammondii, and intermontana. Spea hammondii is a polytypic species with at least three subspecies, hammondii, multiplicatus, and stagnalis, each of which is described and the distribution indicated. Drawings and photographs of skulls are provided for each species, with hammondii and intermontana receiving special consideration.
41712267|A new species, Mentzelia (sect. Bartonia) cronquistii, subfamily Mentzelioideae, is described and a new combination, M. (sect. Bartonia) marginata (Osterhout) is made. These two species of the Colorado Plateau are closely related to each other, but their relationships to other species in section Bartonia are obscure.
41713003|We examined faunal affinities of the Raft River Mountains using stoneflies (Plecoptera) as indicators. This island-like mountain range is isolated from other major mountain ranges in the Intermountain West by low-elevation, arid regions. Thirty-seven species were recorded from collections made from 19 sites in the Raft River Mountains. Cluster analysis demonstrated the Raft River Mountain stonefly assemblage to be most similar to faunas of the Sawtooth and Wasatch mountains, and quite different from that of the Sierra Nevada. An analysis of the distribution patterns of each species, on a family-by-family basis, showed that the Raft River Mountains fauna consists mostly of species widespread in western North America. Most families were represented by at least 1 species whose distribution supports faunal affinities with regions to the north and west. Logistic regression of 6 long-distance dispersal factors against stonefly presenceabsence data did not support long-distance dispersal as a viable means of colonization for the Raft River Mountains. This suggests that stonefly distribution patterns may be attributed to expansion and subsequent vicariance of suitable stonefly habitats during Pleistocene climatic oscillations.
41712786|Food habits of Burrowing Owls (Speotyto cunicularia) were studied during the breeding seasons of 1990 and 1991 in central Colorado. Concurrent insect availability studies were conducted to determine selection for specific insect families. Analysis of 1445 castings indicated use of only one insect family, the carrion beetles (Silphidae), at a rate greater than expected based on availability in one year. Castings and prey remains showed different dietary components. Prey remains showed greater use of small mammals, moths, amphibians, and passerines, and castings indicated greater use of mice and beetles. Methodology in raptor food habits studies may therefore bias results.
41712196|Historically, two California Gull nesting colonies existed in Wyoming. In 1984 there were six breeding locations consisting of 10 different colonies that included approximately 7,273 nests. The increase in the California Gull nesting population in the state is probably a consequence of man-caused environmental changes that have resulted in the creation of additional breeding habitat and new food sources.
41712039|Plant macrofossils from packrat middens in two southeastern Utah caves outline development of modern plant zonation from the late Wisconsin. Allen Canyon Cave (2195 m) and Fishmouth Cave (1585 m) are located along a continuous gradient of outcropping Navajo Sandstone that extends from the Abajo Mountains south to the San Juan River. By holding the site constant, changes in the floral composition for a plot of less than one hectare can be observed, even if sporadically, over tens of millennia. At Allen Canyon Cave, Engelmann sprucealpine fir forest was replaced by the present vegetation consisting of pinyon-juniper woodland on exposed ridgetops and cliffside stands of Douglas fir, ponderosa pine, and aspen. Xerophytic woodland plants such as pinyon, plains prickly pear, and narrowleaf yucca arrived sometime in the middle Holocene between 7200 and 3400 B.P. At Fishmouth Cave, Utah juniper in Holocene middens replaced blue spruce, limber pine, Douglas fir, and dwarf and Rocky Mountain junipers in late Wisconsin samples. Disharmonious associations for the late Wisconsin occur only at the lower site with the xerophytes Mormon tea, plains prickly pear, and narrowleaf yucca growing alongside subalpine conifers. One possible explanation involves the late Wisconsin absence of ponderosa and pinyon pines from the Colorado Plateaus. Released from competition at their lower limits, subalpine conifers were able to expand into lower elevations and mix with xerophytic plants found today in understories of pinyon-juniper and ponderosa pine woodlands. Quantitative climatic estimates are derived for the late Wisconsin by applying vertical gradients for temperature and precipitation to the amount of vegetation depression. The Fishmouth Cave sequence indicates a minimum lowering of 850 m for blue spruce, limber pine, and dwarf juniper. A depression of at least 700 m for Engelmann spruce and alpine fir is suggested for the Allen Canyon locality. Use of conservatively low gradients for stations below 2080 m yields a 3-4 C cooling from present mean annual temperature and 35 to 60 percent more rainfall than today. Steeper gradients associated with more mountainous terrain suggest a 5 C lowering in temperature and up to 120 percent increase over modern precipitation.
41711396|New or additional records of six species of birds are reported for Utah: Red-throated Loon, Black-legged Kittiwake, Vaux's Swift, Blue Jay, Magnolia Warbler, and Rose-breasted Grosbeak. All are substantiated by museum specimens. Unless reported for the first time, other records for the state for these rare birds are summarized.
41711611|Five additional species of wood rotting basidiomycetes on Arizona junipers are described and illustrated. All cause a white rot of dead, fallen trees. Leptosporomyces juniperinus is proposed as a new species. Vararia fibra is reported from the United States for the first time.
41712093|Mining reclamation specialists and government regulators need sound criteria for judging when reclamation is complete and expensive bonds can be released. Values are given for five easily measured plant parameters that can be used for judging success on native species that are growing on semiarid grasslands and sagebrush lands.
41712781|Seedling size and survival in relation to summer drought were examined for Chrysothamnus nauseosus growing under field and greenhouse conditions. In the field, summer survival rates were less than 2% annually for the three years monitored. The effect of initial seedling height on subsequent survival was examined in both the field and greenhouse by grouping seedlings into live and dead categories on each census date and comparing the initial heights for seedlings in these categories. For a majority of the census dates, the initial height of surviving seedlings was greater than the initial height of those that subsequently died (significant differences ranged from 1 to 8 mm), indicating that seedlings that were taller at the initiation of the drought period had a higher probability of survival. In the greenhouse, taller seedlings had greater shoot and root biomass and rooting depth. Seedlings that are larger (i.e., taller and have greater aboveground biomass) in late spring appear to have a higher probability of surviving the summer drought due to greater rooting depth and hence increased access to moisture in deeper soil layers. Seed availability and safe sites for germination were probably not limiting since large numbers of seedlings successfully germinated in a patchy pattern during the study period. Seedling size and probability of survival were not related to either seedling density or the distance to nearest seedling neighbor. Survival through summer drought appears to be the main limitation to seedling recruitment in this population.
41712021|The Stansbury Mountains of north central Utah rise over 2000 m above surrounding desert valleys to a maximum elevation of 3362 m on Deseret Peak. Because of the great variety of environmental conditions that can be found in the Stansburys, a wide range of plant species and vegetation types (from shadscale desert to alpine meadow) exist there. This paper presents an annotated list of 594 vascular plant species in 315 genera and 78 families. The largest families are Asteraceae (98 species), Poaceae (71), Brassicaceae (33), Fabaceae (27), and Rosaceae (26). Elymus flavescens was previously unreported from Utah. Statistical comparison of the Stansbury flora with neighboring mountain floras indicates that the Wasatch Mountains lying 65 km to the east have probably been the primary source area for development of the Stansbury flora. Many lowland species, especially those inhabiting sandy areas, apparently have migrated to the area from the south.
41711869|Within the Craters of the Moon Lava Flow in southeastern Idaho are kipukas, islands of sagebrush habitat isolated by relatively barren lava. In 1979 I counted the number of species of plants, small mammals, and reptiles for a series of kipukas. The degree of isolation of a kipuka was not related to numbers of species found there; thus, these data do not support the equilibrium theory of island biogeography. For most of the study organisms lava is not a significant barrier to dispersal. Larger kipukas support larger numbers of species. For plants this relationship likely is a result of the increased topographic variety of larger kipukas, whereas for small mammal species minimum area requirements for maintaining populations are met only by larger kipukas. More distant kipukas showed increased density of small mammals, possibly as a result of reduced predation. Patterns of distribution in this ecosystem are best explained, not by any all-inclusive community mechanism, but through the agglomerative contributions of a variety of population and community functions.
41711454|Distributional data are presented for 13 species of Nevada stoneflies including eight species new to the state list. A checklist of 30 species confirmed for Nevada is included.
41711896|Western records for 27 species of Trichoptera are given; a majority of the records are from the Beartooth Mountains of northwestern Wyoming. In addition, examples of variation in the male genitilia of Limnephilus coloradensis (Banks) are figured and the female is described. Some comments regarding the larvae of Allomyia (Imania) are presented.
41712443|Listed in alphabetical order by author are 549 references to literature that describes the native vegetation of Montana. This updates the 1965 list of Habeck and Hartley. A keyword subject index is included.
41712138|The mean size of food and amount of food consumed by cutthroat trout from Palisades Creek in southeastern Idaho increased with trout length. Number of organisms of terrestrial origin, number of aquatic larvae, number of ants, and number of berries from redstem dogwood were related to trout length. The size range and number of taxa consumed increased with trout size, indicating that as trout get larger, they broaden their feeding menu. The minimum size of food consumed was relatively constant for all trout, but larger trout appeared to feed more from the stream bottom. Trout may have a minimum length of food, below which items cannot be detected as food. Other possible factors affecting the feeding of cutthroat trout are mentioned.
41711779|Kalsow Prairie, a mesic prairie remnant in central Iowa, was acquired by the state in 1949 and later established as a botanical reserve. This study concerns a complex of 14 potholes and adjacent drainage areas within the prairie. The potholes varied in depth and degree of fill and are thus useful in studies of plant succession. All 14 potholes exhibit zonation patterns. A total of 36 transects were taken in the various community zones. Canopy cover data were taken in every zone. The zones are ordinated into three-dimensional space as well as clustered. Interspecific association patterns are elucidated. A successional sequence is proposed.
41711564|Diets of townsend ground squirrels were quantified from the Arid Land Ecology (ALE) Reserve in eastern Washington.
41712722|Road track surveys were a poor index of cougar density in southern Utah. The weak relationship we found between track-finding frequency and cougar density undoubtedly resulted in part from the fact that available roads do not sample properly from the nonuniformly distributed cougar population. However, the significantly positive relationship (r = .73) we found between track-finding frequency and number of cougar home ranges crossing the survey road suggested the technique may be of use in monitoring cougar populations where road abundance and location allow the population to be sampled properly. The amount of variance in track-finding frequency unexplained by number of home ranges overlapping survey roads indicates the index may be useful in demonstrating only relatively large changes in cougar population size.
41712415|One hundred and one species of Odonata are recorded for Colorado, including 58 species of Anisoptera (of which 4 are new state records) and 43 Zygoptera (9 new state records). County records are indicated for each. Three major elements are recognized: predominantly eastern species occurring in the plains and mountain valleys east of the Rocky Mountains, Canadian Zone elements occurring principally above 2,440 m (8,000 ft) in the mountains, and Great Basin and western species occurring chiefly west of the mountains. The list is based primarily on the collections at Colorado State University and the University of Colorado, with additional records from the literature and from other collections.
41712739|We compared vertebrate populations between the two major islands (Paoha and Negit) in Mono Lake, California, and the adjacent mainland to further elucidate the mechanisms underlying island colonization. Deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) and montane voles (Microtus montanus) were captured on Paoha, but only deer mice were captured on Negit. In contrast, eight species of rodents were captured on the mainland. Overall rodent abundance on Paoha and the mainland was similar, but on Negit it was about three times greater than on Paoha or the mainland. Adult deer mice from Paoha were significantly (P < .05) smaller in most external body characteristics than mainland mice. Coyotes (Cams latrans) and one or two species of lagomorphs were observed on the islands and the mainland. No amphibians or reptiles were found on the islands; both occurred in low numbers on the mainland. Rafting and human transport are probable means of colonization for mice and voles. The occurrence of coyotes on the islands may have modified historic predator-prey relationships, and thus the population of rodents and lagomorphs
41711792|An alarm vocalization was identified in the pygmy rabbit. The call was composed of from one to seven syllables uttered in rapid succession. The syllables were complex tones with many overlying frequencies; the strongest occurred close to harmonic intervals at 4000 and 6000 Hz. In both laboratory and field conditions, the call seemed to be elicited by a potential predator and its use may be unique among leporids.
41712316|Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) was found parasitizing Pacific silver fir (Abies amabilis) in northern Siskiyou County, California. This is the first report of Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe on this host. Approximately 40% of the Pacific silver firs near heavily infected Douglas-firs were infected. The low level of infection on Pacific silver fir, unusually large swellings at the points of infection, and poor shoot production on infected branches indicate some degree of host-parasite incompatibility.
41713085|Studies of Great Basin faunas can provide information for landscape-level adaptive management by federal agencies and shed light on potential effects of climate change in continental interior landscapes. To provide such information, we characterized the butterfly fauna of the Toquima Range, a mountain range in the heart of the Great Basin with topography typical of the region. We also compared the butterfly fauna of the Toquima Range to that of the adjacent Toiyabe Range, which is more topographically complex and species rich but less representative of the Great Basin on the whole. We explicitly addressed the effects of area and water availability on butterfly species richness. Butterfly species presence data were compiled for 14 canyons and 1 peak in the Toquima Range. Data from 11 canyons that we inventoried systematically were amenable to statistical analysis. Eighty butterfly species (59 residents) have been recorded from the Toquima Range since 1935. By comparison, 99 species have been recorded from the Toiyabe Range. Mean canyon-level butterfly species richness was significantly lower in the Toquima Range than in the Toiyabe Range. This difference cannot be explained by differences in canyon size between the mountain ranges. Within the Toquima Range water availability seems to have a dominant effect on butterfly species richness. Between mountain ranges species richness is influenced by interactions among area, moisture, and topography. These data should assist managers in developing guidelines for conservation planning in the Great Basin.
41712056|Sixteen species of Tiger Beetles are listed for Idaho, along with the counties of occurrence for each species. Three species are placed in a checklist of Idaho species for the first time: Cicindela depressula depressula Casey, Cicindela parowana wallisi Calder, and Cicindela decemnotata decemnotata Say.
41711364|Gymnodamaeus plokosus and G. leurolomasus, n. spp., are described from soil at an ecological study site near Hayden, Colorado. Their relationship to allied species is discussed.
41711775|The presence of Crenichthys nevadae Hubbs is verified from 37.8 to 18.3 C in the Big Springs aquatic system.
41712463|A population of Penstemon pseudospectabilis M. E. Jones (Scrophulariaceae) on Cave Creek in Cochise County. Arizona, was used in an experimental test of reproductive fitness with three caging treatments: all flying pollinators excluded, hummingbirds excluded, and no exclusion. Twenty plants were chosen and three shoots on each used in the experiment. The flowers were 25.6 (s.d. = 1.5) mm long, the end diameter was 8.5 (s.d. = 1.0) mm, the tube opening was 6.5 (s.d. = 1.0) mm, and the greatest diameter, 75% distal from the receptacle, was 10.1 (s.d. = 0.8) mm (N = 59). Floral nectar contained 11.7% (s.d. = 2.9%) fructose, 13.8% (s.d. = 2.7%) glucose, and 74.5% (s.d. = 5.4%) sucrose (N = 74). There was some evidence, significant only for fructose, that nectar-sugar composition varies between morning and evening. Larger floral dimensions were correlated with lower sucrose and higher hexoses. Casual observation showed Xylocopa sp., small bees, flies, and hummingbirds to be visitors. There was no sign of nectar robbing. Five percent of flowers set seed with all pollen vectors excluded, 44% with hummingbirds excluded, and 63% with no exclusion. Seed set per fruit was 2 with all excluded, 23 with hummingbirds excluded, and 46 with no exclusion. Mean seed set on pollinated flowers was 60, with a range of 2 to 192. Multiple linear regression showed the fraction of fruit setting seed when hummingbirds were excluded to be related to larger flower diameters and shorter flowers. With no pollinator exclusion, fruits setting seed were related to larger diameters and nectar fructose. For seeds per fruit, multiple regression gave similar, but less clear, results. We conclude that P. pseudospectabilis is pollinated by both bees and hummingbirds, with other pollinators not to be excluded as possible contributors. We found no hard evidence of selective forces currently at work.
41712408|The Utah taxa of Equisetum were observed with the scanning electron microscope to test for taxonomic significance of stem morphology. The four Utah species of Equisetum were compared. Stem morphology was shown to be taxonomically significant in most cases. The hybrid E. x ferrissii, recognized in the literature as being extant in Utah but heretofore unrecognized in Utah herbaria, was shown to be present in the flora of the state.
41712986|Between May 1992 and April 1996, freshwater sponges (Porifera: Spongillidae) were collected at 24 sites, distributed among 6 sub-major drainage basins in western Montana, to determine the species present. Water samples also were analyzed from 16 of these sites and from 9 sites at which no sponges were detected to characterize sponge habitats chemically. Three species of sponges were identified: Ephydatia muelleri (Em), Eunapius fragilis (Ef), and Spongilla lacustris (Sl). A 4th type of specimen was present at 2 sites but could not be identified because of the absence of gemmules and gemmoscleres. At 46% of the sites containing sponges, more than 1 specimen type was present. Sponges were most commonly found near outlets of lakes, attached to sides or undersides of submerged rocks and logs. They appeared as encrusting (Em, Ef, Sl), lobate (Em), and fingerlike (Sl) growths, varying in color from light tan to green. Dimensions of the spicules varied greatly within each species and expanded previously recorded ranges. No factors limiting sponge distribution were identified, but ranges of conductivity (Em) and of silica (Em, Sl), calcium (Em), and magnesium (Em) concentrations were expanded beyond those reported previously.
41712165|Twenty-one areas in pinyon (Pinus monophylh )-juniper (Juniperus osteosperma ) woodlands burned by wildfire from approximately 1 to 60 years prior to sampling and adjacent unburned mature woodland stands were studied in Nevada and California to determine successional patterns and individual species responses to burning and to changing plant communities through time. One year after burning, all late successional woodland species were present in postburn plant communities except tree species. Increases in both cover and occurrence of annual and perennial forbs resulted in their dominance on early successional sites. Shrubs and annual grasses dominated midsuccessional sites, subsequently giving way to tree, shrub, and perennial grass dominance in late succession. North and east slopes generally supported high cover and occurrence of shrubs, perennial grasses, and perennial forbs, and south and west slopes generally supported high cover and occurrence of annual forbs and annual grasses. The ability to group species according to preferential occurrence on various aspects and successional stages can be used to predict plant community composition in time and space in the pinyon-juniper woodlands.
41713060|Chemical variability and biological communities of rock pools found in small desert drainage basins of Capitol Reef National Park were characterized over 8 mon in 1994. Neither flooding, drying, nor the presence or absence of surrounding vegetated wetlands had a great effect on chemical composition, which was very dilute and fluctuated somewhat in response to rain events. Neither flooding nor drying affected the composition of biological communities in the pools. Summer storms affected only a few drainages at a time, and only a few study pools of significant volume dried completely during the hot, dry summer. This suggests that only a portion of the Waterpocket Fold aquatic community is ever disturbed at a time, leaving undisturbed areas as a source of recovery. Pools bordered by vegetated wetlands always supported greater numbers of species throughout the year than those bordered only by bedrock, but the same taxa were found in both vegetated and bedrock pools. The rock pool fauna in Capitol Reef National Park appear to be resilient to climatic variability.
41712670|In 1987 the effects of arthropods on root: shoot ratios and biomass production were examined in southeastern Wyoming mountain shrub habitats that were undisturbed or had undergone conventional shrub management by mowing, burning, or herbicide application during the previous year. In habitats with and without shrub canopy, treatment with insecticides generally increased foliage biomass and consistently decreased root biomass, regardless of the shrub management practice. In open areas the effects of insecticide treatments on the root and shoot biomass were relatively greater in undisturbed plots than in any of the managed plots. With only one exception, the root: shoot ratio increased following application of insecticide.
41712186|Mapping units were developed based on landform, soils, and plant communities for the 40,000 ha of salt desert vegetation located below the maximum level of pluvial Lake Gilbert in Grass Valley, Nevada. Lake plain, beach, and bar features of the pluvial lake provide the dominant landforms. Fine textured lake sediments have produced saltand Na-affected soils. The distribution and structure of plant communities are related to depth of the groundwater table, fluctuations in this depth, and the salt content of the groundwater. Wind and water erosion combine to continually evolve new environments for colonization by plants in this ecosystem.
41711552|Fourteen North, Central, and South American Scolytidae have reached areas outside of America, namely Hawaii (5), Australia (3), Southeast Asia (2), Africa (7), Europe (1), and worldwide (1). The 44 species introduced into North and Central America have originated in South America (10), Southeast Asia (15), Africa (14), or Europe (7). Four North and Central American species have extended their ranges into new territory within this region. Most of the species that breed in the bole or roots of their host were imported more than a half century ago; those imported since 1950 breed mostly in seeds, pods, dry fruits, or small branches. Forty-five of the 62 species apparently can reproduce by means of facultative arrhenotokic parthenogenesis.
41712669|From 1984 through 1985 a study was made of the influence of a retained mine highwall on a wildlife community in south central Wyoming. Vegetation species richness and diversity were greater near the highwall compared with two adjacent sites 150 m in front of and behind the highwall. However, vegetation abundance (cover) was greater on the two adjacent sites. Small mammal abundance, richness, and diversity were greater on the highwall than on the two adjacent sites. Male bird abundance, richness, and diversity were greatest in front of the highwall (+50 m to +350 m) compared with the highwall and the area behind the highwall.
41712996|Totals of 101 native Yellowstone cutthroat (Oncorhynchus clarki bouvieri), 27 introduced lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush), and 40 introduced longnose sucker (Catostomus catostomus) from Yellowstone Lake, Wyoming, USA, were examined for eye flukes. Metacercariae of the trematode fluke Diphstomum were in vitreous humor and/or lens of 94% of Yellowstone cutthroat trout, 92% of lake trout, and 78% of longnose sucker. Longnose sucker had 7% prevalence of infection in both lens and vitreous humor of metacercariae, while Yellowstone cutthroat trout had 3% and lake trout 8%. Diplostomum spathaceum was in lens tissue of 5% of infected Yellowstone cutthroat trout and 93% of longnose sucker; Diplostomum baeri was in vitreous humor of 92% each of infected Yellowstone cutthroat trout and lake trout. Morphological characteristics indicate that a single species infected the lens of Yellowstone cutthroat trout and longnose sucker, while another species infected lake trout. Impacts of the parasite interchange between native and introduced fishes of Yellowstone Lake, Wyoming, are unknown but should be monitored each year.
41712944|Spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa Lam.) is a major rangeland and roadside weed of the northern Rocky Mountains. It is often found in plant communities dominated by Pseudoroegneria spicatum or Festuca idahoensis, but it rarely invades roadsides dominated by Bromus inermis Leyss. Aboveground biomass of the 3 grass species grown in mixture with Centaurea was compared to growth in monoculture at a range of nitrogen input levels. The results suggest that Bromus is capable of suppressing the growth of Centaurea with the degree of suppression increasing with increasing nitrogen levels. The 2 native grasses had no impact on Centaurea under the controlled environment conditions of this study.
41712988|From 1990 to 1992 we surveyed for Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) in 3 areas in Idaho: Salmon National Forest (SNF), Payette National Forest and adjacent Hells Canyon National Recreation Area (PNF-HCNRA), and Nez Perce National Forest (NPNF). We also collected and summarized information on all historic and modern records of Flammulated Owls in Idaho. Flammulated Owls were detected on 65% of 68 routes (2-16 km in length) surveyed at densities ranging from 0.04 to 1.25 singing males/40 ha. Owls were detected on survey routes as early as 10 May and as late as 23 July. Mean percent canopy cover estimated at owl locations on the PNF-HCNRA and NPNF study sites ranged from 52% to 64%, while shrub cover ranged from 16% to 21% and ground cover was 39% to 49%. Our surveys and summary of distributional records indicate that Flammulated Owls occur throughout the montane forests of Idaho in old or mature stands of open ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa), Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), and stands co-dominated by those 2 species. Fire suppression and timber harvest activity in ponderosa pine forests represent 2 main threats to the species' future security in Idaho. More research on the effects of various silvicultural treatments on Flammulated Owl populations is warranted.
41711612|A new record of Pinus longaeva D. K. Bailey in the Stansbury Mountains, north of the known range of the species, is reported.
41712899|Specimens of Oxytropis in the herbaria of The Natural History Museum and Royal Botanic Garden were examined to interpret their role in nomenclature. This is the first attempt at a systematic overview of specimens so important in understanding the genus as it occurs in North America. The review of specimens at BM and K during the present research has resulted in realignment of names of some of the taxa. Oxytropis campestris var. gracilis (A. Nelson) Barneby is recognized herein as being predated by O. campestris var. spicata Hook., O. sericea var. spicata (Hook.) Barneby is replaced by O. sericea var. speciosa (Torr. & A. Gray) Welsh comb, nov., and O. campestris var. terrae-novae (Fern.) Barneby is superseded by O. campestris var. minor (Hook.) Welsh comb. nov. One new taxon is proposed: Oxytropis deflexa (Pall.) DC. var. pulcherrima Welsh & A. Huber, var. nov. Lectotypes are designated for the following taxa: Astragalus retroflexus Pall., Oxytropis arctica R. Br., O. arctica var.  subumbellata Hook., O. arctica var.  uniflora Hook., O. campestris var.  speciosa Torr. & A. Gray, O. campestris var.  melanocephala Hook., O. campestris var.  spicata Hook., O. multiceps var. minor A. Gray, O. splendens Douglas ex Hook., O. splendens  richardsonii Hook., O. uralensis  subsucculenta Hook., and O. uralensis  minor Hook.
41713056|A conservation gap analysis was conducted for the Intermountain Semi-Desert ecoregion to assess the representation of land-cover types within areas managed primarily for biodiversity objectives. Mapped distributions of plant communities were summarized by land-management status categories. The total amount of land permanently protected in the ecoregion is <4%, and most types that are characteristic of the region have <10%. Of 48 land-cover types, 20 were found to be particularly vulnerable to potential loss or degradation because of low level of representation in biodiversity management areas and the impact of expected land-use activities. Gap analysis data and findings will be useful in providing a regional perspective in project impact assessment and future conservation planning within this ecoregion.
41712274|Described as a new breeding species is Clark's Grebe in Colorado and Nevada.
41711300|On 17 October 1970, the thermocline in the mixolimnion of Big Soda Lake, Nev., was located between 15 and 20 m below the surface. The chemocline was found to lie between 30 and 35 m depth. Significant dilution of the lake has occurred since 23 July 1933.
41711323|Twelve species of Mollusca are reported from the Fish Springs area in west central Utah, including Stagnicola pilsbryi (Hemphill, 1890). Most of the species are well known from Utah or the southwestern United States except S. pilsbryi, which is apparently endemic to Fish Springs.
41712438|Historically, one American White Pelican nesting area was known in Wyoming. In 1986 White Pelicans nested at four locations consisting of four different colonies and approximately 949 active nests. Nesting success was probably adequate for population stability at Pathfinder Reservoir from 1984 through 1986 and at Yellowstone Lake in 1984 and 1985, but insufficient there in 1986. White Pelican colonies at Bamforth and Cooper lakes most likely failed because of prdation. With the exception of the Yellowstone Lake colony, the future of White Pelican nesting colonies in Wyoming is uncertain. Current threats are human disturbance of nesting birds, prdation, and loss of habitat, including breeding areas and foraging sites.
41711457|Shore flies of the genera Coenia Robineau-Desvoidy and Paracoenia Cresson are revised, resulting in the description of two new subgenera of Paracoenia, Calocoenia and Leptocoenia, and of four new species, Paracoenia ampla, P. calida, and P. wirthi from California, and Coenia alpina from Labrador, Canada. Biological information on P. turbida and P. calida is given and die known distribution for each species is presented. P. paurosoma is reported from the Palearctic Region for the first time based on specimens from Sweden ; several new distribution records from North America are also included. Characters of the male postabdomen are used, and the male genitalia of each species are illustrated. Keys or references to all known species of these genera are included.
41711371|The reduction of Platypodidae and Scolytidae to subfamilies of Curculionidae by certain recent authors is questioned. Several fundamentally important anatomical characters that could not possibly have been derived from Curculionidae are cited. Platypodidae (including Coptonotidae) is recognized provisionally as a derivative of Scolytidae; Scolytidae, with subfamilies Hylesininae and Scolytinae (including Ipinae), is also recognized as a family. Protoplatypus, new genus, for P. vetulus, n. sp., a primitive platypodid from New Guinea, and Protohylastes, new genus, for Pr. annosus, n. sp., a primitive scolytid from Queensland, are described.
41711788|Hypsiglena torquata tiburonensis is described as new to science from Isla del Tiburon, Sonora, Mexico. Notes pertaining to other taxa in the genus are included.
41712936|A revised list of the mosses of the State of Wyoming is presented. Recorded are 315 species and varieties.
41711847|Summer food habits of coyotes (Canis latrans) were investigated on a 3100-km area in central Wyoming, divided into one deer-use area and five non-deer areas. Analysis of 404 scats (fecal samples) revealed an overall average of 63 percent occurrence of native ungulates, 63 percent leporids, 46 percent rodents, 14 percent livestock, and 11 percent birds. Pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) was the ungulate most frequently consumed, occurring in about 87 percent of the scats. Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) occurred in only 8 percent, and in 5 percent the native ungulate remains were not identifiable beyond order. This large percentage of big game in the diet is apparently unusual, because big game has been of minor importance in most coyote food-habit studies. The high incidence of leporids is consistent with other studies performed in arid intermountain areas. Although cricetines, especially deer mice (Peramyscus manicufotus), were trapped consistently in all habitats, months, and trapping areas, they were found in scats at a lower frequency than microtines and sciurids. This suggests a coyote hunting strategy that selected for the latter two groups.
41712581|The thermal equilibrium hypothesis predicts that aquatic insect body size/fecundity and, consequently, population density and biomass will be maximized in geographic areas or along altitudinal gradients where the thermal regime is optimal with respect to growth and development. Seasonal growth analyses of three mayfly species, combined with detailed thermal descriptions, were used to explore differences in body size and fecundity at three sites with similar elevations but different temperature regimes. Site 1 was located near the upper altitudinal distribution for each species, whereas sites 2 and 3 were located below a deep-release storage reservoir. The temperature pattern at site 1 had rapid seasonal changes, with a short summer and a long, freezing winter. Site 2 demonstrated gradual seasonal changes combined with winter warm and summer cool temperatures. Site 3 was intermediate with respect to seasonal change and winter harshness but had the highest maximum and mean annual temperatures. Mayfly development at site 1 was characterized by slow growth during the summer-autumn period, no growth during the winter, and a rapid increase during the spring-summer period. In contrast, growth at site 2 was continuous throughout the year, including the winter. Growth at site 3 was either continuous across sites or rapid during the spring-summer period, depending on the species. Based upon the interactions among temperature, body size, and metabolic costs, the thermal equilibrium hypothesis was successful at predicting body size and fecundity differences among sites. It was less successful at predicting variation in population density and biomass. Density-dependent and density-independent sources of mortality, including temperature, may interrupt the translation of higher fecundity into higher population density and biomass.
41712314|Cliffrose (Cowania mexicana var. stansburiana [Torr.] Jepson) community measurements were taken in central Utah. Data revealed a high between-site similarity of 78.5%. Soil analysis for sites showed most macronutrients, and some micronutrients, relatively low. Cover of cliffrose was found to increase with increases in soil magnesium (p  0.01). Plants growing on the sites have adapted life cycles to exploit moisture and nutrients during seasons of maximum availability. Prevalent species in the community were cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), cliffrose, madwort (Alyssum alyssoides), and bluebunch wheatgrass (Agropyron spicatum). Annual grasses were the most important life form to community composition; the second was shrubs. Ratios between soil nutrients and cliffrose tissue nutrients indicate active transport of some elements. Data indicated a steady decline in establishment of new cliffrose individuals on the sites since 1957. This lack of reproductive success is most likely due to a combination of factors but appears most influenced by the elevated levels of annual plants (mainly cheatgrass) on the sites. If the cliffrose communities in central Utah are to be maintained, special attention to their management must be considered and implemented.
41712207|The densities of singleleaf pinyon and Utah juniper trees in four diameter classes (1-9, 10-19, 20-29, and  30 cm) were measured on 522 plots of 1/10 ha each throughout the Great Basin. Density distribution patterns of pinyon and juniper varied with aspect, elevation, and eastern (EGB) versus western Great Basin (WGB) locations. On most locations north and, to a lesser extent, west slopes supported higher densities of pinyon than south and east slopes, with high relative densities of small diameter trees on north slopes and large diameter trees on west slopes. Pinyon densities were higher on EGB than on WGB sites and on higher elevation than on lower elevation sites. Juniper densities were higher on EGB than on WGB sites and on lower elevation than on higher elevation sites. Juniper densities on low-elevation WGB sites were higher on south and west aspects than on north and east, with higher relative densities in the 20-29 cm diameter class than in other diameter classes. On low elevation EGB sites, east and south slopes supported higher juniper densities than did north and west slopes, with comparatively higher relative densities in the 10-19 cm diameter class. Differences in relative densities between diameter classes were not significant among aspects on high elevation sites.
41712239|We characterize 14 trees used simultaneously and sequentially by breeding cavity-nesting birds in Wyoming cottonwood communities. Our descriptions can be used as a management resource to enrich the diversity of breeding assemblages of these bird species.
41711739|Hanging gardens are insular plant communities of the Colorado Plateau. This study examines hanging gardens in the Narrows, Zion National Park, Utah. The floristic similarity of gardens and the presence of species in classes of variables which characterize the habitat are disclosed. Although the gardens are isolated and dissimilar, the individual species are not restricted in the range of habitat found. Floristic dissimilarity cannot be attributed to differences in habitat. These results are compared to studies of hanging gardens in eastern Utah.
41711819|In 1979, the walnut spanworm defoliated a 1 ha bitterbrush seed orchard near Nephi, Utah. No seed was produced for two years thereafter due to feeding damage. Life stages were described and illustrated. The female is brachypterous and incapable of flight. First instar larvae readily drop on their silk threads and probably are dispersed by wind. The insect has one annual generation. Moths laid an average of 159 eggs per cluster in April; larvae began to appear in early May and matured by the first week of June. The pupal period extended from June until mid-April. The parasitic bombyliid, Villa faustina (Osten Sacken), was reared from pupae. In April 1980, shrubs contained an estimated average of 1044 eggs each. On 19 May, larvae averaged 1.9 per 7.5 cm of twig and were in the first and second instar. On 20 May the population was controlled by spraying with Sevimol-4. Other potential host plants, as determined from greenhouse tests, are rose, ceanothus, mountain mahogany, serviceberry, and willow.
41712680|Eight bobcat kittens were fitted with a specially designed harness system supporting a radio transmitter. These kittens were the youngest known to be radio-instrumented. This system was used successfully through two seasons, from June 1989 to January 1991. Litters of kittens were located soon after birth for weighing, marking, and aging (by tooth eruption). During the first year when kittens were at least eight weeks old and six weeks old the second year, attempts were made to radio-instrument kittens in each litter. This harness system allowed litters to be located periodically until their death or dispersal. We were able to collect important data during the most crucial and least known weeks of the lives of bobcat kittens.
41712265|Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) beds were studied in selected plant communities with the purpose of characterizing bedding sites. Six trends exist among the data: (1) deer appeared to prefer bedding under or near conifers, (2) most beds were found on or near game trails, (3) beds in xeric communities were located at higher altitudes and had less overhead cover than in mesic communities, (4) the percentage of uphill cover in xeric areas was greater than in mesic areas, (5) visibility was lower on the north and west sides of deer beds in both community types than on the south and east sides, and (6) the mean size of deer beds was the same in both xeric and mesic communities. These trends, as well as other tendencies in bed locations, are considered from the standpoint of deer thermoregulation and predator avoidance.
41712331|Twenty-five cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki) and eight longnose suckers (Catostomus catostomus) from Yellowstone Lake, Wyoming, were collected and examined for parasites in 1985. Cutthroat trout had at least six different species of parasites that included both protozoans and helminths. The greatest number of parasite species on one fish was nine. Parasites added to the known list for cutthroat trout from Yellowstone Lake, Wyoming, were: Myxosoma sp., Diphyllobothrium ditremum, Diphyllobothrium dendriticum, Diplostomum baeri, and Posthodiplostomum minimum. These data were compared with a previous survey (1971) and a checklist of parasites of cutthroat trout in North America. There are 17 species of parasites and two fungal species reported for cutthroat trout from Yellowstone Lake. Trichophrya catostomi, Diplostomum spathaceum, and Ligula sp. were observed in the small sample of longnose suckers.
41712007|Stomach contents of 33 hunter and trapper killed badgers, Taxidea taxus, from northeastern South Dakota were examined during the 1980-81 fur season. Mammal prey species made up the bulk of the ingested food, followed by plant materials. Approximately 40 percent of stomach contents were mammals, 35 percent were of plant origin, 10 percent were birds, 10 percent were insects, while the remainder was mostly inorganic materials. Little significant difference was found in variety of food items consumed by each sex. South Dakota badgers are opportunistic foragers in the wintertime when food is scarce. Individual food items are usually taken in quantity when encountered by badgers.
41712863|Monitoring diversity usually begins by estimating alpha diversity of a plant community on a specific site. The objectives of this study were to provide alpha diversity benchmarks and to determine whether rangeland community basal cover characteristics explained variation in diversity estimates. Plant and surface component cover percentages were estimated on 51 plots (representing four vegetation types) on the Lassen National Forest, CA. Each plot was sampled with 30 random, 102 basal point transects. Jackknife procedures were used to compute means and standard errors for Margalef's diversity index (Dm), which stresses species richness, and Simpson's index (Ds), which stresses species dominance. Within vegetation types, Dm and Ds did not rank all plots in the same order. Highest Dm values occurred with the most species. Highest Ds values occurred with comparatively few species but more uniform cover. With either index, average diversity declined from the meadow to grassland to open shrub-grass to timber-bunchgrass types. All possible subset regressions of diversity on the basal cover characteristics were computed. Portions of the variance accounted for by the best models were too low to allow prediction of Dm and Ds. The relation of alpha diversity to rangeland health is discussed.
41712756|The role of the cyanobacterium Microcoleus vaginatus in cold-desert soil crusts is investigated using scanning electron microscopy. Crusts from sandstone-, limestone-, and gypsum-derived soils are examined. When dry, polysaccharide sheath material from this cyanobacterium can be seen winding through and across all three types of soil surfaces, attaching to and binding soil particles together. When wet, sheaths and living filaments can be seen absorbing water, swelling and covering soil surfaces even more extensively Addition of negatively charged material, found both as sheath material and attached clay particles, may affect cation exchange capacity of these soils as well. As a result of these observations, we propose that the presence of this cyanobacterium may significantly enhance soil stability, moisture retention, and fertility of cold-desert soils.
41711809|Scats of sympatric red foxes and coyotes from the upper Snake River Plain of southeastern Idaho were analyzed for composition. Rodent remains in general and those of cricetid mice in particular occurred more frequently in scats of red foxes during all seasons of the year than any other food items identified. Scats of coyotes differed significantly in content from scats of red foxes during winter and contained primarily pygmy rabbit remains. In summer, remains of pygmy rabbits, sheep, ground squirrels, yellow-bellied marmots, arthropods, and vegetation were found more frequently in scats of coyotes and remains of cricetid mice occurred more frequently in scats of red foxes. Red foxes and coyotes generally consumed similar food items but in different proportions. Based on the location of scats that were collected, red foxes and coyotes largely used different portions of the study area. Reasons for the preferential usage of habitat are discussed.
41712068|A 36.9x10 m reservoir constructed on Huntington River, Emery County, Utah, resulted in changes in physical habitat, water quality, temperature, and flow regime. The greatest changes in physical habitat resulted from: (1) sediment additions from dam and road construction plus erosion of reservoir basin during filling; and (2) changing stream flow from a spring high runoff regime to a moderated flow regime. Elimination of spring nutrient concentration peaks and overall reduction of total dissolved nutrient availability in the river plus moderate reductions in pH were the most apparent water quality changes below the reservoir. Water temperature changes were an increased diurnal and seasonal constancy, summer depression, and winter elevation, generally limited to a 10-12 km reach below the dam. Physical and chemical changes altered macroinvertebrate community structure, with changes greatest near the dam and progessively less as distance downstream increased. Below the dam: (1) more environmentally tolerant taxa increased their dominance; (2) relative numbers of smaller sized individuals increased in relation to larger individuals; and (3) filter feeding, collector/gatherers, and scrapers gained an advantage over shredders. Insect taxa such as Rhithrogena robusta, Pteronarcella badia, and Ephemerella doddsi were eliminated from stream reaches near the dam, and other taxa such as Arctopsyche grandis, Chironomidae, and Simuliidae increased in numbers. Late spring to early summer egg hatch proved to be a disadvantage to Brachycentrus occidentalis, and B. americanus, with a fall hatch, was less impacted by altered river flow patterns. Macroinvertebrate taxa with small instar larvae present from late summer to early fall were negatively impacted by the unnaturally high July and August flows. The reservoir became a physical barrier to downstream larval drift and upcanyon and downcanyon immigration of adults, resulting in reduced numbers of several species above and below the reservoir.
41712719|Adaptive features of plants of the Great Basin are reviewed. The combination of cold winters and an arid to semiarid precipitation regime results in the distinguishing features of the vegetation in the Great Basin and Colorado Plateau. The primary effects of these climatic features arise from how they structure the hydrologic regime. Water is the most limiting factor to plant growth, and water is most reliably available in the early spring after winter recharge of soil moisture. This factor determines many characteristics of root morphology, growth phenology of roots and shoots, and photosynthetic physiology. Since winters are typically cold enough to suppress growth, and drought limits growth during the summer, the cool temperatures characteristic of the peak growing season are the second most important climatic factor influencing plant habit and performance. The combination of several distinct stress periods, including low-temperature stress in winter and spring and high-temperature stress combined with drought in summer, appears to have limited plant habit to a greater degree than found in the warm deserts to the south. Nonetheless, cool growing conditions and a more reliable spring growing season result in higher water-use efficiency and productivity in the vegetation of the cold desert than in warm deserts with equivalent total rainfall amounts. Edaphic factors are also important in structuring communities in these regions, and halophytic communities dominate many landscapes. These halophytic communities of the cold desert share more species in common with warm deserts than do the nonsaline communities. The Colorado Plateau differs from the Great Basin in having greater amounts of summer rainfall, in some regions less predictable rainfall, sandier soils, and streams which drain into river systems rather than closed basins and salt playas. One result of these climatic and edaphic differences is a more important summer growing season on the Colorado Plateau and a somewhat greater diversification of plant habit, phenology, and physiology.
41716178|Congress is currently evaluating the wilderness status of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) public lands in Utah. Wilderness areas play many important roles, and one critical role is the conservation of biological diversity. We propose that objectives for conserving biodiversity on BLM lands in Utah be to (1) ensure the long-term population viability of native animal and plant species, (2) maintain the critical ecological and evolutionary processes upon which these species depend, and (3) preserve the full range of communities, successional stages, and environmental gradients. To achieve these objectives, wilderness areas should be selected so as to protect large, contiguous areas, augment existing protected areas, buffer wilderness areas with multiple-use public lands, interconnect existing protected areas with dispersal and movement corridors, conserve entire watersheds and elevational gradients, protect native communities from invasions of exotic species, protect sites of maximum species diversity, protect sites with rare and endemic species, and protect habitats of threatened and endangered species. We use a few comparatively well-studied taxa as examples to highlight the importance of particular BLM lands.
41711350|A checklist of the aquatic macroinvertebrate species from the Provo River, Utah, was compiled from field collections and from literature sources.
41712271|Densities of passerine breeding birds were compared between four range pastures variously grazed by sheep over a 50-year period. The experimental pastures, located at the Desert Experimental Range in southwestern Utah, included three grazed and one ungrazed. Grazed pastures were each heavily stocked and grazed annually at one of three winter seasons (early, middle, or late). Important structural (physiognomic) and compositional differences existed in the vegetation of the experimental pastures. Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris [Linnaeus]), numerically dominant in the pastures, apparently responded to those differences. Black-throated Sparrows (Amphispiza bilineata [Cassin]) and Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianu s Linnaeus) were less common and found as breeding birds only in dry wash habitats. No significant differences were found between the pastures in estimates of total breeding bird populations, bird standing crop biomass, or bird species richness.
41712104|Presently, information pertaining to migration and daily movement patterns of big game in relation to overland conveyors or large diameter pipelines is sparse. A literature review showed that moose (Alces alces), caribou (Rangifer tarandus granti), reindeer, and dall sheep (Ovis dalli dalli) will pass beneath or over large diameter pipeline systems. But no information was found relative to big game crossing coal conveyor systems. Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) passage beneath an overland coal conveyor in Carbon County, Utah, was studied during spring 1981. Deer avoided crossing at underpass opportunities where the clearance was less than 50 cm. Clearances between 50 and 90 cm were selected for crossing. Deer passed beneath the conveyor during day and nighttime conditions and while the conveyor was either operating or idle. Recommendations are discussed for designing conveyors and pipelines to facilitate big game passage.
41712414|Published records of fleas collected from the northern grasshopper mouse, Onychomys leucogaster, indicate that these mice have a great deal of intimate environmental contact with other rodents or their burrows. Fifty-seven species of fleas have been collected from the omnivorous grasshopper mouse. The range of this mouse overlaps much of the distribution of plague, Yersinia pestis, in the western United States; and nearly one-half of the flea species collected from O. leucogaster are known to be of importance in the epizoology of plague. This article discusses the importance of the association of fleas with a hospitable secondary host in the maintenance and transmission of wild rodent plague.
41711641|During May through October 1976, samples of sheep pellets containing laboratory-reared, third-stage Haemonchus contortus larvae were placed on irrigated and nonirrigated pasture plots at Provo, Utah. Periodically thereafter, grass clippings, soil scrapings, and remaining pellets were collected and baermannized to determine their comparative survival from the two environments. Water was added to the irrigated plots in accordance with a weekly sprinkling regime designed to furnish sufficient moisture to maintain pasture grass in this semiarid region. Meteorologie measurements were collected daily from both irrigated and nonirrigated sections. During the year the nonirrigated section received a total of 131 mm of precipitation, whereas an additional 979 mm of water were added via sprinkling to the irrigated section. The monthly mean maximum temperature at soil surface under grass cover for the six-month study period on the irrigated section averaged 17.7 C less than on the nonirrigated section, and the corresponding soil moisture content remained 14.4 percent higher. A bioclimatograph of conditions on the nonirrigated section showed that none of the months during the year had levels of temperature and moisture which fell within the prescribed limits for optimum pasture transmission of H. contortus; on the irrigated section only October of the six-month study period failed to have suitable conditions for optimum pasture transmission. Larvae placed on the plots survived significantly longer and also in significantly greater numbers on the irrigated section, and irrigation enhanced the ability of larvae to migrate from pellets onto vegetation.
41712199|Six study sites were established in each of three community life form types (grass, forb, and shrub) containing as dominants or subdominants either C and/or C plants. Soil and vegetation samples were analyzed for total nitrogen, phosphorus, magnesium, calcium, potassium, sodium, zinc, iron, copper, and manganese. Discriminant analysis and analysis of variance statistics were used to evaluate differences in mineral content of soils and plant tissues. C plants in all study sites assimilated higher concentrations of potassium, iron, and calcium than did C plants. Forbs in all sites contained the highest concentrations of minerals, followed by shrubs and grasses.
41711647|A population of salamanders of the genus Ambystoma has been found at Grass Lake, Siskiyou County, in Northern California. A five-year study has established that the salamanders are reproducing successfully and may represent a relictual population of native amphibians. The Grass Lake area has a sparse human population, which may help to explain how this secretive amphibian could have escaped notice. Attempts to determine the taxonomic position of the Grass Lake salamander, through comparisons of body measurements and coloration with those of other western ambystomatids, were inconclusive. These comparisons suggest, however, a close relationship with the geographically most proximate subspecies, A.t. californiense Gray and A.t. melanostictum Baird. Grass Lake is near the midpoint of a gap area of approximately 800 km that separates these subspecies. Regardless of the origin of the population, it must now be listed as an established addition to the amphibian fauna of California.
41711860|Growth of juvenile American lobsters, Homarus americanus, raised in four semiopen culture systems, with daily water exchange rates ranging from 29 percent to 3.3 percent, was compared with growth in a completely closed system. Animals were fed a formulated pelleted ration, water quality factors were measured daily, and changes in concentration of nitrate, orthophosphate, and total organic carbon were monitored. Results of two 90-day trials indicate that growth increased in the system with the lower water exchange rates. Maximum growth occurred in the closed system.
41712315|The Ruby Range is a northern extension of the West Elk Mountains of west central Colorado. Composed primarily of sedimentary rocks, the range is heavily faulted and intruded by many dikes and sills. Eight study areas, selected as representative of the major topographic features of the range, were analyzed floristically. A vascular flora of 220 species in 111 genera and 35 families is reported. The phytogeographic distribution of the flora is primarily alpine and western North American. The flora of the Ruby Range shows a 74% similarity to the flora of the San Juan Mountains to the southwest.
41712454|Different insect trapping methods were compared weekly on recently burned and nearby unburned rangeland in the Great Basin of western Utah. Flight traps (or wing traps) collected the most specimens (total = 4,916 at burned site, 4,384 at unburned site) but represented the fewest species (no more than 11 spp./wk at either site); this method was not recommended because of difficulty in removing specimens from adhesive. Water traps amassed the next largest number of specimens ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 150.9  75.3 at burned site, 158.0  66.4 at unburned site) and the most species ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 21.6  6.4 at burned site, 35.1  4.5 at unburned site). The weekly collections from pitfall traps between the sites were significantly different (P < .05) in number of specimens ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 8.1  1.5 at burned site, 19.7  4.8 at unburned site) and species ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 4.7  0.6 at burned site, 9.5  2.0 at unburned site). Malaise traps were the most convenient. Black Malaise traps collected more specimens ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 99.8  19.4 at burned site, 90.6  16.4 at unburned site) and species ($\overline x $  SE/wk = 22.9  3.9 at burned site, 19.4  6.5 at unburned site) than white malaise traps (specimens: $\overline x $  SE/wk = 72.1  22.4 at burned site, 87.1  31.2 at unburned site; species: $\overline x $  SE/wk = 19.7  6.6 at burned site, 16.4  5.4 at unburned site), although this difference was not significant.
41712508|Proper quadrat and sample sizes for sampling species frequency vary among vegetation types. This study found 10  10-cm quadrats most appropriate for frequency sampling dry mountain meadows when using a single quadrat size. If large, broad-leaved forbs are of special interest, 25  25-cm, 25  50-cm, or 50  50-cm quadrats may be useful. One hundred 10  10-cm quadrats adequately sampled most common species at alpha = 0.20  10% frequency. In contrast, more than five hundred 0.29-m circular plots usually were needed to sample individual species yield at alpha = 0.20  20% of the mean.
41711992|Three fishes, two species of Gila, and an undescribed subspecies of cutthroat trout, are endemic to the Alvord Basin. Historically, the Alvord cutthroat trout, Salmo clarki ssp., inhabited the larger creeks of the basin but has been extirpated in pure form because of introgression with introduced rainbow trout, Salmo gairdneri. Gila boraxobius is restricted to the thermal waters of Borax Lake and its outflows in the northern part of the basin. This species is endangered because of alteration of its fragile habitat. The Alvord chub, G. alvordensis, is recorded from 16 localities throughout the basin, including springs, creeks, and reservoirs. Although G. alvordensis as a species is not in jeopardy, many populations are small and could be easily eliminated by habitat destruction or by the introduction of exotic fishes. Competition with exotic guppies, Poecilia reticulata, has extirpated the Thousand Creek Spring population of Alvord chubs. Both species of Gila are opportunistic omnivores, consuming primarily chironomids, microcrustaceans, and diatoms. The Borax Lake chub also consumed large numbers of terrestrial insects, but specialized feeding on molluscs was noted in the West Spring population of Alvord chubs. Borax Lake chubs spawn throughout the year; however, most spawning occurs in early spring. Borax Lake chubs mature at a small size, occasionally less than 30 mm standard length, and seldom live more than one year. Alvord chubs are typically much larger than the Borax Lake species and live at least into their fifth year.
41712250|Diets of the Common Screech Owl (Otus asio) and Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) from the Great Basin, Malheur County, southeastern Oregon, were studied. Although there was considerable overlap in the diets of these owls, there were differences related to habitat use.
41711582|The mustard family, Brassicaceae (Cruciferae) is revised for the state of Utah. Treated are 155 species and 44 varieties, including 37 species of introduced weeds or escaped cultivated plants. A key to the genera and species is included, along with detailed descriptions, distribution data, and pertinent comments for many of the taxa. Proposed new varieties are: Lepidium montanum Nutt. var. stellae Welsh & Reveal; L. montanum var. neeseae Welsh & Reveal; Lesquerelh hemiphysaria Maguire var. lucens Welsh & Reveal; Physaria acutifolia Rydb. var. purpurea Welsh & Reveal; and, Thelypodium sagittatum (Nutt.) Endl. in Walp. var. vermicuhris Welsh & Reveal. The following new combinations are made: Arabis confinis S. Wats. var. interposita (Greene) Welsh & Reveal; Descurainia pinnata (Walt.) Britt. var. paysonii (Detl.) Welsh & Reveal; D. richardsonii (Sweet) O. E. Schulz var. brevipes (Nutt.) Welsh & Reveal; Oraba asprella Greene var. zionensis (C. L. Hitchc.) Welsh & Reveal; Oraba densifolia Nutt. ex Torr. & Gray var. daviesiae (C. L. Hitchc.) Welsh & Reveal; Lesquerella alpina (Nutt.) S. Wats. var. parvula (Greene) Welsh & Reveal; Lesquerella kingii S. Wats. var. parvifolia (Maguire & Holmgren) Welsh & Reveal; Rorippa islandica (Oed.) Borbas var. gfafrra (O. E. Schulz) Welsh & Reveal; Thelypodiopsis divaricata (Rollins) Welsh & Reveal; Thelypodium integrifolium (Nutt.) Endl. var. affine (Greene) Welsh & Reveal.
41712393|Soil nematode populations were larger and more diverse in two grasslands than in three forests of the northern Rocky Mountains. As we moved from Festuca idahoensis grassland through progressively higher zones of vegetation dominated by Artemisia tridentata, Populus tremuloides, and Pseudotsuga menziesii, and then to Abies lasiocarpa forests, numbers of nematode genera declined from 31 to 26 to 20 to 21 to 13; numbers of individuals in the top 50 cm of the soil were 6.0, 5.3, 1.7, 1.5, and 1.6 million/m, and biomasses of nematodes in the top 50 cm of the soil were 0.83, 0.88, 0.58, 0.35, and 0.19 g/m. Biomasses of nematodes were often well correlated with root biomass as well as soil depth; of the nematodes in the 050-cm horizon, 38 to 70% were in the 020-cm layer. The effects of light grazing on nematode populations were small or nonexistent.
41712989|We used radio telemetry to describe nighttime movements and daytime den sites of pinyon mice (Peromyscus truei) in the White Mountains of California, 1991-1993. Characteristics of nighttime relocations and den sites for mice concurred with previously reported habitat-use information for the species and supported the claim that pinyon mice use multiple daytime sites. However, males and females were associated with different habitat characteristics at den sites, indicating differential microhabitat selection by the sexes, perhaps related to reproductive constraints on females. Pinyon mice also exhibited high variability in den site habitat use in the summer, but low variability in the fall and winter. The dens of male mice were farther apart than those of females, and home range areas averaged 2.9 ha (s = 4.27 ha) for 8 males, and 0.8 ha (s = 0.76 ha) for 7 females (overall $\bar x$ = 1.7 + 2.97 ha). These areas were larger than those reported for other species of Peromyscus. The combined effects of drought and reduced food availability may have contributed to the larger areas used.
41712671|Gilia tenuis Smith & Neese is a previously undescribed species from Emery and Sevier counties, Utah, apparently closely related to G. caespitosa Gray and G. subnuda Torr, ex Gray. It is distinguished from these species by its possession of a combination of characters including perennial, multicipital habit, lobed basal leaves, and small, pale blue flowers.
41712178|The checklist of vascular plants of Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area is presented based on field collections and herbarium specimens. The checklist treats 656 taxa from 73 families.
41712868|The genus Chrysothamnus (Asteraceae) contains 16 species. Recently, 4 species were transferred to Ericameria, and the remaining 12 were left in Chrysothamnus. The remaining species are now transferred to Ericameria as E. albida, E. depressa, E. eremobia, E. gramnea, E. filifolia (formerly C. greenei), E. humilis, E. linifolia, E. molesta, E. puhhella, E. pulchelhides (a fossil species), E. spathuhta, E. vaseyi, and E. viscidiflora. Section alignments are given, and some infraspecific combinations are also made.
41711555|Population estimates of fungi, bacteria, and actinomycetes in desert soil were determined with respect to soil depth and distance from shrubs. In general the highest numbers of microbes were found at the shrub base; the lowest numbers were found in the interspaces. While the total number of organisms usually declined in deeper soil, the relative importance of the actinomycetes increased. These population trends are attributed to substrate availability and utilization and interspecific interactions. As the soils became drier and warmer the total number of microorganisms decreased. Mold populations remained at about the same level during the study. While the numbers of both bacteria and actinomycetes declined, the relative importance of the actinomycetes increased.
41712139|Mature flathead chubs (Hybopsis gracilis) were present in mid-July and mid-August collections from the Musselshell River, Montana. The estimated numbers of mature eggs present in eight females were 360-753 per female. The smallest mature female and male collected were 113 and 123 mm in total length, respectively. The male to female sex ratio in collections was about 1:1. Only small differences were detected among the length-weight relationships of males and females and samples taken from various seasons and localities in Montana. Observations on size groups, fish associates, and habitat characteristics of flathead chubs are presented.
41712469|We examined the crop contents from 129 Rock Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) collected between 1967 and 1971 on Amchitka, Aleutian Islands, Alaska. On a yearly basis two plant species, Empetrum nigrum and Equisetum arvense, made up 87% of the diet. Only in July and August were they less than 90% of the diet, and in those months they constituted 65% of the diet. During the warmer months (May-October) when a variety of plant species were available, the Amchitka ptarmigan fed upon growth forms of plants high in nutritive value (particularly Equisetum strobili). Its main winter food was the vegetative portions of Empetrum, one of the few abundant evergreen vascular plants on the island.
41712033|Apparent first state records of 11 taxa for Wyoming and one taxon for Montana are listed. A range extension is noted for the genus Shoshonea.
41712216|Widespread karyotypic sampling in the lizard Sceloporus graciosus Baird & Girard has confirmed previous reports of chromosomal monotypy. Most individuals throughout the range have a diploid karyotype of 2N= 30 consisting of 12 biarmed macrochromosomes and 18 microchromosomes. A single female karyotyped from the vicinity of Riverside, California, was unmistakably triploid, showing 3N= 45 with 18 macrochromosomes and 27 microchromosomes. This female appeared phenotypically normal but appeared reproductively incompetent. A male from Zion National Park, Utah, showed an extra bivalent in some diakinesis arrays, which apparently represents a supernumerary chromosome.
41712548|The population dynamics and decomposition activities of litter arthropods in an unmanaged sagebrush/bitterbrush habitat in southeastern Wyoming were assessed in 1986. The effects of sagebrush/bitterbrush management practices on litter arthropod communities and the role of these communities in decomposition were also assessed. Insecticide applications were used to selectively exclude arthropods in order to determine the ecological impact of these detritivores. Application of a herbicide, 2,4-D, was associated with increased arthropod populations for 30 days following treatment. Mowing increased arthropod densities at two different times, 10-30 days and 50 days posttreatment, perhaps as a result of functional and numerical responses by litter arthropods. Elimination of arthropods from otherwise undisturbed shrub habitats by the use of broad-spectrum insecticides reduced the rate of litter decomposition during the growing season, indicating that these organisms play an important role in decomposition and nutrient cycling.
41712589|The effects of dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) on growth and mortality of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) were studied on 387 plots in mixed-conifer stands in three national forests in New Mexico and two in Arizona. Analyses of 8,570 trees showed that low infection ratings (dwarf mistletoe classes 1 or 2) had no significant effect on tree growth, but that losses increased markedly as infection severity increased. Average volume growth losses for trees over 10 inches in diameter were: dwarf mistletoe class 3, 10%; class 4, 25%; class 5, 45%; and class 6, 65%. Mortality of Douglas-fir in stands severely infested with dwarf mistletoe was three to four times that of healthy stands. These high losses confirm the need for silvicultural control of Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe in the Southwest.
41711876|Described as new is Cryptantha creutzfeldtii Welsh, named to honor the memory of F. Creutzfeldt, botanist with the Gunnison Expedition of 1853-54, who was killed along with Gunnison and other members of the party in an Indian ambush.
41712481|The Colorado River system downstream from Lake Mohave yielded 42 adult, 19 juvenile, and 39 larval wild razorback suckers (Xyrauchen texanus) between 1962 and 1988. Forty-six additional young captured between 1984 and 1987 may have been wild or stocked, hatchery-propagated fish. Wild juveniles of this endemic, imperiled species, with one exception, have not been otherwise known from the Colorado River basin downstream from the Grand Canyon since the 1950s. A majority of adults and larvae were from the river or its mainstream impoundments, while all but one wild juvenile and all presumably stocked fish were captured from irrigation canals. The ecology of artificial canals in which young razorback suckers survive and grow is poorly understood.
41711806|A checklist of the vascular flora of the alpine zone (treeless vegetation above 9500 feet or 2900 m) of the Teton Range is presented. For each of the 216 species, six attributes are listed: flower color and shape, pollination mode, life form, habitat preference, and whether each species is found in the Arctic. White and yellow flowered species are most common, and zoophilous species greatly predominate over anemophilous and apomictic species. Perennial/biennial herbs are the most common life form. Common habitats in the alpine zone include dry and wet meadows, bogs, debris accumulations, and cliffs and rock faces. Arctic species account for 25.9 percent of the flora. The 216 species are distributed among 111 genera and 36 families. The largest families, in order of size, are Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Brassicaceae, Rosaceae, and Scrophulariaceae.
41711750|Data on reproduction by the lizards Uta stansburiana, Crotaphytus collaris, and Cnemidophorus tigris are presented from a community where they are sympatric in west-central Utah. Data are compared to a previous study of these species at the same site and to data from other sites in the United States.
41712845|Mycorrhizal fungi are thought to benefit associated plant species via enhanced nutrient uptake and/or improved water relations. However, detailed descriptions of the components of mycorrhizal colonization and mycorrhizal hyphal growth are not available for Artemisia tridentata. This species occupies sites characterized by relatively low levels of both soil nutrients and moisture. We studied patterns of vesicular, arbuscular, and hyphal mycorrhizal colonization, mycorrhizal hyphal lengths, and soil moisture associated with two subspecies of A. tridentata over a 2-year period. A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana (ATV) is generally associated with more mesic and slightly higher elevation sites compared to A. tridentata ssp. tridentata (ATT). Nearly twice as much precipitation was received the first year compared to the second. In general, there were higher levels of colonization and hyphal lengths associated with ATV than with ATT. The ATV site received slightly more precipitation and was lower in available nutrients than the ATT site. Hyphal lengths and arbuscular colonization appeared more responsive to precipitation than were either vesicular or hyphal colonization. Hyphal colonization did not necessarily follow the same temporal pattern as hyphal lengths. Thus, mycorrhizal activity was greater for the subspecies that received slightly more precipitation and occupied a site lower in available nutrients. Arbuscular colonization and hyphal lengths appeared to be most closely associated with soil moisture and thus plant activity.
41712483|An annotated list of aquatic insects from the high carbonate system of Montezuma Well, Arizona, USA, is presented for collections taken during 1976-1986. Fifty-seven taxa in 16 families are reported, including new distribution records for Arizona (Anacaena signaticollis, Laccobius ellipticus, and Crenitulus sp. [nr. debilis]) and the USA (Enochrus sharpi). Larval stages for Trichoptera, Lepidoptera, Megaloptera, Neuroptera, Chironomidae, and Anisoptera were absent even though the habitat lacks fish, and water temperature, dissolved oxygen, available food, and substrata appear adequate in Montezuma Well. The potential importance of alkalinity in restricting these insect groups is discussed.
41711676|Deer mice (Peromyscus manicuhtus) were captured along an altitudinal gradient that extended from 5,000 feet (1524 m) up to 11,000 feet (3353 m) in central Colorado during August and early September, 1976. Starch gel electrophoresis of deer mouse hemoglobin followed no clear trend that would indicate that slight biochemical differences in the molecule help facilitate adaptation to the decreased pO that exists at that altitude.
41711418|Wood, leaf, and floral anatomy of Vanclevea stylosa is compared with that of several possibly related species in the genera Acamptopappus, East-woodia, Grindelia, Haplopappus, and Petradoria. Although V. stylosa was originally described as a Grindelia, it is clearly distinct from that genus. Of the taxa studied, it is most closely allied to Haplopappus salincinus and H. scopulorum. The taxonomy, morphology, and distribution of the monotypic Vanclevea are detailed, and known exsiccatae are listed.
41712819|Colonization of macroinvertebrates was assessed in a stream impacted by inputs of fine sediments. Colonization was examined at the stream surface and within the hyporheos with Whitlock-Vibert (W-V) boxes. Hyporheic areas accumulated much greater amounts of all size categories of sediment. No significant difference was observed in the amounts of organic matter accumulated at either depth. Only 150-m sediment had significant effects on macroinvertebrate total numbers and number of taxa. Total numbers of invertebrates at 30 cm were only 20% of those at the surface. Canonical Correspondence Analysis indicated that the strongest influence on macroinvertebrates colonizing W-V boxes at the surface was stream size and secondarily fine sediments. Within the hyporheos, abundance of fine sediment was the dominant influence on macroinvertebrate assemblages. Impacts of sedimentation on hyporheic environments can have significant and persistent impacts on streams.
41712880|Douglas-fir tussock moth (Orgyia pseudotsugata McDunnough) defoliation was detected by aerial survey on three areas of the Wasatch-Cache National Forest in 1990 and 1991. These are the first documented tussock moth outbreaks in Utah. Ground surveys revealed that subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa [Hook.] Nutt.) was heavily defoliated during the outbreak. Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco), though a minor component in the affected areas, had noticeably less defoliation and mortality. Adjacent stands of Douglas-fir had little or no visible tussock moth activity. Defoliation on subalpine fir was typically found evenly distributed throughout the crown rather than concentrated at the top. Ninety-four percent of subalpine fir with defoliation ratings of 90% or more were killed. Top-kill occurred on nearly one-half of subalpine firs defoliated 2589%. Heavily defoliated trees tended to occur in pockets bounded by areas of light defoliation. After three consecutive years of defoliation, tussock moth populations collapsed. No life stages were detected in 1993 from visual inspections of foliage or in pheromone traps.
41713002|During winter 1993, Arizona experienced regional river flooding. Floodwaters at the Hassayampa River eroded floodplains and created a 50-m-wide scour zone available for colonization by pioneer plant species. The slow rate and long duration of the floodwater recession allowed establishment of spring-germinating native trees (mainly Fremont cottonwood [Populus fremontii] and Goodding willow [Salix gooddingii] as well as summer-germinating species including the introduced salt cedar (Tamarix chinensis and related species). Goodding willow and Fremont cottonwood seedlings showed zonation in the floodplain, while salt cedar was equally abundant in zones with saturated and dry surface soils. Floodplain elevation (and soil moisture) influenced shoot growth rate to different degrees among the 3 species. For example, Goodding willow seedlings were significantly taller in areas with saturated soils than dry surface soils; Fremont cottonwoods were taller in the dry surface soil areas; and salt cedar were equally short in both soil moisture zones. Other factors that differentially influenced abundance or growth rates included competition with herbaceous species (Melilotus spp., an introduced plant, locally preempted salt cedar establishment) and herbivory (selective browsing by livestock at 1 river site reduced the natural height advantage of the native tree species). I draw on the results of this descriptive field study to suggest ways in which stream flows and floodplain land use can be managed to restore ecological conditions that favor native tree species over the introduced and widespread salt cedar.
41711597|The new choristid demosponge, Loganiella johnsoni, is described from the upper part of the Lower Ordovician Garden City Formation of southeastern Idaho. The new sponge is a relatively thin walled, low, subcylindrical form. The skeletal net is composed of tracts of curved rodlike spicules, but details have been lost on all specimens because of extensive silicification. Impressions, however, suggest a close relationship to the choristid Dystactospongia Miller, 1889.
41711818|During a two-year period (1976-1977), 180 Sacramento perch (Archoplites interruptus) were sampled from Pyramid Lake, Nevada, on a monthly basis using several capture methods in all lake areas. Age and growth determinations of these fish were inconsistent with previous research on this species. Sacramento perch are entirely carnivorous, adults feeding primarily on tui chub (Gila bicolor). Fish accounted for 6 percent of the diet (by volume) of Sacramento perch less than 300 mm fork length, and 98 percent for those exceeding 300 mm. Amphipods, Odonata, and Chironomidae composed 6.3, 5.7, and 1.8 percent, respectively, of the stomach contents by volume for all sizes combined. Females spawned from June to August when water temperatures approached 20 C, and their gonad weight was about 6 percent of the total body weight. A sample of 20 female perch had a mean fecundity of 84,203 eggs. The mean diameter of mature eggs was 0.88 mm. Sacramento perch almost exclusively inhabit the littoral zone of Pyramid Lake. Activity, as indicated by net catches, was greatest during the warm months of May to October. Monthly catches were significantly correlated with temperature (r = 0.577, P< 0.01). No short-term changes in population abundances were observed during 1976-1977.
41711651|The woundfin is a small, streamlined, omnivorous cyprinid that is now limited to the Virgin River basin where it was collected in the mainstream and one tributary during the present study. The woundfin occurred most frequently in runs and over sand substrates and less frequently in riffles and over rock substrates. It was common over at least half of its original range within the Virgin River. It was uncommon in the lower mainstream due to habitat alterations and, presumably, predation by and competition with exotic species.
41712406|Succession, nutrient cycling, production, and competition studies in plant communities require estimation of plant biomass. This is often accomplished by relating weight to easily measured plant dimensions via allometric equations. Dimensions of basal area and crown volume were used to predict phytomass of singleleaf pinyon (Finns monophylla Torr. & Frem.). Two regression methods for fitting the allometric equation to data for phytomass prediction were tested. These methods were the more commonly used logarithmic transformation of both data variables followed by linear regression analysis and an iterative nonlinear analysis without data transformation. The first was consistently less effective for predicting both individual tree and total plot phytomass for pinyon. Basal area was a better predictor of phytomass on a site than was crown volume. Prediction equations were highly site specific. Age of the trees in the stand used to derive the equations significantly affected the phytomass estimates. Other site and stand factors also appear to affect the phytomass-allometric parameter relationship.
41711443|Within the state of Utah are seven species of Geranium, two of which are annual. The nature of the caudex and the growth habit have been used to separate the perennial species. These characters are inadequate for separating the species. Better morphological characters, keys, and descriptions are presented.
41711541|Fleas obtained from deer mice and each of three sympatric rodents collected at the same times and places are quantified. When deer mice and canyon mice were caught together, 18.9 percent of the infested deer mice had canyon mouse fleas while 20.8 percent of infested canyon mice carried deer mouse fleas; long-tailed vole fleas were collected from only 3.9 percent of the deer mice but 67 percent of the voles associated with deer mice had fleas normally found on the latter; reciprocity was lowest between deer mice and des ert wood rats, with three wood rat fleas found among 155 fleas collected from 33 deer mice, and 12 deer mouse fleas among 403 fleas found on 52 wood rats. Rodent nesting habits, particularly the willingness of deer mice to den in a wide variety of situations, is thought responsible for many stray associations. The long-term evolutionary effect of flea dependency on wood rat denning habits is briefly discussed.
41712445|This study was designed to characterize arboreal arthropod community structure in an early successional coniferous ecosystem. We sampled six-year-old snowbrush (Ceanothus velutinus Dougl. ex Hook) and Douglasfir (Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco) at the H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest in western Oregon during 1982. The arthropod fauna was dominated in terms of densities by psyllids and aphids on snowbrush and by adelgids and cecidomyiids on Douglas-fir. Significant associations among taxa, e.g., positive correlation between aphids and ants, indicated trophic interactions or similar responses to host conditions. Significant seasonality was observed for individual taxa and for the community, reflecting the integration of individual life-history patterns. Significant spatial pattern (patchiness) in the arthropod community may reflect the influence of faunas on individual plants within neighborhoods and/or the influence of ant foraging patterns.
41712942|We conducted a survey of Utah alfalfa (Medicago sativa) growers in 1993 to identify wildlife damage problems to hay crops. Such surveys can provide wildlife managers with important insights regarding landowners' wildlife damage management concerns and needs. Pocket gophers (Thomomys spp.) and mule deer (Odecoileus hemionus) were perceived by growers as causing the most damage. Respondents reported a total annual loss of $350,000 or $24.79/ha (2.8% of the total crop value) because of wildlife damage in alfalfa crops. Decreased hay quantity was the most frequently cited problem caused by wildlife. Compensation and incentive programs were preferred over assistance and information programs for managing wildlife damage in alfalfa crops.
41716179|Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii Nutt.) is increasingly recognized as a valuable fuelwood throughout Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah. Knowledge of the distribution of nutrients among biotic and abiotic components is an important step in developing prescriptions for managing these stands for sustainable productivity. Eight Q. gambelii stands were sampled for concentrations (%) and accumulations (kg ha) of total nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), sulfur (S), calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), and sodium (Na) among aboveground and belowground biomass components and the upper 30 cm of soil. Highest concentrations of N, P, and S occurred in oak leaves, understory leaves, and the forest floor layer. Generally, highest concentrations of Ca, Mg, K, and Na occurred in the soil. The greatest proportion of the total capital of individual nutrients was contained in the soil (82%-99%). Aboveground components of live biomass, standing and down-dead, and forest floor contained 10%, 14%, and 8%, respectively, of total capitals of N, P, and S. The forest floor had the largest accumulation (63%) of total nutrients (N, P, S, Ca, Mg, K, and Na) of live and dead aboveground components. Nutrient accumulation in live biomass was heavily weighted to the belowground component. The dense system of roots, rhizomes, and lignotubers comprising 56% of total biomass contained 62% of the total accumulation of nutrients in live biomass. Low levels of total P in the soil and accumulation of 14% of the ecosystem total of P in aboveground biomass components suggest the need for a better understanding of the role of P in productivity of these stands in development of prescriptions for management of residues after harvest.
41713131|Eleven campgrounds in Yellowstone National Park were studied to determine the geography of 10 specific exotic plant species adjacent to campgrounds. Exotics were found in only 6 campgrounds. Six species were found at Mammoth campground, a low-elevation, dry site with year-round use. Only 2 species were found in the other 5 campgrounds. Exotics decreased with distance from Mammoth campground out to 6 m and then increased, suggesting a spread in their distribution. Significant associations were found between exotic presence and both open and closed canopies and low levels of disturbance. Generally, exotics decreased with an increase in cover of other vegetation forms. Five species were found most frequently in big sagebrush habitat types.
41712892|The effects of elk (Cervus elaphus), pronghorn (Antilocapra amercana), and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) browsing on shrubs in big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) communities were monitored over a 31-year period in Yellowstone National Park. Ungulates were restricting Wyoming big sagebrush (spp. wyomingensis) heights, size, and recruitment on the lower-elevation stratum only, while no such suppression was observed on the high-elevation stratum. Parallel increases in mountain big sagebrush (spp. vaseyana) densities and cover occurred over the study period on both browsed and unbrowsed sites at the higher-elevation stratum, although big sagebrush, green rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus), and horsebrush (Tetradymia canescens) were slightly taller and crown sizes were slightly larger on unbrowsed than browsed sites. Wyoming big sagebrush utilization (percent leader use) was eight times higher ($\bar x = 87 \pm 7.2\% $) by pronghorns, mule deer, and elk) on the low-elevation winter range stratum (the Boundary Line Area [BLA] portion ofthe winter range), while mostly mountain big sagebrush with leader use averaged only 11  4.1% (nearly all by elk) on the high-elevation range stratum. In addition, annual aboveground biomass production of big sagebrush did not differ between browsed and unbrowsed study sites on the high-elevation stratum ofthe winter range. Population turnover was higher on browsed big sagebrush at the high-elevation plots; seedling germination and survival rates were higher on browsed plots versus unbrowsed plots. No difference was observed in percent dieback of big sagebrush adult plants between browsed and unbrowsed plots at the higher stratum. Browsing did not influence the number of leaves or seedstalks per plant (P > 05), but leaves averaged 45% longer and seedstalks 42% longer on browsed big sagebrush. Ungulate browsing, however, apparently suppressed production, germination, and survival of Wyoming big sagebrush on the low-elevation stratum. Numbers of Wyoming big sagebrush declined 43% and cover declined 29%, 1957-1990, on browsed sites on the BLA. Annual biomass production on browsed sites at the low-elevation stratum was only 6-35% that of unbrowsed sites, and big sagebrush recruitment was less on browsed sites. Percent leader use of big sagebrush did not differ between the period of ungulate reductions, 1962-1969, and the 1980s on the lower stratum ($\bar x = 87\% $ leader use), but utilization was less on higher portions of the winter range during the period of elk reductions ($\bar x = 2\% $) than during the 1980s following cessation of elk controls ($\bar x = 11\% $).
41712583|Response of five perennial bunchgrasses following clipping and burning was evaluated in eastern Oregon. Burned plants were compared with clipped plants on several dates from spring to fall with respect to mortality and change in basal area. Basal area was generally reduced for one year but did not change the second year after defoliation. Treatments rarely affected yield. Burning in May was most detrimental, reducing basal area of all species. Fall clipping was least harmful, producing little or no change in basal area. Plant mortality was significant only for burned Thurber needlegrass (Stipa thurberiana).
41712910|Seventy-four species of montane breeding birds were evaluated for their vulnerability to extirpation in the Great Basin. Although none of these species are endemic to the Great Basin, the montane island system results in a unique pattern of species associations. Loss of species from these montane communities could be indicative of regionwide habitat degradation. I ranked susceptibility to extirpation based on seven biological variables: geographic range, population size, reproductive potential, susceptibility to cowbird parasitism, migratory status, and diet specialization. Each variable was weighted equally in its contribution to vulnerability, and scores were the sum of trait scores for each species. Different suites of life-history traits led to similar vulnerabilities. The following 10 montane bird species were categorized as most vulnerable to extirpation from the Great Basin, listed as most to least vulnerable: Olive-sided Flycatcher (Contopus borealis), Painted Redstart (Myioborus pictus), Hammond's Flycatcher (Empidonax hammondii), Veery (Catharus fuscescens), Whip-poor-will (Caprimulgus vociferus), Lincoln's Sparrow (Melospiza lincolnii), Blackbacked Woodpecker (Picoides arcticus), Three-toed Woodpecker (P. lridactylus), Himalayan Snowcock (Tetraogallus himalayensis), and Nashville Warbler (Vermivora ruficapilla). Species of similar vulnerability scores often were dissimilar in threats related to their vulnerability. No taxonomic patterns in vulnerability were found. This type of analysis should be used proactively to identify vulnerable species or populations and to set priorities for research and management.
41712658|Listed are 96 species of Scolytidae (Coleoptera) from Montana. Eighteen species reported from Montana for the first time are: Scierus pubescens Swaine, Hylastinus obscurus (Marsham), Hylesinus aculeatus Say, Hylesinus californiens (Swaine), Hylesinus criddlei (Swaine), Pseudohylesinus granulatus (LeConte), Dendroctonus punctatus LeConte, Phloeosinus hoferi Blackman, Phloeosinus pint Swaine, Carphoborus pinicolens Wood, Scolytus subscaber LeConte, Ips grandicollis (Eichhoff), Trypodendron betulae Swaine, Trypodendron retusum (LeConte), Trypophloeus populi Hopkins, Procryphalus mucronatus (LeConte), Pityophthorus alpinensis G. Hopping, and Gnathotrichus denticulatus Blackman.
41712427|Dentostomella translucida Schulz & Krepkorgorskaja (1932) was found in the small intestine of the Mongolian gerbil, Meriones unguiculatus Milne-Edwards, housed at the small animal center at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. Pertinent taxonomical characteristics were studied to differentiate D. translucida from D. kuntzi (Myers 1961) D. grundmanni (Chitwood 1963), D. legerae (Quentin 1975), and D. karachiensis (Bilqees 1978). Dentostomella translucida is distinguished by a large, evenly proportioned body, the presence of five unequal teeth per esophageal sector, and a spicule tip bifid in ventral view in males. This project included the analysis of the structure and histochemistry of the adult nematode cuticle layers and egg-shell layers through the use of light and electron microscopy. Embryonation of D. translcida eggs was attempted to recover various larval stages. Additional information on D. translcida includes the presence of six cuticle layers, one exogenous with three endogenous egg-shell layers, and an egg operculum similar to that of D. kuntzi.
41711610|Utah Lake is a shallow eutrophic lake in central Utah. It is characterized by high nutrient and silt loads and by large algal blooms in late summer and early fall. Phytoplankton samples and environmental data were taken from June through August 1974. Phytoplankton species were identified and then quantified in a Palmer counting cell. Environmental continuum theory was employed to describe algal succession, and regression analysis was used to discover interactions between algal communities and the environment. Phytoplankton communities in June were characterized by high species diversity. As the lake environment became stressed in late summer due to higher turbidity, nutrient levels, pH, and available inorganic carbon species diversity decreased. By August, the phytoplankton flora was composed essentially of only two species, Ceratium hirundinella and Aphanizomenon flos-aquae.
41712262|The relative abundance, habitat use, and seasonal occurrence are reported for the 6 fish, 1 amphibian, 9 reptile, 164 bird, and 39 mammal species recorded on the Idaho National Environmental Research Park in southeastern Idaho.
41712553|Fungal spores from the same taxa of fungi that occur in the Pacific Northwest are reported from digestive tracts of 31 rodents of 5 genera from the Nothofagus forest of southern Argentina. Mycophagy (fungal feeding) by forest rodents has been well documented in North America (Fogel and Trappe 1978, Maser et al. 1978, Mclntire 1984, and others), Europe (Blaschke and Bumler 1986, Durrieu et al. 1984), and Australia (Malajczuk et al. 1987). The purpose of this note is to report fungi consumed by rodents of the Argentine Andinian Patagonic forest (see Dimitri 1972, McQueen 1977, and Ward 1965 for a discussion of this forest), where mycorrhizal fungi may be an important part of the forest-rodent ecology (Cabrera and Yepes 1960, Pearson 1983, 1948, Pearson and Pearson 1982).
41712028|Described as a new variety is Opuntia basilaris Engelm. & Bigel. var. heilii Welsh & Neese.
41712639|Several habitat evaluation procedures have been developed for bighorn sheep. However, none of these procedures specifically addresses the Rocky Mountain subspecies nor analyzes both the quantity and quality of potential bighorn habitat with regard to minimum viable population (MVP) criteria. This bighorn habitat evaluation procedure combines (1) a quantitative assessment of bighorn range to determine if there are adequate quantities of resources to support an MVP of bighorn sheep, and (2) a qualitative assessment of a range to predict the probable density of bighorns the range can support. Extensive literature review, intensive bighorn research, and a modeling tool, pattern recognition (PATREC), facilitate critical analysis of proposed bighorn reintroduction sites. The resultant stepwise approach to bighorn habitat evaluation enhances the ability of wildlife biologists to make timely and accurate bighorn habitat assessments.
41712455|The only San Jose scale parasite found at two sites in northern Utah was a uniparental form of Aphytis vandenboschi DeBach & Rosen. Parasites overwintered as pupae and were attracted to San Jose scale pheromone traps. Mature female scales were most heavily parasitized, although some prepupal males and instar II female scales were attacked. Only partial development occurred between 11.7 and 18.3 C, and fecundity was reduced between 28 and 31C. Based on 11.7 C, 460 degree days were required in the field and 410 degree days at 26 C in the laboratory per generation. By the end of the season during 1981 at Brigham City, 30.9% of the adult scales on twigs and 79.2% on leaves were parasitized. During 1982, parasitism was 21.1% on twigs and 70.9% on leaves. A mite, Pyemotes herfsi (Oudemans), was a major predator of Aphytis in both laboratory cultures and field populations.
41712044|Two series of experiments were completed to determine (a) toxicity of waste water from power plants on warm water fish and (b) multiple use of waste heat and water for aquatic animal and plant production. All three types of waste water from a typical coal-fired power plant are acceptable for growing catfish and tilapia following aeration. This growth was compared with fish raised in spring water. Closed, recirculating polyculture systems using evaporation pond water operated efficiently for plant (duckweed) and animal (fish and freshwater prawns) production. Duckweed is an excellent supplement for fish feed. Tilapia and freshwater prawns grew rapidly in the tanks containing duckweed only.
41712147|The algal flora of selected soils in the Uintah Basin, Uintah County, Utah, was studied. A total of 45 species was identified from the top soils of three different vascular plant habitats. The soil algal flora was dominated in biomass by filamentous Cyanophyta, including Microcoleus vaginatus, Phormidium minnesotense, and three species of Nostoc. These algae formed the algal matrix of the soil within which other Cyanophyta as well as Chlorophyta, Bacillariophyta, and Euglenophyta occurred.
41711700|Artemisia carruthii and A. frigida of the subgenus Artemisia and A. filifolia and A. spinescens of the subgenus Dracunculus all have chromosome numbers based on x = 9. Diploid (2n = 18) karyotypes of each species are composed of large, medium, and small chromosomes that are mainly metacentric and submetacentric. The individual karyotypes are similar but distinctive. Artemisia filifolia's karyotype and chemistry is quite similar to that of Section Tridentatae, but A. filifolia has significant morphological differences with respect to the Tridentatae. Artemisia spinescens includes a tetraploid (2n = 36) population as well as diploid populations. Karyotypic analysis of a tetraploid A. spinescens suggests that it is an autotetraploid, thus carrying out a common theme in Artemisia (autopolyploidy).
41711548|Research on the nesting of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus auritus) was undertaken to determine the breeding biology of the bird on Utah Lake, Utah County, and the possible effects that diking Provo Bay would have on the cormorants breeding there. In 1973, two colonies in Provo Bay were visited weekly to determine laying dates, incubation period, clutch size, and hatching dates. Another colony, located on the dike of the Geneva Steel Works Reservoir near Orem, was visited daily during the spring and summer of 1973. At this colony egg-laying occurred from 13 April to 17 May. The average clutch size was 3.8, and the egg length and width averaged 60.50 mm  39.05 mm. The average period of incubation was 28 days, and 29.5 percent of the eggs hatched, beginning on 20 May and ending on 9 June. The young weighed an average of 36 gm at hatching with a beak length of 17 mm and tarsometatarsal length of 11 mm. These measurements increased to 1543 gm, 73 mm, and 58 mm, respectively, in 23 days. The cormorant population on Utah Lake may be severely reduced by the proposed diking of Provo, Bay.
41712176|A diverse late Jurassic dinosaur fauna, discovered in western Colorado in 1963, contains many undescribed taxa that may represent evolutionary trends at the generic level not previously reported from the Morrison Formation. A preliminary faunal list is given. Bones of the largest known dinosaur, Ultrasaurus, are present as are a variety of small animals, including Pterosaurs, in which one sacrum displays avianlike fused sacral neural spines. A new family, the Torvosauridae, erected, based on the genus Torvosaurus that is redescribed.
41711579|Spring waterfowl migrations at Ouray National Wildlife Refuge and Pelican Lake, Uintah County, Utah, were monitored during 1975 and 1976. Peak numbers occurred during the first week in April 1975 when 11,440 birds were counted. In 1976 the highest count, 9,650 birds, was made on 15 March. Most numerous early-season migrants were Mallards and Pintails. Important midseason migrants included Blue-winged and Cinnamon Teal, Canvasbacks, and Redheads. Late season migrants were Gadwall and Ruddy Ducks. Surveys conducted only at Ouray Refuge or at Pelican Lake would not adequately have reflected species composition of spring migration. Results point up the advisability of sampling large open water areas to obtain a representative view of waterfowl species composition in a given area during spring migration.
41711370|Silicified, upright axes of Palmoxylon are abundant in the Green River Formation in Eden Valley, Wyoming. Three new species of Palmoxylon, as well as the previously described Palmoxylon macginitiei Tidwell et al., were collected. These new species are P. edenense, P. contortum, and P. colei. They are compared to P. macginitiei and other anatomically similar Palmoxylon species. Palmoxylon edenense appears to be the most abundant species at this locality.
41712072|This paper describes features of the breeding bird population of a Great Basin ancient bristlecone pine stand on Wheeler Peak in White Pine County, east central Nevada. The bird population was determined by spot-mapping methods on a 20-ha plot during June and July 1981. The density of breeding birds was 82 pairs per 40 ha. Fourteen species were territorial. The most abundant species were the Dark-eyed Junco, Mountain Chickadee, Mountain Bluebird, and Townsend's Solitaire. Other common breeding species included the Cassin's Finch, Yellow-rumped Warbler, Pine Siskin, and Dusky Flycatcher. There were 410 individual breeding birds per km. When expressed as standing crop biomass, the Townsend's Solitaire was the predominant species, followed by the Dark-eyed Junco, American Robin, Mountain Bluebird, and Northern Flicker. Total standing crop biomass was 95 g/ha. None of the breeding birds were restricted to the bristlecone pine stand. The structure of the breeding bird community in the bristlecone pine forest compared best to those of the Rocky Mountain and Northern Boreal forest regions.
41711534|New synonymies and new combinations affecting North American Pityophthorus are proposed as follows: carinifrons Blandford, incompositus Blandford, and incommodus Blandford are removed from Pityophthorus and placed in Araptus; P. boycei Swaine (= Myeloborus catulus Blackman and M. iniquus Blackman); P. lautus Eichhoff= P. rhois Swaine and P. natalis Blackman); P. californicus new name for P. deleoni (Bright) not Blackman. New species are: P. abstrusus (Mexico), anthracinus (Mexico), arcanus (Arizona), brevicomatus (Mexico), dispar (Mexico), elimatus (Mexico), furnissi (Mexico), germanus (Mexico), ineditus (Mexico), litos (Mexico), megas (Mexico), minus (Arizona), occlusus (Honduras, Mexico), recans (British Columbia), siouxensis (South Dakota), speculum (Mexico), subimpressus (Mexico), thatcheri (California), thomasi (Mexico), and zonalis (Arizona). A neotype for P. lautus Eichhoff is selected.
41712106|Diel activity and association patterns of white bass (Morone chrysops) and carp (Cyprinus carpio) in Utah Lake, Utah, were studied over four 24-hr periods during August 1980. Fish were concurrently sampled from two adjacent littoral habitats. Significant differences existed in diel activity patterns in two of three size classes of white bass and in diel association patterns of white bass and carp between the two habitat areas. Differences in habitat structure, and in biological activity between the habitat types, are implicated as the primary determinants of overall diel activity of fish in these littoral areas.
41712956|New species descriptions of Negastrius rupicola from California, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia; N. stihicki from California, Montana, and British Columbia; N. solox from Arizona and New Mexico; and N. atrosus from Ontario and Quebec are given. Negastrius colon is returned to species status, and a neotype is designated for N. choris. Fleutiauxellus extricatus is a new combination. A key is provided to Nearctic species of Negastrius.
41711664|Sixty-eight species of beetles of 14 families were collected in pit traps in 12 major vegetative communities during environmental monitoring studies in the summers of 1971 to 1973 in southern Utah and northern Arizona. Seasonal and plant community differences and correlations in population and composition were noted for the 16 sites studied. Highest populations and the most species were found in a grass community, but occurred in different months in each of the three years. Lowest populations were found in a Coleogyne community, and fewest species in an Artemisia-grass community.
41712285|The Colorado squawfish, a large predaceous cyprinid, is a generalist species adapted to the large seasonal water fluctuations, low food base, and changing riverine subsystems of the Colorado River. Extant at least as early as the Miocene epoch, Ptychocheilus has survived by incorporating life strategies to deal with changing climates varying from arid to pluvial. Migration and long-term movement patterns appear to have evolved as tactics to perpetuate a grand reproductive strategy for exploiting the changing habitats and general environmental conditions of the late Cenozoic era. Accordingly, high mobility of a large fish would aid in selection of optimum spawning, nursery, and adult habitats in the dynamic lacustrine/riverine system that existed at that time. A spatial separation of life stages thus produced would aid in the reduction of intraspecific competition. Large size, long life, and late spawning of Ptychocheilus indicate that mortality of young must be disproportionately high compared to that of the adult form. Growth to a large size should reduce predation by other fishes and, once attained, would facilitate long distance movement for reproduction, feeding, and other purposes. Such a strategy, formerly highly adaptive, may now be implicated in the decline of this species in controlled riverine systems.
41711694|Climates of fescue grasslands were described by summarizing USDC Weather Bureau records of representative sites. Mean temperatures of the warmest month declined from 18 to 14 C, average annual precipitation increased from 40-50 to 170 cm, and the number of arid months in an arbitrarily defined dry year declined from 3 to 1-2 as one moves from Festuca arizonica (14 stations) to F. scabrella (15) to F idahoensis (17) to F. thurberi (6) to F. viridula (9). Climates of the grasslands are sufficiently like those of the Pseudotsuga menziesii and Abies lasiocarpa zones of the northern Rocky Mountains to make one ask what factorswind, snow duration, soil characteristics, or fireallow the fescue grasslands to persist in a conifer climatic zone.
41712124|A revision of the Saxifragaceae is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 41 taxa in 12 genera. Keys to genera and species are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and comments. Lithophragma glabra Nutt. in T. & G. var. ramulosa (Suksd.) Goodrich is the only new combination proposed. No new taxa are proposed.
41712459|Vegetation characteristics of 15 sagebrush community types identified on the Humboldt National Forest, northeastern Nevada, are described. A total of 218 plant species were found over the 372 relatively undisturbed rangeland communities sampled. The dominant plant families encountered were the Asteraceae (45 taxa), Poaceae (32 taxa), Scrophulariaceae (14 taxa), and the Fabaceae (12 taxa). Average annual dry weight production of the community types ranged from about 400 kg/ha/yr on types with Artemisia nova as the dominant sagebrush species to 1,200 kg/ha/yr on some A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana community types. A general increase in species richness and vegetation plus litter ground cover was observed within community types as the dominant sagebrush species changed from A. nova to A. arbuscula, to A. longiloba to A. tridentata spp. tridentata to A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana. Major differences in plant species production and constancy exist between the sagebrush community types studied.
41712133|The first published observations on the nesting and predatory behavior of Tachysphex antennatus Fox, T. occidentalis Pulawski, T. williamsi Bohart, T. yolo Pulawski, T. alpestris Rohwer, T. chrconis Viereck, tarsatus (Say), T. apicalis fusus Fox, T. similis Rohwer, T. ashmeadii Fox, and T. mundus exsectus Fox.
41712022|The following new synonymy in Scolytidae is proposed. Acorthylus Brthes (= Phacrylus Schedl), Amasa Lea (= Anaxyleborus Wood), Cryptocurus Schedl (= Hyloperus Browne), Hylesinopsis Eggers (= Trypographus Schedl, Chihdendron Schedl), Hypothenemus Westwood (= Stylotentus Schedl), Metahylesinus Eggers (= Glochicopterus Schedl), Phloeotribus Latreille (= Neophloeotribus Eggers), Pityophthorus Eichhoff (= Hypopityopthorus Bright), Scolytoplatypus Schaufuss (= Spongocerus Blandford, Taeniocerus Blandford, Strophionocerus Sampson), Scolytus Geoffroy (= Confusoscolytus Tsai & Hwang), Styracoptinus Wood (= Afrotrypetus Bright), Sueus Murayama (= Neohyorrhynchus Schedl), Taphrorychus Eichhoff (= Pseudopoecilips Murayama), Webbia Hopkins (= Pseudowebbia Browne), Webbia dipterocarpi Hopkins (= Webbia 18-spinatus Sampson), Xyleborus Eichhoff (= Anaeretus Dugs). A neotype is designated for Anaeretus guanaguatensis Dugs; this name becomes a junior synonym of Xyleborus volvulus (Fabricius). Species new to science are named from Mexico as follows: Cactopinus atkinsoni, burjosi, granulatus, setosus, Carphobius pilifer, Chaetophloeus confinis, Chramesus exilis, exul, securus, tibialis, Cnemonyx equihuai, evidens, Cnesinus cornutus, nebuhsus, parvicornis, Dendrosinus mexicanus, Liparthrum mexicanum, pruni, Phloeotribus geminus, Pycnarthrum amersum, Scolytodes plumericolens, retifer.
41713035|The current status of Mertensia oblongifolia (Nutt.) G. Don and its allied taxa is surveyed. On the bases of continuously coherent morphological characters and/or regionally correlated variations, more than 30 taxa, including species, subspecies, varieties, and 1 forma, previously considered different from M. oblongifolia, are now placed under synonymy of this species. Those taxa currently known as M. fusiformis Greene, M. bakeri Greene, and M. bakeri var. osterhoutii Williams are among the new synonyms. Typification, taxonomy, and morphological problems of M. oblongifolia are discussed.
41711352|Two new varieties described by Durand in 1859 from the Great Salt Lake area of northern Utah are discussed. One, Erysimum asperum var. purshii, is the oldest available name for the western United States variant of the species, while the second name, Acerales decumbens var. erecta, is a synonym of Asclepias asperula. Neither name has been included in botanical reference works nor in monographic studies. One new combination, Erysimum asperum var. amoenum, is proposed for the orange-flowered phase of the species found in southern Colorado and Utah.
41711456|Weight loss was rapid and fluid consumption decreased sharply when Onychomys torridus were exposed to salinities greater than 0.3 Molar. The southern grasshopper mouse is physiologically unspecialized for maintaining water balance in its xeric habitat. The southern grasshopper mouse is capable of weight maintenance on smaller daily water rations than is the northern grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leucogaster) . Differences in the water balance of O. torridus and O. leucogaster may influence their local distributions in areas of sympatry.
41712011|Seven wetland areas in the subalpine and alpine regions of the Uinta Mountains are described. Most areas have a mosaic vegetation structure, comprised of several patches that are usually sharply demarcated from one another. Each patch has a distinct species composition, usually with only one or two species. Water level is associated with some of the vegetation patterns found in these sites. Standing crop varied from 28 to 360 g/m. Sites show considerable variation in standing crop that could not be explained by elevation differences between sites. Sites with water flowing over them have substantially greater standing crops than sites where water stagnates. Seasonal patterns in shoot density and standing crop indicate one late summer peak in standing crop and little recruitment of shoots over the summer. On stagnant sites, the average stem weight shows a strong relationship to stem density. This pattern did not appear to be caused by thinning mortality and did not follow a "3/2 power law" pattern.
41712477|This is a summary monograph of the hanging gardens as they occur in the Colorado River and Virgin River portions of the Colorado Plateau in Utah. Discussed in this paper are the hanging gardens, their geography, geomorphology, aspects of distribution and diversity, and principal vascular and algal plant species. Animal trapping studies and plant productivity aspects are reviewed.
41711786|New names are presented to replace junior homonyms as follows in Platypodidae: Platypus acuticornifer for Platypus acuticornis Schedl, 1975 (nee Schedl, 1973), Platypus tuberculifer for Platypus bituberculatus Schedl, 1975 (nec Nunberg, 1967), Platypus obliquus for Platypus obliquesectus Schedl, 1975 (nec Schedl, 1973); and in Scolytidae: Amphicranus electus for Amphicranus elegantulus Schedl, 1978 (nec Schedl, 1963), Araptus crassulus for Araptus crassus Wood (nec Schedl, 1966), Corthycyclon tardulus for Corthycyclon tardus Schedl, 1976 (nec Wood, 1974), Corthylus brunnescens for Corthylus brunneus Wood, December 1974 (nec Schedl, November 1974), Monarthrum denticuhtum for Monarthrum (= Pterocyclon) dentatum Eggers, 1941 (nec Eggers, 1935), Monarthrum peruvianum for Monarthrum peruanum Schedl, 1978 (nec Schedl, 1950), Scolytodes eximius for Scolytodes grandis Schedl, 1978 (nec Schedl, 1962), Scolytodes minutus for Scolytodes (= Hexacolus) minutissimus Schedl, 1978 (nec Schedl, 1952). New synonymy is proposed in Platypodidae for Genyocerus albipennis Motschulsky (= Diacavus irregularis Browne). The emendation in Scolytidae of Cnemonyx vismiacolens is presented to correct the lapsis calami Cnemonyx visimiacolens Wood, 1979. The following species of Scolytidae are named as new to science: Chramesus aikinsoni, Liparthrum thevetiae, Microborus mexicanus, Phloeocleptus ardis, Phloeocleptus atkinsoni, Phloecleptus cristatus, Phloeocleptus spicatus, Pseudothysanoes perseae (Mexico), Scolytodes anceps, Scolytodes pusillimus, Scolytodes tardus, Scolytodes vesculus (Colombia), Scolytodes ficicolens, Scolytodes naevius (Venezuela).
41712321|Sympatric populations of Cophosaurus texanus and Callisaurus draconoides were periodically sampled from March 1973 through April 1974 at Burro Creek, Mohave County, Arizona. Callisaurus were also sampled at Rock Valley, Nye County, Nevada. Sex ratios were skewed in favor of males in the adult Cophosaurus but were equal in both adult populations of Callisaurus. Both species became sexually mature as yearlings. Mean clutch sizes were 3.55 (0.83) for Cophosaurus, and 4.25 (1.08) and 5.07 (1.33) for Callisaurus at Burro Creek and Rock Valley respectively. Evidence of multiple clutches was exhibited by both species. Egg weight/body weight ratios for both species and clutch weight/body weight ratios for Cophosaurus were notably smaller than previously reported. At Burro Creek both species were highly insectivorus, with orthopterans comprising the largest food group of each. Niche overlap for food was high at the ordinal level, but at the familial level it is apparent that Callisaurus probably fed in the more xeric areas of the riparian habitat. No differences were found in the temperature responses of these two lizards. However, minor temporal separations substantial spatial partitioning were observed. Callisaurus preferred sandy open areas, while Cophosaurus preferred the presence of some rocks and boulders.
41712705|I examined differences by sex and influences of weather on timing and patterns of migration of Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus h. hemionus) in the eastern Sierra Nevada, California, during 198487. Deer initiated spring migration from the winter range at about the same time in all years and made extensive use of holding areas at intermediate elevations. Radio-telemetered deer showed strong fidelity to summer ranges over as many as four years. Fall weather produced different patterns of fall migration. Storms during October produced a pulsed migration, in which most animals migrated to the winter range during or soon after the storm; in a year without a storm, fall migration was gradual. Despite the influence of storms on the pattern of fall migration, the median date of fall migration by females did not vary over years; however, among males it was later in a year without fall storms.
41712298|The Oreana local fauna (Blancan) occurs in exposures of the Glenns Ferry Formation in Owyhee County, Idaho. Fossil birds present include Phalacrocorax cf. P. idahensis, Pelecanus cf. P. halieus, an indeterminate anatid, an indeterminate falconid, two species of Otus, and a species of Colaptes larger than modern C. auratus that provides the earliest record of a colaptine woodpecker.
41711864|Relationships of temperature and precipitation to the reproductive success of blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were investigated. Maximum and minimum temperatures followed similar patterns during the years 1976-1981 and showed no patterns relative to hatching success. Precipitation data, however, was variable. When significant amounts of precipitation fell during the last three weeks of the hatching period, chick survival and, therefore, recruitment were adversely affected. We suggest that precipitation occurring at the end of the hatch period reduces the September harvest of birds.
41716186|Data collected from alpine lakes in the Uinta Mountains during fishery surveys by the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources indicate alkalinity has decreased in some drainages since the mid 1950s. Implications for continued monitoring, as well as environmental and recreational values, are discussed.
41712227|An insect survey was conducted on the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory during the summers of 1981-1983. This site is on the Snake River Plains in southeastern Idaho. Presented here is an annotated checklist of the Coleptera collected. Successful collecting methods, dates of adult occurrence, and relative abundance are given for each species. Relevant biological information is also presented for some species.
41711599|The relative abundance and habitat affinities of breeding and migratory waterfowl were documented for a 16,556 ha (40,880 acre) area of the Navajo Indian Reservation, San Juan County, New Mexico. The objective of the 1973-1974 study was to obtain baseline data for use as part of an environmental assessment for coal gasification plants and an associated strip mine proposed for an area not previously described in ornithological journals. Roadside breeding-bird surveys resulted in the observation of 26 species of birds, of which the horned lark was most abundant. Additional breeding-bird observations were made during afternoon reconnaissance surveys around stock ponds and arroyos, and by a helicopter survey of cliff-nesting raptors. Nine of 30 raptor nests located were active. Migratory waterfowl surveys were made in September and November at four stock ponds and a marsh on the study area. Peak waterfowl numbers were present in September, when teal and shovelers were the most abundant species. The importance of stock ponds to breeding and migratory birds and the significance of cliffs to nesting raptors were discussed. Details of observations made for five species of birds designated "threatened" or "status undetermined" were presented.
41711671|New synonymy of American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Acacacis, Lea (= Neodiamerus Schedl), Gnatholeptus panamensis Blackman (= Pityophthorus epistomalis Schedl), Gnatholeptus shannoni (Blackman) (= Gnatholeptus mandibularis Blackman, Pityophthorus gentilis Schedl), Gymnochilus reiften Eichhoff (= Problechilus striatus Eggers, Problechilus bicolor Eggers), Hyhstes scabripennis (Zimmermann) (= Hylastes salebrosus Eichhoff), Hylurgopinus opaculus (LeConte) (= Hylastes rufipes Eichhoff), Ips perturbatus (Eichhoff) (= Tomicus interpunctus Eichhoff), Monarthrum dimidiatum (Ferrari) (= Pterocyclon moritzi Eichhoff), Pityophthorus subcribratus Schedl (= Pityophthorus zeteki Blackman), Scolytodes trispinosus Eggers (= Scolytodes ehngatus Schedl), Xyleborus costaricensis Blandford (= Xyleborus nevermanni Schedl), Xyleborus improvidus Schedl (= Xyleborus aclinus Wood), Xyleborus spinuhsus Blandford (= Xyleborus fusciseriatus Eggers, Xyleborus artespinulosus Schedl). The genus Car phodicticus Wood is removed from synonymy with Dendrodicticus Schedl. Scolytodes striatulus, new name, is proposed as a replacement for Hylocurosoma striatum Eggers. Notes on the status of Xyleborus perforans (Walker) are presented. The following species are named as new to science: Cnemonyx furvescens (Colombia), C. squamifer (Guatemala), C. protivorus and C. vismiacolens (Venezuela), Corthylus nanus (Costa Rica), Dendrocranulus auctus, D. limbellus, D. limitaris, D. modus, and D. pinguis (Venezuela), Hylocurus ctoki (Guatemala), and H. fongipennis (Mexico).
41711798|A sagebrush wilt disease is causing severe damage to Forest Service uniform shrub garden plantings in Utah. Plants within most species of the section Tridentatae express disease symptoms and may die within several months. Varying degrees of susceptibility are evident within and between species. Modification of the soil environment through past agricultural use may dispose these wildland shrubs to associated potentially pathogenic fungi.
41712850|To date, 17 species of Laridae have been reported in Wyoming. Six of these species have known breeding populations in the state: the Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis), California Gull (Larus californicus), Herring Gull (Larus argentatus), Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia), Forster's Tern (Sterna forsteri), and Black Tern (Chlidonias niger). Of these species, the California Gull is the most abundant and widespread. In 1984 approximately 7300 nests existed in Wyoming at six breeding locations consisting of 10 different colonies. In contrast, only small breeding populations have been discovered for the remaining five species. The Herring Gull is the most recent addition among Laridae known to nest in Wyoming. Likewise, two Ring-billed Gull colonies were recently found after not having been documented as breeding in the state for over 50 years. Although some nesting colonies are threatened by habitat loss and human disturbance, most seem secure at present. Limited nesting and foraging habitat precludes establishment of large breeding populations of most Laridae in the state.
41713119|The objectives of this study were to (1) examine distribution and habitat use of leatherside chub (Gila copei) in a creek with high densities of predatory brown trout (Salmo trutta), and (2) compare study results with published accounts of leatherside chub habitat use in streams with few or no brown trout. A 14-km section of Diamond Fork Creek, Utah, was point-shocked to determine macrohabitat (main channel and lateral habitat) and microhabitat (current, depth, substrate, and cover) use of leatherside chub. At the macrohabitat level, leatherside chub were most common in lower reaches of Diamond Fork Creek where the channel was braided and lateral habitats (cutoff pools and backwaters) were abundant. Only a single leatherside chub was found in the main channel of Diamond Fork. Investigations in other systems lacking brown trout indicated that leatherside chub occupy main channel habitats. At the microhabitat level, we found significant positive associations between presence of leatherside chub and both habitat depth and silt. In addition, we found a significant negative association between presence of leatherside chub and number of brown trout. Our results suggest predation by brown trout may limit leatherside chub to lateral habitats that could provide refugia against predation. The introduction of brown trout to systems with little lateral habitat could have serious effects on persistence of resident leatherside chub populations.
41712473|Denitrification rates in soils of four subalpine plant communities in the Sierra Nevada were determined by the acetylene blockage method. The study area included riparian, meadow, forest, and barren sites. Data were collected during dawn-to-dusk measurements in April 1987. Soil atmosphere samples were analyzed for NO content using gas chromatography. Generally, temporal variability in denitrification rate within each plant community was insubstantial. Denitrification rate and soil temperature were found to be significantly correlated only in the riparian and barren sites. Of the four communities, the riparian site was found to have the lowest rate of denitrification overall. However, differences among sites in denitrification rate could not be conclusively attributed to variation in soil temperature, moisture, organic matter, total C and N, C:N ratio, NO-N, or pH.
41712599|We evaluated distribution, habitat use, spawning, and species associations of the endangered humpback chub (Gila cypha) in the Yampa and Green rivers, Dinosaur National Monument, from 1986 to 1989. Adult and juvenile humpback chub were captured in high-gradient reaches of Yampa and Whirlpool canyons where they were rare (n = 133, <1% of all fish captured). The fish was primarily captured in eddy habitats in association with 7 native and 12 nonnative fish species. Roundtail chub (G. robusta) were widely distributed in eddies, pools, runs, and riffles. Humpback chub (n = 39) and roundtail chub (n = 242) in reproductive condition were sympatric in eddy habitats during the 5-6-week period following highest spring runoff. River temperatures at this time averaged about 20 C. Nonnative channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) were abundant in eddies yielding humpback and roundtail chubs, suggesting a potential for negative interactions between the native and introduced fishes.
41711773|The new, presumably extinct species, Chrysothamnus pulchelloides, is formally described and illustrated. The plant materials came from Holocene packrat middens. Anatomical and phyletic relationships of the fossil species to extant taxa are discussed.
41716169|Abundance, seasonal use, and species composition of waterfowl and other aquatic birds are described along a 32.8 km stretch of the White River, Uintah County, Utah, at the site of the proposed White River Dam. Fourteen species of waterfowl and eight other species of aquatic birds were recorded. Waterfowl populations along the river were highest in April, but densities were much lower than on lakes and reservoirs at nearby Ouray National Wildlife Refuge.
41713046|We describe the chironomid midge fauna of the Colorado River between Glen Canyon Dam and Lake Mead, Arizona. This depauperate fauna, consisting of 38 species, is dominated by euryecious Nearctic or Holarctic orthocladine taxa. In addition, a small Neotropical faunal component is represented by Polypedilum obelos Sublette & Sasa and Rheotanytarsus hamatus Sublette & Sasa. The following new synonyms are given: Protenthes riparius Malloch 1915 with Tanypus bellus Loew 1866 [= Procladius (Psilotanypus) bellus (Loew)]; Cricotopus olivetus Boesel 1983 with Cricotopus (Cricotopus) annulator (Goetghebuer) 1927; Cricotopus edurus Sublette & Sublette 1971 with Orthodadius infuscatus Malloch 1915 [= Cricotopus (Cricotopus) infuscatus (Malloch)]; Cricotopus subfuscus Sublette & Sublette 1971 with Orthocladius infuscatus Malloch 1915 [= Cricotopus (Cricotopus) infuscatus (Malloch)]. The following new species are described: Cricotopus (Cricotopus) blinni Sublette, Cricotopus (Cricotopus) herrmanni Sublette, Metriocnemus stevensi Sublette, and Cladotanytarsus marki Sublette. We discuss the distribution and ecology of each chironomid species collected in this large, regulated, aridlands river.
41711895|Temporal activity patterns for Dipodomys ordii were generally bimodal during the summer, with the highest peak occurring during early predawn hours when conditions were optimum for water conservation. Removal of dominant members in the population resulted in a substantial shift in the activity pattern to increased activity during the evening hours.
41711476|Analysis of Audubon Society Christmas bird count data and certain environmental variables shows the degree to which the Black-billed Magpie is a bird of cool arid regions in North America. The abundance and distribution of this species appear to be limited by two major climatic barriers: increasing summer temperatures in the Southwest and increasing summer humidity and precipitation on the central plains.
41712228|Previous work suggested that Gambel oak seedlings are rare in the northern parts of its range in Utah where summer rainfall is relatively low but should be abundant in southern parts of the range where summer rainfall is usually high. Gambel oak grades from a relatively minor component of a ponderosa pine/mixed conifer assemblage in the south to a virtually monotypic formation in the north, where it exists as long-lived clones. Quadrat analysis in Arizona and New Mexico, within the oak zone, revealed a seedling density ranging from 120 to 1320 per hectare. We found a significant tendency of seedlings to be located on the NE (cool, shady) side of sheltering objects in the environment. Mature ponderosa pine ranged in density from ca 40 to 500 stems per hectare, whereas mature Gambel oak ranged from ca 10 to 20 genets per hectare with ca 1 to 7 ramets per clone. These results support our previous conclusion that Gambel oak in northern Utah probably became established as a minor component of a mixed pine/oak woodland at a time in mid-Holocene when summer rainfall was much higher than today.
41713057|Along the margins of playas in northwestern Nevada, a salt-tolerant plant community occupies mounds that dot a largely unvegetated landscape. In this environment we studied soil development and plant-soil relationships. The mounds, averaging 0.3 m in height, are occupied by the shrubs Allenrolfea occidentalis (iodine bush), Sarcobatus vermiculatus (black greasewood), and Atriplex lentiformis ssp. torreyi (Torrey saltbush). Distichlis spicata (desert salt grass) is the only herbaceous plant occupying this community. Soil salinity decreases with depth in this environment, and content of aqueous-extractable solutes is significantly influenced by site-specific vegetation. Content of silt, clay, and salt in mound surface horizons suggests a chronosequence of mound formation, with the youngest at the barren playa interface and the oldest at the upland vegetation border. Plant demography and mound soil stratigraphy suggest that a pulse of plant recruitment and mound building occurred during a time of neoglacial cooling. As a substrate for plant recruitment, mounds have a limited lifespan because deposition of eolian-transported salts and geochemical cycling by plants quickly render them too saline for seed germination. The apparent periodicity of mound formation precludes definitive conclusions regarding those mound characteristics favorable for plant recruitment and survivorship.
41711774|Species named as new to science include: Conophthorus michoacanae, C. teocotum, Hylesinus aztecus (Mexico), Phloeocleptus punctatus (Costa Rica), Pseudothysanoes atomus (Venezuela), P. leechi (California), Pityogenes mexicanus, Araptus speciosus, Amphicranus spectus (Mexico), and Xyleborus praestans (Panama). Also reported are the first records of the notorious Xylosandrus compactus (Eichhoff) from South America (Brazil), and the first American records of Xyleborus fornicatus Eichhoff (Panama) and X. validus Eichhoff (New York and Pennsylvania).
41712326|Big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt.) is one of the most successful plants in the Great Basin based on its abundance and wide distribution. The development of dimorphic leaves may be an important mechanism attributing to its adaptive and competitive abilities. Development, persistence, and proportions of ephemeral and perennial leaves on Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. wyomingensis) were studied for two years. The large ephemeral leaves are the first to develop in early spring. As early developing ephemerals mature and stems elongate, new ephemeral and perennial leaves develop in the axes of these large ephemerals. Perennial leaves expanded in the summer of their first growing season, persisting on the shrub until their abscission during summer drought of the second growing season. Plants maintained 33% of their leaf weight through the winters of 1985 and 1986. Active leaf and stem growth occurred at soil water potentials above 0.2 M Pa.
41711441|New synonymy affecting American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Acanthotomicus granulatus (Ferrari), n. comb. (=Mimips uncinatus Wood), Araptus deyrollei (Blandford), new comb. ( =Araptus insinuatus Wood), Cnesinus adustus Schedl (=Cnesinus atrodeclivis Wood), Corthylocurus mexicanus (Schedl), n. comb. (=Corthylus cylindricus Schedl), Corthylus collaris Blandford (=Corthylus splendens Wood), Corthylus comatus Blandford (=Corthylus spendidus Bright), Corthylus uniseptis Schedl (=Corthylus reburrus Bright,) Dendrocranulus carbonarius (Ferrari), n. comb. (=Xylocleptes floridensis Hopkins, Xylocleptes anonae Hopkins), Dendrocranulus maurus (Blandford), n. comb. (=Dendrocranulus huehuetanus Schedl), Dendroctonus valens LeConte (=Dendroctonus rhizophagus Thomas and Bright), Gymnochilus consocius (Blandford), n. comb. (=Problechilus trimaculatus Schedl), Gymnochilus minor (Blandford), n. comb. (=Problechilus varius Schedl), Gymnochilus zonatus Eichhoff (=Problechilus freyi Schedl), Hypothenemus areccae (Hornung) (=Hypothenemus vafer Blandford), Hypothenemus eruditus Westwood (=Cryphalus obscurus Ferrari), Micracis grandis Schedl (=Micracis costaricensis Wood), Micracis swainei Blackman (=Micracis robustus Schedl, Micracis pygmaeus Schedl), Microcorthylus parvulus Ferrari (=Pterocyclon exile Eichhoff), Monarthrum bicolor (Ferrari), n. comb. (=Corthylus signatus Ferrari, Phthorius edentatus Hagedorn), Monarthrum consimile (Blandford), n. comb. (=Pterocyclon pseudosulcatum Schedl), Monarthrum egenum (Blandford), n. comb. (=Brachyspartus bisetosus Schedl), Monarthrum fimbraticorne (Blandford) (=Pterocyclon turbinatum Schedl), Monarthrum gnarum (Schedl), n. comb. (=Amphicranus spinatus Bright), Monarthrum validum (Ferrari), n. comb. (=Amphicranus mexicanus Eggers, Pterocyclon jalapae Schedl), Phloeoborus scaber Erichson (=Phloeoborus opacithorax Schedl), Phloeosinus serratus (Le-Conte) (=Phloeosinus rugosus Swaine), Phloeotribus setulosus Eichhoff (= Phloeotribus rudis Eichhoff, Phloeotribus sodalis Blandford, Phloeotribus bolivianus Eggers), Pycnarthrum reticulatum Schedl (=Pycnarthrum fici Wood), Scolytodes rugicollis (Schedl), n. comb. (=Scolytodes plicatus Wood), Xylosandrus morigerus (Blandford) (=Xyleborus luzonicus Eggers). New names are proposed as follows: Araptus decorulus for Araptus decorus Wood, Cnemonyx nigrellus for Loganius niger Wood, Monarthrum bicoloratum for Monarthrum bicolor Wood. Araptus sobrinus, n. sp. (Mexico), and Dendroctonus vitei, n. sp. (Guatemala), are named as new to science. Dendroctonus mexicanus Hopkins is removed from synonymy.
41712478|Trends in age-specific, eviscerated carcass weights were determined for hunter-harvested yearling and two-year-old buck mule deer. Carcass weights declined over an 11-year period from two areas of similar management, but with independently collected data sets. Carcass weights also declined between the opening and second weekends of the hunt. Management implications are discussed.
41712375|A detailed list of holotypes of Recent mammals housed in the Utah Museum of Natural History is presented.
41712402|The Utah botanical contributions of Charles Christopher Parry are discussed. Especial emphasis is on his trips to Utah in 1874 and 1875. Plants taken during those years, which were subsequently listed as type-specimens, are listed. Insight is gained into this window in Utah botanical history through his letters to Dr. George Engelmann and limited correspondence from Engelmann and Joseph Ellis Johnson.
41711935|The relationship between form and habitat utilization of Echinocereus engelmannii and E. trigbchidiatus was studied in southeastern California. The major difference in form is in the density of stems comprising the canopy. These differences in morphology create differences in the daily heat loads of each species. Echinocereus triglochidiatus, with its stems densely packed and in contact with each other over much of their lengths, continues to gain heat internally as the sun sets due to conductance between the stems. In contrast E. engelmannii, with a more open canopy, begins to lose heat as the sun goes down. As a result, E. triglochidiatus is successful in the juniper-pinyon zone where winter temperatures are cold for long periods and E. engelmannii is more successful in the lower desert regions where very hot, summer temperatures prevail. In the latter case, daytime buildup in heat load is reduced by convective cooling as air moves through the open canopy. Differences in microhabitat utilization occur that provide a second mechanism to reduce daily heat load buildup on hot summer days in the juniper-pinyon zone.
41713115|At Fish Springs National Wildlife Refuge, only 18 to 34 Canada Goose goslings were fledged per year from 1989 to 1993. In addition to the number of breeding pairs, a wide variety of variables can influence goose production, including clutch size, and nest, egg, and fledging success. We examined these variables at Fish Springs in 1996 and 1997 by finding and monitoring nests, and then following broods. We found that despite a limited number of breeding pairs on the refuge, production was further limited by poor ground nest success and low fledging success. Only 51.2% (n = 22) of ground nests produced hatchlings vs. 86.4% (n = 19) of platform nests. Of all eggs that hatched, 36.8% (n = 57) fledged successfully. Predation and human disturbance are discussed as major factors contributing to mortality.
41711626|The paper presents an annotated list of 851 taxa in 358 genera and 80 families. Threatened and endangered plants are enumerated.
41712257|The first non-American representatives of the bark beetle genus Pseudopityophthorus, of the subtribe Corthylina (Corthylini), and of the Ips concinnus species group are named. All are apparently relicts of an early faunal exchange with North America. The new taxa include: Gnatharus, new genus, and its type-species Gnatharus tibetensis, new species (Tibet); Xenophthorus , new subgenus, and its type-species Pseudopityophthorus (Xenophtho rus) peregrinas, new species (Tibet), and Ips orientalis, new species (Tibet, China). The intercontinental exchange of other taxa in Scolytidae are also mentioned.
41712255|Protocedroxylon macgregorii sp. nov., from Jurassic strata of British Columbia, Canada, is the first reported occurrence of this genus in North America. Protocedroxylon macgregorii combines the tracheal pitting of the araucarians with the crossfield pitting of modern genera of the Abietineae. This species is similar to the type species Protocedroxylon araucarioides. They differ in that P. araucarioides has tangential pitting, tracheid septations, and entirely uniseriate rays. These features are lacking in P. macgregorii with the exception of the rays, which are partially biseriate in the latter species. Protocedroxylon macgregorii has traumatic resin canals or cysts that have not been reported in P. araucarioides.
41711529|A list of species, illustrated keys to nymphs and adults, distribution, and biological notes are presented for 24 stonefly species occurring in Louisiana. Leuctra moha?, Pteronarcys dor sata, Helopicus subvarians, Paragnetina kansensis, Paragnetina immarginata, Phasganophora capitata, and Acroneuria evoluta are recorded only from the florida parishes east of the Mississippi River. lsoperla coushatta, Isoperla mohri, Neoperla clymene, an undescribed Neoperla (Sp. A), Paragnetina fumosa, Acroneuria abnormis, Acroneuria arenosa, Perlinella dry mo, and Perlesa placida are found both east and west of the Mississippi; and Allocapnia granulata, Allocapnia malverna, Amphinemoura nigritta, and three species of Taeniopteryx have been recorded only west of the Mississippi. Habitats are primarily sand-bottomed streams of pine-hardwood rolling hills, constituting a portion of the western Gulf Coastal Plain. Few stoneflies occur in streams of the Mississippi Alluvial Plain, the Alluvial Atchafalaya Basin, or the lowlands along the Red River.
41712764|Pollinator preferences were observed for the six species of section Erythranthe of the genus Mimulus using greenhouse-grown plants placed in a meadow in the Red Butte Canyon Natural Area, Salt Lake County, Utah. The principal pollinators were hummingbirds and bumble bees. Hummingbirds preferred the species with the most reflexed tubular flowers regardless of color, whereas bumblebees preferred pink, lavender, or yellow flowers to red flowers regardless of shape. Results for the six species were confirmed by observations of F hybrid recombinant plants selected such that flower color could be held constant and flower shape varied and vice versa.
41716184|The spawning population of Lahontan cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus darki henshawi) in Summit Lake, Nevada, has reportedly declined since the early 1970s, coincident with the appearance of Lahontan redside shiner (Richardsonius egregius) in the lake. We investigated the relative predatory abilities of these 2 fish species foraging on live Daphnia magna in turbidity conditions commonly observed in Summit Lake. Experiments were performed under controlled light and temperature conditions. In separate trials we fed trout and shiner 1 of 3 size classes of D. magna (1.7 mm, 2.2 mm, and 3.0 mm) at 6 levels of turbidity ranging from 3.5 to 25 NTU. Feeding rates for both species varied inversely with turbidity for all prey sizes. Feeding rates of shiner were greater than trout at all turbidity levels. In low turbidity (5 NTU), shiner consumed approximately 3% more prey during 2-h feeding trials. However, at high turbidity levels, the difference in feeding rates between species was proportionally higher (10%). At high turbidity levels (> 20 NTU) trout predation rates were relatively insensitive to prey size. However, shiner continued to consume more, larger prey at the highest turbidity levels. These results indicate that Lahontan redside shiner may be superior to Lahontan cutthroat trout as Zooplankton predators at high turbidity levels, and may explain the recent success of shiner in Summit Lake.
41713039|We determined temporal and spatial differences in abundance and habitat use by small mammals in southeastern Utah as part of an effort to enhance management of the Mexican Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis lucida), listed by the federal government as threatened. Woodrats (Neotoma spp.) were captured only in canyons and most frequently in the pinyon-juniper (Pinus edulis-Juniperus osteosperma) vegetation type. White-footed mice (Peromyscus spp.) were found in a variety of vegetation types in both canyons and mesas. The deer mouse (P. maniculatus) was generally the most frequently captured species among vegetation types. We found seasonal and yearly differences in relative abundance of each small mammal species. Our data suggest that the pinyon-juniper vegetation type within canyons is an important component of Mexican Spotted Owl habitat.
41712451|Collections of crayfish by Wyoming Game and Fish Department biologists and University of Wyoming staff in 1985-1987 included five species: Pacifastacus gambelii, the only species found in the Snake River and Bear River drainages of western Wyoming; Orconectes neglectus neglectus, collected from one reservoir in the South Platte River drainage in southeastern Wyoming (its first reported occurrence in the state); O. immunis and O. virilis, widespread east of the Continental Divide and in the Green River drainage of southwestern Wyoming; and Cambarus diogenes diogenes, collected from a tributary of the North Platte River in eastern Wyoming.
41712490|Basidiocarps of Pisolithus tinctorius, a gasteromycetous fungus adapted to harsh sites, were observed in association with Jeffrey and Sierra lodgepole pine on acid mine spoils in northeastern California. Subterranean mycelial strands were traced from these basidiocarps to the root systems of the two pine species, which had ectomycorrhizae characteristic of those formed by this fungus in symbiotic relationships with conifer hosts.
41713021|Suwallia sierra and Sweltsa pisten are described as new species in the family Chloroperlidae from California, USA. Illustrations of the male terminalia of both species and the female and egg of S. sierra are presented. In addition, detailed figures of the epiproct of 2 similar species, Sweltsa townesi and Sweltsa resima, are included. Diagnoses are provided comparing the new taxa with related species. Observations indicate that S. sierra may belong to the same clade as the genus Neaviperh.
41711604|New distribution records are given for 13 grasses now found in New Mexico. One of these, Urochloa panicoides Beauv., is a new distribution record for the United States.
41711959|The distribution of 21 species of nonvolant mammals among nine islands in the Great Salt Lake was analyzed for biogeographic patterns. The number of species inhabiting an island is closely correlated with island area. That the slope of the regression line describing this relationship (z or b) is relatively shallow compared to (1) totally isolated island systems or (2) island systems where an equilibrium between rates of colonization and extinction have been attained suggests that isolation plays little role in accounting for the variation in mammalian species diversity among islands. Stepwise multiple regression confirms this, while demonstrating that area alone accounts for 88 percent of the variation in species diversity among islands. However, endemic subspecies comprise a significant proportion of the insular mammalian fauna, suggesting that isolation for small mammals restricted to certain habitats may be substantial. A general scenario of the processes determining insular mammalian diversity and endemism is discussed for the Great Salt Lake, where the dynamic lake level creates a potential for different biogeographic processes over time.
41711551|A unique fen peatland, on the California coast, depends on six streams for its supply of flowing, mineral-rich water. About 25 percent of the water is supplied by surface streams that had average concentrations of Ca from 0.15 meq/1 to 0.32 meq/1 and of Mg from 0.25 meq/1 to 0.47 meq/1. During the dry summer period oxygen concentration and pH were lower in the central area than in the ten margins. Water flow near the margins maintains high O, pH, and cation content. The fen ranges from 4 m to over 11 m in depth, but the thickest peat layer is made up of very liquid, unconsolidated peat. In one year, an estimated 19.3 metric tons of suspended sediment entered tne 38.6 ha fen, which was equivalent to a 42 kg/ha loss from the total watershed.
41712218|Distribution and habitat selection of hibernating bats at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL) and adjacent area are reported. Exploration of over 30 lava-tube caves revealed that two species, Myotis leibii and Plecotus townsendii, hibernate in the upper Snake River Plain. Five species, M. lucifugus, M. evotis, Eptesicus fuscus, Lasionycteris noctivagans, and Lasiurus cinereus are considered migratory. Myotis leibii and P. townsendii hibernate throughout much of the area, occasionally in mixed-species groups. Myotis leibii uses the dark and protected regions of the cave, usually wedged into tiny pockets and crevices near or at the highest portion of the ceiling. Individuals of P. townsendii may be found at any height or depth in the cave. Temperature appears to be the primary limiting factor in habitat selection. Myotis leibii was found in significantly cooler air temperatures than P. townsendii. Neither species tolerated continuous temperatures below 1.5 C. Relative humidity does not seem to be a significant factor in the distribution or habitat selection of the two species in lava-tube caves.
41711428|The early stages in the history of biological investigation of the Great Salt Lake involved the identification and establishment of taxonomic relationships of the indigenous flora and fauna. A result of advancements in systematic biology is that many of the earlier names of organisms have been placed in synonomy. Recent interest in the lake has centered on biological productivity and interactions of components of the ecosystem. The creation of two ecologically distinct lakes by the construction of a railroad causeway has further enhanced the biological complexity of what was originally believed to be a lifeless body of brine.
41712610|The local spatial arrangement of the coniferous trees Pinus edulis and Juniperus osteosperma was mapped in two woodland stands and measured in two shrub-dominated stands in the semiarid Piceance Basin of northwest Colorado. In the woodlands, small trees were often clumped, while medium and large trees were either randomly or uniformly dispersed. Significant regressions were obtained between a tree's basal area or canopy area and the area of its Dirichlet domain (the region closer to it than to any other tree). Both findings from the woodland stands accord with results obtained by other workers in other vegetation. Like earlier workers, we interpret these patterns to indicate density-dependent mortality and density-dependent depression of growth rates among the trees in the woodlands. In contrast, the trees in the shrub-dominated stands are located at random with respect to each other. However, they are strongly associated with shrub cover. Apparently, tree seeds arrive in these stands primarily by long-distance dispersal, and the establishment of seedlings is more likely in the shade of shrubs.
41713089|A total of 33 species of blow flies (Diptera: Calliphoridae) are recorded from Idaho. They include 1 species each of Cochliomyia, Phormia, Protophormia, Trypocalliphora, Cyanus, Cynomya, and Mehnodexia; 12 species of Protocalliphora; 5 species of Lucilia; 6 species of Calliphora; and 3 species of Pollenia. Other calliphorid species that may also occur in the state include 5 species of Protocalliphora and 3 species of Calliphora. Known distribution, periods of activity, abundance within the state, and biological notes are provided.
41712324|Echinococcus granulosus is the causative parasite of hydatid disease in humans and represents a significant public health problem within endemic foci in all major continents of the world. This report gives a detailed set of instructions whereby four trained individuals can examine 15-20 dogs per hour for the presence of this organism. The procedure permits the baseline determination of the prevalence of this parasite within any specific population of dogs and also allows the periodic examination of the same animals to determine if recommended preventive and control measures for hydatid disease are being followed by sheep and dog owners in any region where the parasite is known to occur.
41712550|Some American marten population characteristics (numbers, density, body weights, sex and age ratios, natality, mortality-survivorship, immigration-emigration, home ranges) were studied at four sites in the southern part of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem, Teton County, Wyoming, in 19751979. Ninety-eight different martens were examined. Males (n = 25) weighed 1,111 g ( 110 SD, range 8751,235), whereas females (n = 17) averaged 743 g ( 83 SD, range 600900). Live-trapping showed sex ratios of 1.5M:1.0F, whereas carcasses showed 3.0M:1.0F. Of 27 males that were aged, 12 (44%) were less than 1 year old and 2 were 910 years old. Of 10 females, 6 were less than 1 year old and 1 was 1213 years old. The mean length of time a male was present on the major study area was 144 days ( 266 SD, range 11,364), and for females it was 145 days ( 45 SD, range 1560). Home ranges for six males averaged 3.2 km ( 20 SD, range 0.75.8) on the main study area. Some management implications are given.
41712693|Soils of the green ash/chokecherry habitat type in northwestern South Dakota were evaluated for 22 properties to determine whether any could be correlated with density of chokecherry (Prunus virginiana) and snowberry (Symphoricarpos occidentalis). Surface soils were moderately fertile, with high levels of all elements except phosphorus and nitrogen. Soils were fine textured, with moderately high cation exchange capacity and saturation percentages. However, soils were nonsaline-nonalkaline with low amounts of exchangeable sodium. None of the soil properties showed good correlation with chokecherry and snowberry densities. Greatest correlations were found between each of the shrub species and grass.
41711507|There is little information available regarding symbiotic nitrogen fixation by desert plants, particularly with respect to the group of nodulated non-legumes. Early investigations of nodules on non-legumes were contemporary with early studies of the Leguminoseae; however, comparatively little is known even now regarding the extent to which non-legumes fix nitrogen. A review of literature regarding changes in concepts of nitrogen fixation by legumes and nodulated non-legumes is presented. Evidence from recent studies on nodulated non-legumes, including those in desert areas, indicates some 31 species of 21 genera in 12 new or previously unrecognized plant families show nodulation with implications of nitrogen fixation. Some biological aspects of symbiotic nitrogen fixation are discussed, and reports in the literature of nitrogen fixation in natural plant populations are reviewed. Nitrogen fixation reactions in the desert environment are considered in terms of the areas of investigation needed to help define (1) the magnitude of nitrogen fixation, (2) the extent of nodulation in non-legume plants, and (3) factors affecting this nodulation in the desert ecosystem.
41711333|Analysis of the Crotaphytus collaris complex reveals at least eight subspecies in two distinct groupings. The collaris-complex containing C. c. auriceps, C. c. baileyi, C. c. fuscus, and C. c. collaris lies essentially to the east of the Colorado River. The greatest portion of the western-complex containing C. c. bicinctores, C. i. vestigium, C. c. dickersonae and C. i. insularis lies to the west of the Colorado River except through western Arizona and northern Mexico. Two previously undescribed subspecies, C. c. bicinctores and C. i. vestigium, are described and named.
41712385|Blood, tissue, and organ samples from five bowhead whales were examined for ecto-and endoparasites. Two species of protozoans, four genera of diatoms, one species of trematoda, two species of nematoda, and one species of amphipoda "louse" were found. No blood parasites were recovered. The larval anisakid nematode, found in the submucosa of the forestomach of one whale, generated a prominent inflammatory response. Protozoans found in contents of the colon included a flagellate and a sarcodinan. The sarcodinan, which was common in the colon contents of one whale, belongs to the genus Entamoeba and probably represents an undescribed species. Ogomogaster plicatus, a trematode, was also identified. The data from this study are compared with previous lists of parasites for the bowhead whale and two other species of baleen whales. From the results presented, the previous list of parasites for the bowhead whale has been expanded to include eight additional genera and species.
41712110|The genera and species of Polygonaceae in Utah are revised. Descriptions and keys to taxa are included, along with habitat, elevation, and distributional data. Taxonomic problems are outlined and discussed. Described as new is Eriogonum brevicaule Nutt. var. promiscuum Welsh. New nomenclatural combinations include Eriogonum batemanii Jones var. eremicum (Reveal) Welsh and var. ostlundii (Jones) Welsh; E. brevicaule Nutt. var. desertorum (Maguire) Welsh, var. ephedroides (Reveal) Welsh, var. loganum (A. Nels.) Welsh, var. nanum (Reveal) Welsh, and var. viridulum (Reveal) Welsh; E. corymbosum Benth var. cronquistii (Reveal) Welsh, var. humivagans (Reveal) Welsh, var. smithii (Reveal) Welsh; E. lonchophyllum T. & G. var. saurinum (Reveal) Welsh; E. nummulare Jones var. ammophilum (Reveal) Welsh; E. racemosum Nutt. var. coccineum (J. T. Howell) Welsh and var. zionis (J. T.Howell) Welsh; E. spathulatum Gray var. natum (Reveal) Welsh.
41711873|Reviewed are the 144 collectors and 167 authors of 1073 Utah vascular plant types for the period from 1840 to 1981. Historical perspective yields evidence of geography of collection activities by botanists who penetrated the boundaries of the state, and of shifting centers of emphasis in the study of Utah plants from a classical taxonomic standpoint. Philosophy and influence of contemporary authors and collectors is discussed as they affect taxonomy of Utah plants in our first 142 years. A short biographical account of Marcus Eugene Jones and his interaction with other American botanists is included. The annotated checklist includes bibliographical citations, type locality data, collector, and place of deposition.
41712506|Winter habitat use and food habits of Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were studied in an isolated Utah desert mountain range that contained little typical Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) winter habitat. Habitat use was concentrated in the Douglas-fir and pinyon (Pinus edulis)-juniper (Juniperus spp. ) habitat. Douglas-fir and pinyon pine were the most consumed foods. Other foods that represented > 15% of the composition of an individual fecal sample were limber pine (Pinus flexilis), mahogany (Cercocarpus ledifolius), juniper, and an Antennaria-Cirsium type. The breadth in winter diet indicates that Blue Grouse may successfully occupy other habitats when typical winter habitat is scarce.
41712782|This paper quantifies the distribution and abundance of birds in the White Mountains, Inyo and Mono counties, California, during spring-summer 1989-91, to establish a baseline for monitoring the area's avifauna. Overall, 58 species were encountered in the single-leaf pinyon-Utah juniper (Pinus monophylla-Juniperus osteosperma) zone, and 61 species in the bristlecone-limber pine (P. longaeva-P. flexilis) zone. The bristlecone-limber pine zone had a significantly greater overall bird abundance relative to the pinyon-juniper. Both zones were characterized by few very abundant species, a few moderately abundant species, and numerous rare species. The Black-throated Gray Warbler (scientific names in tables), Gray Flycatcher, and Pinyon Jay were the most abundant species in the pinyon-juniper, whereas the Clark's Nutcracker, Mountain Chickadee, and Cassin's Finch were the most abundant species in the bristlecone-limber pine. There were few ecological or taxonomic replacements of species between zones, with the differences in distribution and abundance related primarily to the interaction between elevation and vegetation. Significant inter-year variation in abundance was found for about 20 species in each zonemore species showed declining rather than increasing trends. The Mountain Chickadee and White-breasted Nuthatch declined, whereas the Gray Flycatcher and Rock Wren increased across years in both zones. Reasons for declines in some species might be the severe drought that continued throughout this study.
41712896|Recent taxonomic studies in Mimulus support the recognition of Mimulus evanescens, a new autogamous species morphologically allied with M. breviflorus and M. latidens. Initially known only from herbarium specimens, the most recent from 1958, M. evanescens was relocated in the field in 1990 in northern Lassen Co., CA. A second population was found in southern Lake Co., OR, in 1993. Mimulus evanescens is apparently confined to the Great Basin and its periphery, where it has been recorded from 10 localities across Idaho, Oregon, and California. Based on collection information and visits to the two extant populations, the new species appears to be restricted to vernally moist sites and fluctuating banks of intermittent streams or pools. Long-term utilization of such sites by livestock may have contributed to the present-day rarity of M. evanescens. The species should be added to federal and state lists of candidate endangered species pending the results of future field studies and surveys.
41712046|Three species of shore bugs (Hemiptera: Saldidae) and 10 species of brine flies (Diptera: Ephydridae) were collected at Sylvan Springs (Wyoming section of Yellowstone National Park, USA), an area containing both acid and alkaline thermal springs. The fauna consists of both widespread (e.g., shore bugs Saldula comatula Parshley and Saldula explanata [Uhler] and shore flies Atissa litoralis [Cole] and Scatella stagnalis [Fallen]) and Yellowstone Park-endemic species (e.g., Saldula nr. arenicola and the shore fly Ephydra thermophila Cresson). The ratio of adults to nymphs of the numerically dominant shore bug Saldula nr. arenicola is higher along heated margins (11-12: 1) than along near-ambient-temperature margins (0.6-2: 1) of a thermal channel at Sylvan Springs; this may reflect differences in food availability, osmoregularity, thermal tolerance, predation, or other factors. Shore flies include species typical of acid (E. thermophila) and alkaline (Paracoenia bisetosa [Coquillett] and Paracoenia trbida [Curran]) springs.
41712822|We counted kokanee spawners and carcasses every 1-7 days from mid-September through mid-November in 1991 and 1992 in Taylor Creek, a tributary to Lake Tahoe, California-Nevada. Less than 1% of the spawning run entered Taylor Creek before flow from Fallen Leaf Lake was increased on 2 October 1991; in 1992 the peak occurred on 30 September or 1 October after flows increased on 29 September. In both years spawners concentrated in the middle three of five stream reaches below the impassable Fallen Leaf Lake dam. From tag-and-recovery experiments, the average longevity of male spawners in the stream was 3.5 days in 1991 and 2.8 days in 1992, whereas the average female longevity was 2.0 days in 1991 and 2.3 days in 1992. Observed carcasses accounted for less than 10% of spawners counted, suggesting removal by scavengers or high prdation on prespawners. An estimated 1928 males and 1309 females spawned in 1991, and 8021 males and 8712 females spawned in 1992. Our estimate of 3237 spawners in 1991 compared favorably to our estimate of 3520  1474 prespawners staging in Lake Tahoe in mid-September. An index of kokanee abundance in Lake Tahoe has historically been based on 1-day surveys every 1 November since 1960; however, estimated total spawner abundance was 19 times higher than the annual index of 158 spawners in 1991, and 141 times higher than the index count of 100 spawners in 1992. The index count and mean fork lengths of spawners (278  10 mm [2 SE] for males, and 248  3 mm for females) in 1991 and 1992 were the lowest on record.
41712773|The Shoshone sculpin (Cottus greenei) is found only in springs of the Thousand Springs formation along the Snake River in Idaho. In 1983 a small population of Shoshone sculpin was introduced into an unnamed spring in the Thousand Springs formation in an attempt to increase the range of the species. Previously, the only sculpin in that spring was the mottled sculpin (Cottus bairdi). The Shoshone sculpin was able to establish itself and become the predominant fish within 8 years.
41716166|Regressions between vegetational cover, estimated with a two-tiered, gridded sampling frame, and biomass were used to obtain predicted biomass values from cover values. Comparisons of eight sites based on predicted biomass data and comparisons of the sites based on cover data indicate that predicted biomass data may better identify differences among sites. Also, some suggestions are made regarding the methods of using cover-biomass regressions to obtain predicted biomass values.
41712335|The vascular flora of the Orange Cliffs area, defined here as part of the Colorado Plateau floristic province, harbors approximately 209 species in 123 genera and 49 families. A species checklist is provided with a discussion of physical and floristic aspects of the region. The flora is compared statistically to the San Rafael Swell flora, which is also a subset of the Colorado Plateau. We define six vegetation types and three edaphic communities; these are described and mapped. Of eleven endemic plant species in the Orange Cliffs, three are local and rare. Sites for Astragalus nidularius, A. moencoppensis, and Xylorhiza glabriuscula var. linearifolia are discussed and mapped.
41711790|Indices of similarity were used to evaluate the similarity of oakbrush stands throughout the Uinta National Forest and to compare oak communities in central and northern Utah. Results show that Gambel oak stands in central Utah differ significantly among themselves in respect to quantitative aspects of the vegetation. Those differences can be correlated with elevation, slope exposure, and fire history. Nevertheless, there is currently inadequate justification for recognizing more than one habitat type for the species in the study area. There is a need to develop a model capable of predicting growth rate of oak on specific sites.
41712420|The new sauropod, Cathetosaurus lewisi, is named and assigned to the Camarasauridae; it was collected from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation in western Colorado in 1967. Novel structural features of the skeleton in this genus, particularly in the axial skeleton, enabled it to assume and function to an unknown degree in a bipedal posture. Comparisons are made between C. lewisi and previously described sauropods. The following problems of sauropod locomotion are discussed: (1) sauropods lack two elements, sesamoids and patella, present in titanotheres; (2) sauropod limb and foot musculature, lacking leverage, is very inferior to that of titanotheres; (3) no previously described sauropod displays adequate structural specializations for voluntary bipedalism comparable to that of the new genus Cathetosaurus; (4) great weight and cartilaginous limb and foot joint structure restricted sauropods to a slow tempo of locomotion, suggesting a moderate to low rate of catabolic metabolism. Mammal and sauropod foot bones and their function are compared, and comparisons are made between the weight and structure of modern mobile machines and the locomotion and movement of large sauropods. Occurrence and taphonomy of C. lewisi are discussed.
41711953|The response of woundfin to different substrates and current speeds was investigated in an outdoor experimental stream. Fish spawned in groups of 15-20 over 5-10 cm rock substrate in a .06 to .09 m/sec current at a depth of 10 cm. Eggs were adhesive on the undersides of the rocks. Fish spawned under these conditions grew to approximately 55-60 mm TL in 5 months.
41712500|During the 1987 deer hunt 4,250 card questionnaires were distributed to Utah hunters at nine checking stations. Return rates varied from a mean 23% when cards were simply handed to hunters, to 50% when hunters' names and telephone numbers were taken. Results concerning methodology suggest that questionnaire surveys conducted from checking stations are efficient and accurate in obtaining hunter opinions. Questionnaire results indicated that most hunters rated the Utah deer hunt as moderately satisfactory, but may prefer alternative options that would result in a higher quality hunt. The majority of hunters indicated that hunter numbers should be limited to current levels or decreased. Unretrieved kill was reported as 21 deer per 100 hunters.
41711690|Although pinyon-juniper woodland is common throughout most of Utah, it is less so in Utah and Salt Lake valleys. Even so, stands do occur in the valleys and are known to have been there since presettlement times. Three such stands occurring along the eastern sections of the valleys have shown major decreases in area since settlement times, and one has all but disappeared. Their disappearance is attributed to early use for fuel, agricultural, and urbanization purposes.
41711669|Chemical composition of some major forage plants of mountain summer ranges of southeastern Utah is reported. Grasses are shown to contain significantly less nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and magnesium than either forbs or shrubs. Forbs and shrubs are demonstrated to differ significantly only in potassium content; forbs tested contained more potassium than shrubs. The chemical composition of the forage plants is discussed in relation to mule deer reproductive rates. It is concluded that protein and mineral content of the forage of the two ranges considered (the LaSal and Henry mountains) is less likely to affect reproductive rates than is the relative digestibility of grasses, forbs, and shrubs.
41712835|Despite the profusion of light in deserts, morphological adaptations to increase light interception are common among desert plants. We studied branch orientation and related physiological parameters in the Mojave Desert Joshua tree, Yucca brevifolia (Agavaceae). Azimuth and inclination were measured on all leaf rosettes of 44 Y. brevifolia trees. Interception of solar radiation was modeled for leaves in hypothetical rosettes facing due south and due north in December, March, and June. Carbon isotope discrimination, nitrogen content, and conductance to water vapor were measured in leaves from north- and south-facing rosettes. Rosette azimuths were nonrandom; rosettes predominantly faced southeast. North-facing rosettes were more steeply inclined than those facing south. The preponderance of southfacing rosettes reduces self-shading and increases interception of solar radiation during the winterspring growth period. Stomatal conductance was higher for leaves in south-facing than in north-facing rosettes. Nevertheless, discrimination against C was less in leaves of south-facing rosettes, indicating that average intercellular CO concentration was also lower. South-facing whorls had higher leaf nitrogen content. Greater allocation of nitrogen to leaves in south-facing whorls probably results in those leaves having a greater photosynthetic capacity than their north-facing counterparts. Orientation of rosettes to increase interception of sunlight during the period most favorable for photosynthesis, coupled with allocation of nutrients to maintain a higher photosynthetic capacity in those rosettes, should significantly increase whole-plant carbon gain in Y. brevifolia.
41712954|Diameter-age relationships of Salix arizonica (Arizona willow) stems were investigated for 5 populations on the Markagunt, Paunsaugunt, and Sevier plateaus in southern and central Utah. Of the 430 stems studied, none exceeded 26 mm in diameter at ground level (estimated age of 19 yr). Equations developed for predicting age from stem diameters consistently accounted for over 90% of the observed variation. Slopes of predictive equations were homogeneous across the 3 sites considered in detail. At 2 sites 46% and 38% of the stems exceeded 10 mm (~7 yr old) diameter at ground level. At a 3rd site, no stems survived to exceed that size. Stem-age profiles at specific sites may thus be useful for assessing the relative favorability of local environments for the species.
41711583|A review of published and unpublished data for the predatory mite Typhlodromus mcgregori in Utah and southern California apple growing areas is presented to summarize its role. Typhlodromus mcgregori was not found resistant to pesticides and, although usually present with Bryobia rubrioculus, only when Aculus schlechtendali was also present was there significant predation on B. rubrioculus. Aculus schlechtendali was considered the primary host and B. rubrioculus secondary for T. mcgregori. Typhlodromus occidentalis was always found associated with Tetranychus spp. and often with Eotetranychus and Pronematus ubiquitus in unsprayed orchards.
41713140|The effect of thatching ants (Formica obscuripes) on number of spiders found on sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) was determined by comparing spider abundance on shrubs at different distances from ant mounds. Spider abundance was inversely related to proximity to mounds. Spider abundance on shrubs around abandoned mounds revealed no effects of mound proximity. Two mounds in which ants were exterminated showed a declining effect of mound proximity 1 month after treatment. One year after treatment there was no effect.
41712675|In 1983 zinc phosphide, strychnine with prebait, and strychnine without prebait were applied to black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies in west central South Dakota. Short-term (four days later) and long-term (one year later) impacts of the rodenticides on Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) and other granivorous birds inhabiting prairie dog colonies were evaluated. Horned Larks and 49 other bird species were observed. Immediate impacts reduced Horned Lark relative densities 66% with strychnine only and 55% with prebaited strychnine. Zing phosphide caused no measurable reduction. Horned Larks showed no long-term direct impacts. Indirect negative impacts occurred through habitat changes following prairie dog control. The granivorous guild showed no short- or long-term effects.
41712224|Gross energy, digestible energy, crude protein, and digestible crude protein were estimated for two leporids and five rodents that were the primary prey of coyotes (Canis latrans) in southeastern Idaho. Digestible protein estimates digestible (38%-54%) more than digestible energy (3.5-4.4 kcal), in the prey examined.
41712480|This third report on the herpetofauna of Chihuahua deals exclusively with amphibians. The first plethodonid salamander is reported, the species Ambystoma rosaceum is discussed in greater detail than before, and two subspecies are recognized. Spea is elevated from subgeneric to generic rank, and S. stagnalis Cope is removed from synonymy and is recognized as a subspecies of hammondii. The species listed include the following: 2 salamanders and 19 anurans (1 Scaphiopus, 2 Spea, 9 Bufo, 1 Eleutherodactylus, 2 Hyfo, 3 Rana, and 1 Microhyla). Reference is made to various habitats that are associated with elevations arising from lower deserts and extending into the western mountains. The role played by the dry and wet annual cycles is also noted.
41711966|The western Nearctic stonefly genus Soliperla is reviewed and six species are recognized. Soliperh siena (Calif.) and S. tilfomook (Ore.) are described as new to science and illustrations of diagnostic features are presented for all species. Males and nymphs are keyed and a phylogeny for the group is proposed.
41712273|Seventeen loci were examined for polymorphism in four populations of Neotoma cinerea and Peromyscus maniculatus on isolated mountain ranges in the Great Basin, one population of each in the Sierra Nevada, and one of each in the Rocky Mountains. All Peromyscus populations had higher levels of heterozygosity than syntopic Neotoma populations.
41712378|Habitat-use patterns of mule deer, elk, and moose were determined on two winter ranges near Kemmerer, Wyoming. Mule deer used areas with the least snow depth and dominated by sagebrush. Elk were located more often than expected on wind-swept hills but used sagebrush communities more frequently as snow depths increased. Moose were generally found associated with broad, riparian zones. All three species occasionally used the same area but differed in their use of specific vegetation types and topography.
41712210|Large numbers of Red-necked Phalaropes migrate overland across the Great Basin in fall, occurring commonly at highly saline lakes. Migrants occur at Mono Lake, California, from mid-July to mid-October. The earliest migrants are adult females, followed several weeks later by adult males, and finally by juveniles. Adults make up ca 75% of the population, with males outnumbering females by 5:4. From 1980 through 1984 an estimated 52,000-65,000 birds passed through the area each year, except in 1983, when only 36,000 were recorded. The low number might be attributable to high mortality on oceanic wintering grounds in the Southern Hemisphere in 1982 associated with the severe El Nio. At Mono Lake the phalaropes concentrate near the shore and feed almost exclusively on brine flies. The migrants neither gain much weight nor accomplish much molt during their sojourn, which suggests that the average stay is only a few days. Some aspects of the molt pattern differ from those reported elsewhere.
41712734|We examined winter nutritional quality of current-year bud and stem tissues from burned and unburned stands of Gambei oak (Quercus gambelii Nutt.). Nutritional analyses were based on the amount of forage consumed by wintering mule deer. Deer use along the Utah Valley foothills averaged 6.25-10.7 cm of current-year growth. Of the tissues examined, post-fire bud tissue had the highest nutrient content, with a mean of 9.51% crude protein, 0.19% phosphorus, and 34.0% in vitro digestibility. Composite values (bud + stem) for unburned stands were slightly higher in crude protein and phosphorus and lower in digestibility than those reported in previous studies. Nutrient values from burned stands were significantly higher than those of unburned stands for all three measures. Tannin content of the burned-area regrowth was also higher. Overall forage value of Gambel oak to wintering mule deer is relatively low.
41712738|Native mushrooms play an important, though often underestimated, role in deer, elk, and caribou diets in North America. Mushrooms are often noted as an unusual or anomalous food in the diets of cervids; yet they often dominate diets in the late summer and fall in forested areas of western North America and throughout the year in the southeastern U.S. Mushrooms are particularly high in protein (16-19%), phosphorus (average 0.75%), and potassium (average 2%). Also, mushroom production is generally greatest in fall. Therefore, they are a highly nutritious food in late season when other native forages may marginally meet basal nutrient requirements of ungulates.
41711695|Distributional records are given for 40 stonefly species on 15 isolated mountain ranges in Nevada and Utah.
41713049|During the summers of 19851991, bird censuses were conducted along 13 permanent routes located at the 2315-km Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL, formerly INEL) in southeastern Idaho. The objectives of the surveys were to (1) compare avifauna in and near facility complex sites with remote, relatively undisturbed habitats, (2) identify trends in populations of sagebrush-obligate species and other common shrubsteppe species, and (3) determine the presence, abundance, and population status of species of special concern. Five routes were official U.S. Geological Survey, Biological Resources Division 40.0-km Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) routes (formerly administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service) located in relatively remote portions of the INEEL where access by humans was controlled and limited. Eight shorter routes (5.819.2 km in length) were near INEEL facility complexes, which more regularly experienced disturbance by humans. The surveys recorded 25,597 individuals representing 90 species. Western Meadowlarks (Sturnelh neglecta), Brewer's Sparrows (Spizelh breweri), Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli), Horned Larks (Eremophih alpestris), and Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus) comprised 72% of all individuals. Almost half of all species were represented by fewer than 10 individuals. Bird density was significantly greater along facility complex routes. Moreover, because of human-constructed wetlands and structures of various types, facility complex routes had significantly more bird species per unit area, including more species of waterfowl and humanassociated species. Some year-to-year variation in bird density was related to weather. More individuals were recorded in cooler, wetter years, although such increases were reflected more along facility complex routes. Among sagebrush-obligate species, trend analysis suggests that both Brewer's Sparrows and Sage Sparrows increased significantly in abundance, which may be in contrast to regional trends for these species. Of 5 species of special concern observed, trend analysis could be performed for only 2: Ferruginous Hawks (Buteo regalis) and Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus). Both species had more routes with negative regression coefficients and negative trend means, indicating that declines may have occurred, although the goodness-of-fit test for neither species was significant. These data from the INEEL should be useful for comparison with future studies at the site and other studies from throughout the Great Basin region.
41712169|The cui-ui, Chasmistes cujus Cope, a member of the sucker family and endemic to Pyramid Lake, Nevada, is listed as endangered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Cui-ui was once a major source of sustenance for native Americans, who have inhabited the Lahontan region for at least 11,000 years. The Northern Paiutes developed sophisticated fishing technology to harvest this resource. The original distribution of cui-ui was the ancient Lake Lahontan complex, but as a result of climatic changes it was restricted to the Pyramid-Winnemucca-Truckee system by the turn of the 20th century. Transbasin water diversions (1905 to present) have resulted in further restrictions of habitat. The species is now limited to Pyramid Lake and the lower Truckee River. Reproduction is from hatcheries as well as limited natural reproduction. Females produce more than 40,000 2mm eggs per year. The normal development is described from the unfertilized egg through 912 hours post-hatching, when the fry are actively feeding and approaching adult body form. The unusual feature of adult cui-ui morphology is the relatively large ventro-terminal mouth, with thin and obscurely papillose lips. Cui-ui grow slowly and may live 18 years or possibly much longer; females generally live longer and attain a greater size than males. The highest adult mortality probably occurs during spawning runs. At this time they are vulnerable to predation, stress, and sometimes environmental degradation. The highest larval mortality probably occurs from predation when they are planted or migrate into the lake. The trophic ecology of the species is poorly understood, but they are known to ingest algae and zooplankton. Spawning behavior is documented. At present, natural reproduction is probably still the limiting factor for the cui-ui population. Cui-ui composed less than one percent of the total fish in Pyramid Lake during 1975-1977. During 1982 the largest cui-ui spawning run (13,000) in recent years occurred. The activity of cui-ui in the lake closely resembles that of the Tahoe sucker being most active during the spawning season each spring. Cui-ui inhabit the inshore-benthic zone and the pelagic waters of Pyramid Lake (<46 m).
41712507|Five new species of Harasupia in the tribe Teruliini are described and illustrated. These include austini, baja, mexicana, retrorsa, and ungula, all from Mexico. A revised key to 12 known species is also given.
41712387|Reported are 105 species of Scolytidae (Coleoptera) from Idaho. About one-third of these are rarely collected, of which 22 species are known from a single locality each. Twelve species reported from Idaho for the first time are: Carphoborus carri Swaine, C. sansoni Swaine, Phloeosinus hoferi Blackman, Conophthorus monophyllae Hopkins, Dryocoetes betulae Hopkins, Ips confusus (LeConte), Pityophthorus absonus Blackman, P. aquilus Blackman, P. blandus Blackman, P. deletus LeConte, P. scalptor Blackman, and Xyleborinus saxeseni (Ratzeburg). Significant extensions of the known distributions in Idaho are reported for seven other scolytids: Alniphagus aspericollis (LeConte), Dendroctonus murrayanae Hopkins, Phloeotribus lecontei Schedl, Procryphalus mucronatus (LeConte), Trypophloeus populi Hopkins, Xyleborus dispar (Fabricius), and X. intrusus Blandford. Xyleborus dispar especially needs study in anticipation that it may become increasingly important in Idaho fruit trees and other woody plants including ornamentals and shade trees.
41711432|Phyllorhynchus decurtatus porelli ssp. nov. is described from a single specimen from Cerralvo Island, Gulf of California, Mexico, and is regarded as different from P. d. decuratus on the basis of an increased number of dorsal blotches (41 as compared to 18-33) and an increased number of supralabials (7 as compared to 6), combined with geographical isolation and the high degree of endemism found in other reptiles on Cerralvo Island.
41713036|As part of an ongoing summary revision of Astragalus for the Flora North America project, several nomenclatural changes are indicated. Nomenclatural proposals include A. molybdenus var. shultziorum (Barneby) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. australis var. aboriginorum (Richardson) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. australis var. cottoni (M. E. Jones) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. australis var. lepagei (Hultn) Welsh, comb. nov; A. australis var. muriei (Hultn) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. subcinereus var. sileranus (M.E. Jones) Welsh, comb, nov.; A. tegetarioides var. anxius (Meinke & Kaye) Welsh, comb, nov.; A. ampullarioides (Welsh) Welsh, comb. nov.; A. cutleri (Barneby) Welsh, comb, nov.; and A. laccoliticus (M.E. Jones) Welsh, comb. nov. Proposals of new taxa include Astragalus sect. Scytocarpi subsect. Microcymbi Welsh, subsect. nov., and A. sabulosus var. vehiculus Welsh, var. nov. A lectotype is selected for Phaca australis L.
41713116|We studied kit fox den characteristics on the northern McGregor Range of Fort Bliss Military Reservation, New Mexico, during 1994 and 1995. Twenty radio-collared kit foxes used 132 different dens, including 16 natal dens. Kit fox dens were located primarily in creosote-dominated habitat found in relatively flat, well-drained terrain. Natal dens were virtually indistinguishable from non-natal dens; however, natal den entrances were taller than non-natal den entrances. Entrances found at all dens were oriented more frequently toward the northwest and southeast. Kit foxes used more new dens during the breeding (January-February) and pup-rearing season (May-July) than during gestation.
41712078|Ten plant communities containing bitter nightshade (Solanum dulcamara) were studied and the ecology and naturalizing relationships of bitter nightshade in central Utah area were investigated. Biotic and abiotic factors from each area were statistically analyzed. The data indicated that bitter nightshade was negatively correlated (P < 0.01) with perennial grass cover and positively correlated with tree overstory. Bitter nightshade reached its highest development in heavily shaded areas. No other habitat factors correlated with the presence of bitter nightshade. This lack of environmental constraints along with bitter nightshade's bright red fruits, which are readily consumed by birds, suggests possible reasons for the rapid and successful invasion of the plant into the Utah Lake area.
41711516|This paper presents the results of a systematic study of mites of the genus Laelaps s. str. collected from small mammals of the Ethiopian region. Specimens taken from approximately 100,000 small mammals were examined from a wide variety of habitats and localities. The Ethiopian fauna of Laelaps mites includes 31 species, 4 of which are described as new: L. parasimillimus, L. myomys, L. malacomys, and L. acomys. A numerical taxonomic analysis was made, the results of which were used in the preparation of a proposed classification of the African species of Laelaps. A key for identification of females is given, and females and males (where known) of all species are illustrated. Diagnostic characters are given for the female and male of each species. Collection data and, where pertinent, discussions of morphological characters and variability are provided. Also included are discussions of host-parasite associations.
41712392|Estimates of site potential for ponderosa pine based on measured site indexes in 416 stands are compared between seven habitat types and one community type. No significant differences in mean site index are found between the habitat types studied. The habitat types are classified into high or moderate site potential classes based on mean site indexes.
41712019|Past observations and ongoing population surveys indicate daily and yearly vertical movement of the Devil's Hole pupfish, Cyprinodon diabolis Wales, within the upper 27 m of the water column in Devil's Hole, Nevada. This movement involves occupying and leaving a 5 by 3.5 m rock shelf during daily and yearly periods of maximum light intensity.
41712597|Two federally listed fishes, the Foskett speckled dace and Warner sucker, are endemic to Warner Basin in south central Oregon. The Foskett speckled dace is native only to a single spring in Coleman Valley. A nearby spring was stocked with dace in 1979 and 1980, and now provides a second population. The present numbers of dace probably are at their highest levels since settlement of the region. The Warner sucker historically occurred throughout much of the Warner Valley, but its distribution and abundance have been reduced by construction of reservoirs and irrigation dams and the introduction of predatory game fishes. Lentic habitats have become dominated by introduced fishes, particularly white crappie, black crappie, and brown bullhead. The largest remaining population of Warner suckers occurs in Hart Lake, where successful reproduction was documented but there is no evidence of recruitment to the adult population.
41716182|A total of 181 fishes belonging to 10 species were captured near Richfield, Utah, and examined for parasites. A new species of hemoflagellate, Trypanoplasma atraria sp. n., was observed in 3 species: Utah chub (Gih atraria [Girard]), redside shiner (Richardsonius balteatus [Richardson]), and speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus [Girard]). Seven other species of fishes examined in the study area were negative for T. atraria sp. n. The salmonid leech, Piscicola salmositica (Meyer), collected in the same area harbored developmental stages of Trypanoplasma, suggesting a possible leech vector for the hemoflagellate. Characteristics of Trypanoplasma atraria sp. n. place it near T. salmositica, but the new species is twice as large.
41713070|The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that there are no differences in understory production, by species, due to stocking levels of Pinus ponderosa (ponderosa pine). Understory production was estimated, by species, on 3 replicates each of 8 growing stock levels, ranging from clearcuts to unthinned stands, in both sapling-and pole-sized pine stands (48 plots) over 3 nonconsecutive years. All stands were approximately 70 yr old when thinning treatments were applied. Production of many herbaceous species, especially Agropyron spp. (wheatgrasses) and Carex spp. (sedges), declined as growing stock levels (measured in terms of basal area) of ponderosa pine increased. While trends in total production were similar, there were specific differences between sapling and pole stands. Sedges and Oryzopsis asperfolia (roughleaf ricegrass) produced more in sapling stands, whereas Danthonia intermedia (timber oatgrass) was more abundant in pole stands. Shrub production, dominated by Arctostaphylos uva-ursi (bearberry), was relatively consistent across all stocking levels except unthinned. Although the total number of species declined as pine basal area increased, a few species, such as Linnaea borealis (twinflower) and Shepherdia canadensis (buffaloberry), were found only under relatively dense pine canopies. While floristic species richness was greater at lower stocking levels of ponderosa pine, the total number of species would be greater if all stocking levels were present.
41712258|Pseudoxylechinus, new genus, and uniformis (type-species) (Yunnan), variegatus (Sanxi), sinensis (Yunnan), rugatus (Yunnan), and tibetensis (Tibet), new species, are described. Kissophagus tiliae Niisima, 1910, is also transferred to this genus.
41712487|Asclepias sanjuanensis Heil, Porter, & Welsh, a new species from the pinyon-juniper woodlands of the San Juan River Valley, San Juan County, New Mexico, is described and illustrated. The species appears to be local and rare. Similar to A. ruthiae Maguire, it is distinguished by the greater number of flowers per inflorescence, the larger number of stems, and the pubescence characters.
41712149|A partial cranium belonging to the extinct woodland musk-ox, Symbos cavifrons, is reported from the headwaters of Oak Creek, Delta County, Colorado. This is the first cranium of the genus Symbos to be described from the Colorado Plateau, and it helps to define the southwest boundary of the known range of the genus.
41712060|The weight of body water and fat-free dry weight of Uinta ground squirrels (Spermophilus armatus) is given as a function of body weight. Body fat is presented as a function of body weight and body length. An equation for calculating the total caloric content of Uinta ground squirrels is given. Fat index (weight of fat/fat-free dry weight) values of juveniles increased from 0.11 to 0.22 from 5 June to 28 July. In male yearlings and adults the fat index increased about 8 to 9 times in the latter half of June and early July.
41711349|A new species of soil mite from Hayden, Colorado, is described. This species, Peloptulus tanytrichosus, is the first representative of the genus in North America. The species is described, figured, and compared with P. foveolatus Hammer, 1961. Eight specimens were taken from different habitats, including aspen litter, scrub oak litter, and beneath greasewood and pepper grass.
41704198|The ability of Typhlodromus occidentalis to oviposit and numerically increase when consuming various life stage distributions of Tetranychus mcdanieli and Tetranychus pacificus were studied at several interaction levels. On field-collected apple leaves and 6x6 cm artificial substrates, oviposition rates and rates of increase (r) were higher when predators were fed populations of spider mites with high proportions of eggs and larvae as compared to prey colonies composed mainly of deutonymphs-male adults and female adults. Feeding studies indicated that reproductive differences were mainly due to increased predation and food intake when predators were offered eggs and larvae of Tet. pacificus and a decreased capture and food consumption when only provided with the larger prey stages. Samples taken throughout a growing season in apple trees and an orchard suggested that during early-season, prey stage distributions were most favorable to predator increases and would undoubtedly contribute to a rapid numerical response by predators. The affect of less favorable stage distributions was much less apparent as these stage proportions occurred during short intervals in early season, at intermediate prey levels, and were most unfavorable at high densities or late season after spider mites overexploited their host plant.
41711628|The Tahoe sucker spawns in Pyramid Lake from April to August at lake temperatures of 11.7 to 22.7 C. The spawning population is comprised of a large lake spawning group and a numerically smaller river running group. The river running group is smaller in length and was not considered during this study. The sex ratio of sampled suckers significantly favored the females. This is the result of the longer life of females and greater mortality of males during spawning. Pyramid Lake Tahoe suckers reach sexual maturity at two to three years of age; however, those in Lake Tahoe do not mature until four or five years of age. The size at sexual maturity is different in both populations, which suggests that size or rate of growth rather than age determines sexual maturity. The fecundity of Tahoe suckers is positively correlated with fork length, weight, and age. Additional analysis showed that a better correlation occurred between fish size (either length or net weight) and total ovary weight. We believe that fish size is primarily correlated with total reproductive tissue produced and secondarily with fecundity. A comparison of the Pyramid Lake population and the Lake Tahoe population demonstrated that size, not age, is the most important determinant of Tahoe sucker fecundity.
41711890|A list of the major livestock-poisoning plants has been compiled for the state of Utah. Two hundred fifteen taxa representing 36 families, 119 genera, and 209 species occur within the state. Forty-one percent are from two families, the Asteraceae and the Fabaceae. The remaining families of major importance are: Poaceae, Ranunculaceae, Solanaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Brassicaceae, Ascelpiadaceae, Liliaceae, and Euphorbiaceae. Sixty-nine percent of the genera occur with a single species. Thirty-three percent of the taxa are introduced to the state. Most of the plants are insect pollinated; 57 percent are herbaceous perennials. Most livestock poisoning occurs during the spring. This is due both to concentration of toxins in emerging vegetation and to the absence of more suitable forage on late winter and spring ranges. Green herbage is poisoning in about 80 percent of all taxa, seeds and fruits in about 15 percent, and the remaining 5 percent have toxic compounds confined to flower heads, sap, tubers, or roots. Disturbed or cultivated habitats and poorly managed range harbor the greatest diversity of poisonous plants. Wetlands contain fewer poisonous taxa than do xeric or mesic areas. The predominating plant toxins are various alkaloids and glycosides. Sixteen percent of the plants have uncharacterized toxins. Cattle and sheep are more susceptible to poisoning than are horses, swine, or poultry.
41712969|Evidence from the morphology, genetics, and biogeography of a rare endemic from western Nevada, Eriogonum robustum, is presented to determine its most accurate taxonomic classification. Previous authors have classified E. robustum Greene both as a species and as a variety of E. lobbii Torrey & Gray. However, results of a morphometric comparison for 9 characters establish that significant morphological differentiation exists between E. robustum and E. lobbii. In addition, results of a genetic study using protein electrophoresis indicate that genetic differentiation may exist between these 2 taxa. Furthermore, the 2 taxa are geographically, ecologically, and reproductively isolated. Finally, the selective pressures that act on E. robustum in a narrowly restricted cold-desert environment are different from those that act on E. lobbii in a subalpine environment. Thus, all available data support a species-level taxonomic classification for E. robustum.
41711512|Based on a sample of 17 adult specimens of Sceloporus horridus taken near Autlan, Jalisco, Mexico in May 1974 just before and just after the first rainfall of the year, we present the first published data on the food habits of this lizard. Important prey item taxa were Homoptera, Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, Orthoptera, and Isoptera. The absence of Homoptera and Orthoptera, and the concomitant greater relative importance of Isoptera and Hymenoptera in the diet after the rain than before indicates opportunistic feeding by S. horridus. Our data suggest that reproduction in this lizard is probably initiated soon after the first rains in late spring.
41712609|Benthic macroinvertebrates were collected at several sites downstream of three oligotrophic lake outfalls in July 1986. Total numbers, biomass, and species richness increased rapidly immediately downstream from the outlets, and then either stabilized or continued to increase downstream in parallel with benthic organic matter standing crops. Filter feeder densities showed an initial buildup and then decline downstream from the outlets. Variability in longitudinal patterns of other functional feeding groups among lake outlets was related to differences in food quantity and quality, and microhabitat. An additional set of samples was collected at Pettit Lake outlet in August 1986. Species richness and total density peaked sooner under baseflow conditions in August than under spring runoff conditions in June. Distributions of all functional feeding groups, except filter feeders, also differed between the two periods, reflecting differences in the physical environment. We conclude that reduced lentic inputs of particulate organic matter seston and improved habitat suitability downstream are responsible for the progressive development of macroinvertebrate communities in oligotrophic lake outlets. These data imply the importance of the habitat templet in the structuring of benthic communities.
41711342|Relict stands of Pinus edulis and P. monophylla, and of natural hybrids of these species have been found in Cache and Rich counties. The stands and their sites are described. The P. edulis stand in Rich County extends the range of this species northward. Possible means of seed dissemination are discussed and it is speculated that both species formerly migrated into and out of this area during periods of differing climates.
41712825|Efforts to reclaim amended and raw bentonite spoils with six plant species (two forbs, three shrubs, and one tree) were evaluated over a 4-year period. Plant species included fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens [Pursh] Nutt), big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata tridentata Nutt), Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum Sarg.), Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia L.), common yarrow (Achillea millifolium L.), and scarlet globemallow (Sphaeralcea coccnea [Pursh] Rydb.). Spoil treatments included addition of gypsum, sawdust, perlite, straw, and vermiculite; the control treatment was unamended. Fourwing saltbush had 52% survival across all spoil treatments, with greatest survival occurring on perlite-treated spoil (80%), followed by gypsum (70%) and vermiculite amendments (70%). Survival of other plant species ranged from 0 to 3% averaged across all treatments after 4 years. No differences in plant survival occurred among amendments when all species were considered.
41711784|Presented herein is an index to vascular plant names of Utah. The names are arranged in alphabetical order by genus, species, and infraspecific taxa. Each entry is followed by a bibliographic citation, family name,, rarity (whether endemic, rare, or endemic-rare), and origin (whether indigenous, adventive, or adventive-cultivated). Pertinent synonyms are cited beneath appropriate entries. An index of synonyms and a comprehensive bibliography are included.
41712725|We assessed the influence of water depth, extent of unobstructed view, and human disturbance features on use of roost sites by Sandhill Cranes along the Platte River, Nebraska, during spring migratory stopover. Aerial photos taken near dawn were used to determine areas of flock use and habitat availability in four sample reaches, and measurements were made on the ground at flock roost areas. In general, depths of 1-13 cm were used by sandhill cranes in greater proportion than those available. Exposed sandbars and depths > 20 cm were avoided, while depths of 14-19 cm were used in proportion to their availability. Sites 11-50 m from the nearest visual obstruction were used significantly greater than their availability, while sites 0-4 and > 50 m from visual obstructions were avoided. Sandhill Cranes avoided sites near paved roads, gravel roads, single dwellings, and bridges when selecting roost sites; however, they did not appear to be disturbed by private roads, groups of residential buildings, gravel pits, railroads, or electrical transmission lines.
41712027|Eight plant associations, not previously described in Colorado, and representative of part of the presettlement vegetation spectrum in the oil shale region of northwestern Colorado, are described and illustrated, based on an inventory of relatively undisturbed vegetation remnants.
41712694|The taxonomy of Aristida (Gramineae) in California is revised. The genus is represented in the state by six species and 11 taxa. Identification keys, descriptions, selected synonymy, distribution records, and illustrations are provided.
41712429|Percent tree canopy cover in a ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forest of northeastern California was estimated by the point intercept spherical densiometer and ocular methods. Estimates derived by the two methods were similar (P > .05). The ocular method is recommended when understory vegetation is tall or clumped instead of randomly distributed, or if available field time limits sample size.
41712768|Five alcoves (rock shelters) in the Forty-Mile Canyon-Willow Gulch area of the Escalante River Basin in southeastern Utah yielded rich deposits of late Quaternary macrobotanical remains. The deposits were sampled and the contents identified in order to construct a chronology of vegetational change. Fourteen radiocarbon dates indicate that the fossils were deposited between 12,690 and 7510 yr B. P. (years before present). Ninety-one plant taxa were identified, 62 to species. Six species were common to all alcoves: Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii), box-elder (Acer negundo), prickly pear (Opuntia subgenus Platyopuntia), skunkbush (Rhus aromatica van trilobata), serviceberry (Amehnchier utahensis), and Indian ricegrass (Oryzopsis hymenoides). Late Pleistocene samples (> 11,000 yr B. P.) contain extralocal, elevationally depressed species such as Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), spruce (Picea sp.), and mountain mahogany (Cercocarpus ledifolius), and mesophytic species such as rose (Rosa woodsii) and water birch (Betula occidentalis). Early Holocene samples (11,000-8000 yr B. P.) contain no elevationally depressed conifers, and the remaining mesophytic species decrease in relative abundance. Reticulated hackberry (Cekis reticulata) becomes common. The terminal Early Holocene sample (8000-7000yr B. P.) contains abundant Gambel oak and prickly pear, but little else. Paleoclimatic interpretations for the Late Pleistocene correspond well to those of most other workers on the Colorado Plateau. Climates that were wetter and at least seasonally cooler than they are today are inferred from the macrobotanical assemblage. However, the increased moisture is attributed to higher stream base levels and increased groundwater rather than directly to increased precipitation. Early Holocene climates are interpreted as warmer and drier than those of the Late Pleistocene but still wetter than the present climate. Groundwater levels appear to be decreasing due to stream entrenchment. Terminal Early Holocene climates were much warmer and at least seasonally drier. By the end of the period, groundwater levels had decreased so much that the alcoves were unable to sustain plant communities; stream base level was probably near the present level.
41712708|Red, orange, and yellow morphs of Mimulus verbenaceus and M. cardinalis were field tested for pollinator preferences. The species are closely similar except that M. verbenaceus flowers have partially reflexed corolla lobes, whereas M. cardinalis flowers have fully reflexed corolla lobes. On the basis of over 6000 bumblebee and hummingbird visits, highly significant (p < .001) patterns emerged. Yellow, which is the mutant color morph in both species and is determined by a single pair of genes, was strongly preferred by bumblebees and strongly eskewed by hummingbirds in both species. Orange and, to a lesser extent, red were strongly preferred by hummingbirds but eskewed by bumblebees in both species. Thus, strong, but partial, reproductive isolation was observed between the yellow mutants and the orange-to red-flowered populations from which they were derived. Coloryellow versus orange and redappeared more important than shapepartially reflexed versus fully reflexed corolla lobesin determining the preferences of the guild of pollinators in this particular test environment for Mimulus verbenaceus and M. cardinalis.
41711997|A track station survey method for small, nocturnal mammalian carnivores is described. The method has been field tested under a wide variety of conditions. Stations were visited by rodents, mustelids, and canids, as well as insects and birds.
41712278|The species composition of periphyton and benthic insect communities and abundances of common taxa (>0.1% of individuals) were examined during snow-free months in Convict Creek, a permanent snowmelt- and spring-fed stream in the Sierra Nevada of California. The communities were highly diverse. The most abundant taxa in the periphyton were diatoms (Achnanthes minutissima, Cocconeis phcentula lineata, Cymbella microcephala, C. sinuata, Fraguara construens, F. crotonensis, Navcula spp., Synedra acus, and S. rumpens), except in late spring and summer when several seasonal blue-green algae (Chamaesiphon incrustans, Lyngbya spp. and Oscillatoria spp.) are at their maximum densities. Most common periphyton taxa vary systematically in abundance with season, but relative abundances of taxa also appear to be influenced by streambed scouring and by concentrations of ambient nutrients. Data on population densities and length frequencies of larval and nymphal stages of common benthic insects and occurrences of pupal and adult stages were examined to determine life history patterns. Taxa hatching in winter and spring and abundant as immatures in late spring include ephemeropterans (Epeorus longimanus, Drunella flavilinea, and Caudatella heterocaudata), plecopterans (Calineuria californica, Doroneuria baumanni, and Pteronarcys princeps) and dipterans (Cryptolabis sp.). Common taxa hatching in late spring or summer are the plecopteran Malenka (californica?) and the trichopterans Arctopsyche grandis and Rhyacophih acropedes. Several bivoltine and multivoltine ephemeropterans (Baetis devinctus and B. tricaudatus) and dipterans (Simulium spp. and Chironomidae) have summer cohorts. Taxa hatching in late summer or autumn and most abundant in autumn include ephemeropterans (Baetis spp., Ephemerella infrequens, Epeorus dulciana, Ironodes lepidus, and Paraleptophlebia pallipes), trichopterans (Hydropsyche oslari, Lepidostoma spp., Glossosoma califica, Micrasema sp., Brachycentrus americanus, Neophylax sp., and Rhyacophila vaccua) and dipterans (Antocha monticola, Pericoma sp., and Chironomidae). Major recurring events that may influence life history patterns and structure of the benthic insect community are (1) near-freezing, nighttime winter water temperatures and occasional anchor ice, (2) a prolonged period of high discharge in late spring and early summer (3) a brief summer, and (4) a prolonged period of moderate stream discharge in autumn when the substratum is stable and food is abundant.
41712052|Microsite distribution and diurnal tissue temperature fluctuations were measured in Ferocactus acanthodes (barrel cactus) at its northern distribution limit in the Beaver Dam Mountains of southwestern Utah. At this location, barrel cacti were limited to south-facing slopes. Orientation (azimuth and angle) of both the cactus stem and of the apical region at the top of the cactus were nonrandom, strongly facing south. The potential adaptive significance of this orientation in minimizing apical meristematic tissue damage under low wintertime conditions and minimizing high temperature damage under summertime conditions is discussed.
41712404|Migrating bands of Mormon crickets (Anabrus simplex) were observed crossing the Green and Yampa rivers in Dinosaur National Monument, Colorado and Utah, in 1986 and 1987. Swimming crickets were swept downstream and eaten by four endemic and seven introduced fish species. Included were two endangered fishes, Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius) and humpback chub (Gila cypha). Direct and indirect effects to aquatic food webs associated with application of pesticides for Mormon cricket control may pose a threat to these fishes and to man.
41711673|A preliminary survey of raptor species and habitat in the Manti Division, Manti-LaSal National Forest, was conducted during May 1977. Eight species of raptors were recorded, the most common being the Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) and American Kestrel (Falco sparverius). Nine additional nesting and migratory species were reported by cooperating observers and based on habitat analysis another two species are expected. Eleven Golden Eagles, representing at least eight pairs, were observed and it is estimated that from 15 to 20 pairs of eagles inhabit the division. The Manti Division provides habitat for two endangered species, the Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus anatum) and the Northern Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus alascanus). Further research is needed to ascertain the impact that current development activities in the division will have on the raptor community.
41711517|The small, spherical, lithistid sponge, Hindia sphaeroidalis Duncan, 1879, is reported from the Devonian and Silurian of the Great Basin for the first time. Devonian specimens came from the Emsian Bartine Member of the McColley Formation from near Roberts Creek, Roberts Mountains, and from the Eifelian part of the Nevada Group near Bishops Creek, north of Wells, Nevada. The Silurian occurrence, questioned because of poor preservation, is from the Laketown Dolomite, on Tunnel Spring Mountain in western Millard County, Utah.
41712345|Pseudocrossidium aureum (Bartr.) Zand. (Pottiaceae, Musci) is reported as new to Utah from a locality in Wayne County. The species distribution is noted and comparisons are made with the other three species of Pseudocrossidium found in North America.
41711670|The aspen bark beetle, Trypophheus populi Hopkins, was studied in nature to determine the number of larvae emerging from galleries. Fifty-five percent of the larvae in aspen galleries in the field developed into adults. An artificial rearing medium for third instar larvae of the beetles was also developed from aspen bark sawdust and nutrient agar. The optimum medium contained a ratio of 1:2 parts of agar to sawdust which gave 70 percent emergence of the beetles and less than 10 percent of adult mortality over the 36 days following emergence.
41712048|For about 20 years Richard P. Erwin collected amphibians and reptiles in southwestern Idaho. This report is an attempt to indicate some of his herpetological activities, and to list the numerous individuals, universities, and museums that were recipients of his collections.
41712681|Nine species of mites of the genus Proctolaelaps were collected in flowers or phoretic in the nares of hummingbirds in Trinidad. Previously named species P. kirmsei, P. glaucis, and P. belemensis are redescribed, and six new species are described: P. jurgatus, P. mermillion, P. rabulatus, P. contumex, P. certator, and P. contentiosus. Proctolaelaps belemensis cyanocompsae is raised to specific status. Host plants are given for all species except P. mermillion, which was collected only from a hummingbird host. New World flower-inhabiting Proctolaelaps are grouped into two hypothetically monophyletic lineages, the kirmsei-group and the belemensis-group, on the basis of adult morphology. A key to the nine Trinidadian species is given.
41712838|Vernal pools are seasonal pools occurring in Mediterranean-type climates within which grow concentric zones of vegetation. We studied two vernal pools that lie within an Artemisia tridentata/Festuca idahoensis shrub-steppe landscape in the Channeled Scabland of eastern Washington to determine the relationship between vegetation zonation and soil characteristics. Abundant plant species in the pools include Elymus cinereus, Poa scabrella, Lomatium grayi, Allium geyeri, Eleocharis palustris, Epilobium minutum, Myosurus aristatis, Deschampsia danthonioides, and Psilocarphus oregonus. We surveyed topography, measured plant species frequency and cover to describe the vegetation zones, and used Sorenson s index of percent similarity to verify our designation of plant zones as communities. In one pool we described soil profiles and sampled soils throughout the growing season according to plant communities. We analyzed soils for pH; electrical conductivity; sodium, calcium, and magnesium ions; sodium adsorption ratio; particle size; organic carbon; and water matric potential. ANOVA tests of soil characteristics and topography among plant communities showed that only differences in topography are statistically significant. There are, however, trends in particle size, some soil chemical parameters, and soil moisture potential among plant communities along the topographic gradient. Electrical conductivity decreased with increasing dryness of the soil through the spring and summer. Seasonal changes in soil moisture potential showed that shallower soils in the centers of pools are wetter during the wet season and drier during the dry season than are deeper soils. These changes in moisture may be the most important influence on vegetation distribution within the vernal pools.
41711663|A juvenile female pygmy rabbit (Sylvilagus idahoensis) escaped from a holding pen and was recaptured 211 days later 200 m from its original capture site and 2.5 km from the pen facility.
41711191|In a study of oribatids from pack rat nests in Utah a new genus and species of oribatids was found. The new form Exochocepheus eremitus, gen. n., sp. n., is compared with Niphocepheus and Lamellocepheus, but is differentiated on the basis of the cerotegument, lamellae, translamella and prodorsal hairs. T.A.W.
41712974|We examined effects of human foot traffic on age structures and densities of seedlings and saplings of Pinus edulis (Colorado pinyon) and Juniperus monosperma (one-seed juniper) in a heavily used urban park, Garden of the Gods, Colorado. Age structures show no stand-destroying disturbances, but they do contain small peaks 85-95 yr ago (minimum age), which have been interpreted as responses to heavy grazing. For Pinus edulis reverse J-shaped age structures indicate a strongly reproducing population, while flat age structures of J. monosperma show low present reproduction. Young trees showed strong preferences for establishing under existing trees and shrubs and not among herbs or on bare soil. Pinus edulis seedling density was reduced by 73% in heavily trampled areas compared to lightly trampled areas. However, there were no differences in density when only the area protected by rocks, shrubs, or trees was considered. This indicates that direct effects such as physical damage and soil erosion kill young trees, and indirect effects, such as lower seed production, do not cause the lower densities in heavily trampled areas. Pinus edulis saplings and J. monosperma seedlings and saplings showed no differences in density across trampling intensities. In heavily trampled areas of Garden of the Gods Park, recent increases in use have apparently reduced Pinus edulis seedling establishment enough that long-term regeneration is threatened. Managers of all pinyon-juniper woodlands must recognize that in areas strongly impacted by foot traffic, and also presumably by similar disturbances such as vehicle traffic, sufficient regeneration likely does not occur to replace trees. The areal extent of severely disturbed areas should be limited, and managers should seek to avoid further degradation of less damaged areas.
41712744|A total of 3291 resident deer hunters returned questionnaires distributed at checking stations in fall 1989 and 1990 providing opinions and management data concerning the Utah rifle hunt. Hunters reported hunter crowding and too few big bucks as critical reasons for possibly choosing to quit deer hunting in Utah. Indeed, hunter age structure and measured satisfaction suggested a negative future trend in hunter participation. Results suggested the adoption of several hunter-preferred management options would increase satisfaction, motivation, and success.
41711615|Cerceris species are remarkably constant in their prey preferences. Records are presented from diverse localities that confirm prey constancy in five species. An apparent exception is noted in the case of C. crotonela Viereck & Cockerell. A mixed aggregation of C. fumipennis Say and C. californica Cresson is reported, both preying upon Buprestidae and using some of the same species. Nest and prey of C. conifrons Mickel are reported for the first time.
41711616|An inventory of the terrestrial vertebrate fauna and the seasonal occurrence of each species was determined for a man-made radioactive leaching pond complex in southeastern Idaho. Three reptile, 11 mammal, and 94 bird species were identified from February 1974 through January 1978. Fewest species were observed during the winter and most during the summer. Eight bird species nested at the pond complex, while 19 species of birds were common or seasonally abundant. It appears that the Test Reactor Area radioactive leaching pond complex is an important water source and provides habitat for some species of wildlife.
41712611|Cryptogamic soil crusts in Grand Canyon National Park were trampled by hikers, under controlled conditions, to determine how rapidly they were pulverized and how rapidly they recovered. Only 15 trampling passes were required to destroy the structure of the crusts; visual evidence of bacteria and cryptogam cover was reduced to near zero after 50 passes. Soil crusts redeveloped in just one to three years, and after five years the extensive bacteria and cryptogam cover left little visual evidence of disturbance. Surface irregularity remained low after five years, however, suggesting that recovery was incomplete.
41713071|The Truckee River in California and Nevada is subject to diverse water regimes and a corresponding variety of flow rates. Original riparian vegetation has been altered by these variable flow rates and by a variety of human uses resulting in loss of native riparian vegetation from its historic extent. We conducted bird surveys along the Truckee River during spring 1993 to (1) determine relationships between birds and the present vegetation; (2) determine the importance of different vegetation types to sensitive bird species that have declined recently in the western United States due to competition from exotic plant species, cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism, reduction in nesting habitat, or other unidentified reasons; and (3) establish a monitoring program and collect baseline data for future comparisons. The most frequently detected bird species throughout the study was the Brown-headed Cowbird. The greatest number of bird species (98 of 116) was found in the native mixed willow (Salix spp.) riparian scrub vegetation type. We recommend protecting the remaining native riparian vegetation types for bird habitat along the Truckee River.
41711334|Stenamma knowltoni is described as a new species from various localities in northern Utah and southern Idaho. The new species falls clearly into the large-eyed group of M. R. Smith's monograph of Stenamma.
41712847|Desert plants can influence the pattern of resources in soil resulting in small-scale enriched zones. Although conceptually simple, the shape, size, and orientation of these "resource islands" are difficult to study in detail using conventional sampling regimes. To demonstrate an alternative approach, we sampled soil under and around individual Artemisia tridentata (sagebrush), a dominant shrub of cool desert environments, and analyzed the samples with univariate statistics and geostatistics. Univariate statistics revealed that soil variables like total inorganic-N, soluble-C, and microbial biomass-C were distributed with highest mean values within about 25 cm of the plant axis and significantly lower mean values at distances beyond 60 cm. However, such simple analyses restricted our view of resource islands to identically sized, symmetrical accumulations of soil resources under each plant. Geostatistics provided additional information about spatial characteristics of soil variables. Variography revealed that samples separated by a distance of less than about 70 cm were correlated spatially. Over 75% of the sample variance was attributable to spatial variability. We modeled these spatial relationships and used kriging to predict values for unsampled locations. Resulting maps indicated that magnitude, size, and spatial distribution of soil resource islands vary between individual plants and for different soil properties. Maps, together with cross-variography, further indicate that resource islands under A. tridentata are not always distinguishable from the surrounding soil by sharp transition boundaries and may be asymmetrically distributed around the plant axis.
41712946|We used radiotelemetry and searched with a trained hound to locate the dens of 3 recently parturient mountain lions (Felis concolor). These dens were located in dense riparian vegetation along the same stream in the bottom of a steep canyon. We monitored the circadian temperatures of 2 dens at 1-h intervals and compared them to ambient temperatures recorded simultaneously. We found mountain lion dens to effectively moderate high ambient temperatures, but these dens failed to provide a thermal advantage at the lowest ambient temperatures recorded in this investigation. We conclude that mountain lion dens provide effective protection from thermal maxima for young, immobile kittens.
41712800|Bushy-tailed woodrats (Neotoma einered) collect vegetation and store it in middens. We asked to what extent plant species collected by woodrats reflect the array of species growing in the habitat. Species composition of plant clippings at 20 bushy-tailed woodrat middens in central Colorado was compared to vegetation growing within 30 m of the dens. Amount of overlap between midden and habitat species was low (28-49%) when all taxa were included; however, if only woody taxa were considered, overlap was 71-89%. Sorensen's Index of Similarity exhibited a like pattern; the index increased markedly if only woody taxa were included. Only one plant species not found within 30 m of a den occurred in significant amounts in the middens. Bushy-tailed woodrats collected a wide array of species but were more selective the greater the habitat plant diversity. Results of this and other studies indicate that the concordance between midden contents and habitat vegetation decreases with increasing habitat plant diversity. Ancient woodrat middens are nonetheless useful to paleontologists seeking to reconstruct past vegetation associations since woody vegetation is well represented in middens.
41712642|Physical characteristics of winter use-trees and roost sites of Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were studied in northeastern Utah. Blue Grouse selectively roosted in the largest Douglas-fir (Pseudotsga menziesii) trees during the day and subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) trees at night. Diurnal and nocturnal roosts were typically adjacent to tree trunks in the lower two-thirds of trees. Nocturnal roosts provided greater canopy and denser shelter than diurnal roosts. Roost site selection was consistent with occupation of favorable microhabitat, particularly at night, and foraging strategy during the day. Timber management strategies should perpetuate large trees within Douglas-fir-subalpine fir habitat in areas occupied by wintering Blue Grouse.
41712172|This is a report on the snakes of western Chihuahua that were taken at intervals from 1956 to 1972. At no time did we attempt to collect east of Highway 45, rather expending our time in the foothills, valleys, and desert ranges east of the mountains and in the highlands of the Sierra Madre Occidental. Reference is made to reports on the geological and ecological aspects of the area as a whole, but without a major attempt to duplicate previous studies. A brief gazetteer and a map are included as guides. To provide orientation to the area traversed by the John Cross expeditions, a map of the lower Rio Urique and Rio San Miguel is also included. From the area studied, 28 genera and 51 species are listed, with three new subspecies described: two worm snakes (Leptotyphlops humilis chihuahuaensis and Leptotyphlops dulcis supraocularus) and a garter snake (Thamnophis ruflpunctatus unilabialis). For a number of species it became necessary to expand the study into populations from adjoining states in Mexico and the United States. Such species as T. rufipunctatus and R. hesperia are examples. Where data were available systematic relationships were implied, as well as ecological and biological data.
41711505|A second record of the long-nosed snake in Idaho was taken at the entrance to Bruneau Dunes State Park, Owghee County.
41712249|Two canids, Vulpes vulpes and Cants lupus, are recorded from shoreline deposits of Lake Bonneville in north central Utah. Both species are new records in the Pleistocene sediments of Utah and add to our scarce knowledge of the large carnivores that inhabited the shoreline environments of Lake Bonneville.
41712923|Fire scar and vegetative analysis were used to construct a fire history for the Engelmann spruce/subalpine fir (Picea engelmannii/Abies lasiocarpa) vegetation type of the Utah State University (USU) T. W. Daniel Experimental Forest. Three distinct periods of fire frequency were establishedpresettlement (1700-1855), settlement (1856-1909), and suppression (1910-1990). Mean fire interval (MFI) decreased during the settlement period and greatly increased during the suppression era. The difference was attributed to the influx of ignition sources during the settlement of nearby Cache Valley, located 40 km to the west. Logging and livestock grazing appear to have led to the reduced MFI, which in turn worked as a factor to create the vegetative mosaic now observed on the study area. The increase in MFI during the suppression era permitted the advancement of shade-tolerant species in the understory of the shade-intolerant lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia) and quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides). Continued suppression of disturbance from wildfire will allow the lodgepole pine cover type, which experienced the lowest MFI during the settlement period, to be further invaded by shade-tolerant species, decreasing spatial stand diversity and increasing the risk of more intense fires.
41712121|A list of 80 references to Colorado vegetation description is presented, along with county and subject indexes to the list. This list expands an earlier list (663) to include literature through 1983.
41711939|Larvae of the phalacrid beetle Phahcropsis dispar (LeConte) consumed aeciospores and the underlying sporogenous mycelium, thereby destroying the aecia of all native western pine stem rust fungi studied. Aecia of the introduced white pine blister rust fungus (Cronartium ribicoh) were not found to be infested by the beetle. A close, if not obligate, biosis of the beetle apparently exists with the native rust fungi, and their geographic distributions closely coincide. Laboratory tests and field observations indicate that the beetle completes its life cycle in 30 to 40 days and apparently overwinters as an adult. Quantitative data on aeciospore inoculum destruction were beyond the means of this study; however, observations over a 12-year period evidenced widespread and extensive destruction of aeciospores. The beetle may be an effective element in the natural control of native pine stem rust fungi. Natural control by secondary organisms could significantly reduce the selective pressure for high host resistance in a naturally evolving host-parasite population.
41713047|Biogeographic, flow regulation (water clarity and temperature), and temporal influences affect the composition of the chironomid midge assemblage in the Colorado River between Glen Canyon Dam and Lake Mead. This assemblage is dominated by euryecious Nearctic and Holarctic orthocladine taxa (23 of 38 total species, total weighted relative abundance [WRA] = 0.972) and includes a minor Neotropical component. Chironomid species richness increases over distance downstream from the dam, and dominance shifts across 3 turbidity segments. Eleven species occur in the cold-stenothermic clearwater (CW) segment between the dam and the 1st perennial tributary (the Paria River, 26 km from the dam). Chironomid diversity increases from 18 to 24 species in the variably turbid (VT) and usually turbid (UT) segments downstream, respectively. Total Cricotopus spp. WRA is negatively correlated with distance (turbidity), while total Chironominae WRA shows the opposite pattern. In contrast to chironomid diversity, species density decreases from 0.42 species/km in the CW segment to 0.19 and 0.08 species/km in the VT and UT segments, respectively. Seasonal dominance shifts slightly from orthocladine EukiefferieUa spp. in winter (WRA = 0.101) to Cricotopus spp. (WRA = 0.165) in summer. Total WRA is lowest in spring (0.191). The assemblage is depauperate compared with other western rivers and has changed over post-dam time.
41711888|New distribution records are given for seven grass species now found in Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas.
41712344|Oeciacus vicarius bed bugs were collected from 32% of Hirundo rustica nests and 83% of Petrochelidon pyrrhonota nests on bridges in western Colorado in December 1984. A total of 409 bugs (158 adults and 251 juveniles) were counted in 47 nests, two months after the hosts had departed for the winter.
41711527|Posthodiplostomum minimum (MacCallum 1921), a strigeoid trematode normally found in the intestine of piscivorous birds, has been shown to be capable of developing in 17 orders of amphibian, reptilian, avian, and mammalian hosts. Both Physa gyrina and Lymnaea reflexa serve as the first intermediate host. Only sunfish from the lakes region were infected with metacercariae of P. minimum, indicating the presence of two physiologically distinct strains of Posthodiplostomum. Extensive feeding experiments involving all four vertebrate classes of hosts demonstrated the lack of host specificity in this genus.
41711621|The Nearctic Neoperla are reviewed. Eight species, placed in two nominal groups, are recognized. Neoperla carboni, new species, N. catharae, new species, N. choctaw, new species, N. freytagi, new species, N. gaufini, new species, and N. stewarti, new species, are described for male, female, and egg. Male holotypes and female allotypes are designated for each species. Neoperla mainensis Banks and N. clymene (Newman) are redescribed and mainensis is raised to species. Descriptions are supported by original drawings and stereoscan photomicrographs. Relationships of Nearctic species groups to the world fauna are discussed.
41711799|An expression of Centaurium namophilum (Gentianaceae), long confused with C. exaltatum in the Great Basin of the western United States, is described and designated as var. nevadense. It may be separated from the Death Valley region endemic, var. namophilum, by its broader leaves, its diffuse corymbose cyme, the ultimate peduncles that are longer than the flowers, its medium to deep rose pink corolla, and its stamens that equal or exceed the style and are only slightly exserted from the corolla-tube. The var. nevadense occurs from eastern California to western Utah, and from southeastern Oregon and adjacent Idaho south to the northern Mojave Desert of southeastern California. Centaurium exaltatum may be distinguished from the new variety by its broader, more elliptical leaves, dichotomous peduncles, paler pink or bluish and generally four-merous flowers, shorter and more blunt corolla lobes, and a thicker, more included style and stigma.
41712202|Winter crude protein content, in vitro digestibility, and productivity were determined for seven accessions of black sagebrush (Artemisia nova) grown in a uniform garden. No significant differences were detected among the accessions for any of these attributes. Mean crude protein was 6.8% of dry matter. Accessional range was from 5.8% to 7.3%. Mean in vitro digestion was 54.8% of dry matter; accessional range, 51.9% to 57.2%. Mean current year's growth (a measurement of productivity) was 4.3 cm; accessional range, from 3.7 to 5.1 cm. In comparison to other winter forages, black sagebrush ranks high for winter levels of crude protein and very high in winter digestible dry matter but low in productivity.
41712794|Patterns of colonization by macroinvertebrates were examined in two streams that differ in flow regime: a snowmelt system and a mesic groundwater system. Experiments were conducted during spring runoff, summer baseflow, and winter baseflow using artificial substrata. Colonization patterns reflected seasonal changes in benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages and life histories in each stream. The density and biomass of benthic organisms were approximately 3X greater in winter than in either spring or summer for both streams. Similarly, colonization was greater in winter than in spring or summer for both streams. In spring, colonization patterns were different between streams, with colonization being imperceptible in the snowmelt stream. Macroinvertebrate abundance fluctuated during the summer colonization experiment at both sites, resulting from a complex interplay among population emergence, recruitment, and/or movement. Assemblages in the snowmelt system primarily comprised mobile or ruderal taxa, such as Baetis tricaudatus and Chironomidae, whereas relatively sessile taxa, such as Glossosoma nigrior, were predominant in the mesic groundwater system. Seasonal patterns of colonization differed among stream types primarily because of the profound interplay of flow regime and temperature on benthic community structure and organism life history.
41712704|Red Butte Canyon is a protected, near pristine canyon entering Salt Lake Valley, Utah. It contains a well-developed riparian zone and a perennial stream; hillside vegetation ranges from grasslands on the lower limits to Douglas-fir and aspen stands at the upper elevations. In this paper we describe the history of human impact, natural history aspects of climate, geology, and ecology, and faunal and floral information for key species in the canyon. The role and importance of Research Natural Areas is discussed, particularly with respect to the need to protect Red Butte Canyonone of the few remaining undisturbed riparian ecosystems in the Intermountain West.
41711439|The colonization of the pocket-gopher (Thomomys talpoides) mounds by annual and perennial species of the understory of aspen woodland was observed over a four-year period. New and old gopher mounds exist as a mosaic of sites in one of three surface conditions: bare, dominated by annuals with a few seedlings of perennials, and dominated by perennials with annuals in peripheral areas. The regular creation of these new sites for plant colonization appears to favor the maintenance of aggressive perennials at high densities in the understory vegetation.
41711805|A new species of pulvinate wild buckwheat, Eriogonum soredium (Polygonaceae, Eriogonoideae) is described from near-barren limestone slopes in the Grampian Hill area near Frisco, Beaver County, Utah. The new species is outwardly similar to E. shockleyi S. Wats, but may be readily distinguished by its glabrous (not pubescent) flowers and fruits, generally smaller leaves, more numerous involucres per head, turbinate (not campanulate) involucres with 5, rarely 4 (not 5 to 10) teeth, and the smaller flowers.
41712245|A list of 537 Nearctic stonefly species is provided and distributions of all species are given by U.S. state and Canadian province. The list includes a bibliography of systematic and biogeographic papers published since the Zwick (1973) catalogue.
41713086|Alpine vegetation of Railroad Ridge in the White Cloud Peaks, Custer County, Idaho, was investigated to ascertain native communities and describe their distribution with respect to important environmental factors. Percent cover of all species and environmental information were recorded for 69 plots. Data were analyzed by TWINSPAN and CANOCO, which provided a classification and an ordination, respectively. Predominant communities are dominated by (1) Phlox pulvinata, (2) Carex elynoides, and (3) Geum rossii, and other communities of lesser importance are dominated by (4) Artemisia campestris, (5) Eriogonum ovalifolium and Silene acaulis, and (6) Ivesia gordonii. Although the Artemisia campestris community occupies a relatively small portion of the study area, it is noteworthy because it is a community type not previously known for Idaho. The community co-dominated by Eriogonum ovalifolium and Silne acaulis is also unique and has not been documented in other Idaho alpine studies. Community distribution showed the strongest correlation with exposure, substrate type, and slope. In general, the study area supports fellfield communities that are representative of alpine areas in Idaho and some Great Basin mountain ranges, and dense turflike communities similar to ones found throughout western North America s temperate alpine regions.
41712327|A range extension of the pygmy rabbit, Brachylagus idahoensis, into the Colorado River basin and a hypothesis as to its route of emigration.
41713102|Maximizing desired plant diversity has been suggested as a means of minimizing non-indigenous plant invasion on rangeland by maximizing niche occupation. Competition between 2 desired indigenous species, Pseudoroegneria spicata (Pursh.) Lve (bluebunch wheatgrass) and Hedysarum boreale Nutt. var. boreale (northern sweetvetch), and a non-indigenous invader, Centaurea maculosa Lam. (spotted knapweed), was quantified using growth of isolated individuals and 2 three-species addition series experiments. Seeding densities of P. spicata remained constant at 0, 200, 400, and 800 seeds m in both experiments. H. boreale and C. maculosa seeding densities were 0, 200, 400, and 800 seeds m, respectively, in the 1st experiment and 0, 400, 800, and 1600 seeds m, respectively, in the 2nd experiment. Densities were factorially arranged. Pots were placed in an environmental chamber (12C, 12-h day length, 200 mol photons m s spectral light) in a randomized-complete-block design. After 90 d the growth rate of P. spicata (92.1 mg d shoot growth) was greater than that of the 2 forbs (1.6 and 5.5 mg d for H. boreale and C. maculosa, respectively), and growth rates of the 2 forbs were similar to one another. Curvilinear regression indicated that intraspecific competition was more important in determining shoot weight than interspecific competition. In addition, the 2 forbs competed more directly with each other than with P. spicata. Competition coefficient ratios (1.42 and 1.53 for P. spicata with H. boreale and C. maculosa, respectively, and 1.03 for H. boreale with C. maculosa) indicated substantial partitioning of resources between P. spicata and each of the forbs. Little or no resource partitioning occurred between forbs. This study suggests that increasing desired plant diversity may minimize weed invasion by increasing niche occupation.
41711557|The mammalian community of Fossil Butte National Monument, Wyoming, consisted of at least 45 species. Snap trap sampling of the smaller species combined with sight and sign observations of the larger species formed the basis of this preliminary survey in the summers of 1974 and 1975. Snap-trapping samples (2880 trap days) yielded 44 least chipmunks and 89 deer mice. The distribution of all species was characterized by plant community occupancy. Heavy domestic livestock use of the communities nearest water has resulted in severe alteration in community structure; this has probably affected the distribution and abundance of at least some of the smaller mammals.
41711398|During ecological studies in 1966 and 1967, 282 scorpions of Paruroctonus bor eus (Girard) were collected in can pit-traps in 12 plant communities. The ideal habitat was in vegetated areas where the total ground cover was more than 85 percent, of which at least 60 percent was broad-leaf shrubs and 5 percent grasses. Populations of ants and spiders were highest where scorpions were most abundant. Scorpions were most active above ground during August, with about half as much activity during July. None were found prior to May or after September.
41712301|A series of removal experiments were performed on Dipodomys merriami, D. microps, and Perognathus longimembris to test for the importance of competition for food and microhabitats in a heteromyid community in the Great Basin Desert. Each of these species was removed singly to determine the short-term effects on the microhabitat preferences of the remaining species. We correctly predicted, based on differences in diet, that the removal of D. microps (a. foliovore) would have no effect on D. merriami or P. longimembris (granivores). Using the dominance hierarchy theory, we correctly predicted that removal of a larger heteromyid, D. merriami, would have an effect on the microhabitat use of the smaller P. longimembris , but not vice versa. While our results offer strong evidence of competition for food and microhabitats, the short-term reactions were weak compared to the long-term reactions found in other studies of heteromyids.
41711833|An unusual wear pattern in the cheek teeth of elk-wapiti, in which the third premolars and first molars of the upper jaw wear excessively into corresponding teeth in the lower jaw, was found in a Glacier National Park, Montana, elk skull. This unusual wear pattern was previously reported from elk of the Yellowstone-Jackson, Wyoming, herd.
41711415|Growth rates, gestation period, litter size, reproductive age, sex ratios, and development were studied on 198 litters of Reithrodontomys megalotis megalotis (Baird). Growth was characterized by several standard skull and body measurements and was partitioned into four phases of 1-3, 4-12, 13-22, and 23-70 days. Growth was best described by measurements of tail length, ear length, and dried eye-lens weight.
41711682|The relationships between vegetative and edaphic habitat factors and the local distribution and abundance of small mammals on Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, Harney County, Oregon, were examined between July 1973 and June 1975. Of 16 species of small mammals captured, deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), montane voles (Microtus montanus), Great Basin pocket mice (Perognathus parvus), and least chipmunks (Eutamias minimus) comprised 90.1 percent of the individuals. The physiognomy of the vegetation was a factor in the distribution of rodent species other than deer mice. Pocket mice and chipmunks were restricted to the communities dominated by sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) or greasewood (Sarcobatus vermicuhtus). Population densities of pocket mice and chipmunks were significantly related to edaphic factors such as soil depth, texture, and strength, which may have affected the construction and stability of burrows. Montane voles occurred only in marsh or grassland communities. Population densities of voles were directly correlated with the amount of cover and inversely correlated with its patchiness. Deer mice were the most common species encountered and occurred in all but the grassland communities. The density of this species was related to vegetative or edaphic factors only seasonally or in certain habitats, and few generalizations could be made.
41712447|Douglas-fir beetle brood production was studied on Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) trees defoliated by the western spruce budworm between 1983 and 1985. Tallies were made of the number of attacks, total length and number of egg galleries, number of eggs deposited, number of larval tunnels, number of pupal chambers, and number of emerging beetles (per female and per unit area). Data analysis showed no significant differences among the three years studied. The number of emerging beetles per female parent was 0.59, and emergence per 90 cm was 2.32 beetles. Egg, larval, and pupal survivals were 47.5%, 30.0%, and 15.5%, respectively.
41711947|Distribution records, including 26 maps of specific collection localities and counties are given for 169 species in 29 genera of ants known to occur in Utah. In some cases intraspecific and interspecific morphological variations and behavior are noted. Taxonomic keys are included for the identification of subfamilies, genera, and species.
41712127|Trichophrya sp. (Protozoa) on the gills of cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki) and longnose suckers (Catostomus catostomus) was studied using light and electron microscopy and tracer techniques. All cutthroat trout, 14 cm in total length and above, from Yellowstone Lake, Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, were infested with the suctorian. No trichophryans were found on fry or fingerling cutthroat trout. Sixty percent of the examined longnose suckers from the same location were infested. Light microscopy disclosed extensive pathology of gill epithelium in longnose suckers infested with Trichophrya that was not observed for infested cutthroat trout. Electron micrographs show damage to immediate host gill cells by both parasites, depicted by a reduction and lack of mitochondria. Both parasites form attachment helices (0.52  0.04 m), which may originate in the protozoan cell membrane and function for maintenance of parasite position on the host cell. There was no uptake of C, injected into host fish, via the attachment helices by the parasite that further substantiated the mechanical function for the spiral structure. Protozoan feeding on host tissue may be accomplished by use of necrotic gill tissue and mucus.
41712721|Three condition models for wintering Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) were tested for their ability to predict fat mass, logarithm of fat mass, or a condition index (CI) incorporating fat mass. Equations generated to predict fat mass and the logarithm of fat mass accounted for more than 69% of the variation in these dependent variables. Log transformations of body mass, wing length, and total length explained at least 60% of the variation in CI. All models performed better on an independent data set. Mean prediction error was minimal (8% of measured variables) and negative for all models. Regression models apply to live and dead pintails and thus represent tools that have utility in a wide variety of studies on pintail condition.
41712841|Counts of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were made at 13 reservoirs and lakes in southwestern Utah during 1989-91 to determine current abundance of that species. Food habits of cormorants were studied at three of the reservoirs in 1989. Data were also collected on trout abundance during standardized gill-netting to make comparisons between cormorant numbers and trout abundance. Cormorants were observed at all waters studied except one and were generally most numerous during the spring as they migrated through the area. Estimated cormorant abundance ranged from 0 to 34 bird-days per ha and was highest at the larger, lower-elevation reservoirs. Cormorants were summer residents at several of the larger reservoirs and nested successfully at Piute Reservoir. Trout accounted for 24-81% of the diet of cormorants, with Utah chubs constituting most of the remainder of the diet. Estimates of the annual consumption offish by cormorants ranged from 0 to 15.8 kg per ha. The index of trout abundance was inversely related to cormorant abundance (P < .01) at the waters studied. Cormorants apparently have increased in numbers and extended their range in southwestern Utah during the past decade. This change may be the result of factors that have led to similar changes throughout North America as well as some factors unique to Utah. Methods to mitigate the impact of predation by piscivorous birds on sportfisheries are discussed. The Utah Division of Wildlife Resources has initiated a new management plan at Minersville Reservoir that incorporates piscivorous birds into sportfish management at that reservoir.
41712112|An investigation to determine the location and extent of populations of pygmy rabbits (Sylvilagus idahoensis) in Oregon, and to describe several biotic and physical components within communities that include pygmy rabbits, was conducted from October 1981 to September 1983. Of 211 sites suspected of supporting the species based on interpretation of museum records, aerial photographs, soil maps, and interviews with biologists and area residents, 51 exhibited evidence of being inhabited when examined in summer 1982. Soil and vegetation components were sampled at 15 sites occupied by pygmy rabbits and 21 sites adjacent thereto. At inhabited sites, mean soil depth (51.0  2.3 cm), mean soil strength of surface (0.8  0.2 kg/cm) and subsurface (3.8  0.3 kg/cm) horizons, shrub height (84.4  5.8 cm), and shrub cover (28.8  1.4%) were significantly greater (P< 0.05) than at unoccupied adjacent sites, but percent basal area of perennial grasses (3.7  0.9%), density of annual grasses (5.2  2.1/1,000 cm), density of forbs (3.4  0.6/1,000 cm), and cryptogam cover (2.4  0.5%) were not. Except for the clay component of subsurface soils, texture of surface and subsurface soils were not significantly different between sites occupied by pygmy rabbits and adjacent sites. The affinity of pygmy rabbits for areas with greater shrub cover, shrub height, soil strength, and soil depth, and, to a small degree, coarser soil texture possibly was related to availability of forage, security from predation, and ease of burrow construction. Analysis of 472 samples of sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) collected at and near sites inhabited by pygmy rabbits indicated their distribution was not dependent upon the presence of specific subspecies of sagebrush. A marked decrese in evidence of occupancy of sample sites and of pygmy rabbit activity at occupied sites in 1983 indicated that populations of pygmy rabbits were susceptible to rapid declines and possible local extirpation. Fragmentation of sagebrush communities poses a potential threat to populations of pygmy rabbits, but the severity of the threat presently is unknown.
41713037|There has been a resurgence in applying bioassessment techniques for evaluating and monitoring the biological integrity of stream ecosystems. In all cases biological metrics have been refined to account for regional variation in aquatic habitats and fauna. This study evaluated environmental and macroinvertebrate properties for wadable streams in 3 major ecoregions of Idaho: Northern Basin and Range, Snake River Plain, and Northern Rocky Mountain. These 3 ecoregions constitute > 80% of the land area in Idaho. Reference streams were delineated from test streams in each ecoregion using standard habitat assessment protocols (Plafkin et al. 1989). Multiple discriminant analysis effectively determined habitat (quantified measures) and macroinvertebrate differences between reference and test streams within ecoregions, although the results suggested that quantifiable habitat measures (e.g., water chemistry and nutrients) and biotic metrics based on taxonomic groups (e.g., % Elmidae) improved the discriminatory power of evaluation procedures.Our results support the contention of a multi-metric approach for assessing differences among streams within an ecoregion. Lastly, individual metrics differed in their importance for evaluating stream condition among ecoregions, further emphasizing the importance of regionally stratifying metric selection or scoring procedures.
41712499|Diatoms were collected from an open-canopy and closed-canopy site on Mink Creek, Bannock County, Idaho, a third-order Rocky Mountain stream. Ninety diatom taxa were identified. Achnanthes minutissitna Kuetz. and Navicula lanceolata (Ag.) Kuetz. dominated the open-canopy site, whereas Cocconeis placentula var. euglypta (Ehr.) Cl. comprised greater than 40% of the diatom assemblage at the closed-canopy site. Seven of the 10 most important diatoms were present at both sites. A high degree of similarity was evident between natural and artificial substrates at both sites. Although most taxa were present at both sites, it is apparent from this study that differences in the abundance of taxa occur according to variations in light.
41712246|Three diatom species recently collected from Great Basin localities represent new records of these taxa from this region of western North America. Cocconeis scutellum Ehr. and Melosira dubia Kuetz. were collected from a thermal spring in Tooele County, Utah. Nitzschia hustedtiana Salah was collected from newly flooded marshes at the south end of the Great Salt Lake, Tooele County, Utah.
41712042|The Cactaceae of Utah are revised. Keys to genera, species, and infraspecific taxa are provided. The taxa are provided with descriptions and geographical and other pertinent data. New nomenclatural combinations include Sclerocactus pubispinus (Englem.) L. Benson var. spinosior (Engelm.) Welsh and Sclerocactus whipplei (Englem.) Britt. & Rose var. glaucus (K. Schum.) Welsh.
41712826|The recent appearance of the "California crayfish," Pacifastacus leniusculus, in Castle Lake, California, and interest in its potential impacts on the lake ecosystem provided motivation for a study of the population structure and habitat use of this species and its eifects on aquatic macrophytes. Mark-recapture studies indicated that the total number of adult (3 yr or older) crayfish in the lake was ca 10,100 individuals, yielding an estimate of lakewide crayfish density in preferred crayfish habitats of 0.13 adults m. Using mean body mass of individuals, we estimated that ambient biomass density was 5.9 g m. Length-weight relationships determined for captured individuals were sex dependent, with males having greater body mass for a given carapace length. Length-frequency and weight-frequency diagrams indicated that P. leniusculus reaches larger sizes in Castle Lake than do populations of P. leniusculus in ultraoligotrophic Lake Tahoe. Population-wide, males were significantly larger in both carapace length and body mass than females. We also examined sex dependence of interhabitat differences in crayfish body size by comparing animals trapped in rocky areas with those from areas with macrophytes and soft sediments. No significant differences in overall body size were found between habitats, but a significant habitat-sex interaction term occurred because the sex-dependent size differences were more pronounced in sediment than in rocky areas. Exclosure and enclosure experiments indicated that crayfish had large but differential impacts on Castle Lake macrophyte species, as the abundance of two of the dominant species (Chara sp., Potamogetn richardsonii) declined in the presence of crayfish and, in one case, increased in exclosures. These effects occurred via both consumptive and nonconsumptive mechanisms. These studies indicate that an expanding population of P. leniusculus in Castle Lake may be producing sizable impacts on the littoral zone habitat.
41712991|Since its introduction about 20 yr ago, fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas) has become very abundant in Upper Klamath Lake, Oregon. In 1991 mean beach seine catch per unit effort (CPUE) was 214, compared to 25 for native blue chub (Gila coerulea), the next most abundant species. In 45 trap-net samples collected in 1992, fathead minnow constituted 59% of the fishes caught in Agency Lake subbasin, 27% in Upper Klamath Lake, and 17% in tributary inflow habitats. From 1991 to 1995 fathead minnow declined and the abundance of some native fishes increased. Introduction to Klamath Basin was coincident with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency promotion of fathead minnow as bioassay subjects. Upper Klamath Lake fathead minnow have incomplete lateral lines and males have mandibular tubercles diagnostic of the northeastern subspecies. Although the origin, as bait bucket transfer, forage fish, or laboratory release, cannot be determined with certainty, the possibility of laboratory release suggests modification of bioassay protocols to require destruction of test or excess subjects.
41712412|Leucism in the western bluebird (Sialia mexicana) is reported from La Plata County, Colorado.
41711988|Previous work by Wells in the Laramie Basin suggested that a coniferous forest/woodland covered the basin floor in the recent past (until the latest Holocene). We have found no evidence for this woodland and suggest instead that these scattered woodlands along sandstone outcrops and their immediate margins are outliers of the montane forest of the Medicine Bow Mountains, existing in their apparently anomalous locations due to favorable microenvironments set up by the topography and substrate.
41712071|Soil samples from the Al horizon and dominant subsoil horizon at 190 sites were analyzed for Ca, Mg, K, P, and organic matter contents in conjunction with a soil resource inventory of the Caribou National Forest. Vegetative composition and production data were compared to the edaphic factors to derive relationships useful to the land manager. Organic matter was effective in distinguishing between soil orders and was positively correlated to vegetative production. Vegetative cycling of the nutrients P and K was most pronounced in soils of the order Mollisols, to a lesser degree in the Alfisols, and not at all in the Entisols. The K/Mg ratio of the soil showed a negative correlation to grass production and a positive correlation with shrub production. An interpretative table is provided to aid determinations of high versus low values for the edaphic factors studied.
41712223|The following new generic synonymy is proposed: Coptodryas Hopkins (= Microperus Wood), Cyrtogenius Strohmeyer (= Carpophloeus Schedl, Taphroborus Nunberg), Glostatus Schedl (= Ctonocryphus Schedl, Rhopalocryphus Nunberg), Hylurgops LeConte (= Hylescerites Schedl), Hypothenemus Westwood (= Ernophloeus Nunberg), Monarthrum Kirsch (= Eupteroxylon Eggers), Terminalinus Hopkins (= Kelantanius Nunberg), Xylechinus Chapuis (= Pruniphagus Murayama), Xylocleptes Ferrari (= Hylonius Nunberg). New combinations include: Pityophthorus anticus Schedl is transferred to Araptus; Hylesinus machilus Schedl is transferred to Phloeosinus; Phloeophthorus acaciae Lea is transferred to Phloeotribus; Blastophagus squamosus Schedl is transferred to Polygraphus; Chramesus semibrunneus Eggers is transferred to Pseudochramesus; Dacryophthorus capensis Schedl is transferred to Xylechinus; Pseudochramesus imperialis Schedl is transferred to Xylechinus ; and Hoplitontus abyssinicus Schedl is transferred to Xylocleptes. New specific synonymy includes: Hypothenemus sundaensis (Eggers) (= Ernophloeus costalimai Nunberg). A note on the South American Hylesinus antipodius Schedl is included. New names are proposed as follows: Hylesinopsis kenyae for africanus (Schedl 1963) (from Alniphagus) and Hylesinopsis ugandae for africanus (Schedl 1965) (from Hylesinus). Species described as new to science include: Ambrosiodmus ferus (Mexico), Ambrosiodomus paucus (Costa Rica), Carphoborus bicornis (USA), Chaetophloeus pouteriae (Mexico), Cnemonyx euphorbiae (Mexico), Corthylus convexifrons (Venezuela), Corthylus senticosus (Mexico), Corthylus sentosus (Mexico,), Cryptocarenus pubescens (Brazil), Cryptocarenus spatulatus (Mexico), Dendrocranulus mexicanus (Mexico), Hylesinus caseariae (Mexico), Pityophthorus levis (USA), and Trischidias exigua (Mexico).
41712955|We determined variability in counts of meristic features (pyloric caecae, vertebrae, pelvic fin rays, gillrakers, basibranchial teeth, scales above the lateral line, and scales in the lateral series) of Yellowstone cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus bouvieri) by 3 independent readers, by the same reader on 3 different occasions, and among fish from 12 sampling sites within a 650-km 2 watershed. Genetic purity of the cutthroat trout was determined by electrophoretic analysis. Significant differences in meristic counts were observed among 3 readers and among sampling sites, but not among 3 occasions by a single reader. Scale counts were within the reported range for Yellowstone cutthroat trout, but counts of other structures (pyloric caecae, gillrakers, vertebrae) were as similar to rainbow trout as to Yellowstone cutthroat trout. Meristic counts identified the fish as cutthroat trout; however, variation among readers and sampling sites, as well as within the species, limits their use when identifying genetically pure cutthroat trout or assessing possible integration with rainbow trout.
41712058|A wild population of Pacific tree frogs (Hyla regilla) in Idaho exhibited a high incidence (22%) of hind limb abnormalities. This situation is discussed with reference to similar occurrences reported for isolated populations of the species in the Pacific Northwest.
41713017|An inventory and analysis of the mayfly (Insecta, Ephemeroptera) fauna of New Mexico, based on the published literature and study of extensive materials from diverse collections, indicate the presence of 12 families, 37 genera, and 81 species. Of these species, 25 represent new state records: AcentreUa trbida, Ameletus falsus, A. sparsatus, Baetis adonis, B. bicaudatus, B. flavistriga, Baetodes deflciens, Caenis latipennis, Callibaetis fluctuans, Cinygmula par, Ephemera simulans, Hexagenia bilineata, Isonychia sicca, Labiobaetis propinquus, Lachlania saskatchewanensis, Leptophlebia bradleyi, Leucrocuta petersi, Neochoroterpes nanita, Paraleptophlebia debilis, P. heteronea, Procheon conturbatum, Rhithrogena plana, R. robusta, R. vitta, and Thraulodes gonzalesi. Baetodes deflciens represents a new USA record. For 37 of the 56 previously reported and confirmed species, 124 new county records are provided. With respect to continental affinities, 34 species are western, 27 southwestern, 13 widespread, 1 is a southern USA species, and 1 eastern. Of the major drainage systems in the state, the Gila system is the most species rich with 48 species, followed by the Rio Grande (46), Pecos (39), Canadian (28), and San Juan (25). Relationships between drainage systems and between New Mexico and broadly adjoining states are discussed. Lachlania dencyannae, the only endemic species in New Mexico, occurs in the Gila system and is rare and endangered. Certain other species from the Gila system are also noted as being at risk. From other drainages, B. adonis, Ephemerella mollitia, and L. petersi also are of some concern at the national level. Additional species that are rare in New Mexico and are of concern at least at the state level include Ametropus albrghti, C. fluctuans, H. bilineata, L. bradleyi, N. nanita, P. conturbatum, and R. hageni.
41712203|Eighteen pine marten (Martes americana) stomachs and 29 intestinal tracts, collected between October 1983 and March 1984 from northern Colorado, were examined for food items. Voles (Microtus spp.) occurred most frequently, followed by shrews (Sorex spp.), insects, and vegetative matter.
41711968|A program to control hydatid disease in central Utah was evaluated by: (1) surveillance of infection in dogs and sheep, (2) questioning adult residents of two Sanpete County communities (Fountain Green and Spring City) about their knowledge of hydatid disease and their attitudes toward preventive measures, (3) interviewing local officials to evaluate the proposed implementation of proper community-wide measures, (4) analyzing records of prophylactic treatment of dogs with praziquantel, and (5) comparing scores of tests given to third and fourth grade students before and after they colored an educational pamphlet about hydatid disease. Infection rates of Echinococcus granulosus in dogs brought to volunteer diagnostic clinics dropped from 28.3 percent in 1972 to 1.0 percent in 1979, but increased to 9.8 percent in 1981. This last rise was due mainly to the fact that some dogs were examined that belonged to range sheepmen who had either not attended a field clinic recently or had never attended at all. Prevalence of the parasite in slaughtered sheep decreased steadily from 13.2 percent in 1972 to 2.8 percent in 1981. With regard to the questionnaire phase of the project, 87.3 percent and 84.3 percent of the respondents understood the role of dogs in the life cycle of E. granulosus in Fountain Green and Spring City, respectively. Over 50 percent of the respondents of these two communities had worked directly with sheep sometime in their life. In general, residents were more willing to practice preventive measures involving sheep than they were to implement measures involving dogs alone. However, many of the recommended community-wide preventive measures were not implemented. With the coloring book, students answered an average of 62.5 percent of the questions correctly before they colored the pamphlet and 83.3 percent afterward. Overall, our results suggest that residents of Sanpete County are knowledgeable about hydatid disease and its mode of transmission, and that, in general, progress has been made in control of hydatid disease in central Utah.
41712630|Geographic and nongeographic variation in morphology was examined in Thomomys townsendii. A univariate analysis of external and cranial characters from a large population sample (66 adults; fusion of cranial sutures used as aging criteria) was used to assess variation among three adult age classes and between sexes. Only minor variation is apparent among age classes; however, sexual dimorphism is pronounced. Univariate and multivariate techniques were used to analyze external and cranial measurements and pelage characters for adults throughout the species range. These analyses show little to support the seven subspecific designations recognized by Davis (1937). The general pattern is one of homogeneity throughout the range of Thomomys townsendii. With the possible exception of T. t. nevadensis samples, current subspecies are not defined as morphological units. In fact, differentiation is found among populations within some subspecies. The most apparent pattern seen in these analyses is the divergence between the Humboldt River (including Honey Lake Valley samples) and Snake River systems. These results will be considered with those of a companion paper on the genetic variation in this species to more adequately assess the patterns of differentiation in Thomomys townsendii.
41711488|Cymopterus higginsii and Penstemon atwoodii are named and described from materials collected in the Kaiparowits Plateau vicinity of eastern Kane County, Utah. Habitat, distribution, and probable affinities are outlined.
41711346|During the ice-free period from May to November on two successive summers water molds were collected on 14 different substrata placed in Lily Lake, a subalpine bog lake in the Uinta Mountains of Utah. Twenty-five collections yielded thirty-four species in 20 genera, 11 families, and 6 orders of aquatic Phycomycetes. Correlation of frequency presence of the species reported with physical and chemical characteristics of the lake showed that the number of species collected increased with an increase in water temperature and a decrease in oxygen content during June to August, reaching a peak in late July. Rhipidium americanum Thaxter (100 percent frequency) and Sapromyces androgynus Thaxter (72 percent frequency) were the most common species and the species found on more different substrata than any others. Also in the "very abundant" group were Saprolegnia feraz (Gruith.) Thurent and Achlya sp., both with 64 percent frequency.
41712173|Thirty-nine Utah streams were sampled for cutthroat trout. Of these, 31 contain cutthroat or cutthroat/rainbow hybrid populations. By using starch gel electrophoresis, these populations were segregated into three groups. One group consisted predominately of fish from the Sevier River (of the Bonneville Basin) and Colorado drainages. A second was primarily populations from the Bear River Drainage (Bonneville Basin) as well as some scattered populations along the Wasatch Front (Bonneville Basin). The third consisted of Wasatch Front populations and populations that have hybridized with rainbow trout. Since different subspecies of cutthroat trout are native to the Colorado and Bonneville drainages, one would expect the populations from within the Bonneville Basin to be more similar to one another and less similar to the Colorado River populations. That this did not occur raises questions concerning the evolutionary relationships of the subspecies and the populations. It is clear that at least a northern (Bear River) and southern (Sevier River) form of the Bonneville cutthroat exists. The Wasatch Front may represent an intermediate zone where these two forms intergrade.
41712371|Numerous physical, chemical, and biological criteria evidently confirm that Lake Tahoe is oligotrophic. However, detailed examination of the ecology and trophic status of algae (mostly diatoms) from Lake Tahoe taken from three independent, long-term sampling programs aided in interpretation of plankton and periphyton algal communities by spectral analysis (supported by computerized data synthesis) and suggested that the prevailing trophic disposition of this deep, subalpine lake no longer can be described as "ultra-oligotrophic" or typically oligotrophic. Although at various places in recent years there has been some increase in oligotrophic species that seems to correspond with recent sewage export from the Tahoe basin, there was a marked tendency toward mesotrophy and/or eutrophy over most of the lake from April 1965 through October 1985. This study posits the speculation that there may be other "ultra-oligotrophic" lakes over the world from which future studies may reveal algal communities that may be described as more mesotrophic and/or eutrophic than oligotrophic. Lake Tahoe probably is not as oligotrophic as is generally believed, and the indicator algae in it are not as accurate as is generally believed.
41711687|Phytoplankton studies during the summer of 1974 in Utah Lake, Utah, demonstrated the development of disjunct distributions of Aphanizomenon flos-aquae and Ceratium hirundinella. Differential response to environmental factors and competitive displacement are proposed as probable explanations for this phenomenon.
41712380|Seeds of three species of dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthohium americanum Nutt. ex Engelm., A. cyanocarpum Coulter & Nelson, and A. vaginatum subsp. cryptopodum (Engelm.) Hawksw. & Wiens, were exposed to smoke from burning forest fuels. Premeasured amounts of coniferous needles and branch wood were burned in a small incinerator with smoke passing through a closed chamber containing the seeds. Following three different smoke treatments and one high-temperature treatment, tests were conducted to evaluate the effects of these treatments on seed germination. Germination was inhibited for all species when the seeds were exposed to smoke for 60 minutes or longer. Seeds of A. americanum were unaffected by exposures of up to 40 minutes from fuels with high moisture contents, but enhanced germination occurred after 30 minutes of exposure to smoke from drier fuels. The percentage of germinating seeds of A. cyanocarpum and A. vaginatum showed little effect from exposures of up to 30 minutes.
41711632|Nine new records of vascular plants indigenous to western North America, six new records of adventive taxa, and six significant range extensions are reported for the flora of Colorado.
41712365|One exotic poeciliid (Xiphophorus helleri) and two cichlids (Cichlasoma nigrofasciatum and Tilapia mossambica) are recorded as recently established in thermal springs and their outflows in southern Idaho. Misgurnus anguillicaudatus was collected and is considered as established in the Boise River system. Poecilia mexicana and juvenile hybrid tilapias are recorded from the Bruneau River at Bruneau Hot Springs, Idaho. A reproducing population of X. helleri was found in a spring within the boundaries of Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming. Poecilia reticulata, previously reported from one spring each in Idaho and Wyoming, is recorded from a second spring outflow in Idaho.
41712827|Habitat use by Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) hens with broods was examined at Jackass Creek and Hart Mountain, Oregon, from 1989 through 1991. Sage Grouse hens initially selected low sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) cover types during early brood-rearing, big sagebrush cover types later in the brood-rearing period, and ultimately concentrated use in and near lakebeds and meadows. Areas used by Sage Grouse broods typically had greater forb frequency than did random sites. Hens at Jackass Creek selected sites with forb cover similar to that generally available to broods at Hart Mountain, but home ranges were larger at Jackass Creek because of lower availability of suitable brood-rearing habitat. Differences in habitat use by broods on the two areas were reflected in dietary diffrences; at Hart Mountain, chicks primarily ate forbs and insects, whereas at Jackass Creek most of the diet was sagebrush. Larger home ranges, differences in diets, and differences in availability of forb-rich habitats possibly were related to differences in abundance and productivity between areas.
41712379|Insects inhabiting Great Basin wildrye (Elymus cinereas Scribn. & Merr.) were surveyed at two sites on the Snake River Plain in southern Idaho during 1982 and 1983. Forty-six species of phytophagous insects were observed. In addition, eight parasitoid species were reared from insect hosts in the plant culms and identified. Life stage, abundance, plant part utilized, and study site were recorded for each insect species collected. Insect guilds at the two sites were compared based on species presence utilizing Sorensen's similarity index. Overall, 26 insect species were common to both sites, yielding a moderate similarity index of 0.62. The majority of the species that constitute the wildrye herbivore guilds were oligophagous (restricted to grasses). Many of these insects feed on grain crops as well as other native and introduced grasses. The relatively high diversity of phytophages on wildrye may be due to its tall, bunchgrass growth form, its abundance within its habitat, its broad geographic range, and the large number of related species of grasses in the region.
41711560|Penstemon cyananthus Hook. ssp. subglaber Pennell, a plant found frequently in northwestern Utah, southeastern Idaho, and southeastern Wyoming, is elevated to species status. A new name, Penstemon holm grenii Clark is proposed because P. subglaber is preoccupied.
41711592|Rhopalomyia (Diarthronomyia) subhumilis Gagn, a new species of Artemisia ludoviciana Nuttall (Compositae), is described and its taxonomically important structural features illustrated. The new species is compared to its most similar North American congeners.
41712395|Niche pattern of a desert rodent community in shrub habitats of central Utah was examined in the canonical space formed by the first four principal components of trapsite microhabitat. Positions of species centroids differed significantly (P < .05) in this space and were consistent with the known habits of each; thus, it appears that the principal components measured biologically meaningful facts. Abundance in optimal habitat (ai) increased with niche breadth (vi) and decreased with increasing difference of centroids of a species from the overall mean habitat (di). Vi was positively related to di. Differences between niche pattern of this community and that of deciduous forest small mammals are discussed.
41711250|Richardson's ground squirrel was studied in Laramie Basin, Wyoming (elev. 7,200 ft) from August 1966 to March 1969. Squirrels were active aboveground from early March to late August. Males apparently emerged about two weeks before females. High mid-day summer temperatures resulted in a daily bimodal activity pattern. Mean litter size was 5.9 (range 4 to 9) (N= 69 females) based on embryos, placental scar counts and young born in captivity. Juvenile males had a larger home range (1.57 acres) than adults males (0.97 acres). Mean home range size for all squirrels was 0.81 acres. Density ranged from 1 animal per 12 acres in March to 1 per 2.1 acres in June. Based on monthly means, males weighed more than females at all times. The largest male was 536 g and the heaviest female was 473 g. Squirrels exhibited prominent seasonal trends in fatness. Fat reserves were greatest in July (5.30  2.40 g in males and 4.86  2.91 g in females). Spleen weights expressed as a percentage of body weights showed no significant seasonal fluctuation. Adrenal weights peaked in June.
41712536|Soil physical and chemical properties were studied to identify habitat differences among 15 sagebrushdominated plant community types of the Great Basin. The sagebrush taxa studied followed an apparent gradient of increasing soil fertility, with Artemisia nova commonly occupying the lowest fertility sites. Sites of moderate soil fertility tended to support A. arbuscula, A. longiloba, and A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis. Artemisia tridentata ssp. tridentata and A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana were commonly found on sites with the highest soil fertility levels as indicated by maximum organic carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus levels within such soils. Mollic epipedon depth, total depth, and water-holding capacity of the soil also increased as the dominant sagebrush taxon of a community type changed from A. nova to A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana. Data from this study provide information concerning soil relationships within relatively undisturbed rangeland communities. Such data are required if future soil sampling efforts within the Great Basin are to have a basis for comparison.
41712678|Two new osmundaceous species, Aurealcaulis moorei and A. bransonii, are described from the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. The area from which they were collected is uncertain, but it is presumed they came from the Lower Eocene San Jose Formation near Angel Peak, southeast of Bloomfield, New Mexico. The species are characterized by having a heterogeneous (A. moorei) to homogeneous (A. bransonii) pith, non-or partial closure of their leaf gaps, exarch protoxylem clusters, formation of their C-shaped leaf traces by fusion of two segments from adjacent xylem strands in their inner cortices, relatively low numbers of traces in their cortices (16-22 in A. moorei, 15-19 in A. bransonii), roots arising from lateral margins of these segments, sclerenchymatous outer cortex that connects with the sclerotic ring of the petiolar vascular strand, crenate (A. moorei) or interrupted (A. bransonii) sclerenchyma lining the adaxial concavity of their petiole strands, and leaf bases that may or may not contain one, occasionally two, sclerotic cellular masses in their stipular wings in A. moorei and 6-8 more or less aligned masses in A. bransonii. They are compared with other osmundaceous taxa, particularly A. crossii Tidwell & Parker of Paleocene age. Because of variations in these new species, Aurealcaulis Tidwell & Parker is slightly emended to accept species of this genus with heterogeneous or homogeneous piths, protoxylem becoming endarch in the leaf traces, petiolar vascular strands formed by fusion of segments from the xylem strands in the inner cortex, outer cortex, or outside the stem, and the occurrence or nonoccurrence of sclerenchyma in the adaxial concavity of their petiolar vascular stands and in their stipular wings. The paleoecological conditions under which these species of Aurealcaulis grew are also considered.
41712234|Acetylene gas is very useful in laboratory and in situ assay procedures for nitrogen fixation and denitrification. There is concern, however, that measurements of denitrification may be underestimated because nitrification, a major source of nitrate, is inhibited by C H. The objective of this study was to examine the effects of C H partial pressure and length of exposure time on nitrification in soils. Acetylene partial pressures of 0.1, 1.0, and 10.0 kPa were found to effectively inhibit nitrification in soil samples incubated in the laboratory. Both the partial pressure of C H and the length of exposure time were found to affect the recovery time of nitrification in soil samples. Nitrification recovered within seven days in samples exposed to 0.1 and 1.0 kPa C H for only 24 hours. The recovery of nitrification in samples exposed to 10.0 kPa C H for 24 hours or to 0.1 and 1.0 kPa C H for 216 hours was delayed for an additional seven days, however.
41711584|A variety of amphibian, reptilian, avian, and mammalian hosts were used in experimental development of Posthodiplostomum minimum. As a result of this study much host-induced morphological variation was noted in several organs of attachment. Variations in the oral sucker ranged from a well-developed muscular organ to a weakly developed oral slit. Acetabular development ranged from well-developed to reduced forms lacking apical musculature, tegumental spines, and sensory structures. The holdfast organ showed marked reduction in most poikilothermic hosts.
41712737|The demography of black sagebrush (Artemisia nova Nelson) was investigated in the Buckskin Mountains of western Nevada to determine patterns of stand renewal in sagebrush communities currently free from wildfires. Biomass sampling was conducted to develop growth classes that reflected apparent age of the shrubs. The density of black sagebrush plants was twice that of basin big sagebrush (A. tridentata ssp. tridentata Nutt.) in adjacent communities on contrasting soils (2.2 versus 1.1 plants per m). Black sagebrush accumulated only 75% as much woody biomass as big sagebrush. Regression equations were developed and tested for predicting total woody biomass, current annual growth (CAG), and leaf weight of black sagebrush plants. Apparent age classes were developed both for the black sagebrush plants and the sub-canopy mounds on which they grew. Discriminant analysis was used to test this classification system. Plant succession, apparently controlled by nitrate content of the surface soil, appeared to eliminate the successful establishment of black sagebrush seedlings on the mounds. After the shrubs die, the mounds eventually deflate. We propose that mounds reform around shrub seedlings; but because seedling establishment is so rare in these communities, this could not be verified.
41712230|A premigratory flock of Swainson's Hawks numbering at least 213 individuals was observed during July and August of 1984. Aerial feeding on grasshoppers was noted and kleptoparasitism was recorded between the Swainson's Hawk and the American Kestrel.
41712757|Grazed and ungrazed sites were examined in a semiarid woodland in eastern Australia to determine relationships within various types of cryptogams, and the role of cryptogams in pasture dynamics, infiltration, and water erosion. Strong relationships were found between vascular plant cover and cover of cryptogams for nine rangeland sites over an 18-month period. In the absence of vascular plants, sites with low cover of cryptogams were dominated by algae. The presence of a cryptogamic crust had no significant effect on infiltration at ungrazed sites but significantly increased infiltration at some grazed sites. Splash erosion was very low on soils with at least 50% cryptogam cover. Below this level splash erosion increased markedly, along with the proportion of fine sediments lost.
41711405|Although several recent workers have used the name Sternothaerus for the North American musk turtles, the rules of priority render Sternotherus the correct name for them. The generic type fixation by Stejneger of S. odoratus is accepted.
41712373|Little is known about the Brachiosauridae, which includes some of the largest known sauropods, such as the genus Brachiosaurus, discovered in western Colorado by Elmer S. Riggs in 1900. Additional diagnostic material, previously unknown in the western hemisphere, is reported from three comparatively recent quarries: the Jensen/Jensen Quarry in eastern Utah and the Dry Mesa and Potter Creek quarries on the Uncompahgre Upwarp in western Colorado. An unknown, well-preserved, articulated sauropod atlas/axis, seven cervical vertebrae, and an interesting flora were associated with the Potter Creek Quarry brachiosaur material. Taphonomic factors in that quarry are noted. The Jensen/Jensen and Dry Mesa deposits occur in basal sediments of the Brushy Basin Member of the Morrison Formation, and the Potter Creek Quarry in an intermediate section ofthat member.
41712428|Clethrionomys gapperi were captured in microhabitats with greater densities of overall cover than at noncapture or random sites within the study area. Variables describing cover density and distance from free water were selected in a discriminant function analysis to differentiate between vole capture and noncapture sites. Vole capture sites had greater amounts of cover within 4 dm above ground surface and were further from standing water than noncapture sites. The preferential use by C. gapperi of microhabitats with greater densities of cover is in agreement with laboratory and field assessments of habitat use reported in the literature.
41712640|Cicindela arenicola Rumpp is being considered for threatened and endangered status by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Little is known about the developmental biology of this species. Adults of C. arenicola were active from April through late June and late August through early November, but generally they were not on the surface when temperatures were below 19 C or above 45 C, or when conditions were windy, cloudy, or rainy. Mating and egg-laying occurred only during the spring. Five size classes (1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, and 5-mm diameters) of larval burrow openings were observed. Burrows of 5 mm had a mean depth of 42.23  8.81 cm (1 S.D.). Larvae of C. arenicola were active from April through June and late September through mid-November. Developmental times and larval size were affected by food supplementation. Nearly all food-supplemented, 1-mm, first instars molted to larger second instars of 3-mm diameter. Most nonsupplemented larvae spent several months as 2-mm second instars before growing to 3 mm in diameter. Food-supplemented larvae reached the third instar in approximately 13 months, while nonsupplemented larvae took slightly over two years to reach this stage. Development from egg to adult was estimated at two years for food-supplemented larvae and three and one-half to four years for nonsupplemented larvae. Cattle had a significant effect on larval mortality. A high percentage (76-80%) of larval C. arenicola that were stepped on by cattle never reopened their burrows. Only 14% of undisturbed larvae never reopened their burrows. Approximately 15% of 150 larvae marked in 1988 reopened burrows in 1989.
41711360|Chromosome numbers are reported for 19 species of western American plants. Reports for previously uncounted species include Nitrophila mohavensis Munz and Roos, n = 18; Eriogonum contiguum (Reveal) Reveal, n = 16; Mentzelia leucophylla Brandeg., n = 18, and M. torreyi A. Gray, n = 12; Prunus virginiana L. var. melanocarpa (A. Nels.) Sarg., n = 8; Astragalus beatleyae Barneby, n = 11; Angelica kingii (S. Wats.) Coult. and Rose, n = 22; Gilia nyensis Reveal, n = 9; and Arnica parryi A. Gray var. sonnei (Greene) Cronq. in Ferris n = 19. New ploidy levels are reported in Oxystylis lutea Torr. and Frm., n = 10; Lupinus aridus Dougl. ex Lindl., n = 12; and Castillejo, martinii Abrams var. clokeyi (Pennell) N. H. Holmgren, n = 12. Seven additional counts are given which confirm those published by others. These are Opuntia chlorotica Engelm. and Bigel., n = 11; Eriogonum inflatum Torr. and Frm. var. inflatum, n = 16, E. trichopes Torr., n = 16, and E. bifurcatum Reveal, n = 20; Stanleya pinnata (Pursh) Britt. var. inyoensis (Munz and Roos) Reveal, n= 28; Lupinus argenteus Pursh, n = 24; and Castilleja viscidula A. Gray, n = 12.
41712495|Two specimens of Notiosorex crawfordi (Coues) were obtained from the Rincn Mountains in southeastern Arizona. Elevations were 2,438 and 2,618 m. At the lower-elevation site the habitat was a meadow in a ponderosa pine forest.
41711545|All of the known records of Plecoptera occurring in southeastern Idaho have been compiled in this list, which includes a number of new records obtained by the authors. The study region includes all of the streams in the Snake River and Great Basin drainages of the state found east of the Wood River and south of the Continental Divide and covers about one-third of the state's 216,413 km area. A total of 71 species were found to occur in the area. These are listed by family and the specific habitats in which each is known to occur are noted.
41712277|Fish hatchery systems in both Utah and Nevada are now an integral part of the fishery management scheme. Historic development of hatcheries, including the early stocking of exotics, is presented. Disease control and dry pelleted feed are discussed in historical perspective and present status.
41713010|Large falcons (genus Falco) do not build their own nests and, in North America at least, usually nest on high cliffs. Occasionally they nest in abandoned stick nests built by another large bird on the cliff. In Asia and particularly South Africa, they sometimes nest in stick nests on electrical power transmission towers. This use of electric transmission towers was recently (1980) reported for the Prairie Falcon (Falco mexicanus) in North America but is unknown, except for 1 anecdotically documented use of an "electric-power pole" at the turn of century in California, for the Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus) in North America. Here we report such nesting of the peregrine in North America and additional tower nestings for the Prairie Falcon.
41711831|Thirty-nine previously unpublished reports of the endangered black-footed ferret from Wyoming are listed with dates, locations, number of animals, sources, and comments.
41713090|Before 1990 the spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) was known in Wyoming from only 2 records. Between June 1994 and May 1997 we documented habitat use and observations incidental to conducting a bat inventory of caves and abandoned mines. By monitoring audible echolocation calls, we observed bats at mist-netting sites. Spotted bats were heard or captured on 13 nights at 10 locations, all of which were near canyons or high cliff faces. No foraging habitat preferences were noted. E. maculatum occurrence appears to be related to roost structure, roost availability, and proximity to a permanent water source.
41711401|Some recent workers who have combined the genera Mastigodryas Amaral, 1834, and Dryadophis Stuart, 1939, under the former name, have done so prematurely in view of characters by Amaral that differentiate them. Either the genera should be maintained distinct, or the younger, but widely-known name, Dryadophis, should be retained through exercise of the plenary powers of the ICZN, already requested.
41712543|The prairie skink, Eumeces septentrionalis, is a small, semifossorial lizard inhabiting the tall-grass prairies and savannas of the central lowland province region of North America. This study provides an extensive bibliography and subject index as a tool for current and future workers studying E. septentrionalis and related species.
41711536|The holotype of Hedysarum boreale Nutt. is convarietal with natural populations now known as Hedysarum boreale Nutt. var. cinerascens (Rydb.) Rollins instead of var. boreale. The new combination Hedysarum boreale Nutt. var. rivulare (Williams) Northstrom is proposed for populations formerly known as var. boreale.
41712070|A new species, Astragalus anserinus Atwood, Goodrich, & Welsh, is described from specimens taken from tuffaceous outcrops in the Goose Creek drainage of Box Elder County, Utah and Elko County Nevada.
41712286|Two hundred woundfin minnows, Plagopterus argentissimus, from four sites along the Virgin River, Utah, were examined on two dates during summer 1985. The foreguts of 211 woundfin and variable numbers of other fishes from the Virgin River near Beaver Dam Wash, Arizona, and Mesquite, Nevada, were examined for cestodes on four dates throughout 1979. Seven parasites were found in P. argentissimus: Posthodiplostomum minimum (metacer cariae), Diplostomum spathaceum (metacercariae), Bothriocephalus acheilognathi, Gyrodactylus sp., Lernaea cypri nacea, Trichodina sp., and Ichthyophythirius multiflliis. Fungal infections were noted on two fish during the study. Seventeen Virgin River roundtail chub, Gila robusta seminuda, were examined from two of the four sites in 1985 and 64 specimens from Beaver Dam Wash were examined in 1979. Gila robusta seminuda was infected with Posthodiplostomum minimum (metacercariae) and Bothriocephalus acheilognathi, the Asian fish tapeworm. This cestode probably gained entrance into the ichthyofauna of the Virgin River from red shiners, Notropis lutrensis, and has the potential of being very detrimental to the endemic and endangered fishes of the Virgin River. Parasite loads were correlated with water quality and habitat disturbance, with highest number and frequency occurring in "disturbed" sites. Low river flows and increased total dissolved solids appear to be associated with a higher parasite frequency and mean number in fishes of the Virgin River. These data represent the first known published records for parasites of the woundfin minnow and Virgin River roundtail chub.
41711397|During studies of ectoparasites in 12 plant communities in 1966 and 1967, five types of traps were used to capture 2,478 mammals of the following 11 species: Dipodomys ordii, Eutamias minimus, Microtus montanus, Onychomys leucogaster, Perognathus parvus, Peromyscus maniculatus, Reithrodontomys megalotis, Sorex merriami, Spermophilus townsendii, Neotoma cinrea, and Thomomys talpoides. The most abundant species was D. ordii and the least, M. montanus. Plant communities which contained the greatest number of species were the Chrysothamnus-Artemisia and Chrysothamnus-grass Tetradymia. Fewest species were found in the grass and Juniperus communities. Greatest populations were in the Juniperus and grass communities, and lowest populations in the Artemisia-Chrysothamnus, Artemisia-Atriplex, and Chrysothamnus-grass-Tetrady mia associations.
41711972|A checklist of the vascular flora of the upper Walker River is presented. Listed are 1078 taxa from this 4000 km area. The upper Walker River encompasses a portion of the boundary between the Intermountain and Sierra Nevada floristic regions, and hence displays much floristic diversity within a relatively small area. Due to its location along the east slope of the Sierra Nevada, the Walker River drainage is unique in that it contains much elevational variation eastward into the Intermountain Region. This elevational extension is due to the presence of large mountain ranges including the Sweetwater Mountains, the Bodie Hills, and the Wassuk Range. As a result of this elevational variation, there is much overlapping of the two floristic regions. Additionally, the easternmost exposures of the Sierran granodiorites occur within the Walker River basin and may enhance the eastward migration of Sierran plants. The 90 percent floristic similarity (Sorenson's) between the Sweetwater Mountains, lying to the east of the Sierra, and the east slope of the Sierra Nevada (within the Walker River drainage) indicates the Sweetwaters to be more affiliated with the Sierran flora instead of the Intermountain flora.
41712041|Techniques for locating, capturing, and monitoring activities and movements of Flammulated Owls were developed during four years of study. Adults responded to imitated territorial song throughout the nesting season. Nests were found by noting vocalizations and behaviors associated with courtship-feeding and food transfers between the sexes. After fledging, broods were difficult to follow, unless the young or adults were radio-tagged. Adults and young were captured with noose poles, hoop nets, and mist nets. Backpack harnesses and tail-mounted transmitters were used on adults and backpacks on fledglings. Transmitter life was 30-40 nights.
41712684|Scanning electron micrographs are presented for 14 species of the North American alderfly Sialis: americana, arvalis, californica, contigua, cornuta, hamata, iola, joppa, mohri, nevadensis, occidens, rotunda, vagans, and velata. Male genitalic characters are described for use in species identification.
41712440|First occurrences of the Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus glaucescens), and hybrids between it and the Western (L. occidentalis) and Herring Gull (L. argentatus), in Utah are documented. Sightings of 14 individuals over two winters (198486) may represent an inland expansion of the winter range of this species.
41711446|Interspecific interactions between the little pocket mouse (Perognathus longimembris) and the dark kangaroo mouse (Microdipodops megacephalus) were tested in the laboratory. P. longimembris was statistically dominant over M. megacephalus. The dominant-subordinate relationships shown by our laboratory results indicate that interspecific aggression may be one mechanism involved in keeping these sympatric species ecologically separated.
41712894|The Tushar Mountains of southwestern Utah rise to a maximum elevation of 3709 m, with timberline and krummholz reaching maximum elevations of 3438 m and 3566 m, respectively. Voucher specimens were collected from the alpine region during eight field seasons to inventory this largely unknown alpine flora. Listed are 171 vascular plant species from 102 genera and 34 families that occur in eight types of plant communities within an alpine area of about 19.3 km. The seven largest families are Asteraceae (29 species), Poaceae (20), Brassicaceae (13), Rosaceae (12), Cyperaceae (11), Caryophyllaceae (10), and Fabaceae (8). Thirteen species are restricted to the alpine area. The perennial herb growth form accounts for 86.4% of the flora, 5.9% of the species are shrubs, and the remaining species are annuals to short-lived perennials. Bedrock in the alpine region is entirely of Tertiary igneous origin. Vegetation cover and species richness are highest on an andesite ash-flow tuff and latite flow and lowest on hydrothermally altered intercaldera rhyolites and tuffs. Forty-four species (26.0% of the indigenous flora) also occur in the Arctic, and 13 species are at a southern margin of distribution. Eight taxa (4.7% of the flora) are local or regional endemics. The majority of the alpine species appear to have migrated to the range by way of the contiguous mountain system to the north; statistical comparison with neighboring alpine floras shows the flora to be most similar to the floras of the Wasatch Mountains, Uinta Mountains, and Teton Range, with Sorensen's similarity indices of 52.8, 50.2, and 48.8% respectively.
41712137|Eight general study sites in the blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima) zone of southwestern Utah were examined. Soils data were gathered and plant cover was estimated. Shrubs were found to be positively correlated with shallow, sandy soil. Nonwoody plants were found to be positively correlated with deeper, silty soils. Cryptogamic soil cmsts were positively correlated with silt and nitrogen in the soil and therefore may play a role in elevating soil fertility. Shnibs and grasses were negatively correlated. Management implications are discussed.
41713077|One new species, Astragalus concordius Welsh, sp. nov., is described from Washington and Iron counties, Utah, and section Argophylli, subsection Concordi Welsh, subsect. nov., is proposed. A complete bibliographic citation is supplied to validate the nomenclatural combination Sphaeralcea janeae (Welsh) Welsh, Memoirs Great Basin Naturalist 9: 423. 1987.
41712444|The diatom Phaedactylum tricornutum Bohlin forms blooms in the south arm of the Great Salt Lake, Utah, during cool months. This represents the first report of this taxon from Utah and the first from nonmarine waters in the United States.
41712676|Five isolates of Phaeodactylum tricornutum Bohlin were examined in light and transmission electron microscopes. Although isolated from widely separated sites including both coastal marine and inland saline habitats, the morphology of the siliceous frustules of all isolates was very constant. The fusiform and triradiate forms, which have been reported as being non-siliceous in the past, were found to have an amorphous particulate nature in TEM. These forms were examined using EDAX SEM elemental analysis and were found to contain silica in their cell walls.
41712852|Workers of Great Basin Desert thatch ants (Formica obscuripes Forel) dig simple secondary nests at the base of plants upon which they tend aphids and scales. These secondary nests house only foragers, with the number of foragers occupying each nest positively correlated with the number of worker-tended Homoptera feeding on plant foliage above. Thatch ant secondary nests are cooler than 25 cm below the dome top of the primary nest and maintain a significantly more constant temperature than is observed on the ground surface or in the plant canopy. Thatch ant foragers use secondary nests for at least two purposes: as a cool refuge for Homoptera tenders when midday plant canopy temperatures rise during the summer months, and as the primary place within which Homoptera tenders transfer honeydew to larger "honeydew transporters" for ultimate transport back to the primary nest.
41711970|The vegetation of the San Rafael Swell in southeastern Utah is examined based on personal field collections and previously collected herbarium specimens in the Brigham Young University Herbarium (BRY). An annotated checklist includes information on frequency of occurrence and habitat preference for each entity. Treated are 491 vascular plant taxa from 59 families.
41711353|A new species, Eremopedes kelsoensis, is described from the Kelso Sand Dunes, San Bernardino Co., California, with notes on its biology, song, host plants, desert distribution, orthopteran associates, and a key to species in the genus.
41711875|Described are several new taxa of the genus Cirsium that occur in the state of Utah: C. eatonii (Gray) Robins, var. harrisonii Welsh; C. eatonii var. murdockii Welsh; C. ownbeyi Welsh; C. scariosum Nutt. var. thorneae; and C. virginensis Welsh.
41712061|Measurement of the fat depth adjacent to the xiphoid process is described for mule deer. The index was determined sensitive to changes in physical condition of hunter-harvested mule deer.
41711354|The food habits of a small colony of barn owls in central Utah were investigated from 30 January 1969 to 30 January 1970 to determine seasonal trends in prey species composition and abundance. An analysis of 783 pellets yielded 1845 prey individuals, of which mammals, primarily Microtus, were the most abundant during all seasons of the year. A wide variety of avian prey species revealed an opportunistic aspect of barn owl prey selection.
41712564|Fifty-seven individual plasma samples from desert tortoises (Xerobates agassizi) representing 10 separate populations were analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis using alkaline buffers. An albumin-like protein was found to be polymorphic for two electromorphs in northern populations inhabiting the Mohave Desert Province, while Sonoran Desert populations to the south were monomorphic. The genetic divergence demonstrated in this survey is similar to earlier studies and provides evidence for the Colorado River as a potential barrier to gene flow among tortoise populations. These data suggest that tortoise plasma, examined by various electrophoretic methods, may provide a nondestructive means of determining the broad regional origin of desert tortoises.
41712494|The role of arthropods in mediating nutrient cycling on a community level was examined in a mountain shrub habitat that was managed by mowing brush to a 20-cm stubble, applying aerially 2,4-D butyl ester, or burning sixteen 4-ha study sites. Malathion and carbaryl were used to decrease arthropod populations. Higher nutrient concentrations occurred in the litter and foliage than in the soil of unmanaged habitats. Arthropods decreased nutrient concentrations in litter and foliage in unmanaged and herbicide-sprayed sites. Arthropod populations increased nutrient concentrations in mowed and burned sites. Nitrogen was consistently affected by both arthropods and brush management in all habitats.
41712339|Three species of predators and parasites were found associated with western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis Freeman) (Lepidoptera, Tortricidae) in Larimer Co., Colorado. These were: Ancistrocerus antilope (Panzer) (Hymenoptera, Vespidae), Goniozus gracilicornis (Kieffer) (Hymenoptera, Bethylidae), and Ceromasia auricaudata Townsend (Diptera, Tachinidae). The first two species stored caterpillars in wooden trap nests, while the third was reared from final instar budworms.
41711991|There were 198 species of aculeata Hymenoptera in 15 families collected from Sand Mountain and Blow Sand Mountains, Nevada. Four species are considered new to science and none are considered endemic to either dune area.
41712312|Greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus [Hook.] Torr.) (Chenopodiaceae) typically grows on salt-affected soils where its germination requirements may reflect characteristics necessary for establishment in saline environments. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of osmotic potential and specific ions on the germination of seeds from three populations of greasewood. Seeds were germinated at 20 C in solutions of polyethylene glycol with water potentials ranging from 0.3 to 2.2 MPa that contained 0 to 68480 mol.L sodium chloride (NaCl) or 0 to 53640 mol.L potassium chloride (KCl). Germination of two populations was reduced by increasing salt concentration and decreasing osmotic potential; germination of one population was reduced by declining osmotic potential. No seeds germinated at an osmotic potential lower than 1.6 MPa. For all populations, days to 50% of final germination increased and abnormal germination decreased as osmotic potential declined. Comparison of our results with those from other studies suggests geographic ecotypic development in response to osmotic potential and NaCl and KCl concentrations during germination.
41713007|American Falls Reservoir in southeastern Idaho is an irrigation reservoir used as an inland feeding stopover by many shorebird species. Six exclosure experiments were conducted during the 1990 drawdown period to investigate shorebird predation impact on benthic macroinvertebrate populations. The study sites differed in sediment composition, sediment slope, invertebrate densities, and shorebird abundance. Shorebird predation significantly affected invertebrate densities in only 1 of 6 experiments (Aberdeen Mouth). This site had higher sediment slope and slower water recedence than other study sites, resulting in concentration of shorebird predation on a smaller area of newly exposed sediment. Shorebird predation had the greatest impact on medium size class chironomid larvae at Aberdeen Mouth. Our results suggest that inland sites such as American Falls Reservoir represent viable shorebird habitat and may be managed to insure consistent prey availability. Drawdown rate, sediment slope, invertebrate densities, and shorebird abundance are all important factors influencing shorebird predation. Monitoring shorebird abundance and predation impact on invertebrate densities may help in manipulating drawdown rate to provide adequate shorebird prey. Management of inland sites for shorebird use may become more important in the future as human encroachment in coastal areas continues.
41712094|Siberian polecats (Mustela eversmanni) were placed in white-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) and black-tailed prairie dog (C. ludovicianus) burrows to simulate a black-footed ferret (M. nigripes) visit. Both prairie dog species plugged burrows "visited" by polecats. White-tailed and black-tailed prairie dogs plugged 2 of 6 and 3 of 6 test burrows, respectively.
41712016|Selected reproductive attributes of herbaceous plant species were compared among three stages of a sere in the subalpine zone of Utah's Wasatch Mountains: herbaceous meadow, aspen grove, spruce-fir forest. No successional trends in seed size or inferred mode of seed dispersal were detected. We ascribe the deviation of these findings from those of most other studies to differences in climate, life-form composition, or community age between our sere and those of other studies. A variety of flower colors were found in the meadow stage, grading into a predominance of white flowers under conifers. Animal vectors of pollen, capable of effecting plant outcrossing, were most abundant in the meadows and an order of magnitude less abundant under aspen.
41711672|Annual energy budgets were calculated for three species of small mammals (Peromyscus maniculatus, Onychomys leucogaster, Reithrodontomys megalotis) from the northern Great Basin, Benton County, Washington. Individual ingestion rates were based on species activity, microclimate regime, coefficient of digestibility, caloric diet, and the cost for reproduction. For males and females, the estimated energy expenditures were: P. maniculatus, 6080, 5891; O. leucogaster, 5714, 6587; and R. megalotis, 4057, 3791 kcal/yr. By comparison, each species on an individual basis processes more energy annually than the more abundant species in the community, Perognathus parvus, but their total contribution to community energy flow is apparently minor. Integration of these results with other ecological parameters is necessary to develop new hypotheses on the role of small mammal consumers in cold desert ecosystems.
41712570|At peak standing crop, rillscale (Atriplex suckleyi) foliage grown on amended bentonite mine spoil contained adequate digestible energy, crude protein, and all mineral elements except phosphorus necessary for cattle, sheep, antelope, and deer. Amendments (sawdust, NPK, gypsum) generally did not affect forage quality. Iron, manganese, aluminum, sodium, and potassium concentrations were high and may have adversely affected forage quality. Forage utility would be limited to a few months during the growing season.
41711518|Nymphs and adults of three new species of Isoperla are described from reared material. I. sagittata is known only from southeastern Texas, I. coushatta has been collected in East Texas and Oklahoma, and I. jewetti occurs in the Basin and Range Mountains of West Texas. The male aedeagii, female subgenital plates, and nymphal mouthparts are diagnostic in all three species.
41711747|Considered in this treatment are the families Aquifoliaceae, Canabinaceae, Ericaceae, Krameriaceae, Magnoliaceae, Moraceae, Oleaceae, Pyrolaceae, Resedaceae, Tamaricaceae, and Tiliaceae. These 11 families include 61 cultivated, escaped, and indigenous species.
41716171|A preliminary checklist of the mosses of Grand Teton National Park and Teton County, comprising 106 species, is presented. The following nine species are reported as new to Wyoming: Sphagnum squarrosum Crome, Atrichum undulottim (Hedw.) P.-Beauv., Tortella humilis (Hedw.) Jenn., Bryum bicolor Dicks., Pohlia obtusifolia (Brid.) L. Koch, Calliergon sarmentosum (Wahlenb.) Kindb., Eurhynchium oreganum (Sull.) Jaeg., Plagiotheciwn piliferum (Sw. ex C.J. Hartm.) B.S.G., and Lescuraea stenophylla (Ren. & Card.) Kindb.
41712225|Estimates of site potential for Douglas-fir based on measured site indexes in 450 stands are compared between 10 southwestern habitat types. Significant differences in site potential are found between the habitat types studied.
41712617|Data on reproduction of three species of pocket mice (Perognathus) occurring in northern Utah are summarized. Perognathus parvus and P. formosus bred in spring but not the remainder of the year. This occurred despite mild fall and winter temperatures and shallow snowcover. Litter sizes for P. parvus and P. formosus were similar to those reported by previous investigators. A small sample of P. longimembris indicated they may have much larger litters (averaging 5.78 young) than previously reported for laboratory populations. Adult body mass was positively correlated with testis mass in all species, and with litter size in P. parvus.
41712294|Size, structure, and habitat characteristics were studied in three populations of Braya humilis var. humilis (C. A. Meyer) Robins, in Gray & Wats. (Brassicaceae), a small, herbaceous perennial of the alpine tundra in central Colorado. There was a significant association between numbers of reproductive, juvenile, and seedling individuals and population location. Plant size within reproductive, juvenile, and seedling size classes varied significantly among three populations. Plots containing Braya had significantly lower total plant cover, a different set of dominant plant species, more rock, bare ground, and less litter than plots without Braya. Braya appears to be restricted to calcareous substrates that experience a moderate level of disturbance, such as solifluction lobes and abandoned roads. Populations are small despite the existence of much potential habitat. Population studies are necessary for active conservation management of Braya.
41711646|Inshore and limnetic vertical distribution of adult fish in Pyramid Lake, Nevada was determined from late spring to early fall 1977. The benthic (23 m) inshore area exhibited a relatively diverse composition of five species, while the inshore surface and offshore limnetic zones were composed of over 98 percent tui chubs (Gila bicolor). Vertical fish distribution was associated with temperature and zooplankton distribution.
41712811|Laboratory experiments were undertaken to assess the effects of three levels of cobble embeddedness on the microdistribution of the sculpin Cottus beldingi and its stonefly prey, Skwala americana. Experiments were conducted separately and together as predator and prey in temperature-and flow-controlled artificial streams. When tested either separately or together, both the predator sculpin and its stonefly prey occurred in significantly greater numbers on substrata having unembedded cobbles than substrata having half-or completely embedded cobbles. Stonefly densities were greater in substrata having unembedded cobbles even though predator densities within the more embedded cobble patches were significantly lower. These findings support the hypothesis that higher predator densities influence prey densities less than the structural habitat quality of unembedded-cobble patches.
41711562|Astragalus atwoodii Welsh and Thorne is named and described on the basis of materials collected on the Kaibab Plateau in Coconino County, Arizona.
41712926|Observations and excavations of thatching ant nests from 1990 to 1994 at 2560 m in Colorado provided information on the numbers and behavior of males and winged and wingless queens. Nuptial activity was compared to that reported by other investigators at lower altitudes. Reproductives were observed from 24 June to 15 August. Activity was greatest in 1993 when reproductives were on 10 of 98 mounds in the area. Mating and swarming occurred on rabbitbrush 4 m from 1 nest 2-6 July. The number of wingless queens in 4 excavated nests varied from 0 to 198.
41704201|Because of a previous study of wet meadows, an investigation of Carnero Lake, White Mountains of Arizona, which is ecologically advancing toward a wet meadow, was undertaken. Information on eutrophication and successional patterns in ponds of the ponderosa pine is needed for better understanding of that ecosystem. Aerial infrared photographs were taken to delineate areas containing aquatic vegetation and as an aid in identifying zones around the pond. Five zones from open water to ponderosa pine were found. Abundance of vegetation by species was estimated in each zone. Protein analyses are given for 29 of the 32 species listed.
41712745|Listed are 121 species of Scolytidae from Oregon. Ten species are reported from Oregon for the first time: Hylastes tennis Eichhoff, Phloeosinus scopulorumscopulorum Swaine, Phloeosinus hoferi Blackman, Trypodendron betulae Swaine, Xyleborus xylographus (Say), Trypophloeus striatulus (Mannerheim), T. thatcheri Wood, Procryphalus mucronatus (LeConte), Pityophthorus scalptor Blackman, and Monarthrum dentigerum (LeConte). The second Oregon specimen of an exotic species, Xyleborus californiens Wood, is reported also.
41711359|Fifty-five Sceloporus lizards representing the four species occurring in Utah were dissected. For each lizard specimen and species, helminth parasites were tabulated and classified. New host and locality records were recorded. An appendix containing literature citations of reptilian parasitology for the American Southwest is provided.
41711613|During a 21-month field study of sympatric scus maniculatus (Deer Mouse) and Peromyscus truei (pinyon mouse), 12/152 (7.9 percent) P. maniculatus and 1/45 (2.2 percent) P. truei were parasitized by Cuterebra larvae. Both parasitized P. manicuhtus and P. truei and nonparasitized P. manicuJatus selected different habitats in the community. Differential parasitism of P. maniculatus and P. truei was possibly caused by host specificity of Cuterebra, whereas differential parasitism of P. maniculatus may have been due to habitat selection.
41711877|Bottle Hollow Reservoir contains a diverse algal flora. A total of 289 taxa was observed, 227 of which were diatoms. Both littoral and planktonic communities had high diatom diversity. During summer months filamentous Chlorophyta were diverse and high in biomass in the littoral zone. Phytoplankton collections in Bottle Hollow Reservoir were dominated by four species: Asterionella formosa, Cyclotella comta, Dinobryon divergens, and Fragilana crotonensis. Plankton samples contained mostly small diatoms in early spring, with larger algae succeeding these as the summer progressed. No blue-green algae were important in this succession. Two peak production periods were observed, one in the fall and one in the spring. Bottle Hollow Reservoir appears to be a healthy mesotrophic system based on the evidences of moderately high algal diversity, insignificance of blue-green algae, and the presence of a suite of diatom species indicative of mesotrophic conditions.
41712940|We sampled both subspecies of the Idaho ground squirrel (Spermophilus hrunneus) to document the larger ectoparasites of this rare endemic. S.h. hrunneus was host (+ = new host record, * = new Idaho record) to 4 flea species (Neopsylla inopina+, Oropsylla idahoensis +, O. tuberculata, and Thrassis pandorae+), 1 tick (Ixodes sculptus+), and an eyeworm (Nematoda: Rhabditis orbitalis*+, also 1st records from Sciuridae); S.b. endemicus was host to a louse species (Neohaematopinus laeviusculus+), 5 flea taxa (Rhadinopsylla sp.+, O. t. tuberculata, Thrassis f. francisi+, T. f. barnesi+, and T. f. rockwoodi), and a mite (Androlaelaps fahrenholzi+). Spermophilus brunneus had fewer known ectoparasite species than other congeners. Although all of their parasites had many other hosts, S. b. endemicus and S. b. brunneus shared only a single parasite species in common, whereas all but one of their ectoparasites also occurred on the closely related Townsend's ground squirrel (S. townsendii). The proportion of parasitized individuals and the parasite loads per individual were significantly lower in S. b. brunneus, which lives in small, isolated populations, than in S. b. endemicus, which has larger, less fragmented populations, suggesting a relationship between host population structure, parasite loads, and parasite species diversity. All but one of the flea species have been linked to plague transmission.
41711339|The species of Anoplura found on indigenous Panamanian rodents belong to the genera Hoplopleura (8 species), Fahrenholzia (3 species), Neohaematopinus (1 species), and Polyplax (1 species). As is the case with the Panamanian rodents, the anopluran fauna contains both Nearctic and Neotropical elements. Two new species of Hoplopleura are described: H. scotinomydis from Scotinomys xerampelinus, and H. mendezi from Oryzomys sp. (probably O. alfaroi or O. albigularis). A host-parasite list is included.
41712254|Ponderosa pine cones from 10 areas in Arizona were collected prior to natural seed dispersal and dissected to determine the number of sound, hollow, and insect-damaged seeds in each cone. Total and sound seed yields per cone did not vary significantly among areas but did vary significantly among trees within each area. Numbers of hollow and Megastigmus-infested (Hymenoptera: Torymidae) seeds varied significantly among areas and trees within areas. Numbers of sound seed increased significantly with increasing cone length but did not change with increasing numbers of cones per cluster. The percentages of Megastigmus-infested seed did not change significantly with increasing cone length or number of cones per cluster.
41704206|New additions to the Utah flora include Cryptantha dumetorum Greene, C. elata (Eastwood) Payson, C. longiflora (Neis.) Pay son (Boraginaceae), Hulsea heterochroma A. Gray, Parthenium incanum H. B. K. (Compositae), Arctostaphylos pringlei C. C. Parry (Ericaceae), Eremocarpus setigerus (Hook.) Benth., Euphorbia micromera Boiss, Tragia ramosa (Euphorbiaceae), Leptochloa filiformis (Lam.) Beauv., Schismus arabicus Nees. (Gramineae), Epilobium nevadense Munz (Onagraceae), Lomatium megarrhizum (A. Nels.) Mathias (Umbelliferae), and Aloysia wrightii (Gray Heller) Verbenaceae.
41716154|Vegetation patterns in Navajo National Monument, Arizona, were studied over a five-year period from 1977 to 1981. Twelve distinct plant community types occur within the boundaries of the park. These communities are characterized and the dominant plant species of each are recorded. The relationships of parent material, soils, and moisture to plant communities are also discussed. It appears that discrete communities occupy soils of different characteristics, particularly with respect to amount of weathering of parent material.
41712898|The use of domestic grazers to shift the growth advantage toward shrubs is a commonly applied tool on winter ranges managed primarily for big game. Results from horses grazing in spring indicated grazing also benefits shrub survival, seedling recruitment, and reduced winter injury damage on some species of shrubs.
41712014|New records for Myotis californicus, M. evotis, M. leibii, M. lucifugus, M. thysanodes, M. volans, M. yumanensis, Lasionycteris noctivagans, Pipistrellus hesperus, Eptesicus fuscus, Lasiurus cinereus, Plecotus townsendii, and Antrozous pallidus and their habitat occurrence in northwestern Colorado are reported. Mortality of 27 bats of six species trapped in an oil sludge pit is described.
41712188|The effects of suspended sediments on stream invertebrate detrital processing were investigated under replicated conditions in light and temperature-controlled chambers in the laboratory. The leaf-shredding insects Pteronarcys californica and Hesperophylax occidentals were studied. Mean daily ingestion rates were lower among insects subjected to suspended sediments (1.5 and 3.0 g/1) than insects held in suspended sediment-free environments for seven of the eight trials. In five of the eight trials, mean ingestion rates were suppressed by 41% when compared to insects held in suspended sediment-free environments. Feeding inhibition was typically greater at the end of the feeding trials (14 days) than at the beginning (0-4 days). The effects of suspended sediments on ingestion were apparently related to the feeding status of the insects at the time of a trial. Insects in an active feeding mode were less influenced by suspended sediment than those in an inactive feeding mode. We conclude that, depending on the season and the duration of impact, suspended sediment can suppress processing of coarse particulate organic matter and thus adversely influence important nutrient and energy pathways in low-order streams.
41711500|The Malpighian tubules in female nymphs and adults of Pteronarcys californica Newport are larger and whiter than in males. This difference is detectable in nymphs as small as 300 mg in live weight (final instar nymphs weigh 800 to 1600 mg depending on sex), and is most pronounced in late nymphs and adults. These differences are thought to be related to the increased excretory load imposed by the synthesis of ooplasm in the late female nymph and adult.
41712231|A population decline of about 50% from 1974 to 1981 for Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) was found at a traditional roosting site at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon. This decline may have been due to a region-wide reduction in this species, to the possible but improbable formation of a new but undiscovered roost, or to a reduction in feeding opportunities caused by the decreased use of the refuge by cattle.
41712828|Foliar biomass of singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla Torr. & Frem.) was estimated on the Virginia Mountains, Nevada, based on the easily measured dimensions of crown volume and sapwood area. Leaf biomass estimation techniques used in other studies of pinyon where total leaf biomass was collected were supported. Both sapwood area (cm) and crown volume, calculated as one-half of an ellipsoid (m), were found to be significantly related to total dry weight needle mass (g). Best predictive equations for crown volume were obtained with nonlinear regression analysis. A previously reported two-part relationship based on tree size for predicting needle biomass with sapwood area was supported. Foliar biomass of singleleaf pinyon can be accurately estimated with a minimum of 10 sapwood cores.
41711650|To assess the potential hazard from radioactive wastes, a plant with known radiosensitivity, Tradescantia clone 02, was grown in radioactive soil obtained from uranium mill tailings. The levels of radiation on these tailings varied from 0.03mR/hr (background) to a maximum of 3.00mR/hr. Tradescantia grown in soil with a radiation level greater than 0.10 mR/hr evidenced significantly reduced reproductive integrity and fecundity, as measured by the number of stunted hairs per stamen, pollen viability, and numbers of somatic mutations. Based on these data, the radioactivity from uranium mill tailings has the potential to alter normal plant succession due to its detrimental effect on any species that is relatively radiosensitive.
41711569|New synonymy is proposed as follows: Pityophthorus Eichhoff (= Pityophthoroides Blackman), Scolytodes Ferrari (= Ctenophorus Chapuis), Araptus pallidus (Blackman), n. comb. (? = Neodryocoetes portoricensis Schedl, Neodryocoetes devius Schedl), Corthylus letzneri (Ferrari) (= Corthylus strigilatus Eggers, Corthylus columbianus Schedl, Corthylus ater Schedl), Corthylus spinifer Schwarz (= Corthylus guayanensis Eggers), Hypothenemus brunneus (Hopkins) (= Hypothenemus cryphalomorphus Schedl, Stephanoderes bituberculatus Eggers), Monarthrum parvum (Eggers) (= Monarthrum praeclarum Wood), Phloeoborus punctatorugosus Chapuis (= Phloeoborus breviusculus Chapuis), Phloeotribus pilula Erichson (= Phloeotribus australis Schedl), Phloeotribus setulosus Eichhoff (Phloeotribus dubius Eichhoff, Phloeotribus spinipennis Eggers), Pityophthorus, pulicarius (Zimmermann) (= Pityophthorus cubensis Schedl), Pityophthorus subsimilis Schedl (= Pityophthorus subimpressus Bright), Premnobius cavipennis Eichhoff (= Premnobius latior Eggers), Scolytus propiguus Blandford (= Scolytus penicillus Schedl), Xyleborus dryographus (Ratzeburg) (= Xyleborus linearis Schedl), Xyleborus horridus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus flohri Schedl). Xyleborus tonsus (Hagedorn), n. comb., was transferred to Xyleborus from Dryocoetes. Pityophthorus aquilus Blackman and Pityophthorus cascoensis Blackman, n. status, were removed from synonymy. Scolytodes chapuisi, n. n., is proposed for Scolytodes (= Ctenophorus) laevigatus Chapuis, 1869 (nec Ferrari 1867). The following species are named as new to science: Araptus crassus (Panama), A. obesus (Brazil), Cnesinus prominulus (Mexico), Conophthorus conicolens (Mexico), Microcorthylus vicinus (Mexico), Pityophthorus alnicolens (Mexico), P. assitus (Mexico), P. concinnus (Mexico), P. indigens (Colorado), P. leechi (California), P. solatus (Mexico), P. speciosus (Mexico), Pseudopityophthorus denticulus (Texas), Pseudothysanoes securus (Mexico), P. turnbowi (Texas), Pycnarthrum fulgidum (Colombia), Scolytodes fulmineus (Venezuela), S. radiatus (Costa Rica), Xyleborinus tribuloides (Mexico), Xyleborus devexus (Florida, Puerto Rico), and X. laticeps (Venezuela).
41712054|Summer food habits of a small mammal community in the Piceance Basin of Colorado were investigated during 1977 and 1978 using a combination of fecal and stomach content analyses. Three species, deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), least chipmunks (Eutamias minimus), and plains pocket mice (Perognathus flavescens) consumed arthropods as the majority of their diets. Bushy-tailed woodrats (Neotoma cinerea) consumed predominantly woody vegetation, and the diet of golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus lateralis) consisted primarily of forbs and fungi. Mountain cottontails (Sylvilagus nuttalli) depended heavily on grasses, with a mix of woody vegetation and forbs composing the remainder of their diet. Most of the species investigated selected different foods and thus avoided competition for food. Plains pocket mice may have competed with deer mice for arthropods in 1977.
41711883|In a rare 1969 epidemic, spruce cone rust caused by Chrysomyxa ipirolata infected 40-100 percent of trees and 20-67 percent of cones on riparian Colorado blue spruce on plots located in a 2200-2400 m elevational zone in Huntington Canyon of central Utah. Uredinial and telial sporulation on pyrola spp. began in mid-June, a time closely correlated with opening of pistillate spruce cones. Cone phenology and host habitat, as influenced by elevation, are apparently important factors in the restricted niche of the cone rust fungus in Utah. Several preceding consecutive years with extended periods of spring and fall moisture were associated with occurrence of the epidemic, although no cause-and-effect relationship was established. Weather records indicate that these events are infrequent in this climatic zone, and there was no detectable recurrence of cone rust for at least 9 years following 1969. Outwardly normal seeds developed in diseased cones, but seed germinability was reduced by 25 percent. Aecial spore masses between cone scales, cone resinosis, and distortion of cone scales prevented seed dispersal to the extent that the seed crop was effectually destroyed.
41711778|Hanging gardens of the Narrows, Zion National Park, Utah, are plant communities growing at permanent seeps on the canyon walls. The gardens are isolated from each other and from other plant communities by vertical expanses of sandstone. Gardens consist mostly of herbaceous species less than 1 m tall. Though not individually species-rich, the hanging gardens are diverse as a group, and very dissimilar. This study considers two explanations of the heterogeneous distribution of species in hanging gardens. The assemblages of dispersal types in gardens of different spatial attributes and disturbance frequencies are examined. The GH statistic, a log likelihood ratio test, analyzes the incidence of dispersal types among classes of three spatial and two disturbance variables. The disturbance variables of expected flood frequency and soil depth segregate dispersal types; and the spatial variables of area, distance to possible seed sources, and relative isolation do not. Ferns and mosses, dispersing through spores, dominate a heterogeneous fugitive guild in the flood-prone gardens. Infrequently flooded gardens support more large-seeded species.
41713034|The objectives of this study were to compare vegetative and reproductive growth characters of bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata Pursh) stands as they relate to browsing levels. Growth characters were measured on 10 ecologically diverse stands in southwestern Montana on which browsing ranged from 0% to 60% of all current annual long shoot (LS) growth. Bitterbrush plants exhibited both twig-level and plant-level responses to browsing. Total bud density per plant was similar for browsed and unbrowsed sites, but differed (P < 0.01) between browsed and unbrowsed twigs. Browsed twigs produced one-half the leaf cluster density produced by unbrowsed twigs. No significant (P < 0.05) relationship between browsing levels on browsed plants and bud densities was found. Length of old-growth twigs per plant was shorter (P < 0.001) on browsed sites than on unbrowsed sites. Burning at 2 environmentally paired sites reduced flower bud density (P < 0.001) 9 and 10 growing seasons later although LS length was not affected. Growth of LS showed a site-by-year interaction (P < 0.05). Our data suggest that long-term unbrowsed plants should not be used as a standard for comparison with normally browsed plants.
41712163|Named and described is Astragalus piscator Barneby & Welsh, a species of sect. Argophylli subsect. Missourienses. The species occurs in Grand and San Juan counties, Utah.
41711892|Controlled pollinations were performed on four pinyons (Pinus edulis Engelm.) to compare the results of selfing and outcrossing. Final cone size was the same under both treatments. There was no significant difference in number of seeds per cone. Filled-seed yields averaged 14.4 percent in selfings and 90.5 percent in outcrossings. Relative self-fertility averaged about 15 percent, a level comparable with that of other pine species studied.
41711453|During an investigation of some of the stoneflies (Plecoptera) of Mill Creek, Wasatch Mountains, Utah, Megarcys signata, a large omnivorous stonefly, was found to have a univoltine life history and a slow seasonal life cycle. Temperature appears to affect the growth rate of Megarcys signata. Warmer stream temperatures accompany the acceleration of the growth rate, whereas cooler stream temperatures apparently retard the growth rate. Periods of maximum absolute growth rate correspond with maximum carnivorous feeding from August to September and March to April. Chironomidae, Ephemeroptera, and Plecoptera, in that order, were the most abundant prey in the foreguts. Young nymphs ingested considerable amounts of diatoms, filamentous algae, and detritus but not as much animal matter as did older nymphs. Megarcys signala was uniformly distributed throughout Mill Creek, except at the lowest station, where few nymphs were found. Emergence occurred in May and June, the peak occurring in June. The mean size of females and males decreased as emergence progressed.
41713032|Relationships within, between, and among the Anthemideae genera Sphaeromeria, Artemisia, and Tanacetum were investigated using 238 randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers obtained from twenty 10-mer primers amplified on genomic DNA. Forty-one populations from 16 taxa (15 species) were studied. Jaccard's coefficient of similarity and UPGMA clustering analysis were used to construct phenograms. T tests were used to make comparisons between samples at various systematic levels. DNA markers were 75% similar for conspecific populations. Sixteen Sphaeromeria populations (5 species) showed an average interspecific similarity of 21%. Interspecific similarity among 23 Artemisia populations (8 species with 2 subspecies of A. tridentata included) averaged 27%. Two Tanacetum species (1 population each) were 89% similar. The high similarity of the Tanacetum species was in the range of observed values for conspecific populations; indeed those 2 species (T. vulgare and T. boreale) have been considered conspecific by some authors. The 3 subgenera of Artemisia studied (Artemisia, Dracunculus, and Tridentatae) formed separate groups. In comparisons among the genera, Sphaeromeria was 18% similar to Artemisia (more similar to subgenus Tridentatae than the other Artemisia subgenera); intergeneric comparisons of Sphaeromeria and Artemisia and Artemisia and Tanacetum each were found to be 7% similar to each other. Thus, based on DNA markers, Sphaeromeria is more similar to Artemisia than it is to Tanacetum, which supports previously established morphological distinctions. Sphaeromeria potentilloides may be misplaced in the genus Sphaeromeria based on DNA marker results. It is likely that North American Anthemideae are circumboreal derivatives of ancestral Eurasian stock and that Sphaeromeria is derived from an Artemisia-like ancestor.
41712698|New taxa include Lomatium packardiae Cronq. (Apiaceae), Croton texensis (Klotzsch) Muell. Arg. var. utahensis Cronq. (Euphorbiaceae). Other nomenclatural innovations include: Cymopterus longipes var. ibapensis (M. E. Jones) Cronq., Lomatium roseanum Cronq. (Apiaceae); Camissonia boothii (Douglas) Raven var. decorticans (Hook. & Arn.) Cronq., Camissonia boothii (Douglas) Raven var. desertorum (Munz) Cronq., Camissonia clavaeformis (Torr. & Frm.) Raven var. aurantiaca (Munz) Cronq., Camissonia clavaeformis (Torr. & Frm.) Raven var. cruciformis (Kellogg) Cronq., Camissonia clavaeformis (Torr. & Frm.) Raven var. funerea (Raven) Cronq., Camissonia clavaeformis (Torr. & Frm.) Raven var. lancifolia (A. A. Heller) Cronq., Camissonia heterochroma (S. Wats.) Raven var. monoensis (Munz) Cronq., Camissonia kernensis (Munz) Raven var. gilmanii (Munz) Cronq., Camissonia scapoidea (Torr. & Gray) Raven var. macrocarpa (Raven) Cronq., Oenothera biennis L. var. strigosa (Rydb.) Cronq., Oenothera pallida Lindl. var. runcinata (Engelm.) Cronq. (Onagraceae).
41711340|A complete description and discussion of the genus Enalosalda Polhemus is given, and the males of E. mexicana Van Duzee and Saldula hispida are described. Saldula saxicola and Saldula durangoana are described as new. Saldula suttoni Drake and Hussey is transferred to loscytus (n. comb.); Salda hispida Hodgden is considered a subspecies (n. comb.) of Saldula sulcicollis Champion.
41711751|The new species, Haplopappus alpinus of section Tonestus, is formally described and illustrated. It is endemic to the high mountains of central Nevada. Vegetative and floral morphology of related species is detailed. The new species appears to be most closely related to H. eximius but also demonstrates close affinity to H. aberrans (all three are diploids with n = 9).
41712059|Thirteen pine martens (Martes americana) were sampled periodically from July 1979 to September 1980 for plague (Yersinia pestis) antibodies and their fleas collected and identified. Four individuals were positive for plague antibodies on 8 of 24 sampling occasions. Titer peaks in these individuals occurred simultaneously in early winter but fell to undetectable levels by late spring. A chipmunk flea (Monopsyllus ciliatus) was the most common ectoparasite constituting 55% of all individuals collected. Thirty-one percent of all fleas belonged to Chaetopsylla floridensis, a species previously unreported in California. The remains of ground-dwelling sciurids (chipmunks, Eutamias spp., and ground squirrels, Spermophilus spp.) were very common in marten scats during the period preceding elevated titers. For this reason, and the fact that 92% of all fleas collected from martens during this same period were found more commonly on chipmunks and ground squirrels, these rodents were implicated as the source of the martens' exposure to plague.
41712200|Sixteen study sites were established in grazed and ungrazed stands of winterfat in Kane County, Utah. The area is located within the winter range of cattle and along U.S. Highway 89 between Kanab, Utah, and Page, Arizona. Road construction in 1957 dissected several winterfat communities, and following fencing part of the communities were released from grazing. Differences in species composition, vegetation, and soil characteristics between grazed and ungrazed sites were assessed. Major differences in site characteristics appeared due to the influence of winter grazing by cattle. Winterfat and Indian ricegrass showed increased cover on the nongrazed sites following release from grazing pressure. Winterfat also showed significant negative interspecific association patterns with all major species.
41711570|Basilia dunni Curran (1935) is reported from Venezuela for the first time, and comments are made on four other indigenous species.
41716173|Species diversity, niche metrics, cover, frequency, and soil relationships were studied on high mountain meadows on adjacent cattle and sheep allotments in Strawberry Valley, Wasatch County, Utah. The cattle allotment vegetation was predominantly Mountain bluebell (Mertensia ciliata), and the sheep allotment vegetation was predominantly Smallwing sedge (Carex microptera). Other species of importance on both areas included Letterman needlegrass (Stipa letternwnii), Mountain bromegrass (Bromtis carinatus), and Yarrow (Achillea mille folium). Tall forbs were most abundant on the cattle allotment, and low forbs, perennial grasses, and sedges were most abundant on the sheep allotment. Vegetation composition on the two allotments was significantly different.
41712221|New taxa include: Cryptantha cinerea (Torr.) Cronq. var. arenicola Higgins & Welsh; Physaria chambersii Rollins var. sobolifera Welsh (Cruciferae); Phacelia demissa Gray var. minor N. D. Atwood (Hydrophyllaceae); Iris pariensis Welsh (Iridaceae); Astragalus preussii var. cutleri Barneby and Pediomelum aromaticum (Payson) Welsh var. tuhyi Welsh (Leguminosae); Abronia nana Wats. var. harrisii Welsh (Nyctaginaceae); Camissonia atwoodii Cronq. (Onagraceae); Habenaria zothecina Higgins & Welsh (Orchidaceae); Aquilegia formosa Fisch, in DC. var. fosteri Welsh (Ranunculaceae). New nomenclatural combinations include: Rhus aromtica Ait. var. simplicifolia (Greene) Cronq. (Anacardiaceae); Lomatium kingii (Wats.) Cronq., L. kingii var. alpinum (Wats.) Cronq. (Apiaceae); Cryptantha cinerea (Torr.) Cronq. var. laxa (Macbr.) Higgins; Mertensia lanceolata (Pursh) DC. var. nivalis (Wats.) Higgins (Boraginaceae); Opuntia erinacea Engelm. var. aurea (Baxter) Welsh (Cactaceae); Arenaria fendleri Gray var. aculeata (Wats.) Welsh, A. fendleri var. eastwoodiae (Rydb.) Welsh, Lychnis apetala L. var. kingii (Wats.) Welsh, Stellaria longipes Goldie var. monantha (Hulten) Welsh (Caryophyllaceae); Oraba densifolia Nutt. ex T. & G. var. apiculata (C. L. Hitchc.) Welsh, D. oligosperma Hook. var. juniperina (Dorn) Welsh, Physaria acutifolia Rydb. var. stylosa (Rollins) Welsh, Thelypodiopsis sagittata (Nutt.) Schulz var. ovalifolia (Rydb.) Welsh (Cruciferae); Lotus plebeius (T. Brandg.) Barneby, Lupinus polyphyllus Lindl. in Edwards var. ammophilus (Greene) Barneby, L. polyphyllus var. humicola (A. Nels.) Barneby, L. argenteus Pursh var. fulvomaculatus (Payson) Barneby, L. argenteus var. palmeri (Wats.) Barneby, Pediomelum aromaticum (Payson) Welsh, P. epipsilum (Barneby) Welsh, Psoralidium lanceolatum (Pursh) Rydb. var. stenophyllum (Rydb.) Welsh, and P. lanceolatum var. stenostachys (Rydb.) Welsh (Leguminosae); Mirabilis linearis (Pursh) Hiemerl var. decipiens (Standl.) Welsh (Nyctaginaceae); Camissonia boothii var. condensata (Munz) Cronq., C. boothii var. villosa (Wats.) Cronq., C. clavaeformis (Torr. & Frem.) Raven var. purpurascens (Wats.) Cronq., C. scapoidea (T. & G.) var. utahensis (Raven) Welsh, Oenothera caespitosa var. macroglottis (Rydb.) Cronq., Oe. caespitosa var. navajoensis (Wagner, Stockhouse, & Klein) Cronq., Oe. flava (A. Nels.) Garrett var. acutissima (W. L. Wagner) Welsh, and Oe. primiveris Gray var. bufonis (Jones) Cronq. (Onagraceae); Papaver radicatum Rottb. var. pygmaeum (Rydb.) Welsh (Papaveraceae); Dodecatheon pulchellum (Raf.) Merr. var. zionense (Eastw.) Welsh (Primulaceae); Aquilegia flavescens Wats. var. rubicunda (Tidestr.) Welsh, Delphinium andersonii Gray var. scaposum (Greene) Welsh, D. occidentalis (Wats.) Wats. var. barbeyi (Huth) Welsh, and Ranunculus andersonii Gray var. juniperinus (Jones) Welsh (Ranunculaceae); Purshia mexicana (D. Don) Welsh and P. mexicana var. stansburyi (Torr.) Welsh (Rosaceae); Galium mexicanum H. B. K. var. asperrimum (Gray) Higgins & Welsh (Rubiaceae); Castilleja parvula Rydb. var. revealii (N. Holmgren) N. D. Atwood and C. rhexifolia Rydb. var. sulphurea (Rydb.) N. D. Atwood (Scrophulariaceae).
41712752|Lichens are common components of microbiotic soil crusts. A total of 34 species from 17genera are reported from soil crust communities throughout the Intermountain Area. Distribution of terricolous lichens is determined by various physical and biological factors: physical and chemical characteristics of the soil, moisture regimes, temperature, insolation, and development and composition of the vascular plant community. Some species demonstrate a broad ecological amplitude while others have a more restricted distribution. All growth forms are represented; however, the vast majority of soil crust lichens are squamulose (minutely foliose). Fruticose species are least abundant. In exposed, middle-elevation sites vagrant (detached) species are common. This paper describes and discusses terricolous lichen communities of desert habitats of the intermountain western United States. Effects of various human-related activities including grazing, wildfire, air pollution, and recreation vehicles on soil crust lichens are discussed. Gypsoplaca macrophylla (Zahlbr.) Timdal, a rare squamulose lichen which occurs on gypsifersous soils, was recently collected in Emery County, Utah, and is reported as new to the state.
41711846|A total of 19 cestodes, Ophiotaenia sp., were recovered by deworming from adult Colorado River Squawfish (Pteichocheilius licius) maintained at the U.S. National Fish Hatchery at Willow Beach, Arizona. These specimens differ from other described species and are named Ophiotaenia critica.
41712633|Arctomecon humilis Cov. is a narrow endemic, confined to gypsiferous substrates derived from the Shnabkaib Member of the Moenkopi Formation in southwestern Utah. The characteristics of seven A. humilis sites were studied to define habitat requirements of the species. Both physical and biotic aspects of the habitat were analyzed; geology, soil chemistry, and physical properties, as well as vascular and nonvascular plant communities, were studied. Chemical and physical properties of these soils vary considerably from those supporting adjacent desert-shrub communities. The dominant vascular species on A. humilis sites are shadscale and Mormon tea. It was found that A. humilis occurred in portions of the habitat where shrubs were relatively less dense. A soil-surface, cryptogamic community contributed 84% or more of the total living cover on sites that supported A. humilis. Species composition of the cryptogamic community was highly similar among sites. Likewise, composition of the cryptogamic cover was similar when random samples were compared with samples centered on A. humilis plants. The Purgatory Flat site, which does not support the poppy, seems inseparable from A. humilis sites in respect to soil characteristics and composition of the associated plant cover. There is reason to believe an A. humilis population could be established at the Purgatory Flat site.
41716181|The western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis Freeman) prefers to feed on flushing buds and current-year needles of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco). Budworm larvae will not typically consume older age classes of needles unless all current-year foliage is depleted. We tested the following null hypotheses: (1) budworm larvae can feed on foliage with a wide range of qualities (i.e., current-year versus 1-, 2-, or 3-year-old needles) without measurable effects on fitness; and (2) budworm adults do not show any oviposition preference linked to the age of the foliage they fed on as larvae. We used both laboratory and field experiments. There was strong evidence to support rejection of hypothesis 1. Budworm larvae had greater survival from the 4th instar to pupal stage when they fed on current-year foliage (43%-52% survival) versus older age classes of foliage (0-25% survival). Pupae from current-year foliage were also heavier than pupae from 1-year-old foliage. There was weak evidence to support rejecting hypothesis 2; budworm adults that had fed on current-year or 3-year-old foliage as larvae preferred to oviposit on current-year foliage. Similar conclusions were drawn from the laboratory and field experiments.
41713074|Western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis spp. occidentalis) has rapidly expanded into shrub steppe communities in the Intermountain Northwest during the past 120 yr. Cutting juniper is a management tool used to restore shrub steppe communities. Response of the understory after cutting is strongly influenced by plant species composition existing prior to treatment. This study assessed distribution patterns of understory plants over 2 growing seasons after tree cutting in a western juniper woodland. Cover, density, and diversity of understory species were compared among 3 locations: interspaces, duff zones (previously under tree canopies), and debris zones (beneath cut trees). Plant cover and density increased in all zones following tree cutting. Understory vegetation in cut woodlands exhibited strong zonal distribution. Cover and density of Poa sandbergii and Sitanion hystrix and canopy cover of annual forbs were greatest in duff zones (P < 0.05). Density and cover of other perennial grasses and total densities of perennial forbs and annual forbs were greatest in interspaces (P < 0.05). Debris zones tended to have the lowest overall understory cover and plant density values. Under juniper debris many species common to interspaces were reduced in density, although plants that survived or established beneath debris grew larger than their counterparts in interspaces. Species that increased in density and cover under debris were plants characteristic of duff zones and whose seeds are typically wind dispersed.
41711440|A noosed female Crotophytus collaris bicinctores Smith and Tanner voiced an alarm similar to that of C. wislizeni.
41712837|We translocated 196 Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) into Sawtooth Valley, Idaho, during March-April 1986-87 to augment a small resident population. Forty-four grouse equipped with radio transmitters were monitored through spring and summer. Nest sites (n = 6) had greater (P = .032) horizontal cover than did independent random plots (n = 7). During summer, grouse used sites (n = 50) with taller live and dead shrub heights, greater shrub canopy cover, and more ground litter (P < .009) than were found on dependent random plots (n = 50) 50-300 m from use sites. Distance to edge and mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata vaseyana) density best separated use sites from independent random plots in logistic regression analysis and correctly classified 64% of the use sites and 78% of the independent random plots. Sage Grouse used sites that had narrower frequency distributions for many variables than did independent plots (P < .04), suggesting selection for uniform habitat.
41712306|Reported are 158 species of Asilidae (Diptera) in 50 genera from Utah. Keys to subfamilies, genera, and species are given, along with information on seasonal and distributional occurrence in Utah. Seventy-six maps and 56 line drawings show the Utah distribution of each species and illustrate important characters used in the keys. A table summarizes the current status of names used in earlier state lists.
41712846|Vegetation and soils inside and outside an abandoned sheep corral on degraded subalpine range of the Wasatch Plateau were studied to determine the influence of approximately 37 years use of the corral on soil and plant development. Vegetal and surface cover were estimated. Herbage, litter, and soils were sampled inside and outside the corral and analyzed for Corg, N, P and S. Soil pH, bulk density, and CO-C also were measured. Storage (mass/unit area) of Corg, N, P and S was determined for each component. Yield and vegetal composition were significantly affected inside the corral boundary. Herbage yield was 2.2 times greater, litter mass 16 times greater, foliar cover of grasses 2 times greater, and forb cover 70% lower inside than outside the corral. Cover of meadow barley (Hordeum brachyantherum), a component of the predisturbance vegetation of the Wasatch Plateau, was nearly 12 times greater inside than outside the corral. These and other vegetal and cover differences reflect inside-outside differences in concentration, storage, and availability of soil Corg, N, P and S. Concentrations of Corg and total and available N, P, and S were greater in the surface 5 cm of soil inside the corral. Available P inside the corral was much higher in all soil layers. Because of bulk density differences, storage was greater inside the corral only for Corg and N at 0-5 cm and for P at 5-15 cm. Lower soil pH inside the corral appears related to soil P distribution and CO-C storage. Results suggest a need to reexamine earlier conclusions that tall forbs are the climax dominants of the Wasatch summer range.
41711635|Botanical compositions and pH values for pronghorn (Antelocapra americana) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fecal pellets from the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory Site were different. As there was no overlap between ranges of the herbivores' fecal pH values, the fecal pH technique is a valuable tool for distinguishing between fecal pellets of pronghorn and mule deer on the study area.
41712596|Listed in alphabetical order by author are 934 references to literature of the native vegetation of Nevada and Utah. This updates and expands the 1967 bibliography of Christensen for Utah. A keyword-citation index is provided.
41716174|A flock of some 1000 ravens, not associated with night roosts, was seen during the breeding season. Some were feeding on the ground while others soared in the air above them. It is suggested that the large soaring flock acted as information transfers for feeding conditions.
41712020|The eight known North American species of Microrhopala infest Solidago, Aster, and other compositaceous plants. Descriptions and keys to species and subspecies are given. Microrhopala rileyi is named as a new species from Missouri, M. hecate (Newman) is removed from synonymy with M. cyanea (Say), and M. cyanea is reduced to a subspecies of M. excavata (Olivier). Lectotypes are designated for taxa described originally in the genus Hispa, i.e., Hispa vittata, H. xerene, and H. erebus, and neotypes are designated for H. excavata and H. cyanea. Phylogenetic relationships are discussed.
41711417|The following species are described as new to science: Monarthrum cordicticum, M. tetradontium, M. conversum, M. bidentatum (Mexico), M. subgranulatum (Honduras), M. morsum, M. carinatum, M. adustum, M. insignatum, M. fastigiorum, M. limulum, M. carinulum, M. infradentatum, M. corculum, M. posticum, M. proximum (Costa Rica), M. proprium, M. notatum (Costa Rica, Panama), M. bifoveatum (Costa Rica, Venezuela), Corthycyclon caliginis, C. furvus, C. morulus (Costa Rica), C. tordus (Costa Rica, Panama), Corthylocurus debilis (Costa Rica, Panama).
41711416|Juvenile Belding ground squirrels were studied in the Sierra Nevada. Females were more trappable, had smaller home ranges, and tended to enter hibernation earlier than males. The primary sex ratio was 1:1. Individuals first emerged from the natal burrow at three to four weeks of age and a body weight of 35 g. Body weight and linear dimensions increased thereafter until hibernation began. Maximum prehibernatory weight of 200 to 260 g was attained at about 12 weeks of age. Prehibernatory fattening began at about six weeks of age. Maximum lipid stores attained weighed about 80 percent of the lean, dry body compartment. Seasonal changes occurred in weight of white and brown fat depots, adrenal glands, spleen, heart, kidneys, liver, and testes. Annual variations in snowpack and emergence schedule caused the reproductive period, and thus phenology of juveniles, to vary by as much as three weeks. The last animals to immerge were unusually small, being from late litters. Nonetheless, they may have had lipid stores sufficient for surviving hibernation.
41711602|New synonymy of American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Corthylus Erichson (= Pseudocorthylus Ferrari), Hylesinus Fabricius (= Leperisinus Reitter), Monarthrum Kirsch (= Anchonocerus Eichhoff), Corthylus spinifer Schwarz (= Metacorthylus affinis Fonseca, Corthylus affinis Fonseca), Cryphalus ruficollis Hopkins (= Cryphalus amabilis Chamberlin, Cryphalus cohradensis Wood), Gnathotrichus retusus (LeConte) (= Gnathotrichus alni Blackman), Gnathotrichus sulcatus (LeConte) (= Gnathotnchus aciculatus Blackman), Hypothenemus eruditus Westwood (= Hypothenemus german Eichhoff, Stephanoderes myrmedon Eichhoff, Stephanoderes intersetosus Eggers), Hypothenemus seriatus Eichhoff (= Stephanoderes nitidulus Hopkins, Stephanoderes subopacicollis Hopkins), Hypothenemus obscurus (Fabricius) (= Stephanoderes asperulus Eichhoff, Stephanoderes cassiae Eichhoff), Pityophthorus annectens LeConte (= Pityophthorus citus Blackman), Pityophthorus balsameus Blackman (= Pityophthorus patchi Blackman), Pityophthorus briscoei Blackman (= Pityophthorus mundus Blackman), Pityophthorus cariniceps LeConte (= Pityophthorus cognatus Blackman), Pityophthorus confertus Swaine (= Pityophthorus agnatus Blackman, Pityophthorus comptus Blackman), Pityophthorus confusus Blandford (= Pityophthorus bellus Blackman), Pityophthorus consimilis LeConte (= Pityophthorus nudus Swaine), Pityophthorus fuscus Blackman (= Pityophthorus smithi Schedi), Pityophthorus immanis Blackman (= Pityophthorus sulcatus Bright), Pityophthorus murrayanae Blackman (= Pityophthorus gracilis Swaine, Pityophthorus cutleri Swaine, Pityophthorus exilis Swaine, Pityophthorus depygis Blackman, Pityophthorus watsoni Schedi, Pityophthorus aurulentis Bright), Pityophthorus ornatus Blackman (= Pityophthorus limatus Wood), Pityophthorus pseudotsugae Swaine (= Pityophthorus thatcheri Bright), Pityophthorus pullus Zimmermann (= Pityophthorus bisuhatus Eichhoff), Scolytodes levis (Blackman) (= Ctenophorus laevigatus Chapuis, Scolytodes chapuisi Wood). The following species are named as new to science: Pityophthorus crotonis (Venezuela), Scolytodes constrictus, S. festus, S. praeceps (Colombia), S. canaliculus, S. contractus, S. jucundus, S. opacus, S. opimus, S. serenus, S. suturalis, and S. varius (Venezuela).
41711468|This taxonomic monograph of the Phacelia crenulatae group for North America recognizes 35 species and 7 varieties. A brief discussion of the history, general morphology, phylogeny, and cytology is given. All entities are separated by a comprehensive key, followed by a list of types, synonyms, descriptions, and general habitat. Distribution maps and illustrations are included. One variety is described as new. The body of this work is based on herbarium specimens and extensive field observations and collections made throughout much of North America.
41712043|The stomach contents were examined from 324 western Washington bobcats (Felis rufus) and 123 from eastern Washington taken by hunters from 1976 through 1980, for major prey items as well as sex-and age-related differences in diet. Western Washington bobcats ate primarily mountain beavers (Aphdontia rufa) (42% occurrence) and snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) (26%). Within that population females ate larger quantities of smaller prey such as douglas squirrels (Tamiasciurus douglasi) and lesser amounts of deer (Odocoileus sp.) than males. Bobcat diets in eastern Washington were more diverse; main foods consisted of lagomorphs (Sylvilagus nuttallii, Lepus sp.) (20%), red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) (15%), deer (11%), and voles (Microtus sp.) (11%). Age-related differences were most prevalent in this population, with adults consuming larger quantities of deer and larger prey than did kittens.
41711741|The progress of bud development was studied in limber pines growing in the mountains of northeastern Utah. Initiation of new bud scales began in mid-June, several weeks after elongation of the current shoot had begun. Needle primordia first appeared in September and continued to form through the winter, until all were present in May. This winter activity is believed to be fostered by surface temperatures on the terminal buds considerably higher than ambient air temperatures.
41712513|An annotated list of 108 bird species is reported from several spring and two summer visits, as well as one fall and one winter visit, into Hells Canyon on the Idaho-Oregon border. This is the first report on the avifauna of one of the deepest gorges on earth.
41711409|The bite of a male blackwidow spider on a Utah woman is described.
41711999|A hunter-harvested adult female mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) was found to have canine teeth present along both rows of teeth of the maxillae.
41712450|We examined the mycophagy (ingestion of fungi) of squirrels of five genera and eight species in the coniferous forests of Oregon. Data from 644 dietary samples demonstrated that squirrels of all eight species are mycophagous and eat the belowground fruiting bodies of at least 26 genera of mycorrhizal fungi. Four species are primarily arboreal and active throughout the year; the other four are primarily terrestrial and hibernate during winter. Of the squirrels examined, only the northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus [Shaw]) is nocturnal and almost exclusively a fungivore. The flying squirrel is used to illustrate the dynamics of all the squirrels in association with hypogeous mycorrhizal fungi, nitrogen-fixing bacteria, yeast, and coniferous trees in Oregon forests because we have studied it the most. Squirrels may prove to be vital links among different processes within temperate coniferous forests.
41711830|Alloperla furcula, A. hamata, A. roberti and Triznaka spinosa are described from North America. A new genus, Bisancora, based on the new species B. rutriformis, is described and includes B. pastina (Jewett). Alloperla quadrata is synonymized with A. leonarda Ricker.
41712416|A checklist of the vascular plants of the House Range, Juab and Millard counties, Utah, is presented. A flora of 373 species and infraspecifc taxa in 231 genera and 60 families are reported. The geology, physiography, climate, and plant communities are briefly discussed. Several endemics occur in the study area and a new taxon has been described.
41712598|Home range use and activity patterns of black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californiens) in northern Utah were studied using telemetry. Home range sizes ranged from <1 km to 3 km and did not differ between sexes or among seasons. Jackrabbits were inactive during daylight, became active at dusk, and remained active throughout the night. Animals often traversed their home ranges in a few hours. During the breeding season, males were more active than females. Jackrabbits were most active during well-lit nights, and high winds decreased jackrabbit activity.
41711791|New county records are reported for Hypsiglena torquata and Rhinocheilus lecontei, and additional distribution records are presented for Sonora semiannuhta in southwestern Idaho. These three species are more abundant than indicated by previous records.
41712049|The following species are named as new to science from Mexico: Corthylus exiguus, lustratus, micacirrus, Dendrocranulus sobrinus, Dendroterus fossifrons, modieus, Gnathotrichus alniphagus, Hylocurus dissimilis, micaceus, scitulus, secus, Phheoterus burserae, Pseudothysanoes mandibularis, simplex, squameus, truncatus. The genus Phheoterus, with P. burserae as the type-species, is also named as new.
41716155|The soil algae in the Tintic Mountains, Juab County, Utah, was studied over a one-year period in 1982 and 1983. Fluorescence microscopy was used to measure algal density in samples directly from the field. A total of 30 algal taxa was observed, blue-green algae being most abundant both in terms of density and number of species. Algal density showed peaks in late fall and late spring. Minima were present in September 1982 and July 1983. Several weak correlations between algal density and climatic data existed. In general algae correlated positively with precipitation and negatively with temperature. A combination of low precipitation and hot temperatures was likely responsible for the low density observed in July. The Chrysophyta followed slightly different trends than the other algal groups, having minima in early October 1982 and late August 1983. Field observations indicated that the degree of algal crusting varied noticeably over a period of one year, with highest abundance of hummocking in spring. Heavy summer thunderstorms destroyed algal crusting during July and August of 1983, though absolute density of algae increased during this time in response to the extra moisture.
41716165|The vegetation of three alpine cirque basins in the northern San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado was inventoried and analyzed for the degree of specificity shown by vascular plant communities for certain types of habitats identified as representative of the basins. A total of 197 vascular plant species representing 31 families was inventoried. Growth forms of all species were noted and a growth form spectrum for all of the communities was derived. The caespitose monocot and erect dicot growth forms are the most important growth forms among the community dominants. The most common growth form among all species is the rosette dicot.
41712263|Mistletoe infection of Douglas-fir and spruce seedlings increased as the mean dwarf mistletoe rating of the overstory, seedling density, and total age of seedlings increased. Percent of spruce seedlings infected increased more rapidly than for Douglas-fir as overstory dwarf mistletoe ratings increased. However, the intensity of infection as measured by the mean dwarf mistletoe rating of seedlings, increased at about the same rate for spruce and Douglas-fir. Percent infection of seedlings less than 20 years total age was higher for spruce than for Douglas-fir. Douglas-fir and spruce seedling mortality was from two to three times greater in heavily infested stands than in healthy stands.
41711549|For the last seven years, 1969 to 1976, a steady decline of cattails (Typha latifolia L.) has been observed at Farmington Bay Waterfowl Management Area, Davis County, Utah. Several parameters of Farmington Bay's environment that could cause or enhance a decline of the marshland vegetation were studied. These parameters included temperature, pH, phenols, oil and grease, heavy metals, fungus pathogens, and salt water intrusion from the Great Salt Lake. Elevated soluble salt concentrations were found to be responsible for the decline. Cattails are weakened or killed when they are exposed to soluble salt concentrations greater than 5.0 gm/liter, and there is a significant (1 percent level) negative correlation (-0.68) between soluble salt concentration and cattail height. Symptoms of elevated salt concentrations include stunted growth, leaf tip necrosis (burning), and occasional browning of an entire cattail clone. Furthermore, those salt concentrations that cause physiological stress in cattails also facilitate the growth of a decomposition fungus, Chaetophoma confluens. This fungus causes a rot consisting of irregularly scattered lesions on the surface of the rhizomes and was consistently isolated from rhizomes of declining plants.
41712424|The following new synonymy is proposed: Halystus Schedl (= Phloeographus Wood), Hylesinopsis Eggers (= Aridiamerus Schedl), Halystus namibiae Schedl (= Phloeographus mamibiae Wood), Ips stebbingi Strohmeyer (= Tomicus blandfordi Stebbing), Olonthogaster (Hylurgus) concinnulus (Walker) (= Olonthogaster nitidifrons Motschulsky), Olonthogaster nitidicollis Motschulsky (= Hyledius asper Sampson), Polygraphus longifolia Stebbing (= Polygraphus himalayensis Stebbing), Pseudochramesus harringtoni Blackman (= Pseudochramesus multiseriatus Schedl), Pseudodiamerus obscurus Eggers (= Phloeoditica obscura Schedl, 1962, and Phloeoditica obscura Schedl, 1963), Xylechinosomus brasiliensis (Schedl) (= Xylechinosomus araucariae Schedl), Xylechinus (Pseudochramesus) imperialis (Schedl), new combination (= Xylechinus calvus Schedl). The following species are named as new to science: Aphanarthrum indicum (India), Aphanarthrum reticulatum (India), Aphanarthrum royaleanum (India), Bothinodroctonus indicus (India), Bothinodroctonus setosus (Andaman Islands), Carphoborus lautus (India), Liparthrum artocarpus (India), Liparthrum tinianesis (Tinian Island), Polygraphus anogeissi (India and Burma), Polygraphus difficilis (India and Pakistan), Polygraphus querci (Burma).
41711701|Collections of Sitanion hystrix known to differ in phenological development, height, dry matter production, and total water use were examined for possible differences in leaf anatomy and in CO assimilation rates. Collections originating in warm, dry habitats produced the narrowest leaves with the fewest veins. Other anatomical characteristics examined were either not different among collections or the differences did not appear to be related to the original habitats. The CO assimilation rates were similar on per-unit weight basis; therefore total assimilation varied as a function of plant size.
41712426|We examined crop contents of 217 Gray Partridge (Perdix perdix) collected during a two-year period in eastern South Dakota. Row crop grains (corn, sunflowers) dominated late fall, winter, and spring diets. Small grains (oats, barley, wheat, rye) were rarely consumed although fields of small grains were widely available. During a severe winter when waste row crop grains were buried by snow, partridge consumed more leafy vegetation. Insects dominated the early summer diet, while foxtail (Setaria spp.) seeds were a major late summer and early fall food.
41711727|Two groups of glabrous, narrow-leaved Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus (Asteraceae) are perceived, and appropriate taxonomic combinations are made, i.e., C. v. ssp. viscidiflorus var. stenophyllus and C. v. ssp. axillaris. The two are fairly distinct geographically, and they can be separated by floral morphology. A key to all species of section Chrysothamnus (to which C. viscidiflorus belongs) is given.
41711738|Data were gathered concerning the seasonal activity pattern of a population of Columbian ground squirrels (Spermophilus columbianus) in the Idaho Primitive Area. Adult females were significantly more active in June of all years than were adult males. A relationship between ground squirrel activity and temperature is postulated in which the squirrels alter their activity so as to avoid high temperatures and possible heat stress.
41711508|Disc gel electrophoretic assays of Mimulus plants showed young stems to contain at least 15 esterase bands. The 6 bands in the center of the gels were highly reproducible. Eightyone populations representative of all the cytotaxonomic groups and of the Western Hemisphere geographic range of the Mimulus glabratus complex were assayed for those 6 bands. There was no apparent correlation between the distribution of the esterase bands and important environmental parameters such as elevation and latitude. Hence, their distribution did not appear to reflect environmental adaptive values. Each population was monophonie for its particular combination and intensity of esterase bands which is consistent with our previous suggestion that genetic drift is a strong component of the evolutionary pattern of the complex.
41712411|The interaction between a grass-feeding mirid, Irbisia pacifica (Uhler), and plant growth of intermediate wheatgrass, Thinopyrum intermedium (Host) Barkw. & D. R. Dewey, was examined on a field site in northern Utah in 1985. With egg hatch beginning in April, the bug completed its life cycle within two months. Ovarian development was completed by 11 June, a week after all bugs had become adults. The proportion of feeding damage per leaf (35.1%) peaked on the seventh week of the twelve-week study (18 July). Green leaf area per tiller decreased initially from bug feeding and then continued to decrease because of seasonal aging. All plants senesced within three months. Grass bugs predominantly attacked the second and third youngest leaves. Analyses of age-specific leaf cohorts demonstrated that the major effect of bug feeding was the loss of green leaf area and potential foliage production over time. Bug feeding may also exacerbate other physiological stresses on the host plants.
41712802|In October 1991 we recorded all black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies and cattle point attractants in a 1248-km 2 study area in southwest North Dakota and southeast Montana. Cattle point attractants were defined as fabricated water tanks and long-term supplemental feed sites. We found that a significant number of prairie dog colonies encompassed or adjoined cattle point attractants (p < .001). Prairie dog colonies associated with cattle point attractants were a mean distance of 1.0 km from the next nearest town. The existence of cattle point attractants may encourage prairie dog colonization. Conversely, refraining from using long-term cattle point attractants can discourage prairie dog colonization.
41711824|The diatom flora of the Oregon Caves National Monument, Josephine Co., Oregon, was investigated. Diatoms were distributed throughout the cave system with abundance and species diversity depending upon moisture, light, availability of mineral nutrients, and proximity to cave openings. Twenty-six taxa were identified and described.
41712146|All 25 sablefish (Anoplopoma fimbria) examined from two bays near Sitka, Alaska, were infected with anisakid larvae. There were 1 to 11 larvae per infected fish, with worms encysted in the musculature of the body wall of 5 fish and in the liver of 4 fish. For the other hosts the viscera was the site of infection. Chinook salmon (Onchorhynchus tshawytscha) from Barrow, Alaska, and Obsidian, Idaho, were also infected with anisakid larvae. These data extend the known northern distribution of the anisakids along the Pacific Coast for sablefish and chinook salmon. The pathogenesis of the migratory pathway of anisakid larvae is described, and comments on human health implications are presented.
41711620|The allelopathic effects of bur buttercup (Ranunculus testiculatus) tissue on selected grasses and forbs varied according to the substratum for germination and growth. The in vitro effects of an aqueous extract of buttercup tissue on germination and root development of five grasses were strongly inhibitory in all cases. However, in soil the effects of buttercup tissue on germination and growth of seven grasses and two dicotyledonous herbs were small to nonsignificant. Deleterious effects were less severe in fine-as opposed to coarsetextured soils. Under field conditions, the ability of seedlings of the grasses to compete with buttercup varied with the species.
41712096|The pattern of vegetation on avalanche paths has usually been ascribed to the damage done by snowslides. In the northern Rocky Mountains the pattern of herbs, shrubs, and small trees appears to be more complex than could be accounted for by avalanche magnitude and frequency. The vegetation on one path in Montana illustrates that the topography of the path is a factor in the distribution of species. Three zones exist across avalanche paths: an inner zone of herbs and suffrutescent shrubs occupying a ravine, which is snow covered longer than elsewhere; flanking zones of dense shrubs and trees with flexible stems; and an outer zone of less dense shrubs that is more xeric. The pattern of vegetation seems to be due to avalanche-related stress rather than damage.
41711657|Over 1,000 herbarium specimens including 24 type specimens were examined in an attempt to achieve a clearer understanding of the Phlox longifolia complex. Four variables were measured for each specimen and the data were statistically analyzed by discriminant analysis. Using a previously published system of classification for the complex, approximately 73 percent of the measured variation among the specimens was accounted for by that system. The clustering patterns produced in this first analysis indicated that a more conservative approach would be advisable. The formulation and subsequent application of a modified system produced a grouping of specimens that accounted for 95 percent of the measured variation for the four morphological characters considered. From four species and seven subspecies previously recognized, one species with five varieties is proposed. The typification of Phlox longifolia Nutt. and other related taxa is resolved.
41712753|Bryophytes were found to be abundant as components of microbiotic soil crusts on the calcareous soils of Mungo National Park, an arid area of southern central Australia. Six sites that reflected differences in soils, topography, and vascular plant vegetation were studied. At each site bryophytes were abundant, both in terms of number of species present and percent ground cover. Number of species present did not differ significantly between sites, but percent bryophyte cover was lower at a site on sand dunes in mallee woodland and a site on a silcrete ridge than at the four other sites. Environmental factors (soil texture, pH, conductivity, nutrient status, vascular plant vegetation, light level, leaf litter, and fire frequency) appear to play a significant part in determining bryophyte distribution. Mosses that occur at Mungo are also widespread on calcareous substrates throughout arid southern Australia. Many of the bryophyte species present at Mungo also occur on limestones in high rainfall areas of eastern Australia. Environmental factors favoring bryophytic soil crusts in arid Australia are also present on limestones in high rainfall areas of eastern Australia and may account for the presence of many arid zone bryophyte species on limestones. In Australia there appears to be a relationship between rainfall and the ratios of acrocarpous to pleurocarpous mosses, and thallose to leafy liverworts. Recognition of calcareous soils, widespread in arid areas of southern Australia, may be possible by assessing a combination of characteristics of bryophyte assemblages.
41711490|New synonymy is proposed as follows: Pityophthorus Eichhoff (= Gnathophorus Schedl, Gnathophthorus Wood), Araptus confinis (Blandford) (= Neopityophthorus glabricollis Schedl), A. eruditus (Schedl) (= Neodryocoetes buscki Blackman), A. hymenaeae (Eggers) (= Neodryocoetes humilis Blackman), A. schedli (Blackman) (= Neodryocoetes lenis Blackman), A. tenellus (Schedl) (= Ctenyophthorus mexicanus Schedl, Neodryocoetes granulatus Schedl, Araptus cuspidus Wood), Coccotrypes carpophagus (Hornung) (= Coccotrypes liberiensis Hopkins, Coccotrypes punctatulus Eggers), C. dactyliperda (Fabricius) (= Coccotrypes bassiavorus Hopkins), C. robustus Eichhoff (= Coccotrypes cylindricus Schedl), Cryptocarenus heveae (Hagedorn) (= Cryptocarenus caraibicus Eggers), Hypothenemus setosus (Eichhoff) (= Stephanoder es congonus Hagedorn), Microcorthylus minutus Schedl (= Microcorthylus minutissimus Schedl), Pseudopityophthorus limbatus Eggers (= Pseudopityophthorus micans Wood), Xyleborus obliquus (LeConte) (= Xyleborus gilvipes Blandford, X. brasiliensis Eggers, illepidus Schedl). Hypothenemus javanus Eggers is a valid species. The genus Dacnophthorus, type-species Gnathophthorus clematus Wood, is described as new to science. The following species are described as new to science: Araptus consobrinus, A. micaceus, Pityophthorus ezplicitus, and P. inceptis (Mexico), P. costatus and P. mendosus (Costa Rica), P. de gener and P. timidulus (Panama), P. amiculus (Mexico, Costa Rica), and P. dissolutus (Costa Rica, Panama), Xyleborus californicus (California), X. incultus, X. molestulus (Panama), and tristiculus (Brazil).
41711879|The following species of Scolytidae (Coleoptera) are described as new to science: Amphicranus splen dens, Araptus micropilosus (Mexico), Araptus morigerus (Panama), Araptus placetulus (Mexico), Chramesus bispinus (Colombia), Cnesinus aquihuai (Mexico), Cnesinus atrocis (Panama), Cnesinus meris (Colombia), Dendrocranulus gracilis, Hylastes retifer, Hyhcurus prohtus, Micracis burgosi, Phbeotribus perniciosus, Pseudothysanoes fimbriatus, Pseudothysanoes pini, Scolytodes pilifer, Scolytus binodus (Mexico).
41712767|A literature review and field observations indicate that most sciurids are facultative predators on small vertebrates. This behavior is documented for at least 30 sciurid species in 8 genera. The frequency of prdation apparently is influenced by various factors including climate, season, gender, reproductive condition, and availability of plant sources for certain nutrients such as calcium and nitrogen. Although sciurids assimilate as much energy from animal foods as do obligate carnivores, behavior associated with predation appears to be less efficient in sciurids and may rely partly on prey habituation and other adaptive behaviors.
41712368|Critical thermal maxima (CTM) and thermal preferenda of the common fishes of the Virgin River were examined. Differences in final temperature preferenda and CTM for species with low thermal lability (speckled dace, spinedace, roundtail chub) correspond well with differences in their distribution and abundance in the river. These species shifted their acute thermal preferences relatively little as acclimation temperature increased. For thermally labile species (woundfin, red shiner, desert sucker, and flannelmouth sucker), the final preferendum is a less precise indicator of probable distribution. The woundfin, an endangered fish, has a high CTM (39.5 C at 25 C acclimation) and a labile acute preferendum (slope nearest 1) compared to other species in the system. The introduced red shiner likewise has a high CTM and a labile acute preferendum. In cooler temperatures, its acute preferendum shifts more rapidly than does that of the woundfin. At higher temperatures (above 15 C), the red shiner does not shift its acute preferendum as rapidly as does the woundfin. The red shiner, however, has a higher final preferendum. For thermally labile species, influence of acclimation temperature on mean preferendum, together with CTM, provides a better insight into distributional relationships within the system.
41711619|Four species of junipers, Juniperus osteosperma, J. scopulorum, J. monosperma, and J. deppeana, occur in mixed stands at Walnut Canyon National Monument, Arizona. All are parasitized by Phoradendron juniperinum, but the mistletoe was most common on J. osteosperma and least common on J. scopulorum. Fernbush (Chamaebatiaria millefolium, Rosaceae) was a very rare host.
41712665|Portions of the Colorado, Dolores, Green, and San Rafael rivers in Utah were surveyed for the breeding Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus anatum) from 1986 to 1988. Eleven physical variables were measured at nest cliffs (N = 22) and nonnest cliffs (N = 22) to discern descriptors of cliff choice and subsequent occupancy by breeding peregrines in unexplored habitat within the Colorado River and its tributaries. Ratio scale measurements were subjected to discriminant function analysis or the Mann-Whitney test to determine significant differences between clifif types. At nest cliffs, Rayleigh's and Kuiper's tests were applied to compass directions to ascertain mean direction and circular uniformity. None of the variables we selected revealed any appreciable descriptive ability, which suggests that certain physical attributes of a nest cliff are of questionable value in forecasting occupancy by breeding peregrines within that particular habitat.
41711735|Seasonal depletion by vegetation where sagebrush was selectively removed by grubbing and where sagebrush was sprayed with 2,4-D was 33 and 12 percent less, respectively, than that for undisturbed big sagebrush vegetation in the surface 122 cm of soil. Differences were located primarily below 61 cm in vegetation grubbed the previous fall and below 91 cm in vegetation sprayed three years previously. Total root weights under grubbed and sprayed vegetation were 29 and 16 percent less, respectively, than for undisturbed big sagebrush vegetation. Total herbaceous production by grubbed and sprayed vegetation was 69 and 43 percent less, respectively, than production by undisturbed vegetation.
41713114|Ecology of the endangered Gila topminnow is reviewed, described, and reconstructed; natural conditions are placed in perspective with human-altered habitats of today. In the natural state of waxing and waning of habitat size as a function of precipitation patterns and catastrophic events such as severe winter cold, the species in the past likely underwent dramatic expansions and contractions in population size and geographic range. Today, population expansions are unlikely because of constraints imposed by human activities. The original patterns of dispersal from refugia in "good" times and retreat in "bad" times, if they are to occur, must be re-created through human translocation. Further, most refugia now are destroyed or inaccessible to recolonization, so remnant, natural populations, along with established, transplanted stocks of appropriate size and genetic quality, need protection. Populations also must be established and maintained in artificial refugia. Last, even if connectedness were to be reestablished and refugia provided, intervening habitats harbor introduced piscivores such as western mosquitofish that interdict and eat dispersing topminnows and their progeny. Elimination, exclusion, or management against such offending species is mandatory to prevent topminnow extinction and achieve recovery.
41712342|A rodenticide, zinc phosphide, was applied to remove black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) from 6 ha of a prairie dog colony in southwestern South Dakota. Another adjacent 6 ha was left untreated. The removal experiment was repeated two consecutive years. Contingency table analysis showed that the resultant population was not homogeneous; age classes by sex of the immigrant and resident subpopulations were different (P < 0.01). The ratio of adult females to yearling females was greater among immigrants than among residents (P < 0.03). Female immigrants did not produce young in the treated zone during the year of their arrival. Fewer of these females displayed distended nipples than expected (P < 0.01), indicating that these immigrants did not reproduce during the reproductive season immediately preceding dispersal and suggesting that failure to reproduce may have stimulated dispersal.
41712154|Named and described is Talinum thompsonii Atwood & Welsh. The species is evidently most closely allied to T. validulum Greene from northern Arizona. The new species is known from the Cedar Mountain region of Emery County, Utah.
41712945|We investigated occupied squirrel middens and squirrel sightings and vocalizations as indicators of red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) abundance in the high-elevation whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) zone. Data were collected 1984-1989 from line transects located on 2 study sites in the Yellowstone ecosystem. We evaluated the performance of each measure on the basis of precision and biological considerations. We concluded that, of the 3 measures, active middens were the best indicator of red squirrel abundance. We also observed that the density of active middens dropped by 48%-66% between 1987 and 1989, following a severe drought and extensive wildfires that burned one of the study sites during 1988.
41711787|The diversity and abundance of reptiles were studied in three vegetation types on the Santa Rita Experimental Range, Arizona. Total reptile sightings were greatest in undisturbed mesquite and mesquite with irregularly shaped clearings. No zebra-tailed lizards (Callisaurus draconoides) or desert spiny lizards (Sceloporus magister) were seen, and significantly fewer western whiptails (Cnemidophorus tigris) were in the mesquite-free area. Only the Sonora spotted whiptail (Cnemidophorus sonorae) was significantly more abundant in the mesquite-free area than in the undisturbed mesquite. In an effort to increase grass production for cattle in mesquite grasslands, it is preferable to clear irregularly shaped areas rather than to attempt total mesquite removal, if reptiles are to be considered.
41712095|During the winters of 1980-1984 winter mortality of mule deer fawns in central Utah was assessed. It was determined that the winter mortality ratio for female fawns as compared to males was 156: 100. This mortality factor should be taken into consideration by game and range managers when determining harvest recommendations.
41712537|This report is a comparative study of the hyobranchial skeleton of the three species in the family Cryptobranchidae and four species of the family Hynobiidae, all of which are figured. Anatomical differences between the cryptobranchids and their relationship to hynobiids are noted and discussed. Reference is made to a relationship that may exist between these families and other salamander families, particularly the possible relationship of the Hynobiidae to the super families Ambystomatoidea or possibly Plethodontoidea.
41712222|Named are the following: Astragalus limnocharis Barneby var. tabulaeus Welsh var. nov., from the pass between Boulder Mountain and the Table Cliff Plateau, Garfield County, Utah; A. eremiticus Sheldon var. ampularioides Welsh var. nov. from Washington County, Utah; Lupinus argenteus Pursh var. moabensis Welsh var. nov., from southeastern Utah, validated by inclusion of a Latin diagnosis; Erigeron zothecinus Welsh sp. nov. described from moist alcoves along Lake Powell, eastern Kane County, Utah; Cleomella palmerana Jones var. goodrichii Welsh var. nov. described from Uintah County, Utah; Arabis vivariensis Welsh sp. nov. named from northeastern Uintah County, Utah; Oraba kassii Welsh sp. nov. described from material taken in the Deep Creek Mountains, western Tooele County, Utah.
41712089|Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. uintahensis (Asteraceae) is formally described and illustrated. The new subspecies represents stabilized hybrids that most probably have C. nauseosus ssp. hololeucus x C. parryi ssp. attenuatus ancestry. Morphological and anatomical comparisons are made among the putatively related taxa.
41712366|New specimens of Sahniocarpon harrisii Chitaley & Patil were collected from the Deccan Intertrappean beds at Mahgaon Kalan in central India. These specimens form the basis for this reinvestigation of the species and an emended diagnosis. A tuberculated seed coat, a chalazal haustorium, and the bitegmic nature of the testa can be observed in the new specimens. These features were not included in the original description. Although the extant genera of Clusiaceae and Sahniocarpon are not similar in all aspects, they are close enough to tentatively assign Sahniocarpon to this tropical family.
41712690|We studied aquatic insect production in three cold desert streams in southeastern Washington. The Size-Frequency (SF) and P/B methods were used to assess production, which is expressed by taxon, functional group, and trophic level. Dipterans (midges and black flies) were the most productive taxa, accounting for 40-70% of the total insect production. Production by collectors and detritivores was the greatest of all functional groups and trophic levels, respectively, in all study streams. Insects with rapid development times and multiple cohorts are very important in cold desert streams; they were major contributors to the total insect production. Total insect production rates in our study streams (14 23 g DWm yr ) were greater than those found in Deep Creek, Idaho (1.2 g DWm yr), the only other cold desert stream for which production data are available. Our values also were generally greater than published data for most cold/mesic (3-27 g DWm yr) and humid/mesic (3-25 g DWm yr) streams, but lower than in Sonoran Desert Streams (> 120 g m yr) or New Zealand streams (~40 g DWm yr). Our data support the contention of others that production, rather than density or biomass, is the most accurate and meaningful way to assess the role of these organisms in lotic ecosystems.
41711530|The sexual imprinting of a Barn Owl (Tyto alba) on humans is reported.
41711412|The genus Doroneuria is reviewed, and characters necessary for recognition of its two included species are figured. Doroneuria baumanni, sp. nov., is described for the male, female, and nymph, and a male holotype and female allotype are designated. Calineuria is removed from the synonymy of Doroneuria, and the genus is characterized in detail. Distributional data are presented for species in both genera.
41711998|Since Draba pectinipila Rollins was described in 1953, it has been assigned to several different taxonomic categories. It has been recognized at the species and variety level and has also been placed in synonymy under D. oligosperma Hook. Then Dorn (1978) described D. juniperina and contrasted it to D. pectinipila and D. oligosperma. To clarify the status of these three taxa, the evaluation included field and herbarium observations and scanning electron microscope studies.
41712065|The Chenopodiaceae for Utah are revised. Descriptions of the family and of its genera and species are included. Keys to the genera, species, and infraspecific taxa are provided, along with pertinent discussion. Treated are 18 genera, 56 species, and 13 infraspecific taxa. Newly described taxa are Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt. var. gigantea Welsh & Stutz, Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) J. T. Howell var. ruinina Welsh, and Chenopodium capitatum (L.) Asch. var. parvicapitatum Welsh. New nomenclatural combinations are: Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt. var. occidentalis (Torr. & Frem.) Welsh & Stutz; Atriplex gardneri (Moq.) D. Dietr.  var. bonnevillensis (C. A. Hanson) Welsh, var. cuneata (A. Nels.) Welsh, var. falcata (Jones) Welsh, and var. welshii (C. A. Hanson) Welsh; Atriplex patula L. var. triangularis (Willd.) Thorne & Welsh; Atriplex saccaria Wats. var. caput-medusae (Eastw.) Welsh; Zuckia brandegei (Gray) Welsh & Stutz, and Zuckia brandegei var. arizonica (Standl.) Welsh.
41712417|Surface-bearing pressure in newer logging skid trails compared to the 40+-year-old trails was approximately 60% greater as measured by a cone penetrometer. Surface soil compaction from tractor skidding may last 40 years or more, as evidenced by the fact that skid trails ofthat age were 20% more resistant to the penetrometer than areas adjacent to trails. No relationship was found between dry-bulk density (measured with a balloon apparatus) and surface-bearing pressure.
41712145|The interaction between Southwestern dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium vaginatum subspecies cryptopodum, infestation and defoliation by the pandora moth, Coloradla pandora pandora, on the Kaibab Plateau in Arizona was evaluated. Heavy defoliation of ponderosa pine, Pinus ponderosa, in 1979 and 1981 resulted in mortality of individual trees in areas of heavy dwarf mistletoe infestation. Postmortem evaluation of ponderosa pines indicated that dead trees had a significantly higher dwarf mistletoe rating than did nearby paired live trees. Of 25 tree pairs evaluated, only two live trees had higher dwarf mistletoe ratings than the paired dead tree. Mean dwarf mistletoe ratings were: live trees 2.9, dead trees 4.6 (6 class dwarf mistletoe rating system). Implications for management of the pandora moth are discussed.
41711868|Local floras, that is, plant lists for relatively small areas, are widely scattered, often unpublished, and difficult to locate. Over 100 local floras from the southwestern United States (Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, and Utah) are listed and briefly annotated.
41712113|Late summer diet composition of mule deer was determined daily within a mountain browse enclosure dominated by antelope bitterbmsh. Palatable forages of low abundance were rapidly depleted, and bitterbmsh continually composed over 50% of the diet, even at utilization exceeding 350 deer-days/ha. The relationship of bitterbmsh forage production and deer-days use is discussed.
41712908|Cited are names and combinations within the woody species of Atriplex as they occur in North America. Types and their repositories are included for all taxa except those for which that information could not be located. New nomenclatural proposals include Atriplex gardneri var. aptera (A. Nelson) Welsh & Crompton, comb, nov.; A. garrettii var. navajoensis (C. A. Hanson) Welsh & Crompton, comb, nov.; Atriplex acanthocarpa var. coahuilensis (Henrickson) Welsh & Crompton, comb. nov. A lectotype is designated for A. breweri S. Watson.
41711996|Coyote (Cants latrans) scats from two southern Utah deer herd units were collected and analyzed to establish diet selection. The category showing the most consistent frequency of occurrence was mule deer Odocoileus hemionus; lagomorphs were next. Formal statistical analysis revealed that the only significant difference in coyote food habits between herd units was in the frequency of rabbits eaten. These data suggest that coyotes in this region of southern Utah show a comparatively higher preference for mule deer but, at the same time, do not eat deer in proportion to the frequency of their occurrence.
41711494|The discovery and observation of colonies of starlings nesting in the eastern Great Basin desert indicates further expansion of the breeding range of this species in Utah. Data on nest site selection, nesting productivity, food habits, and relationships with other avian species are presented.
41712082|Dissection and rearing studies of second-year cones disclosed six species of insects associated with the seeds and cones of singleleaf pinyon pine during the spring and summer of 1976. Those most commonly encountered were: Dioryctria sp. probably albovittella Hulst, Conophthorus monophyllae Hopkins, and Pineus coloradensis Gillette. The three remaining species were of lesser importance. These included the gall midge, Asynapta sp., a minor cone pest and two parasites, one of C. monophyllae, Acerocephala atroviolacea Crawford, and an unidentified parasite of Dioryctria, of the family Ichneumonidae. Dioryctria sp. probably albovittella was regarded as the major insect destroying cones and seeds of P. monophylla in this study. During the growing season it attained a maximum level of 29% infestation. Conophthorus monophyllae occurred less frequently in this study, but probably has a higher potential for destruction in years of poor cone crops or high cone beetle populations. Pineus coloradensis caused negligible damage to seeds and cones, but was encountered frequently. Early in the growing season it infested a maximum of 38% of the cones.
41711365|Platyoplus, n. gen., is erected for P. gilaensis, n. sp., from the Gila Mountains, Yuma Co., Arizona. The method of preservation for these large, soft-bodied insects is described.
41712325|Rubber rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus nauseosus [Pallas] Britt. ssp. viridulus) may prove to be a source of high-quality cis-isoprene rubber, but its establishment is limited by a lack of information on seed germination. Consequently, seeds were germinated at alternating temperatures (515, 525, 1525, and 2030 C) in light and dark as well as constant temperatures (1540 C with 5-C increments) to determine temperature response. Seeds were also germinated in solutions of polyethylene glycol 6000 (0 to 5 bar), salinity regimes (1, 17, 51, and 86 mM) at all the above-mentioned temperatures to determine salinity and temperature interaction. The hormones GA (0, 2.9. 29.0, and 58.0 um) and kinetin (0, 4.7, 23.5, and 47.0 um) were used to study their effect on overcoming salt-and temperature-induced germination inhibition. Seeds of C. nauseosus ssp. viridulus were very sensitive to low temperature. Best germination was achieved at 25 and 30 C, but these seeds also germinated at a higher temperature (35 C). The seeds of rabbitbrush germinated at both constant and alternating temperatures. Light appears to play little or no role in controlling germination of the seeds of rubber rabbitbrush. However, seeds of rabbitbrush were sensitive to salinity, and seed germination was progressively inhibited by increase in salt concentration, although a few seeds still germinated at the highest saline level. Progressively higher concentrations of polyethylene glycol also progressively inhibited germination. Suppression of seed germination induced by high salt concentrations and high temperatures can be partially alleviated by the application of either GA or kinetin.
41711543|The family Gentianaceae in Utah includes the genera Gentiana, Gentianella, Centaurium, Frasera, and Swertia and is composed of 15 species. Centaurium nuttallii S. Watson is placed in synonymy under C. exaltatum (Griseb.) Wight, because there is no clear-cut basis for its segregation at the species level. Similarly, Gentiana forwoodii Gray and G. parryi Engelm. are extremes of clinal variation in G. affinis and are synonymized there. Keys to the genera, species, and subspecies are provided, as well as distribution maps, descriptions, and synonymies.
41712334|Collections of mayflies of the Leptophlebiidae, genera Choroterpes Eaton, Paraleptophlebia Lestage, Thraulodes Ulmer, and Traverella Edmunds from the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico are reviewed. Choroterpes (Choroterpes) oaxacaensis Brusca & Allen is synonymized with C. (C.) inornata Eaton. The nymph described as Thraulodes species "D" Allen & Brusca is the nymph of T. arizonicus McDunnough. New distributional records extend the known ranges of C. inornata, C. (Neochoroterpes) mexicanus Allen, Paraleptophlebia memorialis (Eaton), T. arizonicus, T. brunneus Koss, T. salinus Kilgore & Allen, T. speciosus Traver, Traverella albertana (McDunnough), and T. castanea Kilgore & Allen.
41712448|Twenty-seven plant taxa previously unreported from Bryce Canyon National Park are listed.
41712634|Bromus rubens and Bromus tectorum are now nearly ubiquitous components of the Nevada Test Site (NTS) flora. Introduced to the western United States in the late 1800s, they spread through the Mojave and Great Basin deserts in the early twentieth century. Since quantitative studies began on the NTS in 1957, Bromus spp. have greatly increased in frequency and density. By 1988 both species occurred in many places at densities exceeding 1000 individuals per square meter. They may significantly increase flammability of the vegetation and reduce success of native ephemeral species.
41712993|Woody plant community composition was analyzed throughout the range of Coleogyne ramosissima in the Spring and Sheep Mountain ranges of southern Nevada. The lower Coleogyne elevational boundary was analyzed in detail in Lucky Strike Canyon, on the eastern edge of the Spring Mountains. TWINSPAN (2-way indicator species analysis) identified 4 primary species and stand groups from the 2 mountain ranges (extensive survey), and 4 primary species and stand groups in the detailed study at the lower Coleogyne ecotone (intensive survey). Analysis of DECORANA (detrended correspondence analysis) results indicated that elevation and soil depth were the environmental factors most significantly associated with distribution of species and stand groups in the extensive survey. Elevation was the only significant physical factor associated with distribution of species and stand groups in the intensive survey. Five vegetation zones from the 2 mountain ranges were identified based on their dominant species in 15 extensive transects. Coleogyne were subdivided into pure stands and upper and lower ecotones for further investigation of species distribution and environmental factors. Selected environmental factors appear to play an important role in structuring the Mojave Desert vegetation zones in southern Nevada.
41711732|Serum transferrins were analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in four populations of Colorado bighorn sheep, Ovis canadensis canadensis. Transferrin was found to be polymorphic, with two alleles, Tf D and Tf E, being represented in each of the four populations. Within herds the phenotypic ratios conformed to values predicted by the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Among populations, significant differences were seen with respect to phenotypic frequencies.
41712471|Food habits and nest site features of the Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos), Prairie Falcon (Falco mexicanas), Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis), and Ferruginous Hawk (B. regalis) were studied near Medicine Bow, Wyoming, during 1981 and 1982. Foods consisted primarily of leporids and sciurids. The Wyoming ground squirrel (Spermophilus richardsonii) dominated the diet of Prairie Falcons, while Golden Eagles preyed on leporids more than did the other raptors. Diet overlap ranged from 59 to 99% between the species. Mean height of Golden Eagle nests was greater than nest height of other species. Most raptor nests (78%) were not visible from other active nests and were in view of roads. Prairie Falcons were the most specialized and Ferruginous Hawks the most versatile raptor species in terms of food habits and use of nest sites.
41712582|Three rodenticide treatments, zinc phosphide with prebait, strychnine with prebait, and strychnine without prebait, were applied to black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies in west central South Dakota. Results were compared immediately posttreatment and for one year after application. Zinc phosphide was the most effective for reducing prairie dog numbers immediately. When burrow activity levels of prairie dogs were initially reduced by 45% with strychnine only, they returned to untreated levels within ten months. When initial reductions were 95% with zinc phosphide, however, the number of active burrows was still reduced 77% in September the following year. Strychnine with prebait treatment showed initial reductions of 83% in burrow activity. Bait consumption by prairie dogs was highest for zinc phosphide.
41712012|A revision of the willow family, Salicaceae, is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 31 species and 5 subspecific taxa of indigenous and introduced plants. Keys to genera and species are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and comments. No new taxa or combinations are proposed.
41712644|Observations of changes in population density of native White River springfish (Crenichthys baileyi) in Pahranagat Valley led to the following hypothesis: introduced convict cichlids (Cichlasoma nigrofasciatum) cause reduced growth and recruitment; cover reduces the magnitude of the effect. The hypothesis was tested by establishing sympatric and allopatric groups of the two species in experimental aquaria with and without cover. Change in volume (= mass) and length of the two species over a three-month period in spring 1986 and 1987 was measured and analyzed using 2  2 factorial analyses. Convict cichlids caused reduced growth and eliminated recruitment of springfish under the experimental conditions. Cover did not influence growth but positively affected recruitment of springfish in allopatry. It is likely that a portion of the reduced springfish population densities in nature can be attributed to adverse effects from introduced cichlids.
41712860|Insects visiting flowers of the endangered Heliotrope milkvetch, Astragalus montii, were compared with those visiting two common sympatric congeners, A. kentrophyta and A. miser, on three sites on the Wasatch Plateau of central Utah for 2 yr. We recorded 27+ species of bees, most of which were uncommon, visiting the three species. All three species were primarily visited by native bees of the genera Osmia (15 species) and/or Bombus (4 species). Most Osmia species visited the three species of Astragalus indiscriminantly; bumblebees preferred A. miser and avoided A. montii. Our hypothesis that A. montii flowers would receive fewer total bee visits and be visited by fewer bee species than their common congeners was rejected: A. montii was intermediate to the two common species in its attractiveness to bees. Also rejected was our hypothesis that the greater similarity between A. montii and A. kentrophyta in flower size, flower morphology, and microhabitat would be associated with greater similarity of flower visitors than either had with A. miser. The data suggest that, rather than competing with each other for pollinators, the three species of Astragalus facilitate each other's visitation rates.
41712372|Vascular plant communities surrounding Benton Hot Springs, Mono County, California, were studied. The springs complex is comprised of two thermal springs, a thermal stream, and a cooling pond. Water temperatures varied from 57 C in one hot spring to 45 C at the cooling pond. The vegetation showed concentric zones about the springs and cooling pond and parallel zones beside the stream. Each zone demonstrated its own dominant plant species with some species being present in two or more zones. A total of six zones were identified plus an algal mat on the springs themselves. Soil factor patterns varied from spring to desert as did vegetational parameters. Soil moisture appeared responsible for most of the patterns observed.
41711481|Two local piericl populations in western North America showing regionally aberrant phenologies were investigated in the laboratory. Neither a partially bivoltine Pieris napi from the Sierra Nevada foothills in El Dorado County, California (surrounded by univoltine populations), nor a vernal-univoltine P. occidentalis from a foothill outlier of the Colorado Front Range (below bivoltine populations) showed unusual responses to controlled developmental regimes in the laboratory. Their unusual phenologies are hypothesized to be the product of microclimate. Failure to undergo genetic adaptation to unusual microclimates is discussed with particular reference to the presence or absence of gene flow from nearby normal populations.
41712101|The putative intergeneric hybridization between Stansbury Cliffrose (Cowania) and Apache Plume (Fallugia) is found to be undocumented. Chromosome counts support reported base numbers for Cowania and Fallugia to be n = 9 and n = 14 respectively.
41712741|Arctic grayling in Deer Lake, Montana, spawn only in the 350-m segment of outlet stream between the lake and a waterfall. The purpose of this study was to examine consequences of and possible adaptations by this population to spawning above the falls, by determining the extent of loss over the falls of age-0 young, the daily and seasonal patterns of such losses, and the seasonal pattern of movement upstream into the lake by the remaining young. We measured fish movements during 1989 and 1990 with traps placed at the outlet and at the falls, from fry swimup in July until October or November. Young went over the falls predominantly as newly swimming fry at night. In 1989 about 5000-9000 were lost downstream, representing an estimated 47% or less of young produced. Most young thus appear adapted to maintaining their position above the falls. A few started entering the lake in August and September, but only 95 in 1989 and 23 in 1990 had done so by the time observations were ended by the onset of wintery conditions. Most movement into the lake appeared to occur sometime during the six to seven months of annual ice cover. This extended period of stream residence contrasts with early lakeward movements reported for other inlet-spawning, lacustrine grayling populations and maybe an adaptation for avoiding predation by large conspecifics in Deer Lake.
41712938|In a pion-juniper woodland in northwestern Arizona, connected basal cladodes of a prickly pear cactus (Opuntia littoralis var. martiniana) form check dams that cause deposition of N-rich detritus in interspaces otherwise lacking litter. Seventy-eight percent of connected basal cladodes measured in transects grew at an angle (with respect to the slope contour)  45an orientation facilitating deposition of flood-borne debris. Soil total N was significantly greater (P < 0.01) and organic C was greater, but not significantly, above cactus dams compared to below cactus dams. Soil total N and organic C both above and below cactus dams were significantly greater (P = 0.0001) compared to adjacent interspaces. Soil total N and organic C above cactus dams were equal to areas beneath canopies (tree and shrub combined). Net NO (05 cm depth) above cactus dams was significantly greater (P = 0.0001) than below cactus dams, at interspaces, and beneath canopies. Net NH (05 cm soil depth) above cactus dams was significantly greater (P < 0.01) than below cactus dams and interspaces, and was greater (but not significantly) than beneath canopies. At 510 cm soil depth, differences in net NH and net NO between sampling locations were not significant except for the difference in net NO above and below cactus dams (P < 0.05). The litter layer above cactus dams had twice as much total N (P < 0.01) as the litter layer beneath canopies (tree and shrub combined); differences in net mineralized N were not significant between litter layers. Over the course of a single rainy season, detritus depth behind cactus dams increased up to 23 cm, with a mean increase of 4.3 cm (<tex-math>${s_{\bar x}}$</tex-math> = 0.625, P = 0.0001).
41711812|Montia linearis Dougl., a plant known from British Columbia to Montana, Nevada, and California, is reported from Utah.
41712136|Limber pine (Pinns flexilis James) seeds are usually wingless but occasionally have short, stubby wings. To determine the effectiveness of these wings in slowing seed descent, rates of fall were determined before and after wing removal. A similar experiment was conducted with seeds of Himalayan blue pine (P. griffithii McClelland), a white pine with typically long seed wings. The short wings of limber pine seeds were found to influence rate of seed fall far less than the wings of Himalayan blue pine. This is consistent with evidence suggesting that limber pine seeds are not effectively dispersed by wind but are dependent for dispersal on Clark's Nutcracker (Nucifraga cotumbiana).
41712198|A new genus, Stylolidia, and two new species, Stylolidia pectinata n.sp. (type species) and Stylolidia cristata n.sp., from Malaysia are described and illustrated. A key to the males of the known species is also included.
41712323|Reproductive ecology of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) was studied on the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge in northeastern Montana (1978-1980 and 1985). Breeding took place from early March through early April in most years. Persistent snow cover and below normal temperatures in February and March of 1978 delayed the start of breeding. Litter size averaged 4.4 but varied significantly among years. Average yearly litter size was correlated (r = 0.986) with summer Qune-September) precipitation prior to the breeding season. Largest average yearly litter size (5.0) followed record precipitation, while the smallest average yearly litter size (3.8) followed extreme drought. More than half the yearling females failed to breed while 88% of the females two years and older bred. Testes weights were greatest early in the breeding season and regressed rapidly during April.
41712307|Seeds of two halophytes, Atriplex triangularis, which grows in a mesic saline marsh environment, and Atriplex confertifolia, which grows in a xeric desert environment, were analyzed by energy-dispersive X-ray microanalysis for the distribution of elements. The highest concentration of sodium, chlorine, potassium, and calcium was present in seed coats of A. triangularis. All of the elements detected were at low concentrations in the endosperm. Embryos contained the highest amount of phosphorus that is probably associated with organophosphate compounds. Potassium was also high in embryos. The total amount of elements in all regions of A. confertifolia was low as compared to A. triangularis. In a similar pattern sodium, chlorine, potassium, and calcium were the highest in seed coats of A. confertifolia. Elemental concentration was also low in the endosperm. Likewise, the phosphorus level was the highest in the embryo. The results support the concept of elemental compartmentalization in seeds of these halophytes.
41712220|Swift fox (Vulpes velox) were investigated in western South Dakota to determine food habits and denning site characteristics. Over a three-year period food habits consisted of mammals (49%), followed by insects (27%), plants (13%), and birds (6%). Dens were located near hilltops within two habitat types, shortgrass and midgrass prairie; each type is characterized by differing plant species. Soil type was not a selective factor for den sites of swift fox. Management considerations for enhancing swift fox populations are presented.
41712992|The recent and future introduction of several ungulate species on Antelope Island necessitates knowledge of habitat use by each species. In this study habitat preferences of reintroduced pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) on Antelope Island were evaluated during February-March 1993 and January-March 1994. Elevation, slope, physiography, aspect, and habitat type of sites used by pronghorn were compared to similar data collected from random points. During the severe winter of 1993, pronghorn preferred terrain that was 1281-1380 m in elevation and was relatively flat or at the base of a hill. Slopes greater than 30% were avoided. South-facing slopes were preferred; west-facing slopes were avoided. Pronghorn preferred sagebrush habitats and avoided grasslands. During the mild winter of 1994, pronghorn showed preferences for slightly higher elevations, avoided slopes greater than 30%, but used other habitat features in proportion to their availability. Future winter studies of pronghorn should include considerations of snowfall patterns and the availability, versus the abundance, of sagebrush.
41711539|Desert Tortoises (Gopherus agassizi) from Utah showed courtship behavior consisting of a complex series of behavioral elements.
41712282|Four new species of Mexican Pityophthorus in the Lautus group are described: P. indefessus (Jalisco), P. inhabilis (Guerrero), P. tutulus (Veracruz), and P. vegrandis (Quintana Roo) and a new locality record is given for P. corruptus Wood.
41712269|Named is Mentzelia pumila (Nutt.) T. & G. var. lagarosa Thorne var. nov. from Utah.
41712666|White locoweed (Oxytropis sericea Nutt.) is restricted to the top and windswept ridges of the Raft River Mountains. Elevation and soil characteristics have the greatest effect on its occurrence. It is most abundant on the subalpine windswept ridge ecological site (9.2 plants/m) above 2,380 m. White locoweed apparently can tolerate the extreme environmental stresses of the shallow, rocky, windswept ridges where it is one of the dominant species. White locoweed also occurs in the deep, subalpine loam site (3.8 plants/m) above 2,865 m, but it is a minor component of this plant community. It is apparently less competitive on the deeper soils, and its population fluctuates more. It exhibits an opportunistic survival strategy on the subalpine loam site by having a large reserve of viable seeds in the soil ready to germinate and establish when environmental conditions are favorable, and then declines with competition from more robust species.
41711455|Six species of Plecoptera were maintained at four different temperatures, which were constant and higher than occurred in the natural habitat, and three species at two different day lengths. Each animal was weighed each day or each week. Weight of two species in the wild was monitored from periodic collection. The weight of each animal fluctuated rhythmically, changing about five percent every five days. These short-term fluctuations probably resulted from changes in water content. Molting occurred when a peak weight was predicted from the cycle and involved temporary gain of about 20 percent in weight. Growth probably stopped for some time before molt and was most rapid just afterward. Many animals died at molt. The time before death was less for univoltine species than for those with longer life cycles. Plecoptera collected in winter from water near 0 C lived for shorter times than did those collected in autumn from water near 10 C. Two species died sooner at higher temperatures and one died sooner with shorter day lengths. Growth in the laboratory was generally slower than in nature. One species grew faster, while three grew more slowly at higher temperatures. One species grew faster under long-than short-day conditions. Premature emergence, expected at the higher temperatures, did not occur, except in one animal.
41713112|We captured 299 individuals of 11 bat species in mist-nets at 18 water sources in west central Nevada from June through August 1994. Myotis ciliolahrum, Pipistrellus hesperus, M. californicus, and Corynorhinus townsendii were the most common species captured. These species are apparently broadly distributed throughout west central Nevada, occurring in a variety of habitat types. We captured Euderma maculatum at 2 localities. These represent the 1st known records of this species in Esmeralda County, Nevada. Mine adits were surveyed for hibernating bats from December 1994 through February 1995. We determined the presence of 3 hibernating species: G townsendii, M. ciliolahrum, and P. hesperus. Bats were present in 19 of 70 mines (27%) we surveyed at elevations ranging from 1500 m to 2460 m. G townsendii was the most common species encountered. Our study provides some much-needed baseline data on bat distribution and use of mines for hibernacula in west central Nevada.
41711497|Field and herbarium studies of Penstemon cyananithus Hook. ssp. longiflorus Pennell suggest that this taxon be elevated to species rank.
41713073|On degraded subalpine range of the Wasatch Plateau, we examined the hypothesis that recovery of vegetation, as manifested by its composition and biomass yield, was related to soil phosphorus (P) and sulfur (S) status. We sampled 6 topographic locations to determine the relationship among composition and yield of grasses and forbs, litter cover, and soil characteristics including rock cover, organic carbon (Co), total N (Nt), available nitrogen (Nav), total phosphorus (Pt), organic P (Po), inorganic P (Pi), total potassium (K), total S (St), and element ratios. We also evaluated aspect effects. An alternative hypothesis was that productive potential was a function of depth of soil remaining after the period of destructive grazing. Differences among locations were significant for all vegetal attributes and for all soil characteristics except total K and Co. Aspect was significant only for forb yield and Pt. Regression coefficients for yield and percentage composition of grasses were always opposite in sign to those for forbs. Yield and composition of grasses and forbs as groups were oppositely and strongly related to soil element ratios of Co/Pt, Nt/Po, Co/Pt, and Co/St but were not related to soil Pt or St. There was no clear support for acceptance of the hypothesis that soil P and/or S were major factors in recovery of this subalpine range after destructive grazing. Differences in regression coefficients and lower r-values among species within grass and forb groups, than for the groups themselves, to soil variables is a reflection of species individuality. This indicated a need to examine soil/vegetation relationships at the species level. Percentage compositions of grasses and forbs were oppositely related to the depth of A + B horizon, lending support to acceptance of the alternative hypothesis.
41711862|A description of some physical, chemical, and biotic features of Timpie Springs, Utah.
41711952|The relict dace, Relictus solitarius, represents the only genus and species of fish native to Ruby, Butte, Goshute, and Steptoe valleys in northeastern Nevada. In their natural habitats temperature ranges 0-25 and salinity 175-1,158 mg/liter. The upper median thermal tolerance limit (96-hr TL50) of Butte Valley relict dace was 30.6 when acclimated at 18-20 Relict dace tolerated total dissolved solids (TDS) of 11,043 mg/liter with no mortality during 96-hr exposures, but experienced 100 percent mortality at concentrations of 15,759 mg/liter with a mean resistance time of 23 hours. Tolerance of relict dace to 30 was lowered as TDS was increased from 2,845 to 5,652 mg/liter. The Butte Valley fish were slightly more resistant to elevated salinities than the Goshute Valley sample, and conversely the Goshute Valley sample may be slightly more resistant to elevated temperature.
41712970|The Bonneville cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki Utah; BCT) was once abundant throughout the Bonneville Basin. In southwestern Utah, however, only 3 local populations of the subspecies were known to exist in 1977, when conservation efforts to protect and replicate them began. By 1995 remnant populations were known in 6 streams, and replicate populations had been established in an additional 16. Populations of BCT in southwestern Utah streams were surveyed by electrofishing in 1994 and 1995 to describe the subspecies' status. Estimated densities of age-1 and older BCT ranged from 118 to 546 fish per km. Biomass estimates ranged from 8 to 64 kg per ha. Several age groups of BCT were collected at most locations. Six populations were classified as self-sustaining, 9 as expanding through natural recruitment, 6 as new, and 1 as hybridized. Overall status of BCT in southwestern Utah has improved since 1977, but conservation measures must continue to maintain a positive trend.
41711692|Food habits of a population of the Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, Butte County, were studied. The 421 pellets examined yielded 2,436 prey items of at least 22 prey species. Invertebrates, largely insects, constituted 91 percent of the total prey items, but only 29 percent of the total biomass; mammals constituted 8 percent of the prey items, but 68 percent of the biomass. The prey were mostly nocturnal species; diurnal species were poorly represented.
41712590|Rectangular surveys completed between 1796 and 1925 by the General Land Office have frequently been used in the eastern and central U.S. to determine land cover prior to European settlement. These survey notes are less often used in the western U.S., although they are the only site-specific presettlement records available in many areas. Recent efforts to restore riparian and grassland habitats require an understanding of the conditions of these sites before settlement. General Land Office Survey notes provide a description of each township, including water supplies, timber resources, and agricultural potential. The width and course of rivers and streams were recorded on survey lines, along with notes on topography, vegetation, wetlands, mineral deposits, and soils. The township and section descriptions may be used with other historic information to reconstruct presettlement landscapes. Incomplete or vague descriptions, land use before survey, bias in recording data, and contract fraud limit the usefulness of some survey notes. However, survey notes have proved useful in establishing baseline conditions of riparian habitats in Colorado and Oregon and grasslands in Colorado and New Mexico.
41711725|A pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus) was taken 20 km SE Warren, Carbon County, Montana. This represents a 410 km range extension and a new record for Montana.
41711674|Ecological aspects of desert vegetation in relation to a moisture gradient along an ephemeral stream in central Arizona were investigated. The stream channel, flood plain, and north-, west-, south-, east-facing slopes represent a moisture gradient going from mesic to xeric conditions. Vegetation in some areas of the stream channel intergraded into flood plain vegetation, which in turn intergraded into slope vegetation types. In other areas there were sharp delineations between stream channel and flood plain and between flood plain and slope. Trees and legume species preferred midmoisture habitats, but forbs, shrubs, and succulents preferred dryer areas. Family groups like the Asteraceae and the Poaceae were found to be distributed ubiquitously. Niche widths were broadest for flood plain species. Diversity was highest on the slopes. Negative correlations existed between stand diversity and the Synthetic Stand Moisture Index (i.e., as moisture increased diversity increased). It is believed that disturbance as well as moisture influenced diversity.
41711587|The algal flora of the Brigham Young University campus is more diverse than previously thought. Sixty-eight genera containing 160 species of Chlorophyta, Euglenophyta, Chrysophyta, and Cyanophyta were collected and identified. The greatest number of species was obtained from a small pond in the arboretum, with progressively fewer species obtained in the irrigation canal partly surrounding the campus and in specialized habitats in the greenhouses.
41716183|Small numbers of Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) are known to have nested historically in Utah. A precise baseline figure is unavailable, but the 19th-century Osprey population in Utah probably consisted of at least 15 breeding pairs scattered in 4 geographic regions. Human persecution is believed to have caused the abandonment of nesting territories along the Wasatch Front and in the western Uinta Mountains by 1900 and 1960, respectively. Osprey populations in the southern plateaus and Green River areas, however, began increasing in the late 1970s. Several recent nesting attempts and numerous summer sightings at nontraditional and abandoned historical sites in Utah suggest the Osprey is also expanding its range in Utah. High productivity for local pairs and long-range dispersal from more northerly Osprey populations are discussed as sources for the current surge in Utah's Osprey population, which now consists of approximately 35 breeding pairs.
41711433|Two new variants of Eriogonum are proposed: E. brevicaule var atwoodii from near Fredonia, Mohave Co., Arizona and E. pharnaceoides var. cervinum from southwestern Utah and adjacent northern Arizona and southeastern Nevada.
41712742|The effects of big game depredation on juvenile fruit trees were studied in northern Utah. Utilization of trees was determined by counts of nipped and intact buds in spring. Height, width, basal diameter, number of buds, and initial fruit production of peach and apple trees were determined from trees protected from or browsed by mule deer in winter. Results from the 10 orchards studied indicated that removal of buds at the observed browsing levels had no effect on tree growth or initial fruit production.
41711857|A study was made at 18 sites with elevations between 3512 and 3768 m in the Uinta Mountains, Utah. Sites were small in extent but typified vegetation patterns found in the Uintas. Standing crop, species composition (based on dry weight), and values for several physical parameters were determined at each site. Simple linear regressions performed between the various biotic and abiotic characters revealed significant relationships between the characteristics of rocks visible at the surface (the number, size, and variation in size) and vegetation cover. This relationship was probably due to the burial of rocks as a region became vegetated. Bray and Curtis ordinations performed on the data indicated that there were several factors which influenced the species composition but that no single factor dictated the vegetational pattern.
41711659|The plant communities and individual plant species in and around a salt playa near Goshen, Utah County, Utah, were studied in relation to gradients for soluble salts, soil moisture, and pH. Forty-eight stands were sampled. Frequency data were taken for all plant species. Soil samples were collected from each site and analyzed to establish the environmental gradients. Results indicate that the vegetational types respond differentially to the three gradients and can be segregated on the basis of one or more of the gradients. The total soluble salts gradient was found to be the most influential of the three sampled. Correlation analysis indicates that 45 percent of the variation in plant diversity can be accounted for by the three gradients. Distributional patterns of individual plant species are strongly influenced by the three gradients. Niche width measurements exhibited no correlation with the measured gradients.
41711559|A mountain cercocarpus (Cercocarpus montanus Raf.) population was analyzed first in 1965 and again in 1975 to gain insight into the growth and reproduction of this species. The basis for comparison was plant height and number of basal stems. Growth (measured by height) was slow during the 10-year period, with plants on the northeast-facing slope having an average increase of 37 cm and those on the southwest-facing slope maintaining relatively the same average height. There was an overall decrease in average number of base stems for plants positioned on both slopes.
41712707|Habitat selection patterns of Merriam's Turkeys were compared in hierarchical analyses of three levels of habitat stratification. Habitat descriptions in first-level analyses were based on dominant species of vegetation. Habitat descriptions in second-level analyses were based on dominant species of vegetation and overstory canopy cover. Habitat descriptions in third-level analyses were based on dominant species of vegetation, overstory canopy cover, and structural stages (dbh categories). First-level analyses showed turkeys selected for ponderosa pine and selected against meadow habitats. No conclusions could be drawn regarding forest management on habitat selection of turkeys at this level of habitat stratification. Second-level analyses showed that selection of ponderosa pine and aspen/birch habitats varied among seasons. Implications for forest management activities on turkeys at this level of habitat stratification could be made. Third-level analyses added little to conclusions of habitat selection patterns drawn from second-level analyses and increased chances for Type II errors. Habitat selection patterns of Merriam s Turkeys were best described when habitats were stratified by dominant species of vegetation and overstory canopy cover.
41712706|The diatom flora of Beaver Dam Creek, Washington County, Utah, was studied. The study area is in a warm Mojave Desert environment at an elevation between 810 and 850 m. A total of 99 taxa were identified from composite samples taken in the fall, winter, spring, and summer seasons. These taxa are all broadly distributed and no endemic species were encountered. Three new records for the state of Utah were identified: Gomphoneis eriense Skv. & Mayer, Navicuh elginensis var. lata (M. Perag.) Patr., and Nitzschia calida Grun. The most important taxa throughout the study as determined by multiplying percent presence by average relative density (Important Species Index) were Cymbella affinis Ktz., Epithemia sorex Ktz., Navicula veneta Ktz., Nitzschia palea (Ktz.) W. Sm., and Nitzschia microcephala Grun.
41712330|In 1973 a timber harvest of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) was conducted in an area southeast of Monticello, Utah, that is inhabited by Abert squirrels (Sciurus aberti). Abert squirrel dietary habits, foraging patterns, and population densities were compared in the timber harvest area and in an adjacent nonharvested area. Squirrel feeding patterns and preferences were visually determined by physical evidence of past feeding. Live-trapping and field-marking of animals were used to determine population density and trends in the two areas. Squirrels fed in only 26.3% of sampled plots on the timber harvest areas, while 42.7% of the uncut area plots showed use (P < 0.001). Trap days per catch were higher on the harvested area (P < 0.01). Similar differences in hypogeous fungi feeding sites between the two study sites were also recorded (P < 0.01). Thus, clearcut timber harvest of ponderosa pine did negatively affect Abert squirrels. To minimize long-term effects on squirrels, timber should be harvested in small, selective blocks (< 20 acres) rather than in large-scale areas (> 50 acres) by clear-cut methods commonly employed by management agencies.
41712343|The western painted turtle, Chrysemys picta belli (Gray), is recorded for the first time from Grant County, Oregon. This specimen represents the south westernmost occurrence of the species in Oregon.
41711742|The utilization of the stinger and the predatory technique of the scorpion, Paruroctonus boreus, was studied under laboratory conditions. During the study, 83 feedings were observed. Age of the scorpions and the percentage of prey stung by them were used to classify the scorpions into groups. The scorpions aged 13-61 days always stung prey. After 62 days the scorpions began to selectively utilize the stinger. Utilization declined until it reached 30 percent in the adult stage. The stinger is apparently necessary for prey capture only in the early life stages.
41712340|Patterns of zonation along a saline meadow slope were studied. Different species associations were distributed in five zones along the slope which paralleled Utah Lake. The five zones, distinguished on the basis of dominant species and/or life form, were: saltgrass-annual weed, saltgrass-alkaligrass, saltgrass-forb, saltgrass, and spikerush. Soil, vegetation, and plant species data were taken. Patterns of change with respect to these factors were observed along the downslope gradient. Soil pH and soluble salts decreased downslope, while organic matter and moisture increased. Individual ions showed varying patterns. Vegetation and species patterns also varied with slope position. Annuals dominated the ridge tops, while sedge and rush cover were restricted to the slope base. Perennial forb distribution was shown to be correlated with elevated levels of micronutrients in the soil.
41711958|Twenty-six taxa of Grimmiaceae are listed from Nevada, all representing the genera Grimmia and Rhacomitrium. Rhacomitrium heterostichum (Hedw.) Brid. var. heterostichum and Grimmia atricha C. Muell. & Kindb. ex Mac. & Kindb. are listed for the first time as occurring in Nevada. Within the state, the Mohave Desert, the Great Basin desert, and the Sierra Nevada display unique composition of members of the Grimmiaceae. Grimmia anodon is the most widespread moss in the state. Others, such as Grimmia rivulare, G. conferta, and G. alpicola inhabit only the montane environments of northeastern Nevada.
41712067|New generic synonymy in Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Amasa Lea ( = Pseudoxyleborus Eggers), Araptus Eichhoff ( = Brachydendrulus Schedl, Gnathocranus Schedl, Gnathoborus Schedl), Chortastus Schaufuss ( = Afrochramesus Schedl), Cosmoderes Eichhoff ( = Dendriops Schedl), Cryphalus Erichson ( = Acryphalus Tsai & Li, Jugocryphalus Tsai & Li), Cyrtogenius Strohmeyer ( = Eulepiops Schedl, Ozodendron Schedl, Mimidendrulus Schedl, Artepityophthorus Schedl), Dendrographus Schedl ( = Protopityophthorus Schedl), Glostatus Schedl ( = Paraglostatus Schedl), Gnathotrupes Schedl ( = Gnathocortus Schedl, Gnathomimus Schedl, Gnathoglochinus Schedl), Hylesinopsis Eggers ( = Metahylesinus Eggers, Hapalophloeus Schedl, Hemihylesinus Schedl), Hypothenemus Westwood ( = Chondronoderes Schedl, Archeophalus Schedl, Pachynoderes Schedl, Lepiceroides Schedl), Liparthrum Wollaston ( = Dacryophthorus Schedl), Mimiocurus Schedl ( = Micracidendron Schedl, Mimiophthorus Schedl), Miocryphalus Schedl ( = Afromicracis Schedl), Phloeoditica Schedl ( = Xylechinops Browne), Pityophthorus Eichhoff ( = Breviophthorus Schedl, Neomips Schedl), Pseudothysanoes Blackman ( = Bostrichips Schedl, Gretschkinia Sokanovskii, Neoglostatus Schedl), Scolytodes Ferrari ( = Hexacolinus Schedl, Cryphalophilus Schedl), Scolytogenes Eichhoff ( = Xylocryptus Schedl), Taphrorychus Eichhoff ( = Saliciphilus Sokanovskii, Taphroterus Schedl), Tricolus Blandford ( = Pterocyclonoides Schedl), Triotemnus Wollaston ( = Cladoproctus Schedl), Xylosandrus Reitter ( = Apoxyleborus Wood). New specific synonymy in Scolytidae is proposed for: Chortastus agnatus Eggers ( = Afromicracis baguenai Schedl), Pelicerus (now Dendrographus) pygmaeus Eggers ( = Protopityophthorus durus Schedl). The status of Pseudomicracus Eggers is discussed. The following new genera are proposed in Scolytidae: Phloeographus (type-species: Phloeographus mamibiae Wood), Phloeocurus (type-species: Hylocurus africanus Schedl), Saurotocis (type-species: Micracidendron tomicoides Schedl), and Peridryocoetes (type-species: Ozodendron nitens Schedl). Pseudothysanoes spinatulus, new name, is proposed to replace P. spinatus Wood, 1956.
41712685|Sialis bilobata is described as a new species of the alderfly family Sialidae from Los Angeles County, California. A brief description of the species, illustrations, and diagnosis that compares it with Sialis arvalis Ross are provided.
41712341|Cliffrose age in relation to stem circumference and stem diameter was studied in central Utah. Age-circumference and age-diameter predictor equations were developed from material obtained from 10 stands along a 65-km section of the Wasatch Mountains foothills. Ages estimated on material of known age by the two equations were highly similar. Age predictions were more accurate for young stems than for older stems. The oldest stem aged was 163 years.
41712015|Revision of the perennial genera of North American Triticeae requires recognition of seven new genera in the Intermountain Region: Elytrigia, Leymus, Psathyrostachys, Pseudoroegneria, Thinopyrum, and the hybrid genera  Elyleymus and  Pseudelymus. One previously recognized genus, Sitanion, is included in Elymus. Several new combinations are presented to accommodate the taxonomic changes. Elymus trachycaulus is treated as a widespread, polymorphic species with three subspecies in the region: subsp. trachycaulus, subsecundus, and latiglumis. Agropyron dasystachyum and A. albicans are treated as conspecific subspecies of Elymus lanceolatus. A key to the genera of the Triticeae occurring in the Intermountain Region is presented as well as keys and brief descriptions for those genera not included in, or substantially modified from, other regional treatments.
41712261|Two adjacent mechanically treated pinyon-juniper (Pinus spp. and Juniperus spp.) big game winter range sites in central Utah were sampled in 1981 to estimate vegetational differences and tree mortality from the two treatments. One site was treated by selectively bulldozing in 1957 and the other was double chained in 1965. Both treatments significantly reduced tree and litter cover, whereas significant increases were found for native grasses and shrubs compared to a nearby untreated site. Juniper cover for the untreated site was 35.5% compared to only 1.4% for the bulldozed area and 4.1% for the two-way chained area. Browse species densities were increased by the mechanical treatments. The use of different mechanical treatments on separate smaller portions of critical areas of big game winter range would help provide: (1) for both long-term and short-term use of a critical wintering area, (2) greater overall productivity and carrying capacity, and (3) greater diversity by creating more edge effect between the differently treated and untreated areas.
41711414|The concept of parity type is proposed as a criterion of relationship among members of the Sceloporus aeneus-scalaris complex, with members of S. aeneus being regarded as viviparous and those of S. scalaris, as oviparous. The viviparous S. goldmani is regarded as a relative of S. aeneus, and S. a. subniger is not regarded as intermediate between S. scalaris and S. aeneus. The proposal by Davis and Smith that S. a. aeneus is oviparous and specifically distinct (as S. aeneus) from S. a. bicanthalis (as S. bicanthalis) is rejected. S. aeneus is hypothesized to have a biennial reproductive cycle. S. scalaris slevini auctorum is segregated into two subspecies : S. s. samcolemani subsp. noy. in the Sierra Oriental (northern end), and S. s. slevini sensu stricto in the Sierra Occidental (also northern end) of Mexico and of the adjacent United States.
41713139|A population of feral horses (Equus caballus) in the southern Great Basin Desert of Nevada was monitored from 1989 to 1998 to determine size, distribution, and population trends. All individual horses observed in the population were identified by unique markings during the first 2 yr of study, and most animals could be observed annually. During this study no new horses were identified in the population, indicating that no immigration occurred from outside populations. The population reached a high of 65 horses yearling or older in 1992 and declined each year thereafter, reaching a low of 36 horses in 1998. Estimated foal survival averaged <12% over 8 yr. Only 11 horses were recruited into the population as yearlings or older animals during the study. Mountain lion predation is hypothesized as a major factor limiting growth of this feral horse population.
41711679|Studies of microhabitat of 14 species of rodents by cluster analysis suggested that the diverse landscapes of Canyonlands National Park, Utah, include six broad "habitat-types": (1) rimrock; (2) desert shrublands; (3) saxicoline woodland and sagebrush; (4) oakbrush; (5) riparian deciduous woodland; and (6) grasslands. Perognathus parvus and Neotoma cinerea were the species most strongly associated with single "habitat-types," desert shrub and saxicoline woodland, respectively. Peromyscus maniculatus and P. truei were the species associated with the broadest ranges of habitats. The rodents with the most similar habitats were Neotoma mexicana and Peromyscus boylii; Eutamias quadrivittatus, P. truei, and P. crinitus; Ammospermophilus leucurus and P. maniculatus; and Dipodomys ordii and Onychomys leucogaster.
41712013|The first reported mammal fossil from Dry Mesa Quarry (Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation, Mesa County, Colorado) is the distal end of a right humerus. It is very similar to humeri described by Jenkins (1973) from the Morrison Formation at Como Bluff, Wyoming. It has a distinct ulnar condyle and a spiral humero-ulnar joint, both features found in prototherian mammals but not in therians.
41716159|Insect faunas and communities are characterized for herbaceous and tree canopy layers in meadow, aspen, and spruce/fir stages of a northern Utah sere. A greater percentage of species were in Thysanoptera in both aspen strata, and a greater percentage of individuals were in Lepidoptera in aspen canopy. Our sites were quite similar to a wide variety of other terrestrial sites in their distribution of species or individuals among orders or metamorphosis categories. Insects/m peaked in the aspen stage, but declined in the herbaceous layer with succession. Insects/plant biomass in the herbaceous layer increased with succession. Insects/m and insects/foliar biomass were higher in aspen canopies than in conifer canopies. Insect species/m peaked in the aspen stage. This statistic was comparable in meadow and aspen understory, and lower in conifer understory. Insects/m in the tree canopies were similar to the values in their respective understories. Insect species/plant biomass increased in the herbaceous layer with succession, but decreased in tree canopies with succession. Species evenness in both strata increased with succession. Adult body length was greatest for meadow species, least for conifer species. Adult body length per individual was greatest in aspen. Life cycle complexity was greatest in aspen. Insects on trees were more likely to have complex life cycles than those on herbs.
41712333|Fifteen genera representing nine families of spiders were collected in the southwestern United States in 1980. Thomisidae, Araneidae, Dictynidae, and Salticidae were the most commonly collected spider families. Ten genera of spiders not previously reported on sunflowers are reported for the first time.
41712214|Rearing young ungulates for ecological studies is costly and time consuming. Doe-rearing mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fawns is a viable alternative to the common method of bottle-feeding. Fawns tamed while nurtured by their tractable dams showed no marked diiference in tractability over bottle-reared orphans. The advantages of doe-rearing are better health for the young and convenience for the handler.
41711542|Differences in botfly parasitism were observed in the sympatric species Peromyscus maniculatus and P. difficilis in northern Colorado. The overall incidence of infection was 13.7 percent in P. maniculatus and only 0.6 percent in P. difficilis. The incidence of parasitism was affected markedly by trapping locality and by month of capture.
41711575|Distribution records for the Trichoptera occurring in the southeastern one-third of Idaho are summarized based on published records and collections by the authors and their colleagues. The study revealed representatives of 13 families, 37 genera, and 84 species. Several species were collected for the first time in Idaho, including: Hesperophylax magnus, Limnephilus frijole and L. thorus, Psychoglypha ormiae, Ceraclea annulicornis and C. copha, Polycentropus crassicornis, Tinodes provo, and Agrypania dextra.
41711593|Bionomics of a gall midge that emerged from nodulelike structures of herbaceous sage, Artemisia ludoviciana, was studied as a part of a larger investigation on possible nitrogen fixation by this plant. Infested plants collected from the field were regularly examined in the laboratory where some of them were grown in a liquid nutrient medium. In the laboratory, adult midges were reared from pupae and induction of infestation was attempted. Apparent nodulation of these plants is caused by the subterranean bud galls of a previously unknown gall midge, Rhopahmyia subhumilis Gagn. Life history of this midge is reported. These midges have one generation per year in the study areas and overwinter as larvae. There were no indications of paedogenesis. These midges are parasitized by a species of Platygasteridae.
41712509|White River springfish collected in August and December 1966 from Hot Creek Spring, Nevada, fed primarily on amphipods, ostracods, plant fragments, and detritus. Composition of the diet was similar in both months. However, amphipods were the most important food in August, while in December amphipods, ostracods, plant fragments, and detritus were of approximately equal importance. Comparison of diel feeding periodicity and activity patterns suggests that most of the daily activity of White River springfsh is related to feeding.
41712829|The purpose of this study was to determine the physiological responses o Agropyron smithii Rydb. to various saline environments as evaluated in the laboratory. Agropyron smithii Rydb. (Rosana) seeds were germinated, transplanted into nutrient solutions with NaCl concentrations of 0,50,100,150, and 200 mM, and grown for 80 days in a growth chamber. Results indicated that leaf water potential, relative water content of leaf tissue, and concentrations of Na, K, and Cl in plant tissue were significantly affected by increasing NaCl concentration. However, leaf chlorophyll concentration and concentrations of Ca and Mg in plant tissue were not significantly affected by the presence of NaCl.
41712864|The exotic shrub Tamarix ramosissima (saltcedar) has replaced the native Populus fremontii (cottonwood) along many streams in southwestern United States. We used a controlled outdoor experiment to examine the influence of river salinity on germination and first-year survival of P. fremontii var. wislizenii (Rio Grande cottonwood) and T. ramosissima on freshly deposited alluvial bars. We grew both species from seed in planters of sand subjected to a declining water table and solutions containing 0, 1, 3, and 5 times the concentrations of major ions in the Rio Grande at San Marcial, NM (1.2, 10.0, 25.7, and 37.4 meq 1; 0.11, 0.97, 2.37, and 3.45 dS m). Germination of P. fremontii declined by 35% with increasing salinity (P = .008). Germination of T. ramosissima was not affected. There were no significant effects of salinity on mortality or above-and belowground growth of either species. In laboratory tests the same salinities had no effect on P. fremontii germination. P. fremontii germination is more sensitive to salinity outdoors than in covered petri dishes, probably because water scarcity resulting from evaporation intensifies the low soil water potentials associated with high salinity. River salinity appears to play only a minor role in determining relative numbers of P. fremontii and T. ramosissima seedlings on freshly deposited sandbars. However, over many years salt becomes concentrated on floodplains as a result of evaporation and salt extrusion from saltcedar leaves. T. ramosissima is known to be more tolerant of the resulting extreme salinities than P. fremontii. Therefore, increases in river salinities could indirectly contribute to decline of P. fremontii forests by exacerbating salt accumulation on floodplains.
41711355|Seeds of Pinus aristata Engelm., bristlecone pine, from the type locality at the headwaters of Clear Creek in Colorado have a germination of 80 percent. Germination occurs within 10 days with or without vernalization. Scarified seeds are invaded by fungus and less than 10 percent germinate. Seedlings 10 and 180 days old do not survive exposure to -10C (14F) even when exposed to gradually decreasing temperatures to -4C (25F) for five weeks before treatment. Rapid germination, scarification mortality, and lack of cold hardness in seedlings work against the reproduction of bristlecone pine.
41711452|Polites sabuleti is an example of an insect having a univoltine, monophenic highelevation subspecies and a multivoltine lowland one that produces similar phenotypes only in cold weather. When reared under conditions that induce the warm-weather phenotype in lowland stocks, the montane subspecies P. s. tecumseh continues to produce its usual phenotype, indicating that it has become genetically fixed.
41712238|Thirty-four study sites were established in shadscale (Atriplex confertifolia [Torr. & Frem.] Wats.) and greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus [Hoov. Torr, in Emory) communities bordering Utah Lake in central Utah. Differences in species composition, vegetation, and soil characteristics were assessed. Significant differences in soil factors between the two communities were found for sand, calcium, manganese, zinc, and copper. Soluble salts and sodium concentrations were generally higher in the greasewood type, but differences were not significant. Major differences were found in understory species, with burr buttercup (Ranunculus testiculatus Grantz) showing significantly greater cover in the shadscale community and cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum L.) showing significantly greater cover in the greasewood community.
41712057|Adult pandora moths began emerging in late July, and peak daily emergence occurred during 10-15 August. The mean density of moths emerging per 929 cm of ground surface ranged from 0.1 to 2.4. The ratio of emerging males to females varied from 3-4:1 during the initial days of emergence to 1: 1.5 during the last 10 days of August. Postemergence behavior is described and discussed in relation to egg mass deposition and species survival.
41712085|Seedlings of fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt.) were inoculated with indigenous vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) fungi in a containerized system and transplanted into processed oil shale and disturbed native soil in a semiarid rangeland environment in northwestern Colorado. After two growing seasons in the field, plants inoculated with VAM had greater aboveground biomass, cover, and height than noninoculated plants. Mycorrhizal plants were more effective in the uptake of water and phosphorus: Infection levels of inoculated plants were greatly reduced in processed shale (from 13.0 at outplanting to 3.8 at harvest), but functional VAM associations could be found after two growing seasons. Results indicate that VAM help make processed oil shale a more tractable medium for the establishment of plants representative of later successional stages by allowing these plants to make effective use of the natural resources that are limiting under conditions of high stress.
41712492|Ruby Lake is a highly mesic and vegetationally diverse pluvial lake basin of east central Nevada. Small mammal associations were examined in six plant communities at Ruby Lake using transects of live traps. Small mammal activity was recorded for these six habitats plus an additional three other specialized habitats. A total of 11 species of small mammals were trapped from the six habitat types; from the entire study area 26 species were trapped or observed. Two greasewood shrub habitats and a shadscale-spiny hopsage habitat held the highest number of trapped species, 6, 5, and 7, respectively. The mesic haymeadow and spring habitats, as well as the big sagebrush-antelope bitterbrush habitat held 4 trapped species each. Peromyscus maniculatus and Perognathus parvus made up 76% of the total captures and were found in all habitat types except marshlands. Eutamius minimus was found in four of the six habitat types, while Dipodomys ordii, Dipodomys microps, Perognathus parvus, and Microtus montanus were limited to specialized habitats. Mesic adapted, wetland species such as Mustela vison, Ondatra zibethicus, and Sorex vagrans possibly dispersed into Ruby Valley from the northeastern drainages and valleys during the late Pleistocene or Holocene.
41712485|Two new species, Paracarinolidia longiseta and P. glabra from Brazil and French Guiana, respectively, are described and illustrated. A revised key to males of five known species is also presented. The genus is now known to occur in Brazil, Ecuador, Peru, Colombia, and French Guiana.
41711990|Paraphyllanthoxylon utahense, sp. nov., is described from the Cedar Mountain Formation and compared with similar fossil and modern woods. Fossil angiosperm woods from the Early Cretaceous are of great interest because very few have been reported from strata of this age. This species demonstrates that the angiosperms had developed many of their modern characteristics by Early Cretaceous time.
41712820|Mountain goat (Oreamnos americanas) and bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) ranges overlap substantially in northwestern United States and southwestern Canada. Resource overlap in food and habitat parameters is assumed, but the degree of overlap has not been estimated. Data from published separate and comparative studies on food and habitat use were used to calculate indices of resource overlap for goats and sheep. Indices of overlap for general forage classes (grasses, forbs, browse) were > 0.90 in summer and winter for data based on pooled data from separate studies and in summer for data from comparative studies. In winter for comparative studies this overlap was 0.64. For studies where forage species were identified, estimates of resource overlap from separate studies were ~ 0.8 but were < 0.5 for comparative studies. Indices of overlap for habitat variables were also low (< 0.7) for comparative studies. It was concluded that possible overlap in food and habitat use by goats and sheep could be extensive; but in sympatric populations, resource overlap may be reduced substantially.
41712797|The purpose of this research was to evaluate the status of phytoplankton in Lake Albion in the Green Lakes valley, Colorado Front Range, with respect to lake acidification. The research was conducted during the inventory phase of the Long-Term Ecological Research program of the University of Colorado at the Niwot Ridge/Green Lakes valley site. Lake Albion is a small subalpine lake on the terminal end of the Green Lakes valley (13 ha, mean depth 6 m, and surface pH 6.51). Net plankton were collected six times during June-August 1984. Ancillary data on nutrients, temperature, chlorophyll a, and Secchi disc transparency were also obtained. Diatoms were identified and assigned to categories based upon their known tolerances to hydrogen ion concentration. The diatom flora was composed mostly of alkaliphilic or species indifferent to hydrogen ion concentration, a characteristic Lake Albion shares with other Front Range lakes. The diatom flora and water chemistry of Lake Albion are compared to other high-elevation lakes.
41713084|We seeded Agropyron cristatum and 16 native Great Basin perennial species on Bromus tectorumdominated sites to compare temporal patterns of seedling emergence and early survival among species. To indicate variability between sites and between years, plots were planted on 2 sites in western Utah in autumn 1994, and plantings were repeated near 1 site in autumn 1995. Two sites included burned and unburned seedbed treatments. We monitored seedling emergence and survival from early winter until July of the 1st year. Four seasonal patterns of emergence were evident, indicating considerable potential for different seasonal patterns of precipitation to favor recruitment of different species. Emergence of all shrubs, except Ephedra nevadensis, began in February and essentially ended by April. Seedlings of Ephedra nevadensis and of the grasses Agropyron and Pseudoroegneria spicata emerged over an extended period from February through June. Most other grasses and the 2 forbs began emerging in April and continued into June. Pleuraphis jamesii emergence did not begin until May. Although many seedlings of the 3 chenopod shrubs emerged, none survived, suggesting their episodic recruitment is more a function of survival than of emergence. Survival of 2 Chrysothamnus species was also low. Pseudoroegneria and Agropyron had the highest numbers of seedlings surviving on the moister site, followed by Elymus elymoides and Stipa comata. Survival of Agropyron, but not the native Elymus, was more depressed on the drier of the 2 sites planted in 1994. Stipa, Oryzopsis hymenoides, Pleuraphis, and Ephedra survived as well on the drier site as on the moister site, or better. On the 1995 planting site Bromus was greatly reduced by the burn treatment, and, in contrast to the effect of burn treatments on the 1994 site, survival of all species except Oryzopsis and Ephedra was higher on burned than on unburned treatments. Overall, Stipa, Oryzopsis, and Pleuraphis had low emergence but consistently high survival.
41712961|The flight periodicity of western balsam bark beetle (Dryocoetes confusus Swaine) in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah, was studied during the summer months of 1992, 1993, and 1994. Contents of baited funnel traps were tallied by species up to 3 times weekly. Two main periods of flight activity were observed each year. The first and, generally, largest occurred in early summer soon after flight was initiated for the season. A 2nd period was observed in late summer, generally August. Timing of the 2 periods was influenced by unusually warm or cool weather in each study year. The 1st period had more males than females while the 2nd period had a majority of females. Except during periods of cool or wet weather, western balsam bark beetles were found to be active at least at minimal levels from June through September.
41712369|Alniphagus africanus Schedl, 1963, and Hylesinus africanus Schedl, 1965, were both transferred to Hylesinopsis and thereby become junior homonyms of H. africanus (Eggers, 1933). The new name H. acacicolens is proposed as a replacement for Schedl's 1963 name and H. secutus as a new name for Schedl's 1965 name. Six species from Mexico are described as new to science, including: Hylocurus atkinsoni, H. crotonis, Monarthrum xahpensis, Pseudochramesus jaliscoensis, Pseudopityophthorus durangoensis, and P. xalapae.
41711377|Side-blotched lizards, Uta stansburiana, were marked and recaptured on a study plot near Anapra, Dona Ana County, New Mexico, during the summer of 1971. The density in July was estimated to be 20.3 individuals per acre (50.2 per hectare). The home range size for males averaged 0.254 acres and for females, 0.097 acres. Males 48-53 mm s-v increased 0.034 mm/day in s-v length and 0.067 mm/day in tail length from middle July to early September. Females 41.5-46 mm s-v increased 0.028 mm/day in s-v length and 0.058 mm/day in tail length during the same period.
41711880|Behavior of migrant birds in relation to temperature was studied and compared to that of resident species in the northern Mojave Desert. Migrants reduced foraging intensity above 30 C, but resident species showed no striking decrease in intensity of foraging at temperatures up to 35 C. Migrant species shifted activities to shaded microhabitats at temperatures between 20 and 30 C; the resident Verdin showed a similar shift at 35 C. Most migrants decreased the amount of time spent foraging at temperatures above 30; Verdins showed a similar but stronger response to temperatures about 30 C. Significant reductions in the use of hovering and hawking maneuvers were found among migrants at temperatures above 30 C. Migrants showed similar types of behavioral adjustments to temperatures as did resident desert species, but they responded earlier in the daily temperature cycle. Desert birds appear to correlate their daily activity strongly with temperature, but nondesert species may respond either to temperature or time of day.
41713063|The male epiprocts of 2 closely related western Nearctic species, Sweltsa fldelis (Banks) and S. revelstoka (Jewett), were examined using SEM. The males of these 2 species have been historically distinguished by epiproct measurements. The ratio of the length from the base to greatest width versus total epiproct length ranges from 0.49 m to 0.67 m (x = 0.56) in S. fldelis and 0.55 m to 0.69 m (x = 0.60) in S. revelstoka. Similarities in measurement suggest that the location of the greatest epiproct width is not a reliable and consistent character for distinguishing males of these 2 species.
41713038|We surveyed bats throughout the White and Inyo Mountains of California and Nevada. From December 1990 to November 1996, we surveyed hibernating bats, and foraging bats from June 1992 to September 1996. The White-Inyo Range rests in a unique biogeographical junction between the Sierra Nevada, Mojave Desert, and Great Basin regions. Elevational gradients of 305-4340 m, combined with limited human development, further enhance the interest of natural history and faunal distributions in this range. We found 13 bat species in the course of 2668 observations. Three of these species, the spotted bat (Euderma maculatum), silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans), and hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus), have no previous records from the White-Inyo Range. We found bats in all vegetation zones except the alpine, 3500-4342 m. Despite an abundance of mines in this range, only Townsend's big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii) and the western small-footed myotis (Myotis ciliolabrum) used them routinely. Our data also indicated the importance of surface water to bat populations in arid regions.
41712801|In 80% of the years between 1975 and 1989 chorus frogs were able to produce offspring that completed metamorphosis and became members of the next generation. During 3 of these 15 years (1975, 1983, and 1986), floods annihilated chorus frogs in the breeding pond. Between 1905 and 1989 this geographically isolated population of Pseudacris regilla, the Pacific chorus frog, located at the western edge of the Great Basin in northwestern Nevada, became reestablished after 10 natural physical disturbances including spring flash floods, numerous kill-ofFs by sudden drastic rises in water temperature, and stream dry-ups. Ninety percent of the frogs in this population were shades of green with black dorsal speckles and eyestripes. Predators were the belted kingfisher (Megaceryle alcyon), western terrestrial garter snake (Thamnophis elegans), and domestic house cat (Felix domestica).
41712241|A revision of the rush family, Juncaceae is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 28 taxa in two genera. Keys to genera and species are provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and other comments. No new taxa or combinations are proposed.
41711951|The fish population of Ruth Reservoir, California, was sampled every two weeks with variable mesh gill nets from May 1974 through May 1975. Fish were captured in the following order of numerical abundance: Humboldt sucker (Catostomus humboldtianus), golden shiner (Notemigonus crysoleucus), brown bullhead (Ictalurus nebulosus), white catfish (I. catus), rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri), and largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides). The three most abundant species made up about 95 percent of total numbers and weight. All species exhibited a similar cyclic temporal availability pattern: catch rates increased to a maximum during summer and fall and decreased during winter and spring. Environmental variables with the most pronounced relationships to fish catches were temperature (direct) and turbidity (inverse).
41712289|Mortality of spruce in mixed conifer stands moderately to heavily infested with western spruce dwarf mistletoe was two to five times greater than in healthy stands in the White Mountains, Arizona. Ten-year volume growth loss for heavily infected spruce trees ranged from 25% to 40%. Estimates of growth loss for spruce on a stand basis ranged from 10% to 20% in heavily infested stands. Because western spruce dwarf mistletoe is prevalent in the White Mountains and causes increased mortality and reduced growth, its control should be included in management of mixed conifer stands there.
41712470|A population outbreak of Wahweap milkvetch (A. lentiginosus var. wahweapensis Welsh) occurred in the Henry Mountains area of southeastern Utah in 1985 and 1986, causing extensive locoweed poisoning in cattle grazing these winter ranges. Weather conditions supporting this population outbreak included above average precipitation in the fall of 1984 and 1985, which presumably allowed germination of seed lying dormant in the soil. Above average spring precipitation in the subsequent year supported the population growth. Part of the population died in the summer of 1985, and nearly all plants died in the summer of 1986. Historically, population outbreaks occurred every six to eight years: 1949, 1957, 1965, 1973, 1979, and 1985-1986. Correlation with weather records indicated that population outbreaks occurred in years of high spring and total annual precipitation. Wahweap milkvetch seed lying dormant in the soil ranged from 940 to 4,346 seed/m where old stands occurred, and 20 to 40 seed/m where old plants were not evident. Sufficient seed remains in the soil to cause future population outbreaks.
41712026|Stanleya pinnata var. gibberosa Rollins is a narrow endemic from southwestern Wyoming. This taxon is based upon the morphological characters of crooked petals and all leaves bipinnate. During field work in 1980, a population near the type locality of this variety was located that had plants with both bipinnate and entire leaves. Due to this unusual population, further field and herbarium studies were done to resolve the taxonomy of var. gibberosa. These further studies showed that this taxon is based upon young individuals of var. bipinnata.
41712568|The influence of soil frost on the infiltration rate of shrub coppice dune and dune interspace soils was evaluated near Crystal Springs, Nevada, using simulated rainfall. The infiltration rate of the coppice dune soil was greater than the dune interspace soil under frozen or unfrozen conditions. Because of different vegetation cover and surface soil characteristics, coppice dune and dune interspace soils responded differently to freezing, thus imposing a spatial and temporal response to infiltration rate. Infiltration rate of soils with porous concrete frost increased as the soils thawed during simulated rainfall, but soils with nonporous concrete frost allowed very little infiltration to occur. Both coppice dune and dune interspace soils that were classified in January as having granular frost had a higher infiltration rate than the same unfrozen soils in March.
41712710|Spermophilus brunneus is restricted to a 90  125-km area of west central Idaho, with two distinct (northern and southern) groups of populations within this limited range. Morphological differences in pelage length and coloration, external and cranial measurements, and bacula suggest that these groups are either very distinct subspecies or species. We used starch-gel electrophoresis to estimate the amount of genetic differentiation accompanying these morphological differences by assaying genetic variation at 31 loci in the two geographic groups. Fifteen loci were polymorphic (13 in the northern group, 12 in the southern), and mean heterozygosity (H) was high (12.3% northern and 10.8% southern). Nei's genetic distance (0.057) is in the range usually associated with subspecific differences. However, Jaccards association coefficient (0.893) is about the same as that found between several ground squirrel taxa currently recognized as species. The high levels of heterozygosity suggest that S. brunneus is a neoendemic rather than a paleoendemic species.
41712891|Physical characteristics, benthic macroinvertebrates, and periphyton assemblages in two adjacent headwater streams in Yellowstone National Park were evaluated five years after the 1988 wildfires. The catchment of one stream was burned by wildfire (burned stream) while the other catchment was unburned (unburned stream). Physical measures revealed channel alteration in the burned stream relative to the unburned stream. Periphyton biomass was lower in the burned than the unburned stream (29.2 vs. 50.5 g/m AFDM, respectively), further demonstrating the unstable physical conditions of that system. Kendall's coefficient of concordance (an index of similarity) between diatom assemblages was 0.22, indicating distinct assemblage composition between streams. Navicula permits Hust was the most abundant diatom in the burned stream while Hannaea arcus (Ehr.) Patr. was dominant in the unburned stream. Macroinvertebrate taxa richness, density, and biomass were all greater in the unburned stream, although Chironomidae was the most abundant taxon in both streams. Results suggest the removal of terrestrial/riparian vegetation by wildfire can directly influence stream benthic assemblages by altering the inherent disturbance regime of the physical habitat templet.
41712937|The objective of this study was to determine if crude protein varies significantly during late summer and midwinter among stands of bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata Pursh) in southwestern Montana. A secondary objective was to determine if leaves, when present, contribute significant additional protein in the region. Nine sites with different environmental conditions and within a radius of 14.5 km were studied. Bitterbrush leaves and leaders collected in August 1990 and 1991 and February 1991 were used for crude protein and leaf-to-leader ratio determinations. Crude protein differed (P < 0.001) among sites for both leaves and leaders on individual collection dates. Crude protein in leaves was nearly twice the level found in leaders. Because few leaves were present in February, they increased crude protein in total foliage by only 0.3% over twigs alone. February crude protein levels averaged 6.8% for total foliage, which is below the estimated requirement for wintering deer.
41711316|Food consumption by the cliff chipmunk, Eutamias dorsalis, was observed in northern Utah in the natural habitat during May, June, July of 1965, 1966. Plant food sources nearest the cliff den sites were used in early spring, and as the season progressed, chipmunks increased ranges proportionately with the positioning of specific maturing food plants. Total daily frequencies of plant use suggested the following plants as prime energy sources in order of observed usage: Tragopogn, Bahamorhiza, Poa, Lomatium, Bromus, Crpis, Amelanchier, Agoseris.
41712958|A field study of the thatching ant, Formica obscuripes Forel, at 2560 m elevation in Colorado provided information on mound density, composition, dimensions, and temperatures; worker longevity; and mite parasitization. Density was 115 mounds/ha. Mounds had 1-52 entrances and Peromyscus fecal pellets in the thatch. Mounds conserved heat and exhibited thermal stratification. Excavations of 4 nests revealed depths of 0.3 m to almost 1 m, novel myrmecophiles, and 0-198 wingless queens per nest. Marking experiments demonstrated that some workers overwinter and live more than a year.
41711943|A field survey in caves near Grants, New Mexico, and Flagstaff, Arizona, found only an exceptionally poor fauna of 14 species with no strong patterns of cave restriction. The faunal poverty is judged to be correlated with and influenced by the similarly impoverished boreal forests in nearby mountains. Species of flightless arthropods, suitable for cave colonization and restricted to cool-moist litter of boreal ("Hudsonian-Canadian Life Zone") forests, are apparently not now present in suitable, nearby mountain habitats. They may not have dispersed to all available montane sites from the Southern Rocky Mountains during glacial conditions. Either the forests did not exist as continuous dispersal corridors for the litter arthropods, or the fauna could not track the rate of spread of the forests.
41712055|Medicago sativa L. and Hedysarum boreale Nutt. were grown in the greenhouse on soils representing 27 of the major soil associations of the northern Great Basin. Nodulation of Medicago sativa L. by indigenous rhizobia occurred with 25 of the soil associations and of Hedysarum boreale Nutt. with 21 of these soil associations. Nitrogen fixation, as indicated by acetylene reduction activity, was greater for Medicago sativa L. than for Hedysarum boreale Nutt. for most of the soil associations. Multiple regression functions incorporating 49 independent climatic, edaphic, and vegetation variables failed to predict acetylene reduction activity with satisfactory precision.
41712472|Changing habitat structure in pinyon (Pinus edulis)one-seed juniper (Juniperus monosperma) stands by (1) pushing trees down with a bulldozer and leaving them in place, (2) pushing, then piling and burning slash, or (3) thinning to a spacing of 6.1 m and leaving slash did not affect weights of individuals of nine rodent species. Previous studies have shown that habitat modifications influence kinds of species and numbers of individuals, but changes in total rodent biomass are a function of sizes of different species occupying different habitats, not changes in weights of individuals.
41712921|We used creel surveys to evaluate how a change from a 6-mon to a year-round fishing season affected the sport fish harvest in East Canyon Reservoir (Utah), a 277-ha mesoeutrophic system. Under the year-round season, fishing effort was 840 angler-hhayr, and 360 trout ha were captured. Catch rates were proportional to estimated trout densities in the reservoir, ranging from 1.06 during the winter ice fishery, to 0.18 fish anglerh in July. Ninety-nine percent of fish harvested were rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Thirty-two percent of the 300,000 75-mm fingerling trout stocked annually were captured by anglers within 2.5 yr, but return rates varied with the strain and/or size of trout stocked. Annual fish yield was 102 kg/ha, among the highest yet reported for a temperate zone, lacustrine system. Extending fishing from a 6-mon season to year-round increased the number of fish captured and provided almost twice as many hours of recreational fishing in the reservoir. The harvest period was changed from traditional spring-summer months to primarily a winter-spring fishery because relatively few trout survived for more than 6 mon after reaching harvestable size. Although salmonid production in East Canyon Reservoir is very high, the fishery is in a precarious state because high primary productivity driven, in part, by cultural eutrophication, makes water quality suboptimal during midsummer.
41712962|Population status surveys were performed from 1987 to 1996 for desert dace (Eremichthys acros), a cyprinid endemic to several small thermal springs in Soldier Meadow, Humboldt County, Nevada, where the species occupies 7 spring areas in a single valley. Because spring distributions are patchy and all areas are not linked by surface flow, each area comprises a more-or-less isolated population, although irrigation practices or high runoff may occasionally link several of them. Although limited to thermal springpools and outflows, desert dace were found in temperatures ranging from 37C near spring sources to 13C in downstream areas. Between May 1988 and October 1989, most of the discharge from a major spring outflow was diverted from its natural channel into an irrigation ditch. Trap catches in the original channel were reduced after the diversion, and fish densities were lower in the ditch than in the channel. Reduced fish numbers still persist (1996), even though the affected site has been relatively undisturbed since 1989. To improve desert dace habitat and increase populations, irrigation diversion should be discontinued and water returned to the original channel. Continued protection and increased habitat preservation for desert dace are recommended because of their limited distribution, apparently restricted habitat requirements, and the potential for environmental disruption in the area.
41712305|Some populations of Drosophila pseudoobscura in the Great Basin have very little genetic variation for third chromosome inversion gene arrangements. These populations are essentially monomorphic for the Arrowhead gene arrangement. At Bryce Canyon, Utah, individuals with other gene arrangements (Standard, Pikes Peak, and Treeline) were released and their frequencies monitored. One generation after release, the released arrangements had increased in frequency from 0.7% to almost 10%. After overwintering, the arrangement frequencies were not statistically different from the prerelease samples. The samples did demonstrate a low-level retention of the released Pikes Peak arrangement. The decline in the released arrangements was probably the result of large population size at Bryce Canyon and the bottleneck effects of overwintering. The results do not seem consistent with a model of the released arrangements having a lowered fitness.a
41713113|The Ferruginous Hawk, a breeding bird endemic to North America, was named Falco ferrugineus in 1838 by H. Lichtenstein, curator of the Berlin Zoological Museum. The type was collected by F. Deppe near presentday Monterey, California. In 1844 G. R. Gray of the British Museum assigned the name Buteo regalis to a Ferruginous Hawk specimen of unknown origin, but perhaps donated to the museum by John Phillips, a renowned British geologist. The species was known as Falco (Buteo) ferrugineus until the 1920s when it was discovered that this epithet was occupied. The next name in priority was Gray's Buteo regalis, which then became valid. The species has been known by a number of common names. Even though any reference to the rusty brown markings on the otherwise white plumage is no longer part of the species scientific name, the Ferruginous Hawk continues to be the most frequently used common name.
41711634|Growth rates were determined for laboratory-reared Dipodomys ordii pallidus Durrant & Setzer. Instantaneous growth rates were used to express increase of body weight, total length, tail length, ear length and hind foot length as rates between times of measurements and the instantaneous percentage of maximum size. Data were analyzed for growth periods of 1-3, 4-15, 16-29 and 30-70 days. All five parameters provided significant correlations of growth with age during all growth periods. Even though all of the growth parameters correlate with age, these parameters cannot be reliably used to predict age.
41711834|The study population is a group of hybrids of Salsola iberica  S. paulsenii. The plants show great variation in phenotypic characteristics, and the character complexes of the parent species seem to have largely disappeared. Seeds are dispersed both locally, from intact plants, and by tumbling. Tumbling is the dominant form of dispersal in most individuals studied. Most locally dispersed seeds fall between .5 and 1.5 m from the parent plant. Despite the dominance of tumbling, large numbers of seeds are dispersed locally and probably serve to maintain the population while those dispersed by tumbling introduce the plants into new areas.
41712960|A total of 28 Swainson's Hawk (Buteo swainsoni) and 30 Red-tailed Hawk (B. jamaicensis) nests were found in Cache Valley, Utah, during the summers of 1992 and 1993. All nests were in trees, but only Red-tailed Hawks nested in dead trees (30%). In the intensive study area, nesting densities were 0.10 nests/km for Swainson's Hawk and 0.08 nests/km for Red-tailed Hawk. Nearest-neighbor nest distances were significantly shorter among Swainson's Hawks (1.74 km) than among Red-tailed Hawks (2.83 km). Congeneric nearest-neighbor distances were significantly shorter than conspecific distances for Red-tailed Hawks (1.59 vs. 2.83 km) but not for Swainson's Hawks (1.52 vs. 1.74 km). GIS analysis of habitat types was made for 2-km radii around nest sites. Cropland was the dominant land cover type at nest sites of both species and no significant difference was found between species. Swainson's Hawk nest sites contained significantly more pasture, whereas Red-tailed Hawk nest sites contained significantly more juniper, maple, and sagebrush. Only Red-tailed Hawk nests (n = 8; 27%) were found on the periphery of the valley at the base of foothills of the Cache Mountains. This preference resulted in a significantly higher elevation for Red-tailed Hawk nest sites. Swainson's Hawk nests occurred only on the valley floor on level terrain. Distance to the nearest paved road and building was very similar for both species, implying that little difference exists in tolerance levels for human activities. Overall, multivariate niche overlap for habitat was high (0.89), indicating a lack of habitat partitioning between these 2 Buteos in Cache Valley.
41713020|The life history of the endangered Kendall Warm Springs dace (Rhinichthys osculus thermalis) is largely unknown. Our study of its reproduction, sources of mortality, and diet indicated that Kendall Warm Springs dace seem to be reproductively active throughout the year, but the rate of reproduction appears to decrease during the winter. Males become sexually mature at 34 mm total length and females at 40 mm total length. We observed 2 sources of mortality: (1) emigration from the warm spring stream over a waterfall into the Green River and (2) predation on larvae by dragonfly (Libellulla saturata) nymphs. Stomachs of Kendall Warm Springs dace contained small (1.5 mm total length) benthic invertebrates, primarily dipterans and mollusks.
41711394|Data from pictograph and archaeological sites in northeastern California are used to verify the postulated former existence of small resident populations of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in this region. The reason for the disappearance of bighorns from this area remains unclear, with climatic change, Euro-American settlement, or hunting pressure existing as possibilities.
41712632|Curlleaf mountainmahogany is a widely distributed shrubby tree of western North America. Welldeveloped stands are most often found on warm, dry, rocky ridges and slopes at high elevations on mostly southern exposures. It can, however, be found on all exposures. The species appears to be indifferent to substrate with soils which are invariably shallow and of low fertility. However, the nitrogenfixing root nodules help overcome soil deficiencies. This highly palatable species is preferred by mountain sheep, mountain goats, deer, and elk. Its nutritive value (about 12% protein) and digestibility ratings (around 50%) in the winter are high when compared with most other associated winter browse species. Early research with curlleaf mountainmahogany basically dealt with two major management problems: (1) how to increase available forage production on old, even-aged stands too tall for big game to browse, and (2) how to increase reproduction in these same communities. Selective dozer thinning, sometimes in conjunction with the seeding of fast-growing plants, appears to be a promising management technique providing browse until the younger curlleaf becomes established.
41716163|A burrowing owl (Athene cuniciilaria) population nesting on the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL) in southeastern Idaho utilized burrows excavated by badgers (Taxidea taxus) or natural cavities in lava flows as nesting sites. The size of the population was small (N = 13-14 pairs) in relation to the number of available nesting sites, suggesting that factors other than burrow availability limited this population. Rodents and Jerusalem crickets (Stenopeimatiis fusciis) represented the primary prey utilized during the nesting season. This population demonstrated both a numerical (brood size) and functional (dietary) response to a decrease in the density of three species of rodents on the INEL during a drought in 1977.
41712484|Haliplus eremicus is described as a new species of the crawling water beetle family Haliplidae. A brief description of the species, illustrations, and diagnosis that compares it with Haliplus mimeticus Matheson are provided.
41711423|A taxonomic review of the Astragalus lentiginosus complex in Utah indicates that the epithet var. albiflorus, antecedes and therefore should replace var. diphysus. The range of var. vitreus has been extended to include Kane and Garfield cos., Utah, and var. fremontii has now been identified from the state.
41713137|Caudal movement in snakes may serve either a predatory (e.g., caudal luring) or defensive (e.g., rattling, aposematism) function. I describe a new behavioral pattern of tail movement in snakes. Gray rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta spiloides) foraging on small mammals (Mus domesticus) moved their tails in an erratic, whiplike fashion after detecting prey in their vicinity. The thrashing movement in the horizontal plane was audibly and visually obvious, resulting in displacement of leaf litter around the tail. All subjects displayed the behavior, but not in all foraging episodes. Shorter durations of caudal distraction resulted in greater predator success during the 1st attempt at prey capture. Caudal distraction may facilitate prey capture by gray rat snakes by directing the attention of prey away from the approaching head of the snake.
41711437|In May 1974 four male spotted bats were netted near St. George, Utah. Contrary to published speculation on Euderma, indications are that the spotted bat in southwest Utah (1) is not a late flyer, (2) does not feed solely on moths, (3) may drop to the ground on occasion to forage, (4) is not a rapid flyer, and (5) appears to utilize crevices as roosting sites.
41716162|Animal and nonanimal items were identified in the digestive tracts of 61 cougars (Felis concolor) collected between 1978 and 1984 from the western slopes of the Cascade Range in Oregon. Forty-two (69%) of the cougars were taken by hunters in December and January, 18 (30%) were killed at other times of the year because of their proximity to livestock, and one animal was illegally killed in November. Black-tailed deer (Odocoiletts hemionns columbianus) was the most common prey item, although domestic sheep (Ovis ories), porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum), and a variety of small mammals were also recorded. Masticated grass was the most common nonanimal item.
41711499|Forty-five percent of 306 brown trout from 16 Montana streams were infected with one or more of the nematodes Cystidicoloides salvelini, Bulbodacnitis globosa, Rhabdochona sp., and Eustrongylides sp. The relationships between incidence and intensity of nematode infections and age and sexual maturity of the host fish were studied. Generally, sexually mature female brown trout had a higher rate of infection and had more nematodes per infected fish than immature female brown trout. Higher incidence and intensity of infection in sexually mature fish was attributed to more aggressive feeding behavior leading to more exposure to the intermediate hosts (mayflies) of the nematode parasites.
41711630|Recent discoveries of native cutthroat trout populations in desert mountain ranges on the western fringe of the Bonneville Basin have prompted intensified management efforts by state and federal agencies. Analysis of Snake Valley cutthroat specimens in Trout Creek, Deep Creek Mountain Range, Utah, indicate this is a pure strain of the trout which once inhabited Pleistocene Lake Bonneville and which was thought to be extinct in Utah. The Snake Valley cutthroat is similar to Salmo clarki Utah of the eastern Bonneville Basin; however, electrophoretic and morphomeristic analysis show unique genetic differences brought about by long-term isolation (8,000 years) from the remainder of the Bonneville Basin cutthroat. This cutthroat is a common ancestor to several other limited cutthroat populations within the basin in Nevada. In May 1977 the BLM withdrew from mineral entry about 27,000 acres within the Deep Creek Mountains for protection of this salmonid cutthroat and other unique resources on the range. Results of 1977 stream surveys on the Pilot Peak Mountain Range, Utah, indicate the presence of the threatened Lahontan cutthroat, Salmo henshawi, in one isolated stream.
41712182|Yucca harrimaniae var. sterilis Neese & Welsh is named and described from the Uinta Basin of Utah. The plant is strongly rhizomatous, evidently sterile, and has limber, sparingly filiferous leaves that tend to recline on the ground.
41712288|Three species of Pityophthorus from Mexico are described: bravoi (Mexico), conscriptus (Morelos), and ostryacolens (Morelos). Additional host or locality data are given for: atomus, corruptus, deletus, diglyphyus, elimatus, exquisitus, furnissi, hylocuroides, molestus, montezumae, nebulosus, nocturnus, and vespertinus. Existing keys are modified to contain all newly described species.
41712601|We compared physical and vegetative habitat characteristics at 14 dam sites occupied by beaver (Castor canadensis) with those at 41 random unoccupied reaches to identiiy features important to dam-site selection in the Long Creek basin, Grant County, Oregon. Stream reaches with dams were shallower and had a lower gradient than unoccupied reaches. Beaver did not build dams at sites with a rock substrate. Bank slopes at occupied reaches were not as steep as those at unoccupied reaches; and occupied stream reaches had greater tree canopy cover, especially of thinleaf alder (Alnus tenuifolia), than did unused reaches. A discriminant model using transformations of bank slope, stream gradient, and hardwood cover classified all beaver dam sites correctly and 35 of 41 random sites as unoccupied sites. The 6 misclassified sites had rock substrates. We also tested four habitat suitability models for beaver in this basin. Three models produced significantly different (P < .05) scores between occupied and random unoccupied reaches, suggesting that they might have some utility for this region.
41712034|A second small population of white fir dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. concohris, is reported from the Santa Catalina Mountains in southern Arizona. The discovery of a second population of this mistletoe in southern Arizona supports the contention that it once had a more southern distribution but has survived past climatic changes in only a few locations in the southwestern United States. The distribution of the Western spruce dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium microcarpum, is extended to the Sacramento Mountains of south central New Mexico, a range extension of approximately 170 miles. The mistletoe is restricted to an area of about 300 acres, but its potential for further spread is high. The possible implications of this range extension to the biosystematics of Picea spp. and the evolution of A. microcarpum are discussed.
41712560|Comandra umbellata is the alternate host of a hard pine canker rust disease induced by the fungus Cronartium comandrae. The occurrence and density of C. umbellata were recorded near lodgepole pine stands in the Wind River District, Shoshone National Forest, Wyoming. Comandra populations occurred most often on slopes with southern aspects, particularly southwestern, and on steep slopes; these sites tended to be dry and relatively open. Comandra was also found growing under heavy perennial shrub canopy covers. It was most often associated with sagebrush but was common near other perennial shrubs as well. Overall, C. umbellata appeared to be a poor competitor with dense grass populations. Comandra was found primarily on Abies lasiocarpa/Juniperus communis, Pinus flexilis/Hesperochloa kingii, and Artemisia tridentata/F estuca idahoensis habitats. No comandra was found in the Abies lasiocarpa/Vaccinium scoporium habitat.
41712657|Regression analyses for plant biomass estimation from physical measurements of individual plant dimensions that are nonlinear have generally used some form of the allometric equation. Use of this equation has most often involved logarithmic transformation of the variables (power regression). Transformation, however, introduces systematic bias into the analyses. Power regression was compared with a bias correction technique and with nonlinear regression for the prediction of the total foliage biomass (phytomass). Crown volumes of one sagebrush and one perennial grass species were used for these evaluations. The bias correction factor was uniformly applied to all the predicted values from power regression. Nonlinear regression avoided this bias by not requiring logarithmic transformation. It was also consistently less variable than either power regression or the correction factor method in estimating actual total phytomass by the allometric equation and equivalent or better in accuracy. The correction factor technique consistently gave the poorest predictions of the methods evaluated. Standard linear regression worked as well for the bunchgrass as the best method based on the allometric equation. Predictions were generally better when sample sizes used to derive the regression equations represented the range of plant size and variability in the data for which the phytomass was estimated.
41711493|A key to the Utah species of Bombylius is presented. Bombylius heximaculatus, nigri ventris, montanus, abdominalis, aeslwus, and auriferoides, new species, and lancifer kanabensis, subspecies new, are described from Utah. Bombylius lassenensis, new name, is proposed to replace the preoccupied B. pallescens Johnson and Maughan.
41713033|Species of Artemisia (subgenus Tridentatae) dominate much of western North America. The genetic variation that allows this broad ecological adaptation is facilitated by hybridization and polyploidization. Three separate studies were performed in this group using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). Fifty-seven 10-mer primers generated nearly 400 markers from genomic DNA obtained from leaf tissue. These studies were (1) a measure of the variability of plants within and between populations and between subspecies using 5 A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis populations, 2 A. cana ssp. cana populations, and 1 A. cana ssp. viscidula population; (2) an examination of the hypothesis that tetraploid (4x) Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana derives de novo from diploid (2x) populations via autopolyploidy; and (3) an examination of the validity of the status of putative hybrids that have been produced by controlled pollination. These latter hybrid combinationsA. tridentata ssp. tridentata x A. t. ssp. vaseyana, A. t. ssp. wyomingensis x A. tripartita, and A. cana ssp. cana x A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensiswere made to combine traits of parental taxa in unique combinations with possible management application. RAPD marker data were subjected to similarity and UPGMA clustering analyses. RAPD markers were effective in measuring genetic diversity at different systematic levels. Individual plants within a population were approximately 55% to > 80% similar to one another; populations within subspecies gave corresponding values of similarity, probably a result of the combined effects of large population sizes and wind pollination. The 2 subspecies of A. cana were approximately 45% similar. At least some 4x populations of A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana apparently derive de novo from 2x plants based on their being embedded in 2x phenogram groups, thus reinforcing evidence that autopolyploidy plays an important role in Tridentatae population biology. Two (A. tridentata ssp. tridentata x A. t. ssp. vaseyana and A. cana ssp. cana x A. tridentata ssp wyomingensis) of the 3 putative hybrid combinations were confirmed to include hybrids. These hybrids may have potential in management applications. Additional use of RAPD technology combined with other techniques may be useful in delimiting genetic characteristics and in guiding artificial selection in the Tridentatae.
41712462|Young-of-year largemouth bass from lakes Mead and Mohave fed upon crustacean zooplankton, insects (primarily chironomids), and fish. Largemouth bass smaller than 32 mm TL fed extensively upon zooplankton. In Lake Mead, transition to an insect-dominated diet occurred at 32 mm TL; transition to an insect-fish-dominated diet did not occur in Lake Mohave until a length of 56 mm was reached. Largemouth bass from Lake Mohave consumed significantly more zooplankton than did those from Lake Mead, but largemouth bass from Lake Mead consumed significantly more insects. Fish were most common in the diet of young-of-year largemouth bass larger than 52 mm TL.
41711942|Measures of niche breadth and overlap were used to compare nest site selection in a community of 10 raptor species and the Raven nesting in the eastern Great Basin Desert. Three variables were examined: nest site type, elevation, and exposure. Results suggest a division of component raptor species into relatively abundant core species that show wide niche breadths and uncommon fringe species with narrow niche breadths. Differences in use of each resource are most pronounced along elevation gradient in which three guilds are evident that correspond to raptor species groupings that nest at higher, middle, and lower elevations. Each guild is comprised of a mix of core and fringe species. Raptor species with highest overlap along one or more nest site variables examined are separated by differences in activity patterns.
41712595|The importance and nature of vegetative reproduction was compared with seedling establishment in plains silver sagebrush (Artemisia cana Pursh. ssp. cana). Sixty-three percent of plants excavated originated from rhizomes. Sites that experienced habitat disturbance did not have a significantly different number of plants originating from vegetative reproduction than did undisturbed sites. Parent rhizomes were significantly older than taproots, which were significantly older than aboveground stems. Rhizome systems were spread 3.3 times that of plant height. Seventy-nine percent of rhizomatous daughter plants were 100 cm or less from parent plants. Up to 52 sprouts were found on one rhizome. Seedling establishment was greatest during wet growing seasons, and vegetative reproduction was greatest during dry years.
41712425|New synonymy is proposed for Phloeosinus (Hylesinus) machilus (Schedl) (= Phloeosinus cinnamomi Tsai & Yin). New replacement names are proposed for junior homonyms as follows: Cyrtogenius africus for Cyrtogenius (Metahylastes) africanus (Eggers), Cyrtogenius elongatissimus for Cyrtogenius (Ozodendron) elongatus (Schedl), Cyrtogenius elongatulus for Cyrtogenius (Eidophelus) elongatus (Schedl), Cyrtogenius gracillimus for Cyrtogenius gracilis Browne, Cyrtogenius papuae for Cyrtogenius (Pelicerus) papuanus (Eggers), Cyrtogenius papuensis for Cyrtogenius (Eidophelus) papuanus (Schedl), Cyrtogenius ruginosus for Cyrtogenius (Mimidendrulus) rugicollis (Browne). The following species are named as new to science: Indocryphalus machili (India), Olonthogasterjiri (India), Olonthogaster regalis (Sri Lanka), Phloeosinus phoebe (India), Scolytomimus andamanensis (Andaman Islands), Scolytomimus mimusopis (Sri Lanka), Scolytomimus quadridens (New Guinea), and Scolytomimus rectus (Sri Lanka).
41711631|Sex ratios for tui chubs (Gila bicolor), obtained from a sample of 3,384 fish, deviated significantly from the expected 1:1 ratio (chi-square, P<0.05). Spawning occurred from June to August, with estimated fecundities ranging from 6,110 to 68,933 ova. Females spawned after attaining a maximum (average) gonadal somatic index (GSIpercent gonad weight/total body weight) of 9.1 percent and between surface water temperatures of 15.5 to 22.2 C. Males reached sexual maturity at age two, with most females maturing at age three. Consistent increases in fecundity were apparent with increasing length, weight, and age. Linear regressions between fork length and fecundity and weight and fecundity were highly significant (P<0.05).
41712912|Named as new taxa are Lepidium huberi Welsh & Goodrich, sp. nov., and Artemisia nova A. Nels. var. duchesnicola Welsh & Goodrich, var. nov. The taxa are provided with diagnoses and descriptions, and their relationships, provenance, and habitats are discussed.
41712774|Abundance of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) in relation to characteristics of pockets created by boulders was studied in Fall River, southeastern Idaho. To determine depth and surface area of pockets most selected by rainbow trout, fish were counted by snorkeling, and pocket physical dimensions were measured. An electivity index defined habitat selection in the following terms: the most suitable habitat was 0.7 m maximum depth, 0.5 m minimum depth, and 3 m surface area. Some study reaches of Fall River had more suitable pockets available for trout than were being utilized.
41712911|Low-density grasshopper populations were sampled at 15 pairs of rangeland sites in south central Idaho. One site of each pair had not been grazed by livestock for at least 10 years. Grazed sites were managed under normal grazing regimes established by the Bureau of Land Management. Mean grasshopper density was higher on ungrazed sites than on grazed sites. Proportions of Melanoplus sanguinipes were higher on ungrazed sites than on grazed sites and were higher on annual grasslands than on other vegetation types. Effects of grazing appeared to be independent of vegetation type. Proportions of Gomphocerinae, a subfamily of grasshoppers that feeds almost exclusively on grasses, were affected by vegetation type, but not grazing. Crested wheatgrass seedings supported the highest proportions of Gomphocerinae. Proportions of Oedipodinae were affected by grazing and vegetation type. Higher proportions of Oedipodinae were found on grazed sites than on ungrazed sites, and on sagebrush/grass sites than on annual grasslands. Results indicate that livestock grazing during drought conditions tends to reduce grasshopper populations on southern Idaho rangeland.
41711793|Petrified leaf and pericarpio tissues from the Eocene Deccan Intertrappean beds of India were studied using light and transmission electron microscopy. Degradated cytoplasm with organellelike bodies are present in cells of the leaf tissues. TEM of these cells revealed wall structure and cytoplasmic residues. Microfibril distribution of pericarpic cells resembles fiber cells in extant angiosperms.
41711994|Sixty-four cougar (Felis concolor) stomachs and 41 intestinal tracts were examined for food items in northeastern Oregon from 1976 through 1979. Food items, in order of decreasing frequency, were mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), North American elk (Cervus elophus), porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum), snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus), and deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus).
41712975|Numerous basins of the intermountain area often have extensive playa surfaces that are nearly devoid of vegetation. Margins of these playas support sparse communities dominated by the chenopod shrubs Allenrolfea occidentalis (iodine bush) and Sarcobatus vermiculatus (black greasewood). These plants establish and persist in an environment where halomorphic soils induce extreme osmotic stress and atmospheric precipitation is very low and erratic and occurs largely during the winter when temperatures are too low for growth. We measured net CO assimilation rates, leaf conductances, transpiration rates, water-use efficiencies, and stem xylem potentials for these two C3 species. Data were collected in above-average (1991) and below-average (1992) precipitation years. Net CO assimilation rates for Allenrolfea were statistically similar in 1991 and 1992 but in general declined for Sarcobatus in 1992. For both species, leaf conductances and leaf transpiration rates declined significantly from 1991 to 1992, with the decline significantly greater for Sarcobatus. Water-use efficiencies doubled from 1991 to 1992 for both plant species. Predawn xylem water potentials were -2.2 and -3.3 MPa for Allenrolfea and -1.8 and -2.6 MPa for Sarcobatus beginning in May 1991 and 1992, respectively, and dropped to -3.8 and -4.2 MPa for Allenrolfea and -1.8 and -2.8 MPa for Sarcobatus by September 1991 and 1992, respectively. Afternoon xylem water potentials were -3.1 and -2.0 MPa for Allenrolfea and -2.6 and -2.2 MPa for Sarcobatus beginning in May 1991 and 1992, respectively. Xylem water potentials dropped to -5.0 MPa for Allenrolfea and -3.4 MPa for Sarcobatus by September of both 1991 and 1992. For Allenrolfea, in general, the total soil water potential within the zone of maximum root activity is more negative than the plant's predawn xylem potential, which suggests that the plant is partially phreatophytic and/or has a large capacitance due to its extensive woody root system.
41713117|We investigated ecology of flannelmouth sucker (Catostomus latipinnis) from 1992 to 1997 in the 26-km Lee's Ferry reach of the Colorado River immediately below Glen Canyon Dam, Arizona. We captured by electrofishing a total of 212 fish and recaptured 52 previously tagged by others. Flannelmouth sucker were captured throughout the tailwater but tended to aggregate within about 5 km of the dam, possibly reflecting blockage of historic migration routes. Catch per hour of electrofishing did not differ among years but was greater from November to February than other periods, suggesting seasonal movements of flannelmouth sucker into the tailwater. Mean lengths and weights offish did not differ among years or seasons. Length frequency analyses also indicate there were no significant yearly trends in proportion of catch within size classes offish. Mean condition differed only among seasons and was greatest in February, lowest in August, coinciding respectively with pre-and post-spawning periods of flannelmouth sucker in a tributary just downstream from Lee's Ferry. Recaptured fish migrated from initial tagging locations 1.4-231 km downstream from Lee's Ferry. Fifty-nine percent of recaptured fish with known initial tagging locations increased in length, and fish tagged initially as subadults or adults, respectively, grew an average of 45.9 mm and 5.5 mm per year.
41711347|New synonymy involving American Scolytidae includes: Acanthotomicus Blandford (= Mimips Eggers), Dendroterus Blandford (= Xylochilus Schedl), Chramesus dentatus Schaeffer (= Ch. barbatus Eggers), Cnemonyx atratus (Blandford) (= C. nitens Wood), C. errans (Blandford) (= Ceratolepsis brasiliensis Schedl), C. exiguus (Blandford) (= Loganius pumilus Eggers), C. minusculus (Blandford) (= Loganius vismiae Eggers), Cnesinus porcatus Blandford (= Cn. bicostatus Schedl), Cryptocarenus seriatus Eggers (= Cr. adustus Eggers), Dendroterus luteolus (Schedl) (= D. mundus Wood), D. mexicanus Blandford (= D. confinis Wood), D. sallaei Blandford (= Xylochilus insularis Schedl), D. striatus (LeConte) (= Plesiophthorus californicus Schedl), Hylastes gracilis LeConte (= H. longus LeConte), Hylocurus elegans Eichhoff (= Hy. minor Wood), Hy. retusipennis Blandford (= Hy. bidentatus Schedl), Hy. rudis (LeConte) (= Micracis biorbis Blackman), Xyleborus asper Eggers (= X. arnoenus Schedl), X capucinus Eichhoff (= X. capucinoides Eggers), X. caraibicus Eggers (== X. trinidadensis Schedl), X. declivis Eichhoff (= X. pseudoprocer Schedl), X. deplanatus Eggers (= X. longideclivis Wood), X. discretus Eggers (= X. usticus Wood), X. gilvipes Blandford (= X. mexicanus Eggers), X. godmani Blandford (= X. caelebs Blandford), X. guatemalensis (Hopkins) (= X. anisandrus Schedl), X. intrusus Blandford (= X. howardi Hopkins, X. scopulorum Hopkins), X. lecontei (Hopkins) (= X. gundlachi Eggers), X. sparsipilosus Eggers (= X. inconveniens Schedl), X. spathipennis Eichhoff (= X. coronatus Eichhoff, Boroxylon burgdorfi Hopkins, X. curtus Eggers, X. femoratus Eggers), X. tumucensis Hagedorn (= X. guayanensis Eggers), X. vespatorius Schedl (= X. corniculatus Schedl, X. corniculatulus Schedl), and X. volvulus (Fabricius) (= X. grenadensis Hopkins, X. vagabundus Schedl). Microborus bicolor Eggers is removed from synonymy, and the new name Acanthotomicus bidentis is proposed for the preoccupied name Mimips bidens Wood.
41712051|Diphyllobothrium cordiceps (Leidy 1871) plerocercoids are present as enzootic parasites in the viscera and skeletal muscle of cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki) from Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Eight cutthroat trout from the Yellowstone River were examined by histological technique and scanning electron microscopy to determine the response of host tissue to the presence of diphyllobothriid larvae. All fish sampled contained encysted plerocercoids on the serosa of the pyloric caeca and intestine. In addition to infection of the exterior of the alimentary tract, muscle tissue was infected in two of the fish sampled, whereas one fish had infection of the liver, spleen, and testis. Intact plerocercoids were encapsulated with connective tissue that was infiltrated with lymphocytes and macrophages. Granulomatous tissue that was fibrotic was also present. Pancreatic tissue was displaced in infections associated with the alimentary tract. The liver showed general necrosis with edema, and the spleen demonstrated a reduction in cellularity and increased connective tissue. Testicular tissue compressed by an adjacent plerocercoid appeared to be in an otherwise normal stage of development. Necrotic myofibrils near encapsulated parasites were separated by edema and fatty infiltration. A brief morphologic description of D. cordiceps is presented. In general, D. cordiceps did not appear to produce a serious debilitation of cutthroat trout.
41712647|Inland saltgrass (Distichlis spicata) occurs on at least two metal-contaminated sites in southwestern Montana. As a result of mining, milling, and smelting activities, soils have elevated concentrations of copper, zinc, and manganese. One soil is acidic (upper horizons), slightly saline, and moderately sodic. The other soil is alkaline, nonsaline, and nonsodic. The fact that inland saltgrass grows on these soils and does not accumulate dangerous levels of metals makes it a candidate species for revegetating hardrock mining and other metal-polluted sites.
41711382|In a report published in 1970, 190 species of wasps were reported from Jackson Hole, Wyoming, and notes were presented on the biology of several ground-nesting species. In this paper, records of 18 additional species are presented. A short account of the biology of a ground-nesting species, Tachysphex aethiops Cresson, is included. Also included are accounts of four species that accepted wooden trap nests during the summer of 1971: Symmorphus cristatus (Saussure), Ancistrocerus adiabatus (Saussure), both Eumenidae; Trypoxylon aldrichi Sandhouse, Passaloecus cuspidatus Smith, both Sphecidae. Notes are presented on nest structure, prey, and parasites in each instance.
41711981|Described as new are six critical species and one variety of Erigeron from Utah. They are E. awapensis Welsh, E. canaani Welsh, E. carringtonae Welsh, E. goodrichii Welsh, E. maguirei Cronq. var. harrisonii Welsh, E. untermannii Welsh and Goodrich, and E. wahwahensis Welsh.
41712389|In 1984 (a dry year), Tule Meadow, in the Sierra National Forest, California, was well grazed after several years of light use. This situation provided the opportunity to study responses of Nebraska sedge (Carex nebraskensis), an important forage species in mountain meadows, to protection and grazing. Rooted shoot frequencies and densities in fall 1984 and spring 1985 were the same within an exclosure and on the grazed area. Residual herbage (shoot weight) in fall and shoot heights in spring were greater within the exclosure. Lower spring shoot heights on the grazed area may relate to fall regrowth and reduced insulation induced by grazing. Nitrogen and potassium content of fall herbage was greater on the grazed area. Phosphorus content was the same both inside and outside the exclosure.
41712119|Historical accounts and matched photographs indicate sharp decline of once-abundant Kochia americana in eastern Great Basin vegetation since the early 1900s, most of the decline by the late 1950s. Exclosure data show further decline from 1957 to 1973, then some increase between 1970 and 1973 and 1976 and 1981. Utah sheep numbers, at maximum from 1925 to 1940 and declining steadily to the 1970s, may have induced the long-term changes. Black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californicus), could not have induced vegetation decline, but could have added to livestock pressure and abetted the trend. In 1972, rabbits near a cyclic high were indirectly estimated to completely utilize K. americana in Curlew Valley, northwestern Utah. In 1976-1977 at rabbit low, direct measurements show 4%-18% of plants browsed by late summer, about 30%-50% of herbage removed from browsed plants. The latter rose to 45%-82% by end of winter. Late-summer percent browsed may have risen slightly (11%-21%) in 1980-1981 at next rabbit high. Increase in K. americana density from 1973 to 1976, then a slight decrease from 1976 to 1980, suggests fluctuating K. americana abundance induced by rabbit browsing, superimposed on long-term K. americana decline and recovery.
41712433|Observations in nature and captivity reveal that members of the population of Rhinoclemmys areolata of western Tabasco, Mxico, exhibit underwater courtship and mating and appear to lay one egg per nest.
41712691|Survival of adult chukar-imprinted, game farm (sibling/human-imprinted), and wild chukars was compared in three releases (two sites). Combined results indicate similar (P < .05) survival for adult-imprinted and wild chukars, but lower rates (P < .05) for game farm chukars. With early behavioral conditioning, some potential exists for using captive-reared chukars to establish new populations.
41711526|This revision discusses the 10 species of Eriogonum assigned to the subgenus Pterogonum. Six of the species are essentially restricted to northern Mexico; two additional species, E. hemipterum and E. nealleyi, are found primarily in Texas; and the remaining two, E. hieracifolium and E. alatum, are the most widespread species of the subgenus being found mainly in the United States and just barely entering Mexico. The subgenus is characterized by the broad, often winged or ribbed achenes, and the generally erect habit of the stems of these perennial herbs. Three new species, E. fimbriatum, E. viscanum, and E. clivosum, are described. They are related to E. ciliatum and are found in the desert foothills of north central Mexico. Two new varieties of E. atrorubens are proposed. One, var. nemorosum, is restricted to the high mountains of the Sierra Madre Occidental in northern Durango and southern Chihuahua, while the second, var. auritulum, is a plant of the Sierra Madre Oriental of Coahuila and Nuevo Len. The subgenus is divided into four sections, two of which, Peregrina and Astra, are new. Cytological information is given for nearly all taxa and shows the majority of species to have a haploid number of 20. Eriogonum atrorubens var. intonsum is a polyploid with n = 40, and E. greggii is the most unusual with a haploid number of 16. Each species is described in detail, discussed, and illustrated. Distribution maps are given noting the known locations for each taxon.
41712925|Bat surveys were completed in 6 habitat types in eastern Nevada between 1980 and 1994. Twelve species of bats and 578 individuals were identified from 33 trap localities in 144 trap nights. There were weak correlations between bat species richness and January maximum temperatures (0.728, P < 0.05) and mean annual days with 0 or lower (0.704, P < 0.05). Bat species richness exhibited no correlation with annual normal precipitation, January minimum temperatures, July minimum temperatures, and July maximum temperatures. It appears that bat species richness is highest in portions of northeastern Nevada typified by sedimentary deposits (limestone, dolomite). Igneous mountain ranges (basalt, volcanic ash) generally had moderate bat species richness, and metamorphic mountain ranges (quartzite) typically had low bat species richness. Notable range extensions include Antrozous pallidus (from central Nye County north to the Nevada-Idaho border, approximately 450 km), Tadarida brasiliensis (approximately 350 km north), and Pipistrellus hesperus (approximately 350 km north). Also, the presence of Lasionycteris noctivagans, Lasiurus cinereus, and Corynorhinus townsendii was confirmed.
41704200|Observations were made on four nesting attempts by Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus) in 1965 and 1966 in Box Elder and Cache Counties, Utah. The location, nest composition, and number of eggs of each nest are presented. In one instance eggs were laid at intervals of forty-eight hours or less. Data on weight and measurement and color of eggs are given. Data for the only two completed nests indicates incubation periods of twenty-seven and twentyeight days respectively. The distraction display of the incubatng family is descrbed for the first time.
41712260|Distribution and abundance of 215 amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals were monitored for 10 years on Utah's Oil Shale Tracts using line transects, mist netting, and live trapping. Wildlife monitoring was conducted in four major vegetation types and during all seasons to establish a quantitative baseline for use in impact identification during oil shale mining. Habitat preferences were established for many species in cold desert vegetation of two types of desert shrub, and juniper and riparian woodlands. Seasonal, annual, and habitat distribution of each class demonstrated a variety of adaptive responses to environmental variables. The most important environmental variables, that is, those factors resulting in a predictable change in wildlife populations, were, in descending order: weather, food resource, shelter, and competition.
41712935|The existence of low-elevation populations of Neotoma cinerea in the northern Bonneville Basin shows either that these mammals can survive many thousands of years in xeric habitats or that they can move across xeric lowlands far more readily than has been appreciated, or both. Current models of Great Basin small mammal biogeography are far too static to encompass properly the interaction of the wide range of geographical and biological variability that has produced the modern distribution of those mammals that have, for several decades, been treated as "montane" within the Great Basin.
41712461|Distribution, status, habitat, elevational range, original literature citations, synonymy, and specimens deposited at Brigham Young University (BRY), University of Colorado (COLO), Colorado State University (CS), Denver Botanical Garden (KHD), Kansas State University (KSC), University of Kansas (KANU), Missouri Botanical Garden (MO), and the Rocky Mountain Herbarium (RM) are given for 79 species of rare Colorado plants. Species federally listed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service under the Endangered Species Act, candidates for listing, and species that qualify as federal candidates because of limited range, small populations, or known threats are included. Suggested changes in status are offered where appropriate. Maps and tables indicating the Colorado range of these species are provided.
41711808|The influence of winter weather on the survival of Utah's ring-necked pheasants was evaluated using correlation analysis. This method used published Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources population data and a calculated winter warmth index. Results show four different patterns of survival occurring in the 14 counties analyzed.
41712849|Soil samples, one from each of 10 locations in northern Nevada, were evaluated for redox potential, total and extractable selenium, phosphate, free iron oxide, total and ferrous iron. Mole fractions for extractable selenium species were calculated from redox potentials. Data were used to extrapolate general geochemical relationships for soil selenium at the sample sites. Results obtained from one sample per location allowed only the most general conclusions to be drawn. Soil phosphate levels, which affect the adsorption of selenite species on iron oxide by competing for adsorption sites, were not correlated with levels of extractable selenium in this study. This would suggest that selenium would exist in solution, having been displaced from adsorption sites by phosphorus. Ferrous iron, iron oxides, and redox potential had a combined effect on the level of extractable selenium at all sites. Soils in this study support selenite species that are not readily available to plants and therefore could not support vegetation adequate in Se.
41711983|Reported as a new variety from the Green River Formation of Uintah and Duchesne counties, Utah, is Haplopappus armerioides (Nutt.) Gray var. gramineus Welsh & F. J. Smith.
41716164|The diet of Long-billed Curlew chicks is described for the first time. Five insect orders and one arachnid order were identified from nine stomach contents samples. Grasshoppers and carabid beetles were dominant prey items.
41712735|Botanical content of black-tailed jackrabbit diets was determined by microhistological examination of fecal samples collected from six different vegetation types in southern New Mexico on three dates. Grasses comprised the largest component of the jackrabbit diets, with dropseed species (Sporobolus spp.) and black grama (Bouteloua enopoda) the most abundant grasses in the diets. Leatherweed croton (Croton pottsii) and silverleaf nightshade (Solanum elaeagnifolium) were important forbs on most vegetation types. Diet composition varied in response to season and vegetation type. Grasses were important during the summer growing season, while forbs were selected during their growing season (summer or winter-spring). Shrubs were less abundant in the diet than grasses and forbs.
41711882|One hundred and twenty-eight mima mounds were studied relative to their vegetational relationships in a tall grass prairie area of central Iowa. Mound origins are thought to be due to several phenomena but are most likely initiated and maintained by the activity of pocket gophers. Seventy-five percent of the plant species common to the mounds are prairie species. When vegetative composition of the mounds was compared to the adjacent prairie vegetation, however, they were only 35 percent similar. The mounds were shown to alter the original structure and composition of the prairie vegetation. The mounds, once formed, created a new microenvironment. Many species were shown to respond to this new habitat. The factors deemed most influential in affecting the vegetational changes were disturbance and microrelief. Study observations indicate that the mounds represent microsuccession sites and cause changes in prairie vegetation to earlier stages in the sere.
41712682|All names known to apply to the genus Oxytropis de Candolle in North America are listed with place of publication, type information (where known), type specimen repositories, and notations pertinent to understanding the nomenclatural aspects of the genus. Nomenclatural combinations proposed are: Oxytropis arctica R. Brown var. murrayi (Jurtzev) Welsh and O. campestris (L.) de Candolle var. roaldii (Ostenfeld) Welsh.
41711458|The stability of the salt content in Salicornia pacifica Standl. var. utahensis (Tidestrom) Munz in relation to environmental changes was investigated. Salicornia pacifica communities have a characteristic soil pH of 7.5 to 8.0  0.2 and a constant subsurface soil moisture level of 25 to 35 percent. The ion content in the tissue of S. pacifica remained constant despite increased moisture stress throughout the growing season. The concentrations of the salts were significantly higher in the surface soil layers than in the subsurface layers around the roots. Normal metabolic processes in the tissues of S. pacifica appear to occur even though some fluctuations in the ionic balance and concentration of ions in the plant occur.
41711231|A 6.3 ha grid was established at the United States Atomic Energy Commission's Nevada Test Site and the small mammals trapped-out during the summers of 1964 and 1965 to study invasion by Perognathus longimembris Coues. Age analyses were made to determine the relationship between age and invasion. The mean age of invading animals was lowest in mid- and late summer, but varied widely with reproductive success. There was no statistically significant difference in mean age between male and female invaders. Ratios of male to female invaders varied directly with that of the natural population. Invasion rates varied widely and were mainly influenced by population density outside the grid.
41712541|Two new subspecies are described from the southern part of the distribution of Thamnophis elegans: T. e. arizonae from the Little Colorado River basin of Arizona and New Mexico and T. e. vascotanneri from the Upper Colorado River basin of Utah.
41712723|Leaf area estimates are required by hydrologie, erosion, and growth/yield simulation models and are important to the understanding of transpiration, interception, CO fixation, and the energy balance for native plant communities. Leaf biomass (g) to leaf area (mm) linear regression relationships were evaluated for 15 perennial grasses, 12 shrubs, and 1 tree. The slope coefficient () of the linear regression equation is a ratio of leaf area to leaf biomass and is defined as the leaf area ratio [LAR = one-sided leaf area (mm)/oven-dry leaf weight (g)]. LAR represents  in each regression equation, where Y = (X). Linear regression relationships for leaf area were computed (r = .84-.98) for all 28 native range species after full leaf extension. Within-plant estimates of leaf area for mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torr. var. glandalosa [Torr.] Cockll.) or lime prickly ash (Zanthoxylum fagara [L.] Sarg.) were not significantly different (P  .05). LARs for three of the shrubs and the tree were established at four different phenological stages. There were no significant differences (P  .05) in LARs for lime prickly ash, mesquite, and Texas persimmon (Diospyros texana Scheele) after full leaf extension during the growing season. The LAR relationship for Texas persimmon changed significantly after full leaf extension. LAR relationships for Texas colubrina (Colubrina texensis [T. & G.] Gray) changed in response to water stress.
41711475|The status of the genus Urosaurus Hallowell and its relationship to the genus Uta Baird and Girard as presented in previous studies are reviewed. Additional data from the head and throat osteology and myology are included in the analysis. Each bone and muscle is measured, ratios determined, and the position noted. Five distinct anatomical differences are noted between Uta and Urosaurus, and it is concluded that both of these genera are sufficiently different to warrant generic status. Uta is considered to be phylogenetically more primitive.
41711375|A new subfruticose Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) is described as E. pelinophilum, from specimens obtained near Hotchkiss, Delta Co., Colorado. A member of the subgenus Eucycla, the new species is most closely related to E. contortum Small ex Rydb., but differs in having cream-colored flowers instead of bright yellow flowers. The two species also differ in that E. pelinophilum has narrowly turbinate involucres which are longer than those of E. contorium and larger flowers and achenes. The new species is apparently restricted to gumbo clay hills west of Hotchkiss.
41711897|Pitfall and Malaise trap collections from terrestrial arthropod populations in central Nevada were analyzed for four trapping periods during the 1978 growing season. Mites (Acarina) and ants (Formicidae) were the taxa represented by the largest numbers of individuals in pitfall trap collections throughout the season; Malaise collections were composed mainly of aerial taxa (largely Diptera and Hymenoptera). Peak arthropod abundance was recorded during mid-June. Collection diversities for both trapping methods were generally low due to the abundance of a few taxa. Evidence for spatial heterogeneity in arthropod populations was meager; temporal heterogeneity in these populations, however, was more apparent.
41711629|In situ radiocarbon uptake measurements conducted at Big Soda Lake, Nevada, indicate that (i) bacterial photosynthesis comprises an important fraction (30 percent) of the lake's total primary production and (ii) bacterial chemosynthesis contributes significantly to organic particle production. The results of nutrient enrichment bioassay experiments support Hutchinson's prediction that availability of inorganic nitrogen, rather than phosphorus, limits primary production in the mixolimnion. Nutrient additions of NO-N with Fe most stimulated C uptake.
41712431|Three new genera and 14 new species in 9 genera in the tribe Coelidiini are described and illustrated. Revised keys to males of species in several genera are also given. New genera include: Pygmaelidia, type-species Pygmaelidia bullata, n. sp.; Gracilidia, type-species Gracilidia gracilis, n. sp.; Fistulidia, type-species Fistulidia simplex, n. sp. Additional new species include the following: Boliviela bispinosa, Boliviela paraortha, Tinocripus huggerti, Lodia parapectinata, Calodicia circulata, Dicolecia serrata, Evansolidia massa, Evansolidia bifurcata, Evansolidia digitula, Spinolidia sarmenta, Spinolidia magna.
41711797|The European annual plants Salsola iberica, Sisymbrium altissimum, Descurainia sophia, and Bromus tectorum invaded southern Idaho about 1900 and spread very rapidly into native plant communities damaged or eliminated by burning, abusive grazing, and agricultural clearing. Historic photographs reveal that the sites of initial invasion were waterway margins, railroad rights-of-way, road shoulders, city streets, agricultural areas, and construction sites. By 1915, these plants were widespread and abundant. Burning and grazing fostered their spread and dominance on millions of acres in southern Idaho.
41711843|Callibaetis nymphs in Rattlesnake Springs, Hanford Reservation, Washington, feed almost exclusively on fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) collected from the stream bottom.
41712660|An adult male and an adult female black bear (Ursus americanus) were found in the same den in the Carson Range of the Sierra Nevada in Nevada. Co-occupancy of dens is very rare, and such behavior has never been previously reported for adult bears of opposite sex.
41712374|Mima moundfields were investigated at the Lawrence Memorial Grassland Preserve, located on the Columbia Plateau in southern Wasco County, Oregon, and at three locations in the San Luis Valley and Sangre de Cristo Mountains, southern Colorado, to test the alternative hypotheses of mound origin by erosion, frost action, and soil translocation by geomyid pocket gophers. The concentrations of two size classes of small stones, gravel (8-15 mm diameter) and pebbles (15-50 mm diameter), were sampled along mound-to-intermound transects and at different depths within the mounds. Numbers and masses of small stones per unit soil volume increased from intermounds to mound tops at the Colorado sites and from mound edge to mound top at the Oregon site, where thin intermound soils lay directly on the weathering surface of basalt bedrock. Numbers and masses of small stones in the surface soil of mound tops were greater than or similar to concentrations in deeper layers. Mean masses of individual pebbles were greater in the intermound zone than in mound soils at the Oregon site, but did not differ along mound-intermound gradients at the Colorado sites. Ratios of gravel to pebbles varied significantly along the mound-intermound gradient at the Oregon site and at one Colorado site, being highest at mound edges or in intermounds. These observations support the hypothesis that mounds are formed by centripetal translocation of soil by geomyid pocket gophers, and are contrary to predictions based on theories assuming erosion or frost action to be the mechanism of mound formation.
41712023|Plant communities are inherently variable due to a number of environmental and biological forces. Canopy cover and aboveground biomass were determined for understory vegetation in plant communities of a prairie grasslandforest ecotone in southeastern Montana. Vegetation units were described using polar ordination and stepwise discriminant analysis. Nine of a total of 88 plant species encountered and cover of litter were the most useful variables in distinguishing among vegetation units on the study area and accounted for nearly 100 percent of the variation in the data. Seven vegetation units were different (P < 0.05) after all 10 variables had been entered into the analysis. Some plant communities were represented by two or three different vegetation units, indicating that some plant communities were variable and nonuniform in botanical composition over a relatively small area. This variability will influence management practices for these areas. Multiple-use management will benefit by recognition of inherent plant community variation.
41713099|Brachylagus is currently a monotypic genus of uncertain origins and known only from Holocene and late Rancholabrean. A new species of leporid is described from the early and middle Pleistocene (Irvingtonian) deposits of Porcupine Cave, Park County, Colorado. Stratified deposits of the Pit and the Velvet Room, 2 localities within Porcupine Cave, have been dated biochronologically and paleomagnetically from the middle Irvingtonian and early to middle Irvingtonian, respectively. Brachylagus coloradoensis, sp. nov., is characterized by its conserved p3 enamel patterns which are intermediate between B. idahoensis and Hypolagus, and its size which is slightly larger than that of B. idahoensis. This suggests a possible ancestral relationship between Hypolagus and Brachylagus.
41711975|Peromyscus maniculatus and related small rodents have been examined for ectoparasites in the tundra region of the Rocky Mountain National Park 1974-1979. One hundred and ninety-four P. maniculatus were examined from two tundra sites. Flea infestation rates were 1.9 fleas per mouse examined and 4.1 fleas per infested mouse. Species taken in significant numbers were Monopsyllus thambus (51 percent), Peromyscopsylla hesperomys (34 percent), Maforaeus euphorbi (9 percent), and Catallagia calisheri (4 percent). Peromyscus maniculatus host/flea relationships in the tundra are compared with those in other life zones in the park.
41713138|We examined Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) nesting characteristics in northeastern Oregon to identify relationships between hen age and nesting parameters and to ascertain habitat characteristics related to successful nests. Adult and yearling hens exhibited no differences in clutch size, percentage of eggs hatched, nesting success, or hatch dates. Among nests located under logs, 100% (n = 10) hatched 1 egg, whereas 58% (n = 10) of 17 nests not under logs hatched 1 egg.
41712329|A set of ovibovine horn cores collected from Pleistocene sediments in southeastern Idaho provides additional evidence for sexual dimorphism in the helmeted musk ox, Symbos cavifrons. Specimens previously assigned to Bootherium sargenti are placed in synonomy with Symbos cavifrons as sexual dimorphs (females). Bootherium bombifrons is a valid taxon and is probably not closely related to Symbos.
41711407|Mechanisms important in maintaining substrate color matching in the grasshopper, Circotettix rabula, were studied near Aspen, Colorado, during the summers of 1968-70. Studies concentrated on populations on gray shale and red sandstone substrates. In both areas, collections revealed appreciable numbers of mismatched phenotypes among all age groups. The possibility of developmental homochromy was examined by observation of nymphs held in rearing boxes on matching and contrasting soil colors. The behavioral selection of matching substrate colors was tested by preference experiments. While not negating the possibility of these mechanisms, results suggested that they were of minor importance. Predation experiments, using Sceloporus lizards, demonstrated significant levels of selective predation on mismatched nymphs on both red and gray substrates. Experiments with bird and mammal predators, using adult grasshoppers, gave similar results. Release-recapture experiments with marked adults in areas of red and gray substrates showed markedly higher disappearance rates for mismatched animals. These results are interpreted to indicate that selective predation on mismatched animals is a major factor in maintaining substrate color matching in this species.
41711839|Two populations of Helianthus niveus (Benth.) Brandegee ssp. canescens (A. Gray) Heiser were discovered in northern Arizona extending the range 300 miles north for this species. Helianthus deserticola Heiser range was extended 100 miles east in both Arizona and Utah.
41712242|Advertisement call variation and male mating success was investigated in a population of the Arizona tree frog, Hyla wrightorum , from central Arizona. Dominant frequency of advertisement calls was significantly correlated (negatively) with male snout-vent length. Males found mating were not significantly larger than nonmating males, nor was there a significant correlation between sizes of males and females found in amplexus. These results are discussed in relation to Renaud's (1977) work with H. wrightorum and in light of recent work with anurans in general.
41711107|The history of naturalization of Siberian Elm (Ulmus pumila L.) in Utah is presented. Establishment of the species in nature occurred quickly after its introduction into Utah, and it has become a conspicuous part of the vegetation in lowland areas in Utah valleys. The earliest documented date of establishment in nature in Utah is 1935. The species was not cultivated in Utah and adjacent states prior to 1920. It was recommended for use in the western United States during the 1920' s, and it was extensively planted during the 1930' s and 1940' s. The naturalization of Siberian Elm is similar to the earlier naturalization in Utah of tamarix (Tamarix pentandra Pall.) and Russian olive (Elaeagrtus angustifolia L.).
41713104|Soldier beetles of 2 species, Chauliognathus basalis and C. deceptus, were examined to test the Crespi hypothesis that positive assortative mating by size is caused by mate choice. Specifically, we tested the prediction that if mate choice involves choosing the largest mate available, then mating individuals will be larger than nonmating individuals. Four samples were taken, at different times during the mating season, from each of 2 sites. Each sample consisted of mating pairs, nonmating males, and nonmating females. Some of the samples contained beetles of both species; others contained beetles of a single species. For each gender elytron lengths of mating individuals were compared with elytron lengths of nonmating individuals. We found no effect of mating status (mating vs. nonmating) on elytron lengths in samples that exhibited assortative mating (which occurs where 2 species coexist). Surprisingly, we found a consistent effect of mating status on elytron lengths in samples that did not exhibit assortative mating (which occurs where only 1 species exists). Our results do not support the mate-choice hypothesis. Instead, mate choice and assortative mating appear to be alternative mating patterns in which mate choice occurs where a single species exists and assortative mating occurs where 2 species coexist.
41711438|Data taken on external scale characters of 1003 specimens representing nine of the sixteen species of Gerrhonotus sensu Stebbins, 1958, strongly indicate that Tihen's 1949 arrangement of those species in three genera (Gerrhonotus, Elgaria, Barisia) is valid. Misinterpretation of the identity of the head scales in various species of this group has led erroneously to disregard of them as indicators of relationships. Actually the scales are as constant as in most other lizards and seemingly provide firm clues to natural associations.
41711568|In this taxonomic revision of the Nearctic flea genus Anomiopsyllus Baker morphological characters, phylogeny, affinities with other genera in the subfamily Anomiopsyllinae, evolutionary adaptations, geographic distribution, ecological parameters, and host preferences are discussed. Characters primarily associated with the male genitalia, in particular the number and placement of spiniforms on the movable process (finger) of the clasper, are used for species discrimination. A key to the males of the 15 species and subspecies is provided, including illustrations of both males and females.
41711372|Questionable Utah distribution records are reviewed and new state records are given. The female of Capnia cygna Jewett is described and figured and an allotype  designated. Detailed synonomies and nomenclatural notes are provided for Capnia vernalis (Newport), Utacapnia poda (Nebeker and Gaufin) and Oemopteryx fosketti (Ricker). Descriptions are given of the female, nymph, and egg of Isogenoides zionensis Hanson and an allotype  designated. The male, nymph, and egg of Pictetiella expansa (Banks) are described and an allotype  designated. Sweltsa gaufini, sp. nov., is described for the male, female, and egg stages and a holotype S designated. Descriptions are either supported with original figures or reference is made to acceptable figures in the literature. Besides line drawings and halftones, useful photographic figures are provided which were prepared by using a scanning electron microscope. An annotated list of Utah species is given following the revised nomenclature of lilies (1966) and Zwick (1973).
41711501|In June 1974 a scrotal male Mexican big-eared bat (Plecotus phyllotis) was netted near Hurricane, Utah. This account represents the third report of the species from Utah and extends the range approximately 330 km west of previous accounts. Adjacent state records are located approximately 64 km to the southeast in Arizona and 80 km southwest in Nevada.
41711538|A new species of weevil, Phyllotrox canyonaceris Warner, is described, new synonomy, and distribution records of eight species of the genus Phyllotrox in North America are given.
41711826|Twenty-three study sites were established in the sagebrush communities bordering Utah Lake. Relic (ungrazed) and grazed stands were represented in the sample. Differences in species composition, vegetation, and soil characteristics were assessed. Major differences in species composition and vegetative characteristics were due to the influence of grazing. Major changes were loss of native perennial grass cover, and increases in cover from introduced annual species. Differences in the soil characteristics were due to habitat rather than grazing influences.
41711422|An investigation to elucidate some facets of the biology and ecology of Paruroctonus boreus (Girard), in southeast Idaho, was conducted from 21 March to 13 October 1972. Three hundred and eighty-five observations were made on 202 scorpions captured in covered pitfalls and by ultraviolet light. The greatest activity occurred at 2130 hours. Surface activity was not observed when ambient temperature was below 10 C, and, as ambient temperature increased, an increase in surface activity was noted. Male scorpions frequently moved as much as 30 m between observations, while females seldom moved more than five m. Sex ratios varied considerably depending on time of year and method of sampling. Of 142 scorpions observed by blacklight, 92 were males, and 50 were females (1.84 males/female). Limited data suggest a mean litter size of 34  11.
41711645|A new subspecies, Lichanura trivirgata bostici, from Cedros Island, Baja California del Norte, Mexico, is described, figured, and compared to other taxa of the genus.
41711781|An annotated list of 125 taxa new to the flora of Teton County is presented, increasing the number of known species to 1043.
41713121|Plant species richness, density, and frequency were quantitatively examined within Pogonomyrmex rugosus (seed-harvester ant) nest discs and at various distances from nest discs in a Larrea tridentata-Ambrosia dumosa (creosote bush-white bursage) shrubland in southern Nevada. Woody vegetation at and near the edge (perimeter) of nest discs showed decreased species richness, density, and frequency compared with vegetation in adjacent reference areas (nonnest; 4 m beyond discs). Four of 17 species were found with significantly lower density and frequency on nest discs than at greater distances from the nest. Thirteen of 17 species were not found on nest discs at all. Species richness, density, and frequency were significantly and negatively correlated with distance from nests. Woody vegetation was sparse and less variable in composition when occurring at discs and edges of discs. Local disturbances caused by P rugosus nests may largely alter immediate surrounding vegetation in the L. tridentata-A. dumosa shrubland of southern Nevada.
41712663|Five new species of teruliine leafhoppers from the Nearctic and Neotropical regions are described and illustrated. These include Vlapigella jessicae, Stalolidia crista, and Korsigianus christopheri from Brazil; Jikradia infufo from Mexico; and Onbfovia freytagi from Venezuela. Revised keys to males of species of three genera are also given.
41712229|During the spring breeding season throughout the channeled scablands of eastern Washington, metamorphosed male and female blotched tiger salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum melanostictum) utilize oropharyngeal suction to capture large quantities of small aquatic invertebrates. Stomach content analysis on salamanders from three populations of this subspecies revealed that they consume the following taxa: Copepoda, Cladocera, Culicidae, Anostraca, and Chironomidae. Although the amount of energy obtained by adults via in-water feeding was not calculated, the large volume of aquatic invertebrate material flushed from salamander stomachs suggests that this feeding strategy should add significantly to their total annual nutrient consumption.
41712697|Microhabitat selection by the johnny darter (Etheostoma nigrum) was examined in the North Laramie River, Platte County, Wyoming, where it does not occur with other darter species in the same stream reach. Electivity indices based on microhabitat observations indicate that E. nigrum avoids riffles and selects certain microhabitats characterized by intermediate water depths in pools and slow-moving runs with a substrate composed primarily of silt and sand. Niche breadth and electivity values for total depth, bottom water velocity, and substrate measurements from this study indicate that E. nigrum is a habitat generalist, except at the extreme ends of the habitat gradient. Habitat use here is generally similar to other studies where E. nigrum occurred with one or more other darter species. This study found little evidence for competitive release in the absence of other darters.
41712667|Abert's squirrel is a forest-dwelling mammal, dependent upon ponderosa pine, that now ranges from southern Wyoming to northern Mexico. During the late Pleistocene, ponderosa pine and this squirrel occurred no further north than central Arizona and New Mexico. In consequence, the present range of the squirrel north of the 36th parallel must have been the result of post-Pleistocene (Holocene) dispersal. If such dispersal took place after the fragmentation of the northern montane conifer forest, at least some leakage across barriers of unsuitable (non-ponderosa pine) habitat must have occurred. Dispersal following transplanting "experiments" has shown that such barriers can be crossed; other evidence is provided that suggests this may occur sufficiently often to produce significant changes in distribution within short periods of time. Thus, explanations for the distribution of Abert's squirrel, based only on historical legacy and local extinctions, are found to be insufficient. An alternative explanation is proposed in which post-Pleistocene dispersal also plays an important role.
41711638|A revision of the legume family, Fabaceae (Leguminosae), is presented for the state of Utah. Included are 244 species and 60 varieties of indigenous and introduced plants. A key to genera and species is provided, along with detailed descriptions, distributional data, and pertinent comments. Proposed new taxa are Astragalus lentiginosus Dougl. ex Hook, var. wahweapensis Welsh; Astragalus subcinereus A. Gray var. basalticus Welsh; Hedysarum occidentale Greene var. canone Welsh; Oxytropis oreophila A. Gray var. juniperina Welsh; and Trifolium andersonii A. Gray var. friscanum Welsh. New combinations include Astragalus bisulcatus (Hook.) A. Gray var. major (M. E. Jones) Welsh; Astragalus consobrinus (Barneby) Welsh; Astragalus pubentissimus Torr & Gray var. peabodianus (M. E. Jones) Welsh; Lathyrus brachycalyx Rydb. var. zionis (C. L. Hitchc.) Welsh; Lathyrus lanzwertii Kellogg var. arizonicus (Britton) Welsh; Lathyrus langwertii Kellogg var. laetivirens (Greene) Welsh; Lupinus argenteus Pursh var. moabensis (Dunn & Harmon) Welsh; Lupinus argenteus Pursh var. rubricaulis (Greene) Welsh; Lupinus caudatus Kellogg var. argophyllus (A. Gray) Welsh; Lupinus caudatus Kellogg var. cutleri (Eastw.) Welsh; Lupinus pusillus Pursh var. rubens (Rydb.) Welsh; Lupinus sericeus Pursh var. barbiger (S. Wats.) Welsh; Lupinus sericeus Pursh var. marianus (Rydb.) Welsh; Oxytropis besseyi (Rydb.) Blankinship var. obnapiformis (C. L. Porter) Welsh; Psoralea lanceolata Pursh var. stenostachys (Rydb.) Welsh.
41711292|During the summer of 1969 a survey involving 45 nesting nocturnal and diurnal birds of prey was made. Prey items, nest site selections, and productivity for great horned, long-eared, burrowing and short-eared owls, golden eagle, prairie falcon, kestrel, harrier and ferruginous, red-tailed and Swainson's hawks were determined. The turkey vulture, accipiter hawks, barn and screech owls were also recorded. The total raptor impact on the environment was determined to be slight, whereas the limits placed on the nesting species are considered substantial. It was noted that immature eagles were in the valley and, because they did not require a nest site, were able to utilize areas away from suitable nest sites. Ferruginous hawks had a clumped distribution because the nest sites (junipers) were aggregated on the valley floor. Red-tailed hawks and kestrels required nest sites not typically found in undisturbed desert communities and were found more commonly in agricultural lands. The golden eagle was the only species studied that did not produce a replacement population, i.e., a minimum of two young per pair, although observations outside the valley proved this to be a local phenomenon.
41711299|A late Pleistocene mammalian fauna from Little Box Elder Cave, eastern Wyoming, provides paleontological evidence bearing on several contemporary and related studies in zoogeography of Recent intermontane mammals and on understanding of rapidly changing environments in the Rockies in late Pleistocene and post-Pleistocene time. Both paleontological and zoogeographical findings suggest that during glacial periods in the Pleistocene the life-zones were lowered and, therefore, many boreal mammals ranged away from the glaciated Rocky Mountain chain. Since then, some of these returned or retreated northward as the climate moderated, and many warmth-adapted mammals approached the Rockies. The fossil and Recent faunas analyzed together reveal that the post-Pleistocene climate became so warm that numerous boreal species disappeared from habitats that are now again boreal (montane). Some warmth-adapted species have advanced to and retreated from the cave area. The climatic optimum, as well as the glacial and interglacial periods, apparently affected the distribution of numerous mammals in this area.
41711995|Described as a new species is Penstemon flowersii Neese & Welsh from Utah. An illustration is provided. The species is named in honor of the late Seville Flowers, professor of botany at the University of Utah.
41711967|A list of 658 references to Colorado vegetation description is presented, along with county and subject indexes to the list.
41711891|Several investigations (size-class analysis, age-determination inquiries, and germination tests) suggest that Cupressus arizonica of southeastern Arizona is a pioneer species. The tree requires disturbance to remove or reduce soil litter, which otherwise inhibits the reproduction of the species. Reduction of light intensity caused by canopy closure appears to be less important than litter accumulation in restricting C. arizonica reproduction. Following disturbance, successful establishment of seedlings may occur over an extended period (50 to 100 years), as litter gradually accumulates. The absence of C. arizonica seedlings in present populations suggest that fire suppression policies on federal lands where C. arizonica occurs have altered fire frequency, and consequently have fostered a short-term reduction in C. arizonica establishment. Only in floodplain environments, where flooding disturbs the soil surface, has much reproduction occurred in recent years. The long-term population pattern of C. arizonica appears stable, due to the great longevity of the species.
41712839|Golden Eagle population ecology was studied from 1982 to 1992 in eastern Utah where over 47% of 233 territories monitored during the study period were active. Golden Eagle use of four habitat types was compared. Talus territories were used less often than expected; valley, aspen-conifer, and pinyon-juniper territories were used as expected. Number of young produced per territory averaged 0.612 and was correlated with rabbit abundance. Observations on the impacts of coal mining at two locations are discussed.
41712030|Tui chubs collected from November 1975 through November 1977 from Pyramid Lake, Nevada, were analyzed for seasonal growth patterns. Major growth in length occurred during the fall and early winter, and major reproductive development occurred during the late spring and early summer.
41712995|Blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima Torr.) is a dominant desert shrub in a distinct mid-elevational vegetation belt between creosote bush-bursage (Larrea tridentata-Ambrosia dumosa) shrubland below and big sagebrush-pinyon pineUtah juniper (Artemisia tridentata-Pinus monophylla-Juniperus osteosperma) woodland above in the Mojave Desert. Seed germination patterns of blackbrush seeds collected from 2 elevations (1200 and 1550 m) in 5 mountain ranges within the blackbrush shrublands were investigated. Morphological features of blackbrush seeds, including weight, length, and width, were not significantly different (P > 0.05) among elevations and mountain ranges in the Mojave Desert. Germination of blackbrush seeds was optimal when preceded by a prechill period of 4-6 wk. Seeds incubated at room temperature germinated poorly. Seeds collected at warm, low-elevation sites appeared to be less dormant (required less prechill time), germinated faster, and showed a higher overall germination response at low temperature relative to cold, high-elevation sites. Frequencies of watering also determined the germination response; watering at 2-wk intervals revealed the greatest germination. Some ecotypic variation among populations establishing at different elevations was evident with regard to dormancy duration and germination response at certain constant temperatures.
41711553|The sagebrush vole flea (Megabothris chntoni princei Hubbard) is reported from Utah for the first time, based on collections made in Tooele County. Distribution of the flea Megabothris abantis in the Bonneville Basin is limited to the Oquirrh Mountains, where its presence appears to be determined by the occurrence of the western jumping mouse.
41712151|Six new species of Pityophthorus from Mexico are described. The new species, all in the Scriptor group, are: atkinsoni, diminutivus, equihuai, thamnus, trunculus and zexmenivora. An additional locality record for P. coronarius Blackman is included. A new key to the 22 species included in the Scriptor group is presented.
41712939|Lewisia longipetala (Piper) Clay is a high-altitude endemic found in the northern Sierra Nevada. The characteristics of 12 sites with L. longipetala, which represent all known populations, were studied to define habitat requirements of the species. Meso- and microscale characteristics of the habitat were examined, including characteristics of the associated plant community. Average plant size and plant density of L. longipetala were also determined for each population. Similar measurements were made on 6 populations of Lewisia pygmaea (A. Gray) Robinson, a more common Lewisia. Populations of L. longipetala that had larger plants and higher plant density were associated with gently sloped, north-facing sites that were near large, persistent snowbanks and had low vegetative cover. Plant species associated with populations of L. longipetala were similar among the 12 sites and were indicative of mesic, rocky alpine sites. These types of plant communities found near persistent snowbanks are often termed snow-bed vegetation. In contrast, L. pygmaea was found to be less site specific. Lewisia pygmaea was found adjacent to or interspersed with L. longipetala at 5 sites, but was found in areas associated with a higher percentage of herbaceous cover and a wider variety of species. This integration of ecological and community information for L. longipetala populations contributes to the interim management and long-term monitoring of this species by providing needed information concerning its habitat and environmental specificity.
41712572|Studies in several areas in Arizona and New Mexico show that dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) is rare in young Douglas-firs growing under infected overstories. Less than 5% of the Douglas-firs under 26 years old and less than 6% of those under 1.4 m tall were infected in 77 mistletoe-infested stands. Both percent infection and mean dwarf mistletoe rating of young Douglas-firs increased as tree age, height, and stand dwarf mistletoe ratings increased.
41711832|This study examined (1) the relative abundance of the pocket gopher (Thomomys talpoides) in four successive stages (1-10, 11-39, 40-79, and 80+ years following disturbance) of spruce-fir forest; (2) the relationship between number of gopher sign (mounds and earth plugs) with gopher density; and (3) a method of sampling pocket gopher populations using a 500 by 4 m strip transect. The number of gopher mounds was significantly correlated with the number of earth plugs. Data were pooled and a categorical log linear analysis used to test for significant differences in pocket gopher sign between the four successive stages. The 1-10 and the 80+-year-old sites had significantly more gopher sign than the 11-39 and the 40-79-year-old sites. No significant differences were found between the 11-39 and the 40-79-year-old sites, or between the 1-10 and the 80+ -year-old sites. The difference in population densities may be due to understory vegetation differences between the successional stages. There was a significant correlation between amount of gopher sign and gophers caught in each of the study sites. This indicates that counts of pocket gopher sign may be used to estimate pocket gopher density. The strip transect is recommended as the most appropriate method when sampling heterogeneous habitats or when there is cause to suspect gopher populations may be aggregated within the area rather than spaced randomly or regularly.
41712907|Seasonal movements, roost-site fidelity, and foraging activity patterns are largely unknown for western populations of Townsend's big-eared bat (Plecotus townsendii). We used miniature radiotelemetry units to track springtime movements of six bats inhabiting forested lava flows in central Oregon, and found that bats moved up to 24 km from hibernacula to foraging areas. Individual bats returned to the same foraging area on successive nights but shifted to different areas in presumed response to changes in insect availability. Both sexes apparently use a series of interim roost sites between emergence from hibernation and the time females enter into maternity colonies, with little individual fidelity to these sites. In regions characterized by extensive lava-flow topography, suitable daytime roosts are numerous and dispersed over a large area, allowing bats to move relatively great distances to locate foraging ranges. Hence, the actual area of concern for effective management of individual populations can be considerably larger than indicated solely by locations of hibernacula and maternity caves of this declining species.
41713130|Sarcobatus Nees., a genus of North American halophytic shrubs, consists of 2 species: S. vermiculatus (Hook.) Torr. (n = 18, 36), which is widespread in western North America, and S. baileyi Cov. (n = 54), endemic to Nevada. Within S. vermiculatus, populations of n = 36 are widely distributed, whereas populations of n = 18 are found only in the Sonoran Desert, northern California, and northwestern Great Plains, locations at the periphery of the species range. Although the chromosome number of n = 18 is apparently tetraploid, failure to form an n = 27 race intermediate to those of n = 18 and n = 36 suggests that n = 18 S. vermiculatus is of significant age and that it behaves chromosomally as a diploid. Sarcobatus has a long fossil pollen record and endured Pleistocene climatic extremes with little range displacement.
41712129|New species and varieties of the plant genus Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) that occur in Nevada are proposed. Eriogonum tiehmii and E. ochrocephalum var. alexanderae are endemic to Nevada, and E. lewisii is restricted to extreme northeastern Nevada and adjacent Utah. These entities belong to the subgenus Eucycla. Two varieties of E. umbellatum (of the subgenus Oligogonum) are proposed. The first, var. juniporinum, is found in eastern Nevada and in the desert ranges of southeastern California. The second is var. furcosum, which is restricted to the Sierra Nevada. One new combination is also proposed: E. nudum var. gramineum.
41712391|Long-billed curlew populations were studied in the upper Green River Basin of Wyoming. Sites were selected where curlew populations appear constant in numbers and declining in numbers. Results show that while few habitat differences were found between the two areas, disturbances such as grazing and dragging during nesting reduced productivity. Nest failures were also correlated with field fertilization and early season grazing. Within each area curlews nested successfully on field sites that were elevated and had adequate grass cover but not tall grass.
41712763|This study compared the abilities of two cool-season bunchgrasses to extract moisture from a drying soil and compared photosynthetic and stomatal responses of the two species as soil moisture supplies were depleted. When grown in 49-L pots in a greenhouse, Leymus cinereus extracted more water from the soil and maintained higher gas exchange rates to lower absolute amounts of soil water than did Agropyron desertorum. The soil water content at the lower limit of extraction was 10.3% for L. cinereus and 13.3% for A. desertorum. When soil moisture was expressed as extractable soil water, there was little difference between the species in pattern of water use. Both species maintained high stomatal conductances (gw) and photosynthetic rates (A) until extractable soil moisture was reduced to about 15%. For field-grown plants under severe water stress, A was higher in L. cinereus than in A. desertorum at comparable leaf water potentials. The relationship between A and gw was similar for the two species; the higher A in L. cinereus was a consequence of higher gw. Thus, higher A in L. cinereus is achieved through some sacrifice of water-use efficiency.
41712740|Kane Lake Cirque lies in the western Pioneer Mountains of south central Idaho. An inventory of the high-elevation flora of the cirque revealed the presence of 180 vascular taxa representing 95 genera and 30 families. Five alpine taxa are here documented from Idaho for the first time: Carex incurviformis Mack., Draba fladnizensis Wilfen., Potentilla nivea L., Ranunculus gelidus Kar. & Kir., and Ranunculus pygmaeus Wahlenb. Kane Lake Cirque also contains populations of four additional alpine taxa considered to be of conservation concern in Idaho: Erigeron humilis Graham, Parnassia kotzebuei Cham., Saxfraga adscendens L., and Saxfraga cernua L.
41711393|During a physiological study that required the collection of several thousand stoneflies, Pteronarcys californica, observations were made on the distribution of these aquatic insects within streams. It was noted that P. californica occur primarily in large rivers that have loose, unconsolidated substrates and swift currents. They occur from depths of six inches to several feet. They are exclusively vegetarian, feeding on detritus, algae, and diatoms. P. californica congregate in dense clumps, but within the clumps they segregate by size. The largest specimens are found in the quietest water. There is evidence of some seasonal variation in their behavior.
41712076|Yearly variation in numbers of cones produced by western white pine was found to affect the population level of the mountain pine cone beetle. In years when cone production is moderate to heavy, beetle populations increase. Increasing beetle populations are ultimately limited by poor cone crops, which increase competition for nutrients and oviposition sites. Variability in western white pine cone production is regarded as the most important factor regulating populations of the mountain pine cone beetle.
41711852|In northern Utah, Douglas-firs (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) with symptoms of Rhabdocline needle blight had a significantly higher frequency of epicormic branching than did healthy trees. It is not known whether Rhabdocline infection stimulates epicormy, or whether the proliferation of epicormics increases resistance to the disease.
41711985|Named as new is Stephanomeria tenuifolia (Torr.) Hall var. uintaensis Goodrich & Welsh.
41712664|Radio telemetry was used to study habitat use of breeding male sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) at a lek in northeastern Utah during 1983 and 1984. Objectives were to determine if grouse day-use areas differed significantly in sagebrush characteristics from adjacent nonuse areas and to establish a simplified method for use by land managers in identifying grouse use areas. We determined that male grouse used areas of greatest sagebrush height and cover. Our methods provide a means for land managers to identify habitat associated with a lek that is suitable for male sage grouse day use in the event sagebrush alteration is planned within 3 km of a lek.
41712029|The scenic Bryce Canyon "breaks" constitute harsh and inhospitable habitats for plant life. The eroded pink cliffs and talus slopes are sites of some of the most rapid natural erosion on earth. This paper divides the plant life on the breaks of the main Bryce Canyon amphitheater into four vegetative types. A checklist of all plant species found in the main amphitheater is included. Many of the rare and endangered endemic species of the park are found in the Pinus longaeva vegetative type. Recommendations for managing the breaks to protect endemics are presented.
41712556|Mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) in a cold-desert ecosystem used man-made ponds for watering, feeding, gritting, loafing, and courting. Diurnal pond use by doves peaked in the morning and evening. Monthly dove use of ponds fluctuated slightly during the summers of 1984 and 1985. Pond size, pH, and shoreline characteristics had little association with the intensity of pond use by doves; but geographic isolation of ponds was weakly associated with pond-use intensity. The number of doves present at the beginning of the one-hour period was a poor indicator of the number of arrivals during that period. We conclude that man-made water sources are important in areas where water availability may limit mourning dove productivity and abundance. It is suggested that mourning dove arrival rates could be used as a population index in cold-desert areas.
41712292|In this study, we have examined the effect of vegetation structure on the three major vertebrate taxa in Great Basin habitats of southwestern Utah. The effect of increasing vegetation heterogeneity, both horizontally and vertically, on the diversities of lizards, rodents, and postbreeding birds was investigated. We found no statistically significant relationship between diversity of all animal taxa and horizontal vegetation heterogeneity, although lizard diversity tended to decrease with increasing heterogeneity and rodent diversity tended to increase. Bird species diversity was positively correlated with vertical habitat heterogeneity. Abundances were highest for rodents in pinyon/juniper habitat and highest for lizards and birds in areas with the highest grass cover. Species richness was highest in sagebrush habitat for rodents but highest for lizards and birds in pinyon/juniper. Evenness values were relatively similar and high for birds and rodents and were relatively high for lizards in all habitats except for pinyon/juniper, which had an evenness value of 0.38. For rodents and lizards, abundance was significantly correlated with the index for horizontal habitat heterogeneity. After logarithmic transformation, abundance of lizards was positively correlated with increasing vegetation complexity. Combined abundance of lizards and rodents was also positively correlated with vegetation complexity. Rodent and lizard abundances, however, were affected by different aspects of the habitat. After logarithmic transformation, lizard abundances increased significantly with increasing grass cover, whereas rodent abundances increased significantly with increasing shrub cover.
41711477|Nectars of 11 hawkmoths-visited taxa of Oenothera were studied. Qualitatively the sugars of all taxa were identical. The amount of nectar produced per night among the taxa was quite variable. Potential energy available from nectar of an average flower of O. caespitosa was determined to be 42.1 calories.
41711748|Evidence is presented indicating that Lichanura roseofusca and Lichanura trivirgata are conspecific. Data include the report of an intermediate specimen from El Arco, Baja California Norte, a site midway between the previously known peninsular ranges of the two species; captive hybridization provides additional support for the conclusion.
41712897|Trichodina tenuiformis Stein, 1979 and Apiosoma campanulatum Timofeev, 1962 were found on gills of mottled sculpin (Cottus bairdi) from two locations in the Provo River, UT. They were studied by light and electron optics. Dimensions and morphology of the adhesive disc and denticles of T. tenuiformis were differentiated from other Trichodina species. A. campanuhtum was characterized by its spindle-shaped cell body. Fine features examined by scanning electron microscopy included body shape, pellicle, elements of the adhesive disc, aboral ciliary complex, and adoral ciliary spiral. Histopathological studies suggested that the organisms are ectocommensals. Ecological aspects of organism infestation between two areas were also investigated. This report establishes a new host and distribution record for these two species in mottled sculpin from the Provo River, UT.
41712976|Examination of gastrointestinal tracts of native cyprinids from the Little Colorado River (LCR) in Grand Canyon, Arizona, 1990-1994, revealed varying rates of prevalence and infrapopulation levels of Asian tapeworm (Bothriocephalus acheilognathi). Mean prevalence was 28% (range 0-78%) in humpback chub (Gila cypha) and 8% (range 0-46%) in speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus), with infrapopulations as high as 46 and 28, respectively. We also note Asian tapeworm infection of the nonnatives common carp (Cyprinus carpio), fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas), and plains killifish (Fundulus zebrinus) from the LCR. Reported pathogenic and chronic eifects of this cestode to its definitive hosts add concern for the status of the Grand Canyon population of the federally endangered humpback chub. The rapidity with which Asian tapeworm has spread to different drainages of the Colorado River Rasin likely portends an eventual cosmopolitan basin distribution in lower elevations suitable to the parasite's thermophilic life history. Such biotic changes must be considered among the most serious threats to conservation and recovery of native fish populations.
41711867|Glabrous Paspalum distichum, pubescent var. indutum, and pubescent plants of P. distichum from the western United States were compared. No morphological differences other than pubescence exist between the three forms. Plants from the eastern United States are generally more glabrous than those from western regions. The var. indutum represents an extreme pubescent form and is reduced to synonymy under P. distichum.
41712818|Thirteen Speyeria nokomis apacheana (Edwards) (Nymphalidae) populations from the western Great Basin were assayed for isozyme variability using starch-gel electrophoresis. Eight of the 25 presumptive isozyme loci analyzed were found to be polymorphic. Collections made in 1991 and 1992 allowed for between-year comparisons of heterozygosity and the estimation of effective population size for five of the sampled populations. Speyeria nokomis apacheana populations exhibit lower mean heterozygosity levels than other nymphalids. This may be attributed to genetic drift in apparently isolated populations with small effective sizes.
41712759|Effects of rangefire on soil algae in sagebrush steppe in the Lower Columbia Basin were studied. Dynamics of recovery of the soil algal community in the first two years following the fire were also documented. The study site was on the Arid Lands Ecology Reserve managed by Battelle Pacific Northwest Laboratory. Fire decreased the numbers of algae by more than an order of magnitude. Species composition in burned plots was similar to that in unburned plots, although some cyanophyte algae, particularly Nostoc commune, were decimated by the fire. Algal recovery took place in the winter months of the second year. Ninety taxa of algae were identified during the course of the study, over half of which were chlorophytes. Seasonal changes in the algal flora were also noted.
41712645|Nest sites selected by Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus) in southeastern Idaho were characterized and compared with available habitat. Microhabitats within 5 m of nests had taller and more aggregated shrubs and less bare ground than the study area in general. Big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata wyomingensis) plants used for nesting were taller than average available shrubs, had greater foliage density, were more often living, and more frequently had branches and foliage within 30 cm of the ground. Nest placement was specific with respect to relative nest height and distance from the top and perimeter of the support shrub. Sage Thrashers disproportionately used easterly exposures and underused westerly exposures for their nests.
41713103|Plecia akerionana, n. sp., is described from the Green River Formation, Colorado, and diagnosed with P. minutula Rice, P. myersi Peterson, and P. rhodopterina Cockerell. Plecia intermedia (Scudder), the genotype of Mycetophaetus, and Plecia creedensis James are transferred to the genus Penthetria, and Hesperinus immutabilis Melander is transferred to Plecia.
41712295|Some biogeographical and paleobiological aspects of leeches, mollusks, and amphibians in the Intermountain Region are reviewed. Areas of eastern Nevada and western Bonneville Basin as well as the tristate region of Nevada, Utah, and Idaho are poorly inventoried with respect to many aquatic-dependent animals. Observations of Batracobdetta picta in the Wasatch Mountains and Erpobdella punctata in Tule Valley in the Bonneville Basin extends the western ranges of these leeches in the Great Basin. Life history and size of leeches varies among the study sites in the northern hemisphere. Aquatic mollusk species have diminished greatly in both prehistoric and historic times, as demonstrated by Utah Lake where some 30 species once lived. Eight genera survived into historic times, and perhaps only one species presently lives there. Extinction of numerous mollusks in the Bonneville Basin is still unknown with respect to cause and time. The finding of the Western Spotted Frog (Rana pretiosa) in Tule Valley reveals both a different habitat for this species when compared to other study sites and that this species must have occupied the region during Lake Bonneville times. With the exception of the Leopard Frog (Rana pipiens), most other amphibians probably migrated into the Bonneville Basin after the desiccation of Lake Bonneville.
41712959|Gas exchange and carbon isotope ratios were measured on 2 facultative hemiparasites, Castilleja linariifolia Benth. (Indian paintbrush; Scrophulariaceae) and Orthocarpus tolmiei H. & A. (Tolmie owl clover; Scrophulariaceae), and their Artemisia tridentata L. (big sagebrush; Asteraceae) hosts. Photosynthetic rates differed greatly between years; rates in 1995 were more than double those in 1994, likely due to more precipitation and less water stress during 1995. Despite this difference in precipitation, photosynthetic rates for C. linariifolia were not different from those of their hosts for either year. However, carbon isotope ratios of C. linariifolia and O. tolmiei were up to 3% o more negative than those of their A. tridentata hosts. Using measured C ratios in conjunction with C ratios predicted from gasexchange measurements, we calculated that C. linariifolia derived, on average, 40% of its leaf carbon heterotrophically. Contrary to current suggestions that high photosynthetic rates of hemiparasites are an indication of reduced heterotrophy, C. linariifolia exhibited photosynthetic rates similar to autotrophic plants and used a substantial amount of hostderived carbon. Moreover, this evidence shows that manipulation of a heterotrophic carbon supply transcends obligate hemiparasites to include those plants whose parasitism is facultative.
41711367|Thirty-four percent of 100 mink examined from Gallatin and Madison counties, Montana, revealed the presence of Perostrongylus pridhami Anderson, 1962 (Anderson, 1963), in the lungs. This is the first report of P. pridhami in the United States. Thirteen percent of the mink were infected with Taenia mustelae Gmelin, 1790. This is the first report of T. mustelae in southwestern Montana. A checklist of internal parasites of Mustela vison is included.
41712213|During the summers of 1982, 1983, and 1984, 269 sheep dogs from an area endemic for hydatid disease were examined for cestodes (Echinococcus granulosus and Taenia spp.). Each dog was given an oral purge of arecoline hydrobromide and then following purgation received a subcutaneous injection of praziquantel (Droncit) . During the three-year study period, 205 dogs were examined one time only, 48 dogs were examined two of the three years, and 16 dogs were examined each of the three years (= 349 separate examinations). In 1982, 45 of 91 dogs examined (49.5%) harbored at least one species of cestode. Those data for 1983 and 1984 were 55 positive of 141 examined (39.0%) and 34 positive of 117 examined (29.1%), respectively. The marked drop in dogs infected during the second and third year of the study suggests that many sheep ranchers were implementing some of the control measures recommended for prevention of E. granulosus infections. The numbers of separate purgations showing specific cestodes detected in all positive dogs (some dogs naturally with more than one species of cestode) were: E. granulosus, 16 (4.6%); T. hydatigena, 34 (9.7%); T. ovis krabbei, 46 (13.2%); T. pisiformis, 47 (13.5%); and T. serialis, 24 (6.9%).
41712024|Five new species of Coelidia are described and illustrated. These include panamensis and simplex from Panama and retrorsa, cochloea, and tortula from Brazil. A revised key is also presented for 13 of the 14 species for which males are known. Coelidia gladia is proposed as a new name for Coelidia spangbergi Nielson, 1982 nec Coelidia spangbergi Linnavuori, 1956 and Coelidia spangbergi Metcalf, 1964.
41711816|Plantings on northwestern New Mexico raw mine spoils from 1973, examined for establishment (1975) and survival (1979), showed 75 percent survival of fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt.), each plant occupying 2.32 m (1.52 X 1.52 m). Alkali sacaton (Sporobolus airoides (Torr.) Torr.) cover was 4 percent and had a density of 0.05 plant per m.
41711601|A new name, Galium emeryense, is proposed to substitute for the preempted name G. scabriusculum.
41712720|Moapa dace (Moapa coriacea) is a federally listed endangered fish endemic to the spring-fed headwaters of the Muddy River, Clark County, Nevada. Species life history, abundance, and distribution were studied from March 1984 to January 1989. Reproduction, which was observed year-round, peaked in spring and was lowest in fall. It occurred in headwater tributaries of the Muddy River, within 150 m of warm water spring discharge in water temperatures ranging from 30 to 32 C. Females matured between 41 and 45 mm in fork length (FL). Egg abundance increased with female size (r = .93); counts ranged from 60 for a 45-mm-FL female to 772 for one 90-mm FL. The oldest of eight fish, aged by the opercle method, was a 90-mm-FL, 4+-year-old female. Adults are omnivorous but tended toward carnivory; 75% of matter by volume consumed was invertebrates and 25% plants and detritus. Fish size was generally commensurate with flow, the largest fish occurring in the greatest flow. Adults were near bottom, in focal velocities ranging from 0 to 55 cm/s. Juveniles occupied a narrower range of depths and velocities than adults, and larvae occupied slack water. From December 1984 to September 1987, the total adult population ranged from 2600 to 2800. Although these numbers are higher than previously believed for Moapa dace, they are still sufficiently low to warrant its endangered status. The dependency of Moapa daces different life history stages to various areas and habitat types of the Warm Springs area suggests that all remaining habitat is necessary for their survival.
41711654|A man bitten on the finger by a wolf spider, Lycosa sp., experienced temporary bleeding and tingling of the finger, but no other symptoms occurred.
41711932|A general survey of the information presently available on the osteology and myology of the hyobranchial apparatus. Included in the survey are examples of the hyobranchial skeleton of the major groups of reptiles, including the Chelonia, Crocodilia, Rhynchocephalia, and Squamata. The myology treats the muscles directly associated with the hyoid as well as those associated with the functioning of the apparatus, but not arising or inserted directly on or from the hyoid. The innervation of the hyobranchial apparatus is reviewed and briefly discussed based on the information available in a few major studies. An attempt is made to cite all pertinent literature references, and in Tables 1 and 2 the references to basic areas are indicated. Twenty-nine plates and figures are included, some of which represent original research.
41713058|Macroinvertebrate communities were examined on 4 winter dates over a 4-yr period in 2 high-altitude Rocky Mountain streams to document overwintering assemblages potentially experiencing spring acid pulses. Taxa richness values were comparable to other published lists for alpine and montane stream systems despite the fact that most literature reflected summer collections. Mean benthic density ranged from 1406 to 19,734 organisms/m, and drift rates ranged from 0 to 1740 organisms/100 m. Benthic collections showed higher taxa richness than drift collections while the Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera occurred in greater proportions in drift than in benthos. The Nemouridae (Plecoptera), Ephemerellidae and Heptageniidae (Ephemeroptera), Chironomidae (Diptera), and Hydracarina were the numerically dominant taxa in benthic collections. Grazer/scrapers and shredder/detritivores were always the numerically dominant functional feeding groups at all sites, composing 60-90% of the benthos. Predators, constituting approximately 15% of the community, occurred in the same relative proportion at all sites on all dates. Winter macroinvertebrate communities in these low-order, montane streams exhibit high taxonomie richness and benthic densities as great as lower-elevation mountain streams in the West.
41711973|The new hybrid X Agrositanion pinalenoensis (Gramineae: Tribe Triticeae) is found in disturbed, forested areas of higher elevations in southern Arizona. In the Pinaleno Mountains where logging has been heavy, numerous disturbed habitats have permitted frequent hybrid populations to persist. Intermediate phenotype, chromosome behavior, lack of seed set, and pollen sterility were used to interpret the status of this hybrid derivative. Introgression and/or segregation are not apparent.
41711450|Phylogenetic relationships among Sceloporine genera are briefly discussed. Species relationships within the genus Sceloporus are analyzed, and evolutionary lines of descent are proposed. The genus Sceloporus is composed of three monophyletic groups: Group I, the most primitive, probably developed from Sator-like ancestral stock in Miocene times. This group speciated from stock similar to Sceloporus gadoviae in southern Mexico to S. merriami in the North and contains 7 species in 3 species groups. We propose that these species be included in the genus Lysoptychus Cope. Group II arose from Group I and evolved from centrally located Sceloporus pictus in all directions throughout Mexico. This intermediate group contains approximately 19 species in 5 species groups. Group III also arose from the primitive stock of Group I and radiated from several desert refugia created by Pleistocene glaciation. Evolution of this group in Mexico was generally from north to south with Sceloporus malachiticus extending as far south as Panama. This group contains approximately 33 species in 5 species groups.
41711800|The type of Salvia dorrii is shown to represent the Great Basin phase of the species (currently called subsp. argentea) rather than the Mojave Desert expression as implied by Epling and others. The Mojave Desert phase is hereby renamed S. dorrii var. pilosa (A. Gray) Strachan & Reveal.
41712854|Timing of reproduction was assessed for wild onions and White-crowned Sparrows in relation to snow conditions on the same subalpine meadow in the Sierra Nevada for 21 years. Flowering date and clutch initiation date were both highly correlated with snow conditions, being later as snowpack was deeper. Interannual variation in schedule was 46 days for onions and 33 days for sparrows. There was nearly a fivefold difference in snowpack depth, and date of snow disappearance varied interannually by 72 days. Compensation for late-lying snows occurred in both species but was greater in sparrows than in onions because the nest-building behavior of sparrows was flexible. In years of deeper snow, sparrows were able to lay eggs earlier because they built more nests than usual in trees and shrubs rather than waiting for groundcover to develop.
41712161|The grass spider (Agelena naevia), commonly found in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona, uses rodent burrows located under a shrub canopy more frequently for web construction than burrows located in the open. The average number of prey available in canopy microhabitat was greater than in open microhabitat, and unequal prey abundance may explain spider microhabitat use.
41712736|Five species of the coccidian genus Eimeria (E. beecheyi [prevalence = 17.9%], E. callospermophilimorainensis [28.6%], E. larimerensis [16.1%], and E. bilamellata [3.6%]) were recovered from 56, 13-lined ground squirrels (Spermophilus tridicemlineatus) collected from two sites in eastern Wyoming. Two squirrels from one site were also passing an unidentified polysporocystic coccidian. Infected squirrels were found to harbor from one to three species simultaneously. Previously these same eimerian species were found infecting sympatric populations of Wyoming ground squirrels (Spermophilus elegans) and white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus) at one of the sites; it is suggested that the exchange of these generalist parasite species among co-occurring sciurid hosts contributes to the consistent prevalence levels reported in Wyoming ground squirrels.
41712821|We measured predation on 120 artificial Sage Grouse (Centrarcus urophasianus) nests in montane sagebrush grassland in northern Utah. We examined nests in areas that had been chained and seeded 25 years previously (treated areas) and in areas that were untreated. Predation rates of artificial nests were higher in areas of untreated sagebrush, even though these areas had greater sagebrush cover, taller shrubs, and greater horizontal plant cover. These results differ from those previously hypothesized for treated sagebrush habitat and may reflect a greater abundance of other potential prey species, especially lagomorphs, in untreated areas that attracted greater densities of predators. In addition, over 80% of nests were depredated by mammals, which hunt using olfaction and are less likely than avian predators to be affected by nest cover. We conclude that, after treated sagebrush has recovered to some degree, predation rates of Sage Grouse nests may be lower in treated sagebrush. Consequently, factors other than nest prdation (e.g., winter food, thermal cover, insects, perennial forb abundance) may be more important reasons for preserving mature sagebrush stands for Sage Grouse.
41713122|We report the collection of 8 additional specimens of Sorex merriami from northwestern Nebraska; previously only 2 specimens had been collected in the state. The new specimens were captured in pitfall traps and Sherman live-traps from 1979 through 1996 in Dawes, Sheridan, and Sioux counties. These individuals were caught together with Sorex cinereus and several rodent species in a variety of grassland habitats, including disturbed roadsides dominated by native and introduced grasses and forbs, grassland openings in forests of ponderosa pine, and an open, dry grassland. Seven of the new specimens, captured in late May, early June, and December, were young-of-the-year, and 4 of these were not in reproductive condition; reproductive status of the other 3 was not assessed. One individual, captured in late May, was an old male in reproductive condition.
41712080|Of two salt desert shrub communities studied in Curlew Valley, Utah, the Atriplex confertifolia-dominated community had 15% greater total midsummer phytomass than the Ceratoides lanata community. The larger Atriplex shrubs contained much more woody tissue for support of photosynthetic tissues than did Ceratoides. Atriplex aboveground phytomass and litter were about twice those of Ceratoides. Ceratoides litter was generally fine and easily decomposable, but Atriplex litter contained about equal proportions of coarse, resistant woody tissues and fine, easily decomposable material. Atriplex root phytomass was 1.3 times that of Ceratoides at the 2-30 cm depth, but at depths below 30 cm, Ceratoides exhibited up to three times greater root phytomass and had 23% more root mass overall. Net aboveground community primary production was estimated to be about one-third greater in the Atriplex than Ceratoides community. Turnover times for readily decomposable aboveground litter were quite similar, but, because Atriplex produced coarser litter, its overall rate was somewhat slower than that of Ceratoides. Analyses of selected minerals in plant parts, litter, and soil revealed that about 90% of the mineral capital is in the soil, mostly within organic matter. Nearly equivalent pools of mineral elements were found in the two communities, except for greater Na in the Atriplex community.
41711425|A male nymph in stadium 3 of Viscainopelmatus davewerneri Tinkham is reported and illustrated. The specimen was taken near Laguna Scammon, Baja California Sur, Mexico.
41712865|The names and types of Hedysarum L., sensu stricto, for North America are included, along with bibliographic citations, type information and place of deposit of types, and all synonyms. Lectotypes are designated for Hedysarum auricuhtum Eastw., H. carnulosum Greene, H. marginatum Greene, H. pabulare A. Nels., and H. truncatum Eastw.
41712256|New taxa include Penstemon angustifolius Pursh var. dulcis Neese, P. leonardii Rydb. var. higginsii Neese, P. scariosus Pennel var. cyanomontanus Neese, and P. thompsoniae (Gray) Rydb. var. desperatus Neese. New nomenclatural combinations include: Penstemon acaulis L. O. Williams var. yampaensis (Peni.) Neese, P. duchesnensis (N. Holmgren) Neese, P. leonardii Rydb. var. patricus (N. Holmgren) Neese, and P. pachyphyllus Gray ex Rydb. var. mucronatus (N. Holmgren) Neese.
41711849|A 5-year winter bald eagle survey was conducted along 22 km of the Snake River Canyon in northwestern Wyoming. Surveys were done on 94 days requiring 1,414 hrs and 1,888 km driving. In all, 220 (85 percent adults) bald eagles were seen. Seventy-seven percent of all eagles were perching, 15 percent were flying, 4 percent were feeding on road-killed mule deer, and 4 percent were flying low over water. Perching sites were identified as 32 percent cottonwoods, 30 percent spruce, 17 percent Douglas-fir, and 22 percent other. Eagles were somewhat clumped in distribution.
41712464|Described as new species are Erigeron cavernensis Welsh & Atwood from the Schell Creek Range and Currant Mountain, White Pine County, Nevada, and Penstemon idahoensis Atwood & Welsh from the Goose Creek drainage, Cassia County, Idaho.
41712008|The 621 species of spiders known to occur in Utah as recorded in the literature or Utah universities' collections are listed with their junior synonyms and collection localities. Two-fifths (265 species) are known from only one locality each, and only one-fifth (123 species) from five or more localities in the state.
41713018|Mid- to late-Holocene vegetation change from a remote high-desert site was reconstructed using plant macrofossils and pollen from 9 packrat middens ranging from 0 to 5400 yr in age. Presettlement middens consistently contained abundant macrofossils of plant species palatable to large herbivores that are now absent or reduced, such as winterfat (Ceratoides lanatd) and ricegrass (Stipa hymenoides). Macrofossils and pollen of pinyon pine (Pinus edulis), sagebrush (Artemisia spp.), and roundleaf buffaloberry (Shepherdia rotundifolia) were also recently reduced to their lowest levels for the 5400-yr record. Conversely, species typical of overgrazed range, such as snakeweed (Gutierrezia sarothrae), viscid rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus visidiflorus), and Russian thistle (Salsola sp.), were not recorded prior to the historic introduction of grazing animals. Pollen of Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) also increased during the last 200 yr. These records demonstrate that the most severe vegetation changes of the last 5400 yr occurred during the past 200 yr. The nature and timing of these changes suggest that they were primarily caused by 19th-century open-land sheep and cattle ranching. The reduction of pinyon and sagebrush concurrent with other grazing impacts suggests that effects of cattle grazing at modern stocking levels may be a poor analog for the effects of intense sheep grazing during drought.
41711801|A survey of parasites from 39 stool specimens taken from 36 Indochinese refugees who are now living in Utah County, Utah, indicated representative intestinal helminths (worms), and protozoans upon clinical examination. Approximately 75% of the stools contained nematodes, and 55.5% had protozoans. Parasites found were Entamoeba coli, Chilomastix mesnili, Endolimax nana, Giardia lamblia, lodamoeba buetschlii, Clonorchis sinensis, Trichuris trichiura, Ascaris lumbricoides, and Plasmodium vivax. The most common protozoan observed was Entamoeba coli (1979 and 1980) while the most common helminths were Ascaris lumbricoides) (1979) and Clonorchis sinensis (1980). These data were comparable to studies of refugees at two other laboratories in Utah and one at Washington, D.C.
41712973|Strawberry Reservoir, Wasatch County, Utah, was treated with rotenone in August 1990. For 5 yr following treatment, about 2000 fish from 5 different species were examined for eye metacercariae (Dipiostomum). Incidence dropped from 88.0% before to 0.1% after treatment for cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki), from 93.0% to 0.1% for rainbow trout (O. mykiss), and from 19.0% to 10.0% for redside shiner (Richardsonius balteatus). Average numbers of metacercariae per eye also dropped from 6.8 to 0.1 for cutthroat trout, from 23.1 to 0.1 for rainbow trout, and from 18.9 to 0.1 for redside shiner. Kokanee salmon (O. nerka), introduced into the reservoir 1 yr after treatment, had a 0.9% prevalence rate and average of 0.1 metacercariae per eye. Rotenone affected almost all organisms in the system. Low incidence of diplostomatosis after treatment indicates that rotenone effectively destroyed many intermediate hosts (fish, snails), which in turn probably affected parasite burdens in definitive hosts (gulls). These changes in metacercariae per host probably occurred because of the complex life cycle of the organism, which is similar to other trematodes. Rotenone is a specific inhibitor of electron transport complex I and can be devastating to parasites with complex life cycles. Through a combination of factors, parasite numbers have decreased in Strawberry Reservoir.
41711974|Species composition, distribution, and phytosociology of an 8 hectare area of tall grass prairie was intensively studied. Elevation and soils data were correlated with species distribution patterns. All species showed a response. Nine general patterns of distribution were observed in relation to elevation and soil types. Ordination and interspecific association analyses were used to identify clusters or groups of species having similar ecological amplitudes. Sporobolis heterolepis is the dominant plant of the upland prairie. The vegetation of the prairie is best described and represented by the continuum concepts of phytosociology.
41713141|Arabis pulchra plants infected by the crucifer rust fungus (Puccinia consimilis) develop pseudoflowers. These pseudoflowers are characterized by stems with short internodes and numerous closely spaced, bright yellow leaves coated with a sweet sugary substance. Pseudoflowers do not resemble normal A. pulchra flowers. Pseudoflowers, leaves, and stems of A. pulchra plants infected with P. consimilis and true flowers, stems, and leaves of uninfected A. pulchra plants were fixed, embedded, sectioned, and stained using standard microtechniques. Epidermal, ground, and vascular tissues of true leaves, true petals, and pseudopetals were examined and compared for anatomic differences. Examination of anatomic characteristics revealed that pseudopetals are modified leaves.
41712390|Cores obtained in 1978 from Diamond Pond, Diamond Craters, Harney County, Oregon, as part of the Steens Mountain Prehistory Project, provide a record of vegetation change on the sagebrush/shadscale ecotone and of local and perhaps regional water tables. Pollen, macrofossils, sediments, and charcoal from these radiocarbon-dated cores were analyzed. Varying abundance of juniper, grass, sagebrush, and greasewood pollen, and of aquatic to littoral plant macrofossils reflects changing regional effective moisture and local water table since 6000 B.P. Eleven dates spanning 5200 radiocarbon years and four regionally correlated volcanic ashes establish the dating of seven periods of different moisture regimes: 1. Greasewood and saltbush pollen dominance before 5400 B.P. indicates shadscale desert. Rapid accumulation of alternating silts and medium sands lacking aquatic plant macrofossils and pollen reflects periods of ephemeral ponds with water table 17 m below the present level and considerable erosion of maar slopes. 2. Increasing sagebrush pollen from 5400 to 4000 B.P. indicates sagebrush expansion into shadscale desert. Scirpus, Rumex, Ceratophyllum, and Polygonum persicaria macrofossils and finely laminated clayey silts evidence perennial pond. 3. From 4000 to 2000 B.P. abundant juniper and grass pollen reflects extensive juniper grasslands (juniper seeds from trees growing nearby fell into the pond during this period). Rising charcoal values indicate greater importance of fire. Deepest late-Holocene pond ca 3700 B.P. corresponds with postulated intensive human occupation of northern Great Basin marsh and lake locales. 4. Between 2000 and 1400 B.P. increased sagebrush pollen mirrors reduced effective moisture and reexpanding sagebrush steppe. More abundant Scirpus and Rumex macrofossils evidence shallow pond. 5. From 1400 to 900 B.P. more numerous grass pollen indicates returning greater effective moisture resulting in deeper water with abundant Potamogeton. 6. About 500 B.P. increased greasewood and saltbush pollen evidences drought. Ruppia seeds and pollen and the mollusk Musculium indicate shallow, brackish water. 7. Abundant juniper and grass pollen reflects moister conditions between 300 and 150 B.P. Numerous Ceratophyllum fruits indicate deeper, freshened water. Since the mid-1800s man and changing climate have encouraged sagebrush reexpansion. Increased Scirpus macrofossils indicate shallower water.
41711933|Reports of the occurrence of Crotalus atrox Baird & Girard from Nevada are reviewed. There is no evidence to support the occurrence of this species in Nevada.
41712906|The distinctive but inadequately known Paleocene faunas of central Utah are significant in that they sample a time interval not well represented by sequences in other areas. New materials from the Wagon Road (late Puercan) and Dragon (early Torrejonian) local faunas, North Horn Formation, provide additional information on the composition of the assemblages and systematics of included mammal taxa. The proteutherian ?Propalaeosinopa is recorded, for the first time, from the Wagon Road fauna, indicating a significant extension for the enigmatic family Pantolestidae, otherwise first known from the Torrejonian. Associated premolars of Aphronorus simpsoni, a pentacodontid proteutherian from the Dragon fauna, indicate that the species is more distinct from its Torrejonian congener, A. fraudator, than previously suspected. New materials of Desmatoclaenus hermaeus uphold the synonymy of this species with D. paracreodus and permit more adequate definition of the genus with respect to the arctocyonid Loxolophus and the phenacodontid Tetraclaenodon; because Desmatoclaenus appears to share derived morphology with Loxolophus, we refer it to the basal condylarth family Arctocyonidae. The periptychid condylarth Haploconus, represented in the Wagon Road fauna by the geologically oldest described species of the genus, H. elachistus, is shown to be distinctive in the configuration of lower molars and premolars; H. elachistus appears to be more primitive than species known from the Torrejonian of New Mexico. Some features of Haploconus are suggestive of the Conacodontinae, a distinctive clade of diminutive periptychids.
41711574|Of 42 Microtus pennsylvanicus trapped 1 km from Bozeman, Montana, 14 (33.3 percent) were infected by strobilocerci of Taenia taeniaeformis, while only one (2.1 percent) of 47 was infected at a rural site 16 km from Bozeman. The higher incidence of the primary host, domestic cats, is believed to account for the higher rate of infection near Bozeman.
41712235|Five new species of Thagria from the Oriental region are described and illustrated. These include melichari from Thailand, unidentata from Indonesia, marissae from southern China, bifida from Nepal, and insolentis from an undetermined locality in the Oriental region. There are presently 166 species in this large and unique genus. A key to males of 30 species is included.
41711976|Four near-surface locations in Pyramid Lake, Nevada, were sampled for larval tui chubs (Gila bicolor) during summer and early fall 1979. Numbers of larvae collected were highest in mid-July. Zooplankton was the only food eaten throughout the survey; the cladoceran Moina hutchinsoni was the major species eaten at all locations. Another cladoceran, Diaphanosoma leuchtenbergianum, was also important to the diet of pelagic larvae, and the copepod Cyclops vernalis was eaten in significant quantities by near shore fish. Changes in diet composition of larval tui chubs during summer corresponded to seasonal succession of Zooplankton species in Pyramid Lake.
41711431|A review of the distribution of Rhinocheilus l. lecontei, in Utah, with a northward extension of its range in the Upper Colorado River Basin.
41712779|An updated checklist of the vascular flora of Bryce Canyon National Park is presented, including 458 species arranged in 232 genera and 73 families. Four species have been added to the park list based on 1991 fieldwork: Arabis perennans, Arceuthobium divaricatum, Gentiana parryi, and Haplopappus acaulis. Recent changes in nomenclature have been included, and several species identifications have been corrected. The six largest families are, in decreasing size, Asteraceace, Pocaceae, Fabaceae, Brassicaceae, Scrophulariaceae, and Rosaceae. Common names and an index are provided.
41704203|Five subspecies of Ctenosaura hemilopha are recognized, including C. h. hemilopa from Baja California; C. h. insulana from Isla Cerralvo, Gulf of California; C. h. conspicuosa from Isla San Esteban and (?) Isla Lobos, Gulf of California; and two new subspecies: C. h. macrolopha from Sonora and northern Sinaloa, and C. h. nolascensis from Isla San Pedro Nolasco, Gulf of California. The species is thought to have evolved from C. pectinata, through the somewhat similar C. h. macrolopha or its forerunner. Its range probably extended at an earlier time northward around the Gulf of California, thence southward through Baja California, with populations reaching certain Gulf islands from the peninsula, not from mainland Mexico, despite greater proximity of some of the islands inhabited to Sonora than to the peninsula.
41712309|Tame mule deer and elk were fed fresh alfalfa hay at night and given various alternate forages during the day. This schedule, simulating farmland depredation feeding, yielded consumption values for field-growing alfalfa hay.
41712386|Clutch sizes of the prairie skink, Eumeces septentrionalis, in Nebraska are positively correlated with female snout-vent lengths (SVLs). Data presented in this study and others indicate Nebraska populations of E. septentrionalis have larger average clutch sizes than other populations within this species' range.
41712866|To determine whether infections by whipworms (Trichuris dipodomys [Nematoda: Trichurata: Trichuridae]) might affect digestive efficiency and therefore energy budgets of two species of kangaroo rats (Dipodomys microps and Dipodomys ordii [Rodentia: Heteromyidae]), we compared the apparent dry matter digestibility of three groups of hosts: those naturally infected with whipworms, those naturally uninfected with whipworms, and those originally naturally infected but later deinfected by treatment with the anthelminthic Ivermectin. Prevalence of T. dipodomys was higher in D. microps (53%) than in D. ordii (14%). Apparent dry matter digestibility was reduced by whipworm infection in D. microps but not in D. ordii. Although a statistically significant effect was shown, its small magnitude indicates that whipworm infection is unlikely to have a biologically significant impact on the energy budgets of host kangaroo rats.
41713094|Autumn musters of bison (Bison bison) on Antelope Island State Park, Utah, conducted annually since 1987, provided data on temporal and age-specific reproductive patterns and a basis to evaluate the efficacy of management measures implemented to elevate reproductive performance in the herd. Pregnancy rates were variable and low (<tex-math>$\bar x$</tex-math> = 46.2%) in comparison to other free-ranging, noncommercial bison herds in North America. Cows in the 3- and >6-yr age classes exhibited lower-than-expected pregnancy rates (P < 0.05). Annual pregnancy rates showed a significant (r = 0.64, P = 0.047) linear decline of 2.5% per annum. Variance in distribution of fetal ages observed in 6 yr indicates substantial temporal fluctuation. Long-term reproductive performance of cohorts born prior to implementation of management measures did not differ from that of cohorts born subsequent to these changes.
41712279|The diatom flora of Cowboy Hot Spring, Mono County, California, was studied. Two habitats, one at 37C and one at 41C, were examined. Fifty-six taxa were identified from our samples. These taxa were mostly broadly distributed forms, and no endemic species were encountered. The dominant taxon was Nitzschia frustulum, followed by Achnanthes gibberula, Achnanthes exigua, Nitzschia hantzschiana, and Navicula cincta.
41712268|Described is Mentzelia multicaulis (Osterh.) Goodman var. librina Thorne & F. J. Smith.
41711944|A list of one taxon new for Montana and 10 new for Wyoming is presented, plus comments about Astragalus molybdenus.
41712586|Experimental sets of Mimulus cardinalis and M. lewisii plants were (1) exposed to pollinators and (2) shielded from pollinators at study sites in Red Butte Canyon and Big Cottonwood Canyon, Wasatch Mountains, Utah. The exposed plants produced 1,535 seedlings and the shielded plants only 1. Clearly, seed production is dependent upon cross-pollination. A few syrphid flies were observed visiting the flowers but no hummingbirds or bumble bees, although the latter two have been reported as the main pollinators of M. cardinalis and M. lewisii, respectively. No interspecific hybrids were produced even through the species are fully interfertile, indicating that pollinators are faithful to their species or that different parts of their bodies pick up and carry pollen to the two different species.
41712646|Leon Bly Tunnel, which connects Eagle Lake to Willow Creek, was investigated to see if the water issuing from the tunnel was lake water or spring water and to check reports of its being inhabited by fish. We found that the water was similar to that of highly alkaline Eagle Lake, despite a block placed in the tunnel in 1986. Five species of fish were found in the tunnel, the same species inhabiting both Willow Creek and Eagle Lake, although the creek was much warmer and less alkaline than the lake. The fish originated from the creek. Fish in the tunnel were either not feeding or were consuming snails (Vorticifex sp.), the principal invertebrate present. The largest fish (35 cm SL) captured were rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).
41712204|The influence of current year foliage age on food consumption and utilization by the western spruce budworm, Choristoneura ocddentalis (LepidopteraiTortricidae), was examined. Larvae were fed immature foliage of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii var. glauca), Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii), and corkbark fir (Abies lasiocarpa var. arizonica) in June and August of 1981 and Douglas fir in June and July of 1982. All larvae feeding on early season (June) foliage reached maturity. Larvae feeding on middle (July) and late (August) season foliage died before reaching pupation. Relative growth rate and efficiency of conversion of ingested food decreased with foliage age in both the 1981 and 1982 experiments. Relative consumption rate increased with foliage age in the 1981 and decreased in the 1982 experiment.
41712661|New records for bushy-tailed wood rat (Neotoma cinerea) on the White Mountains of eastern California increase the elevation from which this animal is known on the White Mountains, outside of human habitation, from 3,120 to 3,648 m. These records, coupled with archaeological data, suggest that the isolated bouldery outcrops occupied by bushy-tailed wood rats above timberline here are true habitat islands, occasionally colonized by dispersing individuals and characterized by frequent local extinction.
41712565|This study examined the effects of alterations in soil nitrogen on the growth of Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis Nutt. Soil nitrogen content was altered by applying sugar (45 g/m), nitrate (4.5 g/m), or ammonium (4.5 g/m), and the results were compared with a control treatment (no soil amendments). Addition of either form of nitrogen significantly increased leaf nitrogen content, mean maximum length of ephemeral leaves, number of ephemeral leaves per terminal shoot, and current year's vegetative stem length over the control and sugar treatments. Both soil water and predawn xylem potentials during active growth were lower in the nitrogen-treated plots. The higher growth activity and greater leaf mass of A. tridentata in the nitrogen treatments may have been responsible for this result. Higher photosynthetic rates observed in the nitrogen treatments during an early June sampling period also lend support to this observation. This study suggests A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis would opportunistically take advantage of increased availability of soil nitrogen. The ability of this species to respond positively to increased soil nitrogen may enhance its competitiveness over associated perennial species.
41711576|Penstemon cyananthus Hook. ssp. subglaber Pennell, a plant found frequently in northwestern Utah, southeastern Idaho, and southeastern Wyoming, is elevated to species status. A new name, Penstemon holmgrenii Clark is proposed because P. subglaber is preoccupied.
41712434|Oregon records from Harney County establish a minimum altitudinal occurrence for the water shrew (Sorex palustris), identify an isolated population of the montane shrew (Sorex monticola obscurus), and provide an additional specimen of Merriam's shrew (Sorex merriami). Utah records extending the ranges in the southeastern part of the Bonneville Basin for the little pocket mouse (Perognathus longimembris), long-tailed pocket mouse (Perognathus formosus), and dark kangaroo mouse (Microdipodops megacephalus) are also given.
41712131|Burrowing Owls (Athene ciinicularia) were studied in a prairie dog town of southwestern South Dakota. Pellets regurgitated by Burrowing Owls contained a wide variety of prey remains. Insects, spiders, small mammals, and vegetation were the most frequent items identified in the pellets. Mammals were consumed most frequently during spring and early summer. Insects were consumed in large numbers during the entire period of this study, but they became more frequent in owl pellets during late summer and fall in association with a decline of mammal remains. Some prey items observed around owl nest sites were not found in the pellets examined. Possible secondary poisoning of some prey of Burrowing Owls has not produced any change in owl food habits, based on other studies reported in the literature.
41712636|The effects of elevation and environmental parameters associated with elevation on the dinitrogen fixation rates, N[CH], of a North American lupine species were evaluated. Lupinus argenteus Pursh plants growing at five elevations on Francis Peak, Utah, were sampled weekly throughout the growing season. The highest elevation site had the greatest frequency of nodulated plants. Influence of the environmental and physiological variables on fixation activity varied with elevation and the mean time of sampling. Soil moisture, nodule dry weight, and air temperature were important. Less than one-half of the observed variation in fixation rates, N[CH], was accounted for by variation in the associated independent variables. Nevertheless this study documented that nodulated plants of L. argenteus were capable of actively fixing nitrogen at a range of elevations on Francis Peak.
41711780|The floristic composition of Angel Island, Marin County, California, is presented. The vascular flora consists of 416 native and naturalized plants, representing 252 genera and 73 families. Eighty species of ornamental plants persisting from cultivation, representing 64 genera and 39 families, are also identified. The nonvascular flora consists of 42 species of fungi, 7 species of green algae, 8 species of brown algae, and 41 species of red algae. The vascular flora occurs in seven plant communities and is composed mainly of the following plant types: forbs (69 percent), grasses (13 percent), shrubs (8 percent), and trees (4 percent). Approximately 25 percent of the 1605 native and naturalized vascular plants of Marin County occur on Angel Island.
41712053|A two-year study of the rare vascular plants of the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory generated new data on the abundance, distribution, and habitat features of eight taxa presently under review at either the federal or state level, or recently proposed for such review. Astragalus ceramicus Sheld. var. apus Barneby is common on the INEL and adjacent areas and will be recommended for removal from further consideration at the federal level and placed on Idaho's Federal Watch List. Coryphanta missouriensis (Sweet) Britt. & Rose is common throughout east central Idaho, but will be recommended for retainment on the State Watch List. Gymnosteris nudicaulis (H. & A.) Greene and Oxytheca dendroidea Nutt. are also recommended for retention on the State Watch List. Four taxa not previously known to occur in Idaho or not known from the southeastern part of the state (Astragalus gilviflorus Sheld., Astragalus kentrophyta Gray var. jessiae (Peck) Barneby, Gilia polycladon Torr., and Lesquerella kingii S. Wats. var. cobrensis Roll. & Shaw) were encountered and evaluated with reference to current or potential threats, and are recommended for placement on Idaho's State Watch List.
41711693|The floristic composition of the Lee Creek valley in southwestern Alberta, Canada, is presented. The valley flora consists of 299 species of vascular plants representing 173 genera and 46 families. The flora is dominated by forbs (73 percent), followed by grasses (24 percent), shrubs (12 percent), and trees (11 percent). The valley of Lee Creek is divided into upper and lower sections on the basis of elevational, climatic, and biotic differences. Floristic richness of the Lee Creek valley is quite evenly divided between the upper and lower valleys: 105 species limited to the upper valley, 95 to the lower valley, and 99 species shared by both upper and lower valleys.
41712025|Following a preliminary survey (1981) of diplostomatosis in fish from the Salmon River near Obsidian, Idaho, an extensive survey was conducted during the summer of 1982. From the initial sampling site on the Salmon River, 98 percent of 384 sculpin, Cottus bairdi, 8 percent of 317 salmonids, and 13 percent of 16 Dace and suckers were infected with Diplostomum spathaceum. Upriver from the initial sampling site and from three drainages entering the Salmon River 28 percent of 185 sculpin and 1 percent of 70 salmonids were infected with D. spathaceum. The number of worms per eye was greater for sculpin (1 to 100+) than for salmonids (1 to 18) from the same area. The metacercariae of D. spathaceum occupy the vitreous body-retina area of infected fish. There is a prominent pathology associated with the infection, including detachment of the retina. Sculpin represent an indicator species for the range of diplostomatosis. The high infection rate of sculpin is associated with their bottom-dwelling characteristic and with their feeding habits.
41712503|The microenvironment of the nest surrounding most reptilian eggs is known to have a strong influence on the growth and development of embryos. This is particularly true of substrate moisture content. The results of this study suggest that neonatal body size (SVL) increases with increasing substrate wetness in the prairie skink, Eumeces septentrionalis. These results agree with studies conducted on other species of reptiles. This study is the first to provide evidence for this relationship in a scincid lizard.
41713008|Large areas of western rangeland are presently dominated by alien annual weeds such as Bromus tectorum (cheatgrass). These communities resist succession to perennial communities primarily because the annuals are competitively superior to establishing perennial seedlings and they promote fires that favor weeds over perennials. Succession may be further slowed, however, by low rates of seed dispersal into annual grasslands. We investigated the role of lagomorphs (Sylvilagus nuttallii, Nuttall's cottontail; S. audubonii, desert cottontail; and Lepus californicus, black-tailed jackrabbit) in seed dispersal across an ecotone between an open juniper woodland and an annual grassland. We collected pellets along five 100 x 2-m transects parallel to the ecotone: 50 m into woodland, border, and 20 m, 50 m, and 100 m into grassland. We searched pellets for juniper seeds visually and for any other species through germination from crushed pellets after cold, moist stratification. Pellets were not evenly distributed across transects, but there was no trend with respect to position of transect. Juniperus osteosperma (Utah juniper) was the most abundant seed. Both the number of juniper seeds and the proportion of pellets with juniper seeds decreased steadily from a high in woodland to absence at 100 m into grassland. Only 2 dicot seedlings emerged from pellets, 1 Salsola pestifer and 1 unknown that died prior to identification. Consequently, there was little seed movement into the grassland; 72% of all seeds were collected from either woodland or border transects. Lagomorphs apparently do not effectively replenish the native perennial seed pool of cheatgrass-dominated disturbances at Dugway.
41711980|The new species, Haplopappus crispus and H. zionis of section Macronema, are formally described and illustrated. They are endemic to southern Utah. Also, H. bloomeri ssp. compactus is raised to species. Chromosome numbers of all three are n = 9. Aspects of anatomy are detailed. Comparisons are made to H. bloomeri and H. suffruticosus. Relationships are discussed, and a key to the species is given.
41712423|The life, activities, and contributions of an energetic, catholic woman scholar, Rozella B. Smith, are reviewed. Her pioneer innovations in bibliographic data retrieval and mapping by use of the computer, creating a permanent niche for her in the annals of herpetology, are emphasized. A list of her publications is included.
41712878|Losses in fecundity due to predispersal herbivory can be large; however, the effects of this loss on longterm population viability have rarely been investigated. I conducted a demographic study of Astragalus scaphoides (Fabaceae), a long-lived perennial endemic to east central Idaho and adjacent Montana, by following mapped individuals at two sites from 1986 to 1993. Astragalus scaphoides suffers losses of predispersal fecundity averaging nearly 50% from insect seed predation and inflorescence prdation by insects and livestock. Cattle reduced fecundity by 0-85%. Nonetheless, estimates from matrix projection models indicate that both sample populations had positive growth in most years. Elasticity analyses revealed that population growth occurred in spite of relatively small contributions by recruitment compared to growth and survival of nonreproductive plants. Results suggest that populations of this longlived perennial depend little on reproduction and recruitment for growth and can persist in association with seasonalrotation livestock grazing.
41711960|Sciurus aberti, like many other sciurids including Sciurus vulgaris and Sciurus carolinensis, shows a coat color polymorphism. Like Sciurus vulgaris, Sciurus aberti shows a correlation between coat color phase and dorsal hair length. Both squirrels show an increased frequency of dark morphs in the northern portions of their respective ranges.
41713082|The Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming are an insular mountain range completely surrounded by the Great Plains. The stonefly (Plecoptera) fauna of the Black Hills was surveyed and Zoogeographic affinities examined. Twenty-seven species representing 22 genera and 6 families were found. Fifteen new state records for South Dakota and 2 for Wyoming are presented. Two species are removed from the South Dakota list. An analysis of the North American distribution of each species showed a strong relationship between the Black Hills and the Rocky Mountains, with much weaker relationships between the Black Hills and eastern and northern regions. Results of a logistic regression analysis comparing factors contributing to long-distance dispersal ability against presence/absence in the Black Hills were inconclusive. However, other evidence suggests that the Black Hills fauna is a result of expansion and subsequent vicariance of stonefly populations during Pleistocene climatic oscillations.
41711665|Ants of 22 species were collected in can pit-traps from 16 different vegetative associations to determine distribution, seasonal and annual occurrence, and population as bases for monitoring environmental impact. Thirteen species were sufficiently abundant and distributed to qualify as indicator species. Myrmecocystus mexicanus was the most widespread ecologically. Pogonomyrmex occidentalis was the most abundant species, but second in ecological distribution. The greatest number of species was found in the juniper-Ephedra-grass association, and the fewest species in Ephredra-Coleogyne-Grayia.
41712928|Productivity and food habits of the Barn Owl (Tyto alba) utilizing nest boxes in Juab, Utah, and Salt Lake counties, Utah, during 1979-1984 were examined. Average clutch size was 5.8 eggs for the 6-yr period; mean number fledged was 3.9 young per successful nest. While severe weather during the 1981-82 winter did not result in a significant decrease in productivity during the 1982 breeding season, it may have resulted in a significant overproduction of female young. Barn Owls in north central Utah fed almost exclusively on mammalian species, particularly Microtus spp. Differences in clutch size between areas and years may be a response to availability as well as abundance of prey.
41712248|To determine the role of the California red-backed vole (Clethrionomys californicus), the northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus), and the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) in the nitrogen cycle of forest stands in western Oregon, bacterial colonies were isolated and purified from feces, and their nitrogen-fixing ability measured by acetylene-reduction assay. The ability of the bacterial species Azospirillum sp. to withstand freezing was also tested. Fecal extracts were used to test whether fecal pellets can provide the nutrients necessary for growth of the bacteria. All the feces tested contained viable nitrogen-fixing bacteria, and both species can survive drying and one can survive freezing. Azospirillum colonies grew well on liquid medium but required yeast extract for growth and nitrogenase activity. Fecal extracts from flying squirrels and chickarees (Tamiasciurus douglasi) were as effective as the yeast. The results suggest another link in the chain of mutualism that unites small mammals, mycorrhizal fungi, and forest trees.
41711837|Wildland shrubs have gained considerable attention in recent years due to increasing recognition of their values as animal feed, as wildlife habitat, and for land reclamation. Better management of the shrub resource will be possible through clearer taxonomic identification and better understanding of phylogenetic relationships. This study applied polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and further developed this technique to address genetic relationships among 16 paired shrub species (genera: Artemisia, Chrysothamnus, Atriplex, Ceratoides, Sarcobatus, Purshia, Cowania, and Cercocarpus [Compositae, Chenopodiaceae, Rosaceae]). Cluster analysis of similarity values for total protein and 14 isoenzyme systems gave patterns of species relationships expected from classical morphological grounds with two minor exceptions. Isoenzyme analyses showed promise for solving taxonomic, phylogenetic, and population genetics problems.
41712987|I surveyed 34 meadows in California and Oregon to count Lincoln's Sparrows (Melospiza lincolnii alticola) and to identify habitat features that might influence their local, insular occurrence. Lincoln's Sparrows were found at 72% of the sites surveyed. Counts of singing males were low and uncorrelated with meadow size. Lincoln's Sparrows were most common in wet meadows with little damage by grazing. Singing males were concentrated in flooded or boggy areas near meadow edges, where pines (Pinus sp.) provided elevated perches for singing and vigilance. Patches of willows (Salix sp.) were often present nearby. Numbers of male Lincoln's Sparrows were strongly and negatively correlated with abundance of sympatric Song Sparrows (M. melodia fisherella). Lincoln's Sparrows breeding in montane meadows are potentially vulnerable to local extirpation because of their insular distribution, low population density, and fluctuating habitat conditions. Heavy damage from livestock grazing drastically increases the probability of local extirpation.
41712466|The impacts and timing of insect infestation were determined in developing Engelmann spruce cones throughout the summer of a year of low cone production in northern Utah. The major insects found were the western spruce budworm, Choristoneura occidentalis Freeman (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae); fir coneworm, Dioryctria abietivorella Grote (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae); and the spruce seed moth, Laseyresia youngana Kearfott (Lepidoptera: Olethreutidae). Insects reduced the survival of cones to 11.48 cones out of 100. The high percentage of seeds and cones lost to insect predation supported previous studies of a similar nature.
41711447|Type material added to the Brigham Young University Life Sciences Museum insect collection includes 6 holotypes, 5 allotypes, 106 paratypes, 78 cotypes, 48 homotypes, 1 metatype, and 1 androtype.
41712280|Crayfish distribution and composition in Utah are poorly documented. Based upon limited collections, the native Pacifastacus gambelii is widespread and often abundant in the Bear and Weber river drainages and is occasionally represented in smaller tributaries to the Great Salt Lake and to the Raft River. Pacifastacus leniusculus was collected from Utah County and Procambarus clarkii from Tooele County; the origin of these populations is not known. The nonnative crayfish Orconectes virilis is currently abundant in the Virgin, Price, and Duchesne river basins and the Glen Canyon, Flaming Gorge, Deer Creek, and Starvation reservoirs; it is expanding in Huntington North, Scofield, and Willard reservoirs. Further work is required to develop a more complete inventory and monitor the impacts on aquatic ecosystems of expanding nonnative crayfish populations. Surreptitious stockings can be dealt with only if the public is made aware of the adverse consequences of ill-conceived introductions.
41712631|Genetic variation across the known geographic range of Thomomys townsendii was examined by starch gel electrophoresis and nondifferentially stained karyotypes. All specimens examined had a diploid number of 76, but some populations possessed one pair of acrocentric chromosomes in an otherwise biarmed karyotype. Electrophoretic analyses of 16 populations revealed Thomomys townsendii to be among the least variable of pocket gopher species studied. Of 27 loci examined, 17 were monomorphic and heterozygosity values were low $\left( {H = .000 - .028,\bar H = .012} \right)$. Genie differentiation between populations was also low $\left( {S = .896 - .998,\bar S = .956} \right)$ and revealed little concordance with current subspecific units. The most marked differentiation is between the Honey Lake Valley/Humboldt River region and the Snake River drainage. Within each of these regions population variation is, in some cases, greater within than between currently defined subspecies. F-statistics show that the greatest genie differentiation is seen between populations, and a comparison of subspecies within a region shows the greatest homogeneity. The evolutionary history of Thomomys townsendii is discussed in the context of both the physiographic history of the region and the affinities of this species to Thomomys bottae. Results of this study and the patterns of differentiation found in the morphological analyses of the accompanying paper (Rogers 1991) indicate that the only consistent pattern to be discerned from the overall morphological and genetic homogeneity of Thomomys townsendii is that between populations of the Humboldt and Snake River drainage systems, which are here assigned to Thomomys townsendii nevadensis and Thomomys townsendii townsendii, respectively.
41712413|Forage quality was assessed in pole and sapling ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) stands growing at five stocking levels0, 5, 14, 23, and unthinned (which approximated 40 m/ha basal area)in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Crude protein, acid detergent fiber, acid detergent lignin, ash, calcium, and phosphorus were evaluated for cream peavine (Lathyrus ochroleucus), bearberry (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi), and timber oatgrass (Danthonia intermedia). Acid detergent fiber, acid detergent lignin, and ash showed some significant differences among growing stock levels for cream peavine growing in sapling stands. Crude protein content of timber oatgrass was different among growing stock levels in pole stands. In all cases, however, no trends or patterns relative to stocking levels were evident. When understory forage quality was compared within pole and sapling stands, only 4 of 18 possible comparisons were significant. In general, modifying the overstory of ponderosa pine in the Black Hills by clearcutting or thinning did not result in predictable changes in nutritional values of selected understory species.
41712683|The previously reported alkaloids (including protopines, benzophenanthridines, tetrahydrobenzylisoquinolines, and protoberberines) of the genus Arctomecon (Papaveraceae) are discussed in relation to their distribution in the plant kingdom, in the Papaveraceae, and among the three species of Arctomecon. The biological activity of these alkaloids is discussed, and possible implications for herbivore and plant-insect interactions in A. humilis are presented.
41712118|A substantially complete compilation of producer-consumer biomass was achieved for two montane forest reference stands on the Arizona Mogollon Plateau. This compilation, containing published and previously unpublished data, shows these ponderosa-pine-dominated stands to be near the lower end of the biomass range of commercial forest types. The two stands averaged approximately 75 metric tons/ha of plant biomass. Consumers made up less than 0.01 percent of the forest biomass. About 9/10 of the measured consumer biomass consisted of domestic and native ruminants.
41711386|New species and subspecies of Tipulidae from California and Alaska are described, including Tipula (Trichotipula) frommeri, Tipula (Trichotipula) sanctaecruzae, and Tipula (Lunatipula) hastingsae diperona, from California, and Tipula (Pterelachisus) macleani and Limnophila byersi from Alaska.
41712614|Black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) once occupied extensive areas throughout the Great Plains. In recent years massive control programs have been initiated to reduce prairie dog populations, primarily to benefit the livestock grazing industry. Currently in western South Dakota most prairie dogs are found on public lands. Control programs using toxicants for prairie dogs have been found to be economically unfeasible when not combined with reductions in livestock grazing. Control programs also have negatively impacted some nontarget species of birds and small mammals. Livestock grazing is directly related to prairie dog densities. Prairie dog and livestock grazing activities are responsible for keeping plant phenological development in a suppressed vegetative stage with higher nutritional qualities that attract greater herbivore use. Prairie dog colonies create and enhance habitat for many wildlife species; in western South Dakota 134 vertebrate wildlife species have been documented on prairie dog towns. Scientific evidence strongly suggests that prairie dogs are valuable components of the prairie ecosystem. They are responsible for maintaining, creating, and regulating habitat biodiversity through soil and vegetative manipulation for a host of vertebrate and invertebrate species dependent upon prairie dog activity for their survival.
41716157|Named and described is Astragalus debequaeus Welsh from Mesa County, Colorado.
41712810|Two hundred forty-one species of birds have been identified from northern Black Mesa, Arizona. This region's avifauna was poorly known until the late 1970s when large-scale coal mining began. Vegetation of the region is predominantly Great Basin desert scrub, pinyon-juniper woodland, and mixed-conifer woodland. The latter vegetation type supports an assemblage of isolated montane bird species unique to the region. Numerous environmental changes have recently affected the bird life of Black Mesa. These include large-scale type conversions (pinyon-juniper clearing and surface mining), pond construction, and establishment of exotic vegetation.
41711484|Measurements were made of morphological characteristics of ephemeral and persistent leaves of three subspecies of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt.) grown in a uniform environment. No morphological feature clearly separated the subspecies. Genetic-environmental interactions on leaf morphology apparently reduce its value as a sole criterion for distinguishing the subspecies.
41713096|Four species of the genus Ephydra are commonly found in saline waters within the hydrologie Great Basin: E. hians, E. gracilis, E. packardi, and E. auripes. Though none of these brine flies is endemic (distributions also occur outside the Great Basin), they all inhabit distinctive habitat types and form the characteristic benthic insect fauna of inland saline-water habitats. The affinities of each species for different salinity levels and chemical compositions, and ephemeral to perennial habitats, appear to form the basis for biogeographic distribution patterns. Within any habitat, changing salinity conditions over time may impose physiological or ecological constraints and further alter patterns of population productivity and the relative abundance of co-inhabiting species. Based on the physiology of salt tolerance known for these species, high salinity conditions favor E. hians in alkaline water and E. gracilis in chloride water. At lower salinities, based on limited habitat data, E. auripes and E. packardi are often more common, again showing respective preferences for alkaline and chloride chemical conditions. Specialized adaptations for alkaline carbonate waters are found in the larval Malpighian tubule lime gland of the alkali fly E. hians, while high salt tolerance in E. gracilis appears to be conferred by high hemolymph osmolality. Adaptation to ephemeral and low salinity conditions may be accomplished by swift adult colonizing ability and rapid larval development rates. It is hypothesized that adaptive specializations in both physiology and life history and varied geochemistry of saline water habitats across the Great Basin produce the biogeographic pattern of distributions for species in this genus. This perspective on the genus Ephydra, and possibly other biota of mineral-rich Great Basin waters, suggests that interconnections among pluvial lakes may be less relevant to aquatic biogeography than chemical profiles developing in remnant lakes and ponds with the progression of arid post-pluvial climatic conditions.
41712115|Black knot disease of chokecherries, induced by Dibotryon morbosum (Schw.) Th. & Syd., is widely distributed in Utah. The incidence of black knot was measured by determining the ratio of total black knot gall length to total stem length of plants and then expressing that value as a percentage of diseased stems in the sample plot. The environmental site factors measured were elevation, exposure, slope, soil pH, soil depth, distance to surface water, plant moisture stress, and associated vegetation. Numerical values were determined for each of these variables at each of 18 randomly located plots. Correlation coefficients for plant moisture stress and soil temperature were -.439 (p = .065) and -.440 (p = .055). Multiple regression analyses using plant moisture stress and soil temperature gave a regression coefficient of -.641 (p = .05). As plant moisture stress and soil temperature decreased, incidence of black knot increased.
41711498|Relationships between water fertility (as measured by conductivity and alkalinity) of 17 Montana streams and the attainment of sexual maturity and fecundity of their resident female brown trout were studied. Fish from the streams having conductivity and alkalinity levels greater than 100 micromhos/cm and ppm CaCO, respectively, were younger at sexual maturity than fish from waters with lower levels. The attainment of earlier sexual maturity in fish from the former streams could not be completely explained on the basis of greater growth rates. Fish from the stream having the highest levels of conductivity had the slowest growth rate but became sexually mature at the youngest age. A positive relationship was found between chemical fertility of streams and the fecundity of their fish. However, in the stream having the highest levels of conductivity, fish were the least fecund. It was concluded that the chemical fertility of these streams is generally related to the age at sexual maturity and fecundity of fish.
41712040|Recent bottom sediments of eight lakes and reservoirs in northeastern Utah were examined. One hundred and sixty-four diatom taxa were identified and their relative abundances determined. Seven stand associations were evident by cluster analysis of similarity indices. These association patterns mirrored trophic status of the waters. Shannon-Wiener species diversity values were also determined. The diversities fell in patterns that were similar to the stand associations determined by cluster analysis. The most prevalent diatom taxa encountered in this study were found mostly in eutrophic waters. These taxa included Stephanodiscus astraea, Stephanodiscus astraea var. minutula, Asterionella formosa, and Fragilaria crotonensis. A wide variety of other taxa dominated various mesotrophic and oligotrophic sites.
41711691|Local distribution patterns of three rodent species (Perognathus parvus, Peromyscus maniculatus, Reithrodontomys megahtis) were studied in areas of high and low densities of harvester ants (Pogonomyrmex owyheei) in Raft River Valley, Idaho. Numbers of rodents were greatest in areas of high ant-density during May, but partially reduced in August; whereas, the trend was reversed in areas of low ant-density. Seed abundance was probably not the factor limiting changes in rodent populations, because seed densities of annual plants were always greater in areas of high ant-density. Differences in seasonal population distributions of rodents between areas of high and low ant-densities were probably due to interactions of seed availability, rodent energetics, and predation.
41712873|We compared diet of young-of-year Colorado squawfsh (Ptychocheilus lucius), an endangered cyprinid, with diets of other fish <75 mm total length (TL) collected from backwaters of the Green River between river kilometers 555 and 35 during summer and autumn 1987. Species included native Rhinichthys osculus, Catostomus discobolus, and C. latipinnis, and nonnative CyprneUa lutrensis, Notropis stramineus, Pimephales promelas, Ictalurus punctatus, and Lepomis cyanellus. For each species, diet varied with size and between upper and lower river reaches but not between seasons for fish of similar size. Larval chironomids and ceratopogonids were principal foods of most fishes. Copepods and cladocerans were important in diets of P. lucius <21 mm TL and L. cyanellus <31 mm TL. Catostomus discobolus was the only species that ate moderate amounts of algae. Fish (all larvae) were in digestive tracts of only 10 P. lucius (21-73 mm TL), about 1% of P. lucius analyzed. High diet overlap occurred between some size-reach groups of P. lucius and C. lutrensis, R. osculus, C. htipinnis, I. punctatus, and L. cyanellus. Potential for food competition between youngof-year P. lucius and other fishes in backwaters appeared greatest with the very abundant C. lutrensis.
41713011|The effect of myofibrogranuloma (skeletal muscle degeneration) on serum calcium levels in spawning walleye (Stizostedion vitreum) was examined. Mean serum calcium levels for healthy male walleye (11.7  1.5 mg/100 ml serum) was significantly lower (P < 0.05) than calcium levels for healthy female walleye (15.4  1.8 mg/100 ml serum). Significant increases (P < 0.1) in serum calcium were seen between healthy male and myofibrogranuloma-diseased male walleye (13.6  2.1 mg/100 ml serum) and between healthy and myofibrogranuloma-diseased female walleye (20.2  3.7 mg/100 ml serum). Elevations seen in mean serum calcium levels suggest the muscle degeneration and subsequent granuloma formation in later stages of myofibrogranuloma have a significant effect on serum calcium.
41712190|A study was made of the distributions of native, terrestrial, vascular plants occurring in 50 local floras from throughout the Basin and Range and Colorado Plateau physiographic provinces of the southwestern United States. The objectives of the study were to objectively define and describe the floristic elementsassemblages of species with roughly coincident geographic distributionoccurring in the southwestern United States and to determine what such assemblages reveal about the floristic history of the region. The total flora (native, terrestrial species only) of the Southwest is estimated at 5,458 species, 77% of which were recorded in 1 or more of the local floras. Nearly 22% of these species are endemic to the study region. A majority of the species were found to be relatively rare. The average range of a species included only 4 floras, and 90% of the species were recorded from 11 or fewer floras; only 81 species (1.5%) were recorded from 50% or more of the floras. Trees constitute 2% of the regional flora and have the widest average distribution; perennial herbs constitute 59% of the flora and have the most restricted distributions. Factor analysis was used to identify seven floristic elements for the region: a Great Basin element, a Mojavean element, a Colorado Plateau element, a Chihuahuan element, an Apachian element, and a Mogollon element. This factor analysis solution was shown to satisfy criteria of interpretability and consistency. The Mojavean, Colorado Plateau, and Apachian elements are believed to be autochthonous. The other four elements show high overlap in species composition with one or more adjacent regions. Each floristic element is mapped to show its geographic form and distribution. Analysis of these maps shows how the existence of objectively defined floristic elements is not contradictory to either the individualistic view of the distribution of a species or local continuity of vegetation and flora. The rarity of the majority of species and the clear association of floristic elements with rather narrowly circumscribed Holocene environments suggests that many Southwestern species have migrated little and are of rather recent, probably postglacial origin. Geographic "principles" derived from the distribution patterns of relatively few, widespread, dominant, usually woody species may not be applicable to entire, regional floras.
41711874|Described as new is Cryptantha welshii Thome & Higgins from the White River Valley of Nye County, Nevada.
41712201|Diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid populations of Atriplex canescens (x = 9) were examined for 18 isozyme systems. Of 24 interpretable loci, only one locus (Per) was polymorphic. Another locus (Per) showed a dosage effect. Genetic distance values, D, ranged from near 0 to 0.05, which are in the normal range for local species races. Results from clonal ramets gave identical results. The data and analyses support an essentially autopolyploid origin for the polyploid populations examined.
41711893|A comparison of the floral visitors of two closely related plant species, Penstemon cyananthus and P. eatonii, suggests that flower shape and color may affect the number and type of pollinators, and the ability of the plant to set fruit. Penstemon cyananthus, which is most attractive to hymenopteran visitors, has a blue flower, large in diameter, that is positioned as a convenient "landing pad." Although many types of insects visit the flower, the transport of pollen directly to flowers of another individual of the same species is somewhat inefficient, since fruiting success is low (66.7 percent). The tubular red flowers of P. eatonii are narrow and droop downward from the stem. The nectar is accessible to a specific and well-adapted visitor, the hummingbird. This less promiscuous, bird-pollinated species sets fruit more successfully (82.4 percent) than P. cyananthus.
41712505|A classification of the riparian vegetation of part of western Colorado was developed by cluster analysis and ordination of 115 samples of relatively undisturbed vegetation. The classification of plant associations contains five montane riparian forests, three subalpine riparian forests, four lower subalpine willow carrs, three upper subalpine willow carrs, and one subalpine wetland.
41712251|On 17 Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma [Torrey] L.) sites studied in Utah, Gymnosporangium inconspicuum was the most common rust fungus, followed in frequency and severity by G. nelsoni, G. kernianum, and G. speciosum. The incidence of G. kernianum was correlated with moderate temperatures and greater than average precipitation. True mistletoe, Phoradendron juniperinum Engelm., was present on seven sites. Incidence of foliage diseases of the mold-mildew type was low on sites with low spring and summer temperatures and high on sites with high summer and fall precipitation. Wood rot was common, and incidence seemed to be correlated with low winter temperatures and low soil nitrate but not with annual precipitation. Needle blight, shoot dieback, and needle cast symptoms were common and considered of abiotic origin. Their nonparasitic nature was indicated by lack of association with pathogenic organisms and the positive correlation of their incidence with winter injury and summer drought factors. Needle blight was also positively correlated with high soil salinity but negatively with high soil calcium regardless of salinity. A nonparametric model was developed that accurately predicted the frequency of the mold-mildew type diseases of J. osteosperma based on measured environmental site factors.
41712783|A search for characters to make the generic classification of Platypodidae more nearly objective resulted in the discovery of new anatomical features that appear to reflect patterns in phylogeny for this family. The Platypodidae are members of the Curculionoidea and are very closely allied to Scolytidae. Three subfamilies of Platypodidae are recognized: (1) Coptonotinae, containing Coptonotini (Coptonotus Chapuis, Protohylastes Wood, Scolytotarsus Schedl), Mecopelmini (Mecopelmus Blackman, Protoplatypus Wood), and Schedlarini (Schedlarius Wood [= Chapuisia Dugs]); (2) Tesserocerinae, containing Diapodini (Diapus Chapuis, Genyocerus Motschulsky [=Diacavus Schedl]), and Tesserocerini (Platytarsulus Schedl, Notoplatypus Lea, Tesserocranulus Schedl, Tesserocerus Saunders [= Damicerus Spinola, Tesseroplatypus Schedl, Tesserocephalus Schedl]), Spathidicerus Chapuis, Periommatus Chapuis [=Asetus Nunberg, Setanus Nunberg], Chaetastus Nunberg [=Symmerus Chapuis], Cenocephalus Chapuis, and Mitosoma Chapuis [=Platypicerus Nunberg, Coecephalonus Schedl]); and (3) Platypodinae, containing Platypodini (Platypus Herbst [=Cylindra Illiger, Stenoplatypus Strohmeyer, Platypinus Schedl, Austroplatypus Browne], Treptoplatypus Schedl, Crossotarsus Chapuis, Trachyostus Schedl, Neotrachyostus Browne, Platyscapulus Schedl [=Platyscapus Schedl, Costaroplatus Nunberg], Baiocis Browne, Cylindropalpus Strohmeyer, Triozastus Schedl, Mesoplatypus Strohmeyer, Doliopygus Schedl [=Scutopygus Nunberg, Pygodolius Nunberg, Mixopygus Nunberg, Mesopygus Nunberg], and 11 genera named as new to science derived from the genus Platypus of Schedl 1972. The following are new genera and their type-species: Peroplatypus (for Platypus truncatipennis Schedl), Dinoplatypus (for Platypus cupulatus Chapuis), Myoplatypus (for Bostrichus or Platypus flavicornis Fabricius), Oxoplatypus (for Scolytus or Platypus quadridentatus Olivier), Platyphysus (for Platypus obtusus Chapuis), Megaplatypus (for Platypus dentatus Dalman), Euplatypus (for Bostrichus or Platypus parallelus Fabricius), Epiplatypus (for Platypus desceptor Wood), and Teloplatypus (for Platypus concinnus Blandford). The archaic "Sektionen" used by Schedl in his 1972 classification of this family are eliminated. A key for the identification of genera, a discussion of characters, and remarks on phylogeny are included.
41712874|Water column invertebrates were sampled with 3.8-L activity traps in 15 sewage, industrial, and radioactive wastewater ponds at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory in southeastern Idaho. One collection was made per pond, per month, during all months the ponds were ice-free from June 1990 through July 1991. In addition, nutrient and selected heavy metal concentrations in pond water were determined in July 1991. Arsenic, barium, boron, lead, selenium, and mercury were detected in ponds. Sewage ponds generally had higher nitrogen and phosphorus levels than industrial and radioactive ponds. Of the 30 aquatic invertebrate taxa collected, the most ubiquitous were Rotifera, Daphnidae, Eucopepoda, Ostracoda, Acari, Baetidae, Corixidae, Notonectidae, Dytiscidae, and Chironomidae. Activity trap samples from sewage ponds contained more Rotifera, Daphnidae, and Notonectidae, whereas industrial ponds yielded more Chydoridae, Acari, and Baetidae. Numbers of Oligochaeta, Eucopepoda, Ostracoda, Corixidae, Dytiscidae, and Chironomidae collected were not significantly different between sewage and industrial ponds. Compared with natural systems, these ponds had fewer taxa, but a greater number of individuals of most taxa. The high number of invertebrates collected is attributed to the lack of fish in wastewater ponds and the high levels of nitrogen and phosphorus, particularly in sewage ponds.
41712084|Fifty-seven fish of three genera were taken from the Colorado River in west central Colorado and examined for external parasites. No external parasites were found on Ictalurus. Seven percent of the Hybognathus and 100 percent of the Catastomus were infected with a Hirudinean of the species Helobdella stagnalis.
41711594|The west slope of Basin and Castle peaks and the ridge between them displays a wind-generated tree line below 8500 ft, with dry alpine fell-field vegetation above. The butterfly fauna, although depauperate compared to that of the High Sierra farther south, includes some truly boreal elements such as Oeneis ivallda, Plebeius shasta, and Hesperia nevada. These species commonly occur 1500 to 4000 ft higher in the southern Sierra.
41711585|New synonymy of American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Phloeoborus Erichson (= Phloeotrupes Erichson), Phloeotribus Latreille (= Eulytocerus Blandford), Scolytodes Ferrari (= Epomadius Blandford), Carphoborus pinicolens Wood (= Carphoborus tuberculatus Bright), Coccotrypes indicus (Eggers) (= Dryocoetes subimpressus Eggers), Coccotrypes surinamensis Schedl (= Coccotrypes brevipilosus Eggers), Conophthorus coniperda Schwarz (= Conophthorus clunicus Hopkins, Conophthorus taedae Hopkins), Conophthorus ponderosae Hopkins (= Conophthorus scopulorum Hopkins, Conophthorus contortae Hopkins, Conophthorus monticolae Hopkins, Conophthorus flexilis Hopkins, Conophthorus lambertianae Hopkins), Conophthorus resinosae Hopkins (= Conophthorus virginianae Hopkins), Cryphahmorphus knabi (Hopkins) (= Cryphalomorphus minutissimus Schedl), Ips grandicollis (Eichhoff) (= Tomicus cribricollis Eichhoff), Ips perturbatus (Eichhoff) (= Tomicus interpunctus Eichhoff), Ips tridens engelmanni Swaine (= Ips yohoensis Swaine, Ips semirostris Hopping, Ips amiskwiensis Hopping), Leperisinus aculeatus (Say) (= Hylesinus imperialis Eichhoff), Leperisinus californicus Swaine (= Leperisinus hoferi Blackman), Phloeosinus serratus (LeConte) (= Phloeosinus neotropicus Schedl), Phoeotribus championi (Blandford) ) = Eulytocerus substriatus Schedl), Pseudohylesinus sericeus (Mannerheim) (= Pseudohylesinus yasamatsui Nobuchi), Pityophthorus boycei Swaine (= Pityophthorus siouxensis Bright), Pityophthorus deletus LeConte (= Pityophthorus inquietus Blackman, Pityophthorus monophyllae Blackman, Pityophthorus praelatus Bright, Pityophthorus brucki Bright), Scolytus opacus Blackman (= Scolytus abietis Blackman), Scolytus tsugae Swaine (= Scolytus reflexus Blackman, Scolytus wickhami Blackman), Scolytus unispinosus LeConte (= Scolytus fiskei Blackman). The following species are named as new to science: Phloeotribus hirtus, P. ingae, P. levis, P. minor, P. nebulosus, P. simplicidens (Colombia), P. amplus, P. fici, P. squamiger, P. tetricus, P. vesculus (Venezuela), Pityophthorus discretus (Mexico).
41712398|During a survey of the vertebrates in the Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area, 46 mammal, 210 bird, 9 reptile, 5 amphibian, and 28 fish species were found. Habitat structure and moisture were two environmental variables associated with species numbers across this 1,820-ha area. Eight distinct habitats were evaluated. In coniferous forests, 27% of the birds and 54% of the mammals were observed. Sagebrush/grasslands and upland shrublands were very arid and had relatively few vertebrates. Five introduced game birds occurred in sagebrush habitat. Riparian and wetland habitats had the largest number of unique vertebrates, 38 and 77 respectively. The establishment of Bighorn Lake in 1968 influenced the fisheries in streams and rivers as 10 introduced fish species are now there.
41712219|Based on forehead-rump length, growth rates of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fetuses in Piceance Basin, Colorado, were slower during severe winters than during moderate ones. Growth rates in both situations were slower than reported for both mule deer and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fetuses from captive does.
41712449|Cluster analysis and stepwise discriminant analysis were used to group waterfowl and shorebird use on water impoundments (bentonite, coal, livestock) on the Northern High Plains. Three bird-use categorieshigh, medium, and lowwere delineated by these analytical procedures. Eleven physical, chemical, and biological parameters of impoundments were related to bird use; water area, nitrogen, and low basin slopes were found to be important parameters in estimating bird use on impoundments. Spring and summer were the best seasons for surveying waterfowl and shorebird water impoundment use.
41712435|We examined stomach contents of 426 Clethrionomys, 217C. californiens from western Oregon and 209C. gapperi from widely scattered areas across North America. Clethrionomys californicus consumed fungi of 28 genera. Clethrionomys gapperi from the Rocky Mountains westward consumed fungi of 23 genera, whereas C. gapperi east of the Rocky Mountains consumed fungi of 7 genera. This study supports the conclusions of an earlier study, limited to Oregon and Washington, that food habits of C. californicus and C. gapperi are more closely related to habitat than to species or subspecies of vole.
41711730|Graphs allowing interconversion between various physical chemical parameters are presented for five Artemia habitats in the western USA. Both the mean osmosity and its typical yearly range differ greatly among habitats. Consequently, Artemia populations provide an interesting opportunity to study physiological and life history adaptations to differing degrees of habitat stability.
41711652|Twenty-two sites in central Idaho were sampled to determine the geographic range of Peromyscus maniculatus serratus. Isolating mechanisms which exist between the P. maniculatus subspecies of region require further investigation.
41711573|A total of 87 avian species were recorded on islands of Great Salt Lake by Behle, with 17 observed on Gunnison and Cub islands. This paper presents sightings and salvaged carcasses recorded on Gunnison and Cub islands, 1972-1974. Of the 112 species observed, 95 are first records for Gunnison and Cub islands and 49 are first records on or near any island of Great Salt Lake. Over 90 percent of species observed on the islands were transients.
41711984|Named as new species are Hymenoxys lapidicola Welsh & Neese, from Uintah County, Utah, and Perityle specuicola Welsh & Neese, from Grand County, Utah.
41712567|Northern pike, Esox lucius, stocked in the Yampa River in 1977, invaded the mainstream Green River by 1981 and subsequently increased in range and abundance. The speed of this invasion is indicated by two recaptured pike that moved 78 and 110 km, respectively, downstream in about one year. Pike stomachs (n = 123) were usually empty (54.5%), but some contained fish (43%) and nonfish items (2.4%). Red shiner, Notropis lutrensis, and fathead minnow, Pimephales prometas, predominated among the 12 fish species eaten. Walleye, Stizostedion vitreum, presumably introduced to the Green River drainage in the 1960s, was widely distributed but low in abundance. Most of 61 adult walleye stomachs contained food (60.7%); of 6 fish species eaten, channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus, and fathead minnow were most frequently consumed. Northern pike and walleye were captured in habitats occupied by endangered Colorado River fishes, particularly Colorado squawfish, Ptychocheilus lucius. Prdation on endangered fishes was not detected, but northern pike and walleye consumed at least three other native fishes. The northern pike may pose a threat to endangered fishes due to its population expansion, piscivory, and resource sharing. Diets of northern pike and walleye species should be further evaluated if their abundance increases.
41711392|Some ecological relationships and interspecies interactions (i.e., habitat, foods, and reproduction) between Microtus pennsylvanicus pullatus, M. montanus nanus, M. longicaudus mordex, and Clethrionomys gapperi galei were investigated in Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming. Trapping was conducted from June-July, 1968 and May-July, 1969 yielding 110 M.p.p., 171 M.m.n., 17 M.l.n. and 41 C.g.g. Six plant communities were defined structurally; all communities contained voles but varied considerably in numbers of species and individuals. Analyses of stomach contents showed similar diets. Embryo counts indicated that there was no significant interspecies differences in litter sizes. Females of all species were pregnant in about equal proportions. Almost all adult males showed descended testes and were reproductively active. Testicular and seminal vesicle weights and lengths fluctuated. M.p.p. mean body weights were largest: M44.7g (N=31), F38.1g (N=29); this was nearly twice the mean weights of C.g.g.: M20.4g (N=7), F23.3g (N=3). Weights for M.m.n. and M.l.m. fell between these extremes and were similar to each other. Trends in differential habitat use were clearly demonstrated and evidence suggests the four microtines are at least partially incompatible.
41711464|Eight spotted bats (Euderma maculatum) were captured and released along the Fort Pierce Wash, Washington County, Utah, in August 1974. Observations indicated that Euderma roosts in cracks and crevices.
41711648|The past and present use of the Uinta National Forest by birds of prey was determined from historical records and surveys conducted during 1973, 1974, and 1975. Data describing the history, present status, and physical characteristics of each nest site were collected, along with the type and intensivity of human activity within a half-mile radius of the nest. In addition, limited data on fall migration of raptors along the Wasatch Front and the food habits of Golden Eagles are presented. Management guidelines, based on the results of this study, are proposed.
41712957|We studied seasonal cattle grazing as an agent of ephemeral habitat fragmentation on a newly reintroduced population of California bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis califomiana) in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Idaho, 1988-89. We evaluated the hypothesis that bighorn sheep avoid cattle. We documented sheep response to the proximity to cattle by direct observation. The core areas used by bighorn and distances to escape terrain generally decreased as cattle moved closer to sheep. Likewise, sheep moved from cattle as cattle approached them. Severity of response we observed is in marked contrast with that reported for established bighorn populations, suggesting that newly reintroduced bighorn sheep are more highly sensitive to the presence of cattle.
41712909|Eighteen species of Scolytidae are reported from Washington state for the first time or raised from obscurity: Scierus annectens LeConte, Hylesinus californiens (Swaine), Phloeotribus lecontei Schedl, Carphoborus vandykei Bruck, Polygraphus ruflpennis (Kirby), Crypturgus borealis Swaine, Pityogenes knechteli Swaine, Ips mexicanus (Hopkins), Ips perturbatus (Eichhoff), Ips plastographus plastographus (LeConte), Ips woodi Thatcher, Trypodendron betulae Swaine, Trypophloeus striatulus (Mannerheim), Procryphalus mucronatus (LeConte), Procryphalus utahensis Hopkins, Pseudopityophthorus pubipennis (LeConte), Pityophthorus alpinensis G. Hopping, and Pityophthorus grandis Blackman. Host tree and collection data are given for these species. A total of 105 scolytid species known from Washington are listed.
41713001|One hundred forty-three species of Pompilidae are recorded from Colorado, slightly more than half the number occurring north of Mexico. Some of these occur principally at higher altitudes or in the northern part of the state; this group includes 5 species of Holarctic distribution. Others (such as the tarantula hawks, Pepsis) are prevalent across the southern third of the state and range south into New Mexico and often into Mexico. Still others are widely distributed wherever there is friable soil suitable for nesting. Certain genera are more or less restricted to preying upon certain spider taxa, while others are generalists and a few are cleptoparasites of other Pompilidae.
41712799|The purpose of this study was to determine the morphology and growth responses of Agropyron smithii Rydb. to various saline environments as evaluated in the laboratory. Agropyron smithii Rydb. (Rosana) seeds were germinated, transplanted into nutrient solutions with NaCl concentrations of 0, 50, 100, 150, and 200 mM, and grown for 80 days. Plant height, length of culm, and number of culms per plant were significantly reduced by the presence of NaCl in the nutrient solutions. As the external NaCl concentrations increased, values of root and plant ratio and leaf dry/fresh mass ratio increased significantly; biomass decreased significantly. However, the stomatal index, number of leaves per culm, and ratio of leaf length to leaf width were not significantly affected by the presence of NaCl.
41711537|Discovery of a small isolated population of the white fir dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. concoloris, in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona extends the southern distribution of this mistletoe 300 miles. The rare occurrence of the mistletoe in the southwest suggests that it once had a more southerly distribution but only survived past climatic changes in a few locations.
41713006|Recent radiotelemetry studies demonstrated that stream-dwelling trout are mobile, but few have compared sympatric species. We used radiotelemetry to simultaneously monitor positions of 20 brown trout and 21 rainbow trout from May or June 1994 to February 1995 in Silver Creek, a small spring-fed stream in south central Idaho. Our biweekly observations from May to September indicated that rainbow trout had larger home ranges (medians, 606 m v. 131 m) and moved greater distances (medians, 1109 m v. 208 m) than brown trout. Furthermore, rainbow trout used more positions than brown trout (means, 7 v. 3) over this interval. Hourly diel monitoring revealed no significant difference in 24-h home ranges of rainbow trout and brown trout (means, 77 m v. 105 m). However, activity patterns of the 2 species differed; rainbow trout activity was usually highest during the day, whereas brown trout activity tended to peak at night. Differences in foraging strategies and response to disturbance may be responsible for differences in mobility.
41712181|At Walker Lake, Nevada, tui chub were collected 19751977 for analysis of age, growth rate, and food habits. The fork length (FL)scale radius (SR) relationship was linear and described by the equation FL = 4.44 + 3.17 (SR). Age I, II, III, and IV chub were 116, 176, 218, and 242 mm fork length, respectively. Maximum longevity was six years. The length weight relationship was defined by the log transformed linear equation log weight = -4.65 + 2.93 (log FL). Chub collected from pelagic regions ate mostly zooplankton, whereas chub collected from littoral areas had a diet of zooplankton and benthic organisms.
41712584|Woodlands dominated by singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla Torr, and Frem.) and Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma [Torr.] Little) cover extensive areas in the Great Basin and Southwest. Both species are aggressive and can nearly eliminate the previous shrub-dominated community. Successional pathways from shrubdominated communities before tree establishment to the tree-dominated communities that follow are known only for a few specific sites. How site growing conditions affect successional patterns needs further study. We compared the relationship of foliage biomass and percentage of cover between paired shrub-dominated and tree-dominated plots over several sites. Sites studied are from different elevation and topographic conditions on one mountain range. Foliage biomass in shrub-dominated plots had about a three-to-one variation over the range of site conditions sampled. Tree-dominated plots varied by about two to one. Cover in shrub-dominated plots had a four-to-one variation; cover in the tree-dominated plots varied by about two to one. Total foliage biomass in both tree-and shrub-dominated plots correlated best with the site index of height at 200 years of age. Variation in percentage of cover in both tree-and shrub-dominated plots correlated best with elevation. Foliage biomass variation in shrub-dominated plots was proportional to the variation in the paired tree-dominated plots. A similar proportional relationship was present for percentage of cover between paired tree-and shrub-dominated plots. Foliage biomass was more sensitive to topographic differences than to cover. Variation in plant species sampled in the shrub-dominated plots correlated with total foliage biomass of the same plots. Species sampled also correlated with pinyon height at 200 years of age and total foliage biomass in the paired tree-dominated plots.
41711470|Two fortran IV computer programs were developed to facilitate reduction of meteorologie data from irrigated and nonirrigated plots at Provo, Utah. The first program compiles and tabulates daily, monthly, and yearly summaries of precipitation as rain and/or snow, snowfall, total snow cover, soil moisture, dew, relative humidity, potential evaporation, cloud cover, and wind. Temperature values are tabulated for measurements taken in a standard weather shelter, 5 cm beneath soil surface under grass cover, at soil surface under grass cover, and on bare ground. The second program enables complete computerized (Calcomp) construction, labeling, and graphing of 10 different meteorologie measurements and 3 calculated comparisons of temperature means. Advantages of the first computer program relate generally to that obviously noticeable with any computerized tabulation. Those of the second program relate more specifically to the greatly reduced cost of computerized graphs compared with those produced manually, as well as to the marked reduction of errors compared with the number frequently associated with the usual tedious and laborious plotting of voluminous weather data. Meteorologie data collected for the year demonstrated the beneficial effect of irrigation in the creation of microenvironments for living organisms.
41713120|Eight deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were attracted to bait stations in the field and filled their cheek pouches with seeds. Pouch capacity of the deer mice, which have small, internal cheek pouches, was 0.45  0.11 mL, about 12-27% of that carried by similar-sized heteromyid rodents. Cheek pouches of deer mice, although small, give them the capacity to carry 3-5 times more food than unspecialized mice. This presumably increases efficiency of deer mice in exploiting small, particulate food items that are patchily distributed.
41712293|Insect communities at recently burned and unburned sites in the Great Basin of northwestern Utah were studied by weekly sampling with pitfall and Malaise traps. More specimens were consistently collected at the burned site, although the numbers of species between the sites were about equal a month after the fire. Flying insects showing no preference for the sites were sciarids, phorids, and leafminer flies (all Diptera). Insects preferring the unburned site were mostly entomophagous flies such as pipunculids, chamaemyiids, and tachinids. Insects more common at the burned site were mosquitoes and phytophagous species of lygaeid bugs, leafhoppers, and moths. Seasonal trends in relative abundance of major families of flying insects are reported. Ground survivors included gryllacridids, carabids, tenebrionids, and ants. Silphids and buprestids immigrated into the burned area soon after the fire. Interrelationships between the burned area and the insect community are dicussed.
41711618|The Yellow-headed Blackbird (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) nests in marshes and is dependent on emergent vegetation for nest sites. Fluctuating water levels from year to year cause an increase or decrease in the amount of emergent vegetation and affect the time required for the vegetation to become suitable for nesting. Nests built in marshes are very susceptible to wind, rainfall, vegetation growth, and prdation. Many nests are abandoned before being used and the mortality of eggs and young is high. The reproductive strategy of the Yellow-headed Blackbird has been selected for flexibility and opportunism to compensate for the unpredictability of the marsh situation.
41711886|Phenology and abundance of the floral resources used by bees and other flower-visiting insects were recorded weekly from permanent quadrats for two years on two shortgrass prairie sites in the Laramie Basin, Wyoming. Each site was composed of three distinct plant communities. Results suggest considerable spatiotemporal variability in floral resources. Specifically, most species at both sites showed the following temporal variation: (1) bloom times between one and two weeks earlier in the second year; (2) differences of approximately 1-2 weeks in bloom span between years; (3) substantial differences in abundance of flowers between years. Species blooming during the last half of the census period were significantly more variable in flower abundance between years than those blooming earlier. Spatial variation was shown both by differences between sites and between plant communities within sites in the direction and magnitude of between-year changes in floral abundance. For example, floral production at Boulder Ridge in 1976 was much lower than in 1975, but at The Dirt Farm between-year differences were less pronounced and depended upon season. Similarity measures and cluster analysis suggest differences in the structure of the bloom season at both sites between years, and a relatively rapid turnover of floral composition within years such that bees face a very different flora over the latter part of their flight seasons relative to that encountered initially. Evidence from other reports support the hypothesis of spatiotemporal unpredictability of floral resources.
41711894|Habitat segregation trends have been observed and published for the sexes of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) based on elevation and slope exposure. Despite these brief descriptions, quantitative studies on habitat segregation by the sexes of mule deer are lacking. Results of research conducted in central Utah indicated no significant difference in elevation positions used by males, but did show significant difference in utilization of study sites based on slope exposure, relative percentage forb cover, and relative percentage hiding cover. Males were most common at sites characterized by low forb abundance and hiding cover, and on south-facing exposures. Females were most common at sites characterized by high forb abundance and hiding cover, and on north-facing exposures. Possible advantages of habitat separation to both sexes and management implications are discussed.
41712367|Maternal care of neonates has been documented in relatively few species of lizards representing four families. This study documents the occurrence of maternal care of neonates in the prairie skink, Eumeces septentrionalis. Observations made herein indicate that individual variation in maternal behavior exists in this species.
41713040|A total of 395 microtine rodent specimens recovered from Snake Creek Burial Cave (SCBC) are referred to Microtus sp. and Lemmiscus curtatus. Radiocarbon and Uranium series dates indicate an age for these fossils of between 9460  160 yr. B.P. and 15,1000  700 yr. B.P The sample of lower first molars of Lemmiscus includes 4-, 5-, and 6-closed triangle morphotypes. Earlier reports of the 4-closed triangle morphotype are from Irvingtonian deposits in Colorado, Nevada, and New Mexico and from early Rancholabrean deposits in Washington. The morphotype is not known in living populations of Lemmiscus. SCBC specimens constitute the youngest record of the 4-closed triangle morphotype and are the only specimens reported from the late Rancholabrean. The time of disappearance of Lemmiscus with this molar morphology is unknown, but populations with this morphotype possibly became extinct at or near the end of the Pleistocene.
41711190|In the original work on this race, Jacot (1938) neither figured nor adequately separated this form from the species auxiliaris. The race is figured and a short diagnostic description made for clarification.H.G.H.
41716160|Nutrients in soil covered by Carex exserta sod and in adjacent unvegetated gravel areas were compared at Siberian Outpost, Sequoia National Park, California. The comparisons were part of a study to learn if Carex exserta meadow can be reestablished and if herbaceous cover on gravel areas can be increased. Grazing capacity and aesthetic appeal of denuded areas would be improved by better vegetative cover. The sod had higher concentrations of calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, nitrogen, potassium, and zinc than did the gravel areas. And it had a higher soil pH and percent organic matter. Sod and gravel did not differ in concentrations of phosphorus and sulfur. The differences were as might be expected between climax and badly deteriorated (or early seral) situations, and the results suggest that fertilization may be a useful treatment.
41712482|Seeds of the perennial shrub Ambrosia dumosa germinated in abundance following 11 days of rain during August 1983 at a study site in the northern Mojave Desert. Seedling establishment, growth, and reproduction were observed in natural vegetation and in an area that had been previously cleared of vegetation. For 5,527 A. dumosa seedlings, percent survival in April 1986 averaged 3% in the undisturbed vegetation and 58% in the denuded area. Seedlings occupying the cleared area had grown to sizes up to 0.1 m by October 1984; some produced flowers and fruit in the spring of 1985. Surviving seedlings in the undisturbed vegetation were all smaller than 0.001 m and did not reproduce. These pronounced differences in growth, survival, and reproduction associated with the presence or absence of adult shrubs demonstrated an intense competition that is incompatible with indications of mild competition from nearest-neighbor analyses. I therefore hypothesize that competition for water occurred, not by competition for water in two dimensions but by rapid use of a common resource, as if several people were drinking with straws from a common cup. This temporal mechanism would strongly favor adults over seedlings.
41711524|The riverbottom forest community of St. Mary River, Lee Creek, and Belly River in southwestern Alberta, Canada, is a unique ecological entity characterized by poplar species having their major Alberta distribution along these streams. Stands in the community are dominated by three tree species, six shrub species, and nine herb species. Establishment of the community is dependent on climate and substrate; destruction is the result of progressive lateral stream-flow erosion. Soils are sandy loams above gravel, with pH values of 7.7 to 8.0 and soluble salt concentrations of 176 to 458 parts per million. Trees in mature stands averaged 23.0 cm in diameter and 40 years in age; maximum tree age was 250 years. The vascular flora consists of 291 species of which 41 are woody and 250 herbaceous. One species (Prunus nigra Ait.) new to Alberta and range extensions for 12 species are cited. There are no true community endemic species. Recreational and livestock-raising uses are present community modifiers. Fire is not important in current forest dynamics.
41712308|Vegetal composition was determined during 1974 and 1984 using 60 permanent 50 m plots within a mature pinyon-juniper community in northeastern Utah. Results indicated that not only was there little significant change in community composition, but with many species frequency and density remained nearly the same during the decade.
41712746|Three species of Elmidae occur in Death Valley National Monument: Stenelmis calida is in three springs in the Ash Meadows area; Microcylloepus formicoideus is only in Travertine Springs; and Microcylloepus similis is in several springs throughout Death Valley and Ash Meadows. Only permanent springs support elmids. Considerable morphological variation occurs in the disjunct populations of M. similis. The evolution of elmids in Death Valley National Monument is equivalent to that of the local pupfish (Cyprinodon spp.).
41711479|Twenty-seven species of wood-rotting Basidiomycetes are reported to decay junipers in Arizona. A key to the species, descriptions, and line drawings of microscopic characters are provided. Pyrofomes demidoffii, Daealea juniperina, Poria rimosa, and Phellinus texanus cause decay of heartwood in living trees. Hyphoderma deserticola Gilberts, et Linds. is described as new.
41711777|A colony of Columbian ground squirrels in the Idaho Primitive Area was observed from 1976 to 1978. Seven body measurements were recorded for juveniles obtained in 1978. There was a lack of sexual dimorphism among developing juveniles. The hind foot was the fastest developing feature. Juveniles obtain adult size their second year. Juvenile males exhibited the lowest interyear residency of either sex or age group examined.
41711489|Detailed distribution maps of Utah are provided for each of the 33 state species of Zygoptera. Notes on the general range, habitat preference, reproductive behavior, emergence data, and general biology of each species are also included.
41711662|Galls induced by tephritid flies (Diptera: Tephritidae) on Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. albicaulis, consimilis, graveolens, and salicifolius are useful in taxonomic identification of these subspecies in Utah. In this study, "callus" galls were found almost exclusively on ssp. albicaulis. "Cotton" galls were more frequent on ssp. consimilis and graveolens. "Mace" galls occurred on all four subspecies but were the only gall found on naturally occurring populations of ssp. salicifolius. Gall form specificity is not as well correlated with C. nauseosus subspecies in peripheral areas of the species range as in Utah. This decrease in specificity may be due to decreased competition for the host plant in outlying areas.
41712050|Blue Lake Warm Spring in Tooele County, Utah, contains a rich diatom flora with a significant number of taxa that are unusual in this region. We have identified a total of 136 taxa in our samples from this locality, several of which are new records for Utah and North America.
41716156|The distribution and breeding habitats of the Great Basin spadefoot toad (Scaphiopus intermontanus) were investigated in the Bonneville Basin of western Utah. The permanent springs and man-made reservoirs used for breeding were largely found below the 1600 m elevation. The pH's ranged between 7.2 and 10.4 and the total dissolved solids between 170 and 4800 mg/1. The springs were less alkaline than the rain-filled reservoirs. The lack of aquatic vegetation was a common feature of the reservoirs and most of the springs. Observations of breeding without rain are noted as well as the lack of breeding with rain. The snout-vent lengths of adult spadefoots are greater in the Bonneville Basin than in other parts of the Great Basin. Utilization of permanent water sources and stimuli for emergence and breeding, as well as the larger adult size of S. intermontanus in the Bonneville Basin, are discussed in relation to the diverse precipitation patterns, the sparseness of the water sources, and the Holocene history of the Great Basin.
41711520|The composition of four radiocarbon-dated, late Pleistocene woodrat middens is reported and analyzed. A date of 11,850 550 BP records the first reported macrofossil occurrence in this region of late Pleistocene Pinus monophylla-Juniperus osteosperma woodlands. A 7,800 350 BP date documents the most recent J. osteosperma woodlands in this presently coniferless desert area, while a date of 12,100 400 BP is the oldest record of juniper woodlands among the four middens. Other juniper and creosote bush desert flora radiocarbon dates along with six pollen profiles were obtained. The research suggests that as recently as 7,800 BP this part of the Mohave Desert was subject to a cooler, moister climate than at present, and that the aboriginal food resources of pinyon seeds and juniper berries were probably available to early prehistoric man in this area.
41712479|We report observations of the white-tailed prairie dog, Cynomys leucurus Merriam, digging and burrowing into mounds of the western harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex ocddentalis (Cresson), in Emery County, Utah.
41712766|We studied habitat selection patterns of Merriam's Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) hens with poults in a ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) ecosystem. Thirty-six radio-marked hens produced 19 broods, and we obtained 230 locations of hens with poults. We described vegetation of habitats using criteria from the Rocky Mountain Region, U.S. Forest Service, for determining effects of forest management and monitoring of wildlife populations. Most habitat units were 4-32 ha and corresponded to third-order habitats as described by Johnson (1980). Hens with poults selected large meadows and rarely selected dense ponderosa pine habitats. Younger poults used meadows more frequently than did older poults. Implementation of the Black Hills National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan in ponderosa pine habitats will not negatively impact hens with poults. Grazing by livestock reduces herbaceous biomass necessary for invertebrate food items of poults and cover for poults. Habitat selection patterns of hens with poults should be evaluated by age categories of poults.
41711726|A bite by Chiracanthium mildei L. Koch is described.
41712544|Zooplankton in meromictic Big Soda Lake, Nevada, were sampled in October 1982 to determine species composition and vertical distribution relative to the oxycline. Moina hutchinsoni was most abundant in the epilimnion, but prior to migrating into the anoxic hypolimnion, it aggregated at the oxycline. Brachionus plicatilis was most abundant below the oxycline. Concentrations of Brachionus and Moina near the oxycline corresponded with peaks in bacterial productivity found by previous investigators. However, further investigation should be conducted to verify feeding by Zooplankton primarily in the anoxic hypolimnion.
41711971|Six accounts of pronghorn antelope (Antifocapra americana) chasing or attacking coyotes (Canis latrans) are described: three chases by individual pronghorn does, two by herds of antelope, and one joint effort by a pronghorn doe and a Short-eared Owl (Asia flammeus). Modifications of Berger's (1979) ungulate antipredatory defense model are proposed.
41711465|Diploplectron brunneipes (Cresson) makes a shallow nest in compact clay-sand containing at least two cells. It is provisioned with immature Heteroptera. The larva resembles that of Astata in a general way but differs in several particulars.
41712099|Two recirculating aquaculture systems were constructed using a sequence of five tanks each. Each system contained two plant species, duckweed (Lemna minor) and chinese water chestnut (Eleocharis dulcis); two fish species, channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) and tilapia (Tilapia aurea); and a freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium rosenbergii). Duckweed production during the 132-day experiment reached as high as 87.2 tons/hectare/year (t/ha/yr). Water chestnut production was not successful in the restricted light situation of the lab, but in an outdoor test planting, corn production was 37.2 t/ha/yr. Four feeding trials were attempted using the following percent of fish body weight: 2.5% commercial feed; 5% wet duckweed; 15% wet duckweed; and 15% wet duckweed with 1% commercial feed. Feed to flesh conversion ratios averaged 1.97:1 for the three control tanks and 1.44: 1 overall for the treatment tank. The fish-fed duckweed and commercial feed grew as well or better than those fed commercial food alone.
41712963|The gastrointestinal tracts, lungs, and urinary bladders from 77 Bufo microscaphus, 61 Bufo woodhousii, and 8 of their hybrids were examined for helminths. One species of trematode (Glypthelmins quieta), 1 species of cestode (Distoichometra bufonis), and 5 species of nematodes (Aplectana incerta, A. itzocanensis, Rhabdias americanus, Physaloptera sp., and Physocephalus sp.) were found. The greatest prevalence (41%) and mean intensity (231.7) were recorded for Aplectana incerta in Bufo woodhousii. It appears hybrids harbor fewer parasites than either parent species.
41712881|A common submersed aquatic plant of Great Basin wetland and riverine systems, Potamogeton pectinatus L. (sago pondweed) is a key waterfowl food. Nutritional qualities of submersed aquatics in the Great Basin are little understood. The purpose of this study was to determine the seasonal element cycling and nutritional qualities of P. pectinatus drupelet, leaf, and root tissues from the lower Provo River. Leaf tissue protein was 27% (dry weight) in July, but declined to 15% by December. Drupelet protein content was 9% in July and 6.5% in October. Lignocellulose in leaf tissue was lowest in July at 34% and increased as the season progressed. Percent fat was highest in leaf tissue at 12% in July. Sugars were highest in P. pectinatus leaf tissues in December and July. Calcium and magnesium concentrations increased in P. pectinatus tissues over the entire season. Leaf tissue zinc was 329 ppm (dry weight) in October. Leaf iron concentration was highest in September at 1184 ppm, while root tissue iron was 7166 ppm. Manganese content in leaf tissue peaked in October at 4990 ppm. Copper concentrations in leaves and roots were variable. High protein in leaf tissue would benefit local nesting and brooding waterfowl populations that feed on this aquatic. Trace metal concentrations in leaf and root tissues, from possible anthropogenic activities, appear very high during fall migratory months. Metal bioaccumulation by this species in other Great Basin wetlands and possible metal toxicity in waterfowl warrant further study.
41712189|The impacts of adjacent landscaping activity and livestock presence on the brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) population of a small Black Hills stream were evaluated. Moderate changes in temperature, turbidity, and fecal coliform numbers did not influence brook trout densities. Stream morphometry, particularly factors affecting stream cover, appeared to have the greatest impact on numbers of trout. Brook trout were poor indicators of moderate changes in water quality, but they were adequate indicators of the physical perturbations within the stream.
41712240|A new species, Mentzelia (Section Bartonia) shultziorum , of the Loasaceae (Mentzelioideae) is described. A close relationship with M. multicaulis (Osterh.) Darl. and M. argillosa Darl. is suggested based on the morphology of the flowers, leaves, and seeds.
41711408|Germination studies of the pollen grains of a Scrophulariaceae plant, Torenia asiatica Linn. have revealed that the maximum percentage of germination and longer tubes were attained in 15 percent sucrose solution. Among the chemicals tried, calcium and boron enhanced germination. Less germination occurred among grains treated with potassium or magnesium salts. Abnormalities such as branched tubes with or without vesicles were found in chemically treated pollen grains.
41712388|This second report on the reptiles of Chihuahua deals with the lizards and turtles of western Chihuahua. Field work was done from 1956 to 1972 and was confined to the area west of Highway 45. General information pertaining to the ecology and geology reported in the section on snakes is not repeated. Ecological and life history information is included in the species accounts where data are available. In western Chihuahua 16 genera and 49 species and subspecies of lizards and 3 genera and 5 species of turtles are reported. Only one subspecies is described as new (Sceloporus poinsettii robisoni), and added data strengthen the diagnosis of others. Three genera (Sceloporus, Cnemidophorus, and Eumeces) contain 28 of the species and subspecies reported.
41712081|The spittlebug, Aphrophora canadensis Walley (Homoptera: Cercopidae), was discovered at Moscow, Idaho, in 1979 infesting Pinus mugo Turra, an exotic ornamental pine. Masses of spittle, densely populated with nymphs, have continued to be abundant since then. The nymphs congregated and fed mainly on cones and did not cause visible reddening of foliage that is typical of other pine-infesting spittlebugs. Immature stages and behavior are described for the first time and are compared to other nearctic pine-infesting species. Beginning in mid-August, eggs were laid under fascicle sheaths at the bases of needles, where they overwintered. Nymphs appeared in late April and began transforming to adults in mid-July. Mating occurred from early August to late September. Adults lingered in diminishing numbers until mid-October.
41712922|Consumption of diffuse knapweed (Centaurea diffusa Lam.) by 2 polyphagous grasshopper species, Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.) and Oedaleonotus enigma (Scudder), was studied using microhistological analysis of grasshopper crop contents. Grasshoppers were confined to cages containing C. diffusa and Sisymbrium altissimum L., a member of the mustard family known to be readily eaten by these 2 grasshopper species. Preference indices for knapweed were lower than for S. altissimum in 4 of 5 trials. An uncaged population of M. sanguinipes on a knapweed-infested site consumed only small amounts of knapweed until late summer when most other plants were senescent. Results suggest that diffuse knapweed's low palatability to generalist herbivores may confer to it a competitive advantage over other rangeland plants.
41711949|Utah prairie dogs were transplanted onto the site of a former colony, located in Capitol Reef National Park, Utah. Shrubs on the site were significantly taller than those found on active colonies in similar habitat located on the Awapa Plateau. Therefore, the transplant site afforded a test of the hypothesis that shrub height is a major inhibitory factor affecting occupation of sites by prairie dogs. Four sites of 5 ha each were used. Vegetation treatmentsrotobeating, railing, and 2,4-D herbicidewere carried out on three of the sites and the fourth was used as a control. Shrub height and percent cover were significantly reduced on all three treatment sites. Posttreatment effects on the vegetation showed that the greatest percent moisture of the herbage was found on the railed site, followed by the herbicide, rotobeaten, and control sites. Measurements of the visual obstructions to prairie dogs showed that the rotobeaten site had the greatest visibility, followed by the railed, herbicide, and control sites. Prior to release of prairie dogs on the study area, 200 artificial burrows per treatment were dug, using a power auger. In early summer, 1979, 200 Utah prairie dogs were live-trapped near Loa, Utah. An equal number by sex and age class were released on each treatment. In 1979 a significantly higher number of animals reestablished on the rotobeaten site. In 1980 and 1981 the rotobeaten and railed sites had significantly higher prairie dog numbers than the other sites. Reproduction occurred on both the rotobeaten and railed sites in 1980 and 1981. Results indicated that, when transplanting animals onto sites of former colonies presently overgrown with shrubs, the chances of a successful transplant could be increased by first reducing shrub height and density.
41712212|The effect of excluding shredders on leaf processing rates was studied in a Rocky Mountain stream in Utah and a cold desert stream in Washington. Experimentally excluding shredders significantly decreased the processing rate in both streams. Processing rates (k) were higher in the desert stream, and it is postulated that this is related to increased microbial activity due to the higher water temperatures.
41712266|A Trumpeter Swan (Cygnus buccinator) is reported from Pleistocene deposits in Utah.
41711840|Pyramid Lake fish populations were sampled with nets on a monthly basis from November 1975 through December 1977. Fish species were taken in the following order of numerical relative abundance: tui chub (Gila bicolor), Tahoe sucker (Catostomus tahoensis), Lahontan cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki henshawi) including cutthroat-rainbow hybrids, cui-ui (Chasmistes cujus), and Sacramento perch (Archoplites interruptus). Relative abundance estimates are discussed with respect to seasonal availability, spatial distribution of the fish, sampling bias of the fishing methods, and biomass of the fish. Recent temporal trends in the population structure of the lake are presented.
41713076|Males of Cavernocypris subterranea were found for the first time in an Idaho spring. The bisexual form is described based on soft body parts and valves. The genus Cavernocypris now includes 2 bisexual and 1 parthenogenetic species.
41711588|Two species of ticks were collected from mule deer and identified as Dermacentor albipictus (Packard) and Ixodes sp. The rate of occurrence of these ticks was found to be 99.6 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively. The infestation rate increased from 18.2 percent in January, to 87.5 percent in February, to 100.0 percent in March.
41712322|The butterflies of the Great Basin exhibit general patterns of distribution and speciation similar to those found for other taxa, particularly birds. Two major centers of infraspecific differentiation and coinciding distribution limits of taxa are identified, each with three subregions. Great Basin butterflies are characterized by pallidity and substantial endemism below the species level.
41713019|Pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) were counted at wastewater ponds at the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL) in southeastern Idaho 4 to 8 times per month from August 1989 through July 1991. Mule deer used wastewater ponds (n = 15) from June through December and were most commonly observed August through November. Pronghorn frequented wastewater ponds from May through November and were most common from July through September, the driest and warmest months; ponds were also used heavily in November 1990. Diel activity was studied from July through October. Mule deer use of ponds varied in relation to 8 diel time periods in August (P = 0.02) and September (P = 0.01) while pronghorn use varied by time period (P < 0.01) in all 4 months. Mule deer were more active at ponds during nocturnal than diurnal counts from July through September (P < 0.01). Pronghorn diurnal activity exceeded nocturnal activity (P < 0.01) August through October. Mule deer and pronghorn use of ponds was not related to distance from site facilities (groups of buildings used for research and other purposes). Pronghorn made greater use of individual ponds lacking additional nearby watering sites, and both pronghorn and mule deer were attracted to ponds with grass/forb and shrub cover around the upland periphery.
41712659|An established population of a neotropical cichlid fish, Cichlasoma managuense, was found in a spring pool in the Virgin River basin, Utah. Presence of this predatory species poses an additional threat to the native fish fauna of the Virgin River, which already has suffered multiple impacts of water development and introduced fishes.
41712125|Presented is a current evaluation of the status and distribution of Utah's rare plant species, including those officially listed as endangered or threatened, those under review for listing, those recommended by the Utah Native Plant Society, and those which recently have been removed from consideration. Taxa are discussed alphabetically. Information on status, distribution, habitat, elevation, and specimens deposited at Brigham Young University are included in the discussion of each species. Maps showing the state distribution of each listed or candidate plant are also provided. New combinations include Dalea flavescens (Wats.) Welsh var. epica (Welsh) Welsh & Chatterley and Schoenerambe suffrutescens (Rollins) Welsh & Chatterley.
41713101|Emergents of Pteronarcys californica, Calineuria californica, and Hesperoperla pacifica were captured with replicated emergence traps at 3 sites along the banks of Rock Creek, Montana. Pteronarcys emergence in early June was short (88% of individuals in 6 d) and attained rates of 5 m d (shoreline distance) and cumulative densities up to 19 m yr. Calineuria emerged synchronously (89% in 9 d) 2 wk later at densities up to 7 m d and 40 m yr. The less numerous Hesperoperla (5 individual m yr) had a longer emergence period partially coinciding with Calineuria. Median males of Pteronarcys and Calineuria emerged 23 d before median females; protandry was not significant in Hesperoperla. Sex ratios were female-biased in Pteronarcys and Hesperoperla but male-biased in Calineuria. Size trends through emergence were very weak although females showed a greater tendency toward larger size early in emergence.
41712796|Small mammal populations inhabiting radioactive waste disposal areas could be important vectors of contaminant redistribution, given sufficiently high numbers. Earlier studies conducted at the Subsurface Disposal Area (SDA) in southeastern Idaho found small mammal densities equaling or exceeding densities in native habitat. Our livetrapping study was conducted in 1988 and 1989 to assess the role of edge habitat (where SDA crested wheatgrass [Agropyron cristatum] plantings and native sagebrush habitat are separated by an earthen dike) in facilitating use of this highly modified site by small mammals. Small mammals had a significantly greater density in SDA edge habitat than in the interior. Total density of small mammals on and immediately around the SDA appeared to be less variable over time than density in native sagebrush habitat for years when data were available. This phenomenon was largely attributable to steady or increasing SDA population densities of the most common species, Peromyscus maniculatus and Perognathus parvus, during 1988-89, when most small mammal species had below-average densities in surrounding areas. The variety of foraging options in edge habitat may have allowed these relatively opportunistic species to avoid widespread population declines associated with drought years in 1988-89. Movements by P. maniculatus across the boundary were common, suggesting that this species did indeed utilize both habitat types. Preferences for edge habitat could potentially be used to formulate strategies that reduce use of the waste site by small mammals.
41713062|Forests of the southern Rocky Mountains are punctuated by persistent meadows called parks that are dominated by grasses and forbs. In an attempt to elucidate the maintenance of subalpine parks in the Gunnison Basin, Colorado, soil texture and tree morphology differences along 60-m transects spanning the forest-park ecotone were studied in 6 representative parks. Seedling survivorship, percent seed germination, and soil moisture available to plants were also studied along one of the transects in Willow Park. Soil analyses revealed 40% more silt and significantly less sand and clay in all 6 parks (P < 0.001), which supports the traditional hypothesis that edaphic factors are involved in restricting establishment of trees in parks. In Willow Park moisture available to plants in soils at field capacity varied significantly across the ecotone (P = 0.011), with 54% more water in forest than in park soils. Measures of growth rate obtained from tree height, dbh, and age were significantly higher nearer the ecotone (P < 0.001). The coefficient of variation of annual-ring width was significantly higher in forest than in ecotone trees (P = 0.002). These results suggest that stress of mature Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) is an unlikely explanation of park maintenance. P. engelmannii percent seed germination and seedling survivorship were significantly higher in the forest than in the park (P < 0.001). This may be largely due to the more severe seedling microclimate observed in the park. Results indicate that limited seedling establishment is primarily responsible for maintenance of subalpine parks in the Gunnison Basin.
41712155|The types and type specimens of Nevada species and varieties of Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) are alphabetically listed. Appropriate lectotypes are selected as necessary.
41712143|The spongillafly, Climacia californica Chandler, and its sponge host, Ephydatia mulleri (Lieberkuhn), are reported from the state of Idaho for the first time. Climacia californica has not previously been reported from E. mulleri. Collections were made in the Burley-Twin Falls area, and detailed water quality data are provided for the first time for spongillafly larvae. The water quality data also expand the known tolerance limits of E. mulleri for water temperature, conductivity, pH, hardness, silica, and residue.
41711807|Some relationships between home range, agonistic behavior, and reproductive patterns in thirteen-lined ground squirrels were investigated in Laramie Plains, Wyoming (August 1966-April 1969). Population size and densities fluctuated seasonally and annually. Adult male (N = 7) home ranges averaged 0.24 ha and were smaller than those of the female (N = 9), which averaged 0.35 ha. Agonistic interactions were more frequent during the natal period (late May-June) than during the breeding-gestation period (mid April-May). Most squirrels (86 percent) shared capture sites and had overlapping home ranges. However, a certain degree of spacing existed because of agonistic behavior.
41711776|The flea Anomiopsyllus amphibolus is reported from southeastern Oregon, a range extension of about 475 km from the nearest reported localities in northwestern Utah.
41711424|The following species are described as new to science: Corthylus nolenae, C. spinosus (Mexico), C. diligens (Guatemala), C. minimus (Honduras), C. granulifer, C. retusus, C. retusifer, C. oculatus, C. calamarius, C. cannularius, C. simplex, C. comosus, C. brunneus, C. calmicolens, C. zelus, C. trucis, C. pygamaeus, C. sobrinus, C. subserratus (Costa Rica), C. pumilus (Panama), C. donaticus, C. additus, C. cirritus (Venezuela), C. insignis, (Colombia), C. consimilis (Mexico and Guatemala), C. concisus (Mexico, Costa Rica, and Panama), C. sentus (Guatemala and Costa Rica), C. villifer, C. strigilis, C. trunculus, C. serratus (Costa Rica and Panama). A lectotype is designated for C. compressicornis (Fabricius).
41711955|Ring-necked pheasant behavior and habitat preferences were studied during late February along benches of the Wasatch Mountains in central Utah. Seven behavioral categories were used to classify pheasant activities during three time periods of the day. Eating, alert, and movement behavior were the most frequent activities during all periods of the day. Significant differences (p<.01) were found between morning and midday behavior and between midday and evening behavior. Pheasants fed in open areas during morning hours then retreated into heavy cover during midday periods. The birds remained in heavy cover until late afternoon. Pheasants then moved away from heavy cover into semiopen areas to feed as evening approached.
41712823|Owens Valley, California, was markedly different during the Wisconsin glacial stage from what it is today. Alpine glaciers bounded the Sierra Nevada, and pluvial Owens Lake reached highstands and overflowed its natural basin. We analyzed three layers from two packrat middens, dated to ca 23,000-14,500 yr BP, obtained from Haystack Mountain (1155 m) only 10 m above and < 100 m from the highstand strandline of pluvial Owens Lake. During this period vegetation near Owens Lake reflects the influence of the Tioga glacial advance and retreat on lake levels, and microclimatic effects on shoreline vegetation. Between ca 23,000 and 17,500 yr BP a Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) and single-needle pinyon pine (Pinus monophyllla) woodland existed at the site. In the layers dated to ca 17,500 and 16,000 yr BP, macrofossils document the presence of Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum), a species that no longer occurs in California. It is suggested that meltwater from the retreating glacial ice inundated the Owens River Lake chain causing pluvial Owens Lake to reach its highstand. This caused an increase in effective moisture, due to high groundwater, allowing the mesophytic Rocky Mountain juniper to exist at the site.
41712488|Cover and species richness of vascular and cryptogamic components of the plant community were inventoried in experimental grazing paddocks at the USDA/FS Desert Range Experimental Station, Millard County, Utah. The grazing treatments considered have been applied continuously for over 50 years. The effects of heavy (ca 17 sheep days/acre) grazing treatment applied in two different seasons (early winter versus a split between early and late winter) differed significantly between seasons. Cryptogamic cover and cryptogamic species richness both showed larger decreases under early-late as opposed to early winter only grazing. Vascular plant cover (relative to controls) was also reduced by early-late winter grazing, but not to a significant degree. Late season grazing, likewise, had no significant effect on number of vascular species per transect.
41712073|A checklist of vascular plants of the Canyon and Church mountains, Juab and Millard counties, Utah, is provided. Frequency, distribution, and flowering time of taxa within the study area are indicated. Collection numbers of voucher specimens are listed. Physiography, climate, and plant communities of the area are briefly described.
41712559|Burrow diameters of five small mammal species, Townsend's ground squirrel (Spermophilus townsendii), Wyoming ground squirrel (S. elegans), Ord's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii), montane vole (Microtus montanus), and deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus), were examined. Burrow cross sections were noncircular for all species with horizontal diameters 1.21.6 times wider than vertical diameters. Montane vole and deer mouse burrows were the smallest diameter, burrows of Wyoming and Townsend's ground squirrels were the largest, and kangaroo rat burrows were intermediate. Soil bulk density and texture significantly affected burrow diameters of montane voles and deer mice but not the other three species.
41712672|During summer pikas do not store fat for the winter months; hay piles are the main energy source in winter. All the hay piles collected in an area where pikas (Ochotona princeps) coexisted with marmots (Marmota flaviventris) contained marmot scats. Marmot scats had a higher energy density than the most abundant type of vegetation in hay piles. In feeding trials pikas on a diet of hay pile vegetation plus marmot scats consumed significantly less food per day than they did on a diet of hay pile vegetation alone. These findings suggest that pikas coexisting with marmots use marmot scats to supplement the energy contained in the vegetational component of hay piles.
41711550|A detailed study of the anterior osteology and myology of Callisaurus, Cophosaurus, Holbrookia, and Uma reveals the phylogenetic relationships among the sand lizards. An SPSS discriminant analysis of osteological characters combined with myological characters indicates that Callisaurus is most primitive, Cophosaurus and Holbrookia are most closely related, and Uma is the most distinct of the sand lizard genera. Because of close relationships between Cophosaurus and Holbrookia, it is postulated that earlessness evolved once, and Cophosaurus is returned to synonymy under Holbrookia.
41712538|The presence of cattle at Brownie Spring and Ash Springs in Pahranagat Valley, Nevada, impacted fish populations by causing an increase in ammonia (NH) and nitrite (NO) levels, an increase in Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aeromonas hydrophila, and increased mortality and morbidity. One of the affected fishes, the White River springfish, is listed as endangered by the Department of the Interior. After removal of the cattle from Ash Springs, NH and NO levels decreased and fish populations increased. At Brownie Spring the NH and NO levels are chronically elevated, cattle are still present, and the speckled dace population has not recovered.
41712913|We studied the foraging biology of recently fledged California Gulls (Larus californicus) at Mono Lake during August-September 1991. We made behavioral observations to collect information on the relative proportions of different prey types in the diet of these birds and took plankton tows to determine the relative abundance of each prey in the water column. These data show that alkali flies (Ephydra hians) were the primary constituent of the diet and that they were eaten at a much higher rate than one would expect based on their abundance. We also determined the number of feeding attempts and successful captures made during each behavioral observation. From these, we calculated the birds' feeding efficiencies on emergent adult alkali flies and on all other prey types combined. We found that foraging efficiencies on emergent flies were very high and significantly greater than those obtained on other prey types. These results suggest that flies were actively sought in preference to the alternative prey type, brine shrimp (Artemia monica), presumably because they are easier to capture and of greater nutritional value.
41713097|During July to September 19941996, I examined water temperatures at the lower end of the elevational distribution of redband trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss gairdneri) in 4 streams in the Owyhee Mountains in southwestern Idaho. Maximum water temperatures in Castle, Shoofly, Little Jacks, and Big Jacks creeks during low flows during a drought in 1994 ranged from 26.7C to 29.0C. Water temperatures fluctuated 9.511C during the 24-h period maximum temperatures were observed. Stream flows at the lower end of Big Jacks and Little Jacks creeks in 1994 were <0.003 m s and subsided underground 50130 m downstream of pools inhabited by trout. Trout were distributed to lower elevations where drainage basin area was larger in 2 of 3 yr (P < 0.03). Lower elevational limits of redband trout distribution in Big Jacks, Little Jacks, Castle, and Shoofly creeks were 920, 934, 972, and 1090 m above sea level, respectively, in 1994. With higher stream flows in 199596, trout were found 36 km farther downstream in Castle, Big Jacks, and Shoofly creeks at elevations of 860, 891, and 998 m, respectively, and tolerated maximum temperatures of 25.529.0C. Trout were not distributed farther down Little Jacks Creek because of poor channel conditions. Maximum daily water temperatures of 29.0C may have limited trout distribution in Big Jacks Creek, as flows and suitable channel conditions (but higher temperatures) continued >5 km downstream of the lowest pool inhabited by trout in 199596.
41711736|The swarming and mating of harvester ants was observed in Utah in July 1979. Workers groom the alate forms outside the mound before swarming occurs and are highly aggressive in protecting them. Mating pairs apparently are not disturbed by other ants. Fertile females likely use moving vehicles that extend their dispersal.
41712002|In two areas of hydrothermally altered rocks in the Great Basin, the native vegetation differs in composition and areal cover from unaltered to altered sites on the same geologic formations. Analysis suggests that physical rather than chemical factors may be the cause of the vegetation differences, especially permeability of bedrock, depth and texture of soils, and, possibly, amounts and types of clay minerals present. These characteristics influence the ability of soils to absorb and retain water. In the East Tintic Mountains, Utah, the soils from argillized or mixed argillized and silicified parent materials have more characteristics associated with dryness and support sparser vegetation and more species especially adapted to dry conditions than do soils from unaltered or silicified parent materials. In Battle Mountain, Nevada, unaltered areas have greater vegetation cover and have soil depth and texture that are more favorable for plants than do altered areas. Soil pH is higher in altered areas than in unaltered areas.
41711483|White fir (Abies concolor) appears to be invading vegetation dominated by big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) on the southeastern slopes of the Warner Mountains of extreme northeastern California. The time of initial tree establishment within the shrubs was determined by increment borings. Possible causes of the invasion involving specific climatic conditions, fire history, and grazing use of the area during years of the establishment were explored. Heavy grazing by domestic livestock, particularly sheep, appears responsible for altering the sagebrush-grass vegetation and allowing tree invasion.
41712079|Cottus greenei, a potentially threatened species endemic to Idaho, was collected from 49 localities in 25 springs/streams in south central Idaho. Most localities were along the north bank of the Snake River in waters of the Thousand Springs formation, Gooding County. One population was found in a spring in the main Snake River. Another sculpin, Cottus bairdi, was collected with C. greenei at 23 locations in 16 springs/streams. Confusion concerning the type locality of Cottus greenei is discussed.
41713095|The purpose of this study was to observe the dynamics of a meta-population of Mimulus guttatus. Changes in size and location of 16 original populations and the new populations established in their vicinities in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Salt Lake County, Utah, were observed for 25 yr. Twenty-three new populations appeared. Seven original populations and 13 new populations had become extinct by the end of the observation period in 1996. Many populations died out and were reestablished, often repeatedly, during the observation period. Altogether there were 54 population disappearances and 34 reappearances. Many populations changed size as much as 100-fold or more from year to year. There were spectacular examples of populations expanding to fill newly available, large habitats. Frequent extinctions were due overwhelmingly to the canyon drying trend, which led to the drying up of most Mill D North drainage springs, creeks, and ponds. Precipitation and minimum temperatures increased moderately during the observation period. The growing season lengthened almost 50%, a typical consequence of global warming. The drying trend, lengthened growing season, and disappearance of Mimulus populations in Big Cottonwood Canyon appear to be a clear, local example of global warming.
41712310|Helminth parasites of the Wyoming ground squirrel, Spermophilus elegans Kennicott, 1863, were surveyed from two environmentally different habitats within Wyoming. A total of four helminth species were identified. Three helminth species were found in 419 hosts collected in a mesic habitat including one species of adult cestode, Hymenolepis citelli, and two species of nematodes, Citellinema bifurcatum and Syphacia citelli. Only larval cestodes (Taenia taxidiensis) were found infecting 335 Wyoming ground squirrels collected from a xeric habitat.
41711785|Prior to 1960, when the senior author wrote a dissertation on the plant ecology of the Paunsaugunt Plateau forests of Bryce Canyon National Park, relatively little plant taxonomic work had been done in the area. A checklist was prepared in 1971 that included 218 species of higher plants. During the field seasons 1978, 1979, and 1980, additional plants were collected during a second plant community study of the forests. The junior author spent the summer of 1980 at the park collecting plants in additional plant communities and organizing the herbarium collection. This checklist includes the additional species collected and updates the nomenclature of the vascular plants presently known to occur within the boundaries of Bryce Canyon National Park.
41713135|Forty-two white-tailed deer fawns (Odocoihus virginianus dakotensis) were captured and fitted with radio transmitters and observed from June through September 1991 and 1992 to determine diurnal bed site use in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Fawns were monitored biweekly during daylight hours and 259 bed sites were located. In addition, 301 random sites were measured for comparison. Of 31 habitat variables measured, 8 were significant to determine use by fawns for a bed site when compared with random sites. Sites used by fawns were in relatively open stands of ponderosa pine (Pinns ponderosa) with mean basal area of approximately 11 m/ha compared to 16 m/ha in random sites. Fawn bed sites had greater mean vegetation cover, which ranged from 28.1% to 36.0%, compared with 19.9% and 33.8% at random sites in 1991 and 1992, respectively. Mean vegetation height was 101 cm at bed sites compared to 75 cm at random sites. Current timber harvest standards for stocking levels of pine range from 14 m/ha to 18 m/ha in the Black Hills, which are similar to our random sites. These levels preclude adequate development of understory characteristics used by white-tailed deer fawns for bed sites.
41711745|A site in the Rocky Mountain subalpine forest zone with which a series of hypotheses concerning ecosystem succession was tested is characterized. Succession from herb-dominated meadows to climax forests of Engelmann spruce and subalpine fir can follow at least four identified pathways. After fire, spruce and fir may reinvade a site directly, follow invasion by aspen, or follow invasion by lodgepole pine, the pathway depending on a combination of physical and biotic factors. In other cases, succession begins with long-established meadows which do not owe their existence to fire. In this latter pathway, aspen invades meadows by suckering and changes the environment near the soil surface so as to facilitate establishment of the climax tree species. The biota and soils of four characteristic serai stages (meadow, aspen, fir, spruce-fir) in this latter pathway are described.
41712432|Eight study sites were examined in Strawberry Valley, Utah, to assess the response of aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) to cutting activities of beaver (Castor canadensis Warren & Hall) and to determine patterns by which the animals utilize aspen stands. Sites utilized by beaver, along with adjacent control plots in mature, uncut aspen stands, were sampled. Age-class profiles of control plots were composed of a broad age distribution with trees ranging from 3 to 108 years old. Age-class profiles for aspen sprouts in areas previously used by beavers were composed of trees averaging seven years of age with a range of 1 to 24 years. Age distribution of sprouts in areas used by beaver show a tendency to be skewed toward younger age classes. Average density of aspen in areas used by beaver was 15,800 stems per hectare compared to 2,980 stems per hectare in controls. Stump densities in use areas ranged from 900 to 5,066 stems per hectare. Densities of stumps in the 05-cm size class were greater in areas used by beavers than in the corresponding size class in the mature forests. A regression equation describing age versus diameter relationships was calculated using data from 312 aspen trees. Total phenolics and mineral nutrients in the twigs and bark of mature aspen trees and aspen sprouts were also examined to determine if variations could explain foraging patterns of beaver in the valley. Total phenolics were highly variable between sampling groups, and differences were not significant. Twigs from mature aspen and aspen sprouts were significantly higher in nitrogen, phosphorus, and iron. Zinc was significantly higher in the bark of mature aspen trees and twigs of aspen sprouts. Calcium concentrations were significantly higher in mature aspen bark, and magnesium was significantly higher in mature aspen twigs.
41716161|New information on the ectoparasitic mites of the following species of mammals from Oregon is presented: (1) pikaOchotona; (2) squirrelsEutamias, Spermophilus, Tamiasciurus; (3) grasshopper mouseOnychomys; (4) woodratsNeotoma; (5) muskratOndatra; (6) jumping miceZapus; and (7) weaselsMustela, Spilogale. New records of species for the state and new host records are also given. Finally, a cross-referenced list of all known mites of wild mammals from Oregon is presented.
41712394|The fluctuating characteristics (numbers, biomass, condition, and young-adult ratios) of the Lahontan (Humboldt) cutthroat trout population in Chimney Creek, Nevada, are discussed in relationship to the unpredictable and unstable habitat in which the population occurs. One possible means of adapting to environmental capriciousness, staggered spawning, occurred during 1982, and clues as to the cause of this unusual event are sought by examining the runoff hydrographs of a nearby watershed for 1981 through 1984. The management values of the environmental tolerance of these native trout with respect to restoring viable trout fisheries in degraded Great Basin streams are also considered.
41711961|Recent distribution maps show raccoon as occupying only the extreme eastern-northeastern portion of Wyoming. However, there is substantial evidence that raccoon are common throughout Wyoming and currently inhabit all the major and many of the minor drainages throughout Wyoming.
41712772|Descriptions of Lesser Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus pattidicinctus) foods in New Mexico have not included comparison between autumn and winter seasons. We analyzed and compared prairie-chicken crop contents in autumn 1976 (n = 9) and 1977 (n = 17) and winter 1977 (n = 4) and 1978 (n = 2) in a shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) grassland in southeastern New Mexico. Autumn foods were a mixture of seeds (x = 43%), vegetative material ($\bar x$ = 39%), and insects (x = 18%), especially shinnery oak acorns and insect galls (x = 49%). Short-horned grasshoppers (Acrididae, x = 15%) also were an important food. Winter foods were shinnery oak acorns (x = 69%) and wild buckwheat (Eriogonum annuum, x = 14%). Use of vegetative material and insects decreased from autumn to winter, whereas use of acorns increased. High Plains Bluestem Subtype in the Southern Mixed Prairie is an important habitat that provides many of the foods eaten by prairie-chickens. Therefore, broad-scale disturbances of this community should be avoided.
41712001|Pine boxes nailed to trees in four habitat types in southeastern Utah as roosting sites for bats proved ineffective for bats but were utilized by house wrens in all but one habitat. Boxes were most often utilized in the aspen habitat. Hypotheses to account for differential utilization are presented.
41712972|Dispersal characteristics were measured for a population of yucca weevils (Scyphophorus yuccae) in a plot consisting of flowering and nonflowering Yucca whipplei. We compared weevil dispersal to yucca distribution, phenology, and caudex temperature. We also compared weevil movement to wind patterns and time of day. Captured weevils were marked and released into both flowering and nonflowering home plants in the field. Distance traveled, weevil flight direction, and target plant characteristics were recorded. We found that yucca weevils moved only between 1600 h on the release day and 0600 h of the following day. We recorded movement from both nonflowering and old flowering (> 1/2 stalk had reached anthesis) yuccas to new flowering (> 1/2 stalk pre-anthesis) yuccas. The pattern of weevil movement did not match the pattern of flowering yuccas in the field. Yucca weevils moved a mean distance of 33  8 m. Caudex temperature appeared to be important for maintaining a population of weevils on a plant. Wind direction was the best predictor of weevil dispersal direction. Weevils consistently moved into the wind, suggesting that they are active fliers. Dispersal characteristics of the yucca weevil have implications for the evolution of the semelparous flowering strategy of Y. whipplei and S. yuccae life history.
41711404|Numerical statistical methods were used to analyze the species in the genus Sceloporus using cranial osteology, external meristic and numeric characters, karyology, display behavior, and geographic distribution. A new classification for the genus is proposed with three major branches or groups. Group I contains 7 species in 3 species groups. Group II contains approximately 19 species in 5 species groups. Group III contains approximately 32 species in 5 species groups. This classification is supported by the cluster analysis of several different sets of data. Cranial osteology, zoogeography, behavior, and karyology are shown to be taxonomically significant as numeric characters. Stepwise discriminate analysis shows that this classification of the species of Sceloporus into 3 major groups and 13 species groups is significant at the .999 confidence level: It is concluded that the 3 major groups should be given taxonomic recognition.
41712695|Penstemon palmeri is a short-lived perennial herb colonizing disturbed sites in semiarid habitats in the western USA. In this study seed was harvested from six native and four seeded populations during two consecutive years. In laboratory germination trials at constant 15 C, considerable between-lot variation in primary dormancy and light requirement was observed. Four weeks of moist chilling (1 C) induced secondary dormancy at 15 C. Cold-induced secondary dormancy was reversed by one week of dark incubation at 30 C. This warm incubation treatment also reduced the light requirement of unchilled, after-ripened seed. Fluctuations in dormancy and light requirement of buried seeds have been linked to seasonal changes in soil temperature. Penstemon palmeri germination responses to temperature appear to be similar to those of facultative winter annuals.
41712317|An isolated stand of ponderosa pine (Finns ponderosa) is surviving on an extremely harsh site in southeastern Oregon. Seed production is low because of insects, primarily pine coneworm (Dioryctria auranticella), feeding in developing cones. Seedling establishment is infrequent and difficult because of drought and coarse, rocky soils. A rock-mulch soil surface probably reduces interspecific competition. Because stand size is small (< 2 ha, 57 individuals in 1977) and genetic variability is therefore limited, individual differences in diameter growth are probably due to microsite differences. Mycorrhizae, which could aid tree survival, were absent from a small sample of surface roots. Although the stand was enlarging in 1977, the site is sufficiently severe that local extinction is a possibility.
41711331|The Rhizopalmoxylon (petrified palm roots) species from the hills west of Redmond, Utah, were originally reported as from the Jurassic Arapien Shale. However, the Utah State Geologic Map upon which this was largely based is erroneous, and the strata containing the palm roots are in the Tertiary Dipping Vat Formation, rather than in the Jurassic Arapien Shale. From the palm roots previously reported, three new species have been identified: Rhizopalmoxylon behuninii, R. blackii, and R. scottii. Specimens of the new species, Palmoxylon gustavesonii, were collected from the Dipping Vat Formation east and south of Redmond. This formation unconformably overlies the Arapien Shale in the vicinity of the previously reported Jurassic palms. At the present time, the palm axes reported from the Arapien Shale cannot be conclusively demonstrated to have come from the Dipping Vat Formation. However, the presence of another species of petrified palm in the Dipping Vat Formation is sufficient to cast doubt on their existence in the Arapien Shale.
41711841|Native fishes in Aravaipa Creek, Arizona, cropped foods proportional to abundance of those foods within the system. Ephemeropteran nymphs and adults comprised the major prey of 5 of 7 fishes (Gila robusta, Medafulgida, Rhinichthys osculus, Tiaroga cobitis, and Catostomus insignis). The omnivorous Agosia chrysogaster ate almost as many nymphal mayflies as did the carnivores. Pantosteus clarki was herbivorous, taking animals only when they were abundant. When ephemeropterans decreased in abundance, a shift by some fish species occurred to other locally or seasonally abundant items. Other fishes continued to feed upon the same foods throughout the year. Abundance of invertebrates in Aravaipa Creek, coupled with marked spatial partitioning of habitat by fishes present, seemingly precluded severe interspecific interactions for food.
41711957|A survey of colony attributes and associated vertebrates on black-tail (Cynomys ludovicianus), Gunnison's (C. gunnisoni), and white-tail (C. leucurus) prairie dogs was made. A belt transect 1.6 km wide and 13,334 km long from Hobbs, New Mexico, to the Utah-Wyoming state line was surveyed. There were 47 colonies located (4760 ha comprising 2.2 percent) in the belt. Intercolony distances varied significantly. Three black-tail towns averaged 33 ha in area (SD = 26, range 10-61), 11 Gunnison's averaged 46 ha (SD = 43, range 16-150), and 33 white-tail towns averaged 125 ha (SD = 200, range 0.2-958). Badger activity was positively and significantly correlated to colony size and number of burrow openings on Gunnison's and white-tail towns. There were 107 vertebrate species and subspecies (one amphibian, 25 reptiles, 51 birds, 30 mammals) observed on prairie dog colonies. Results of our surveys are compared with prairie dog studies elsewhere. The role of prairie dogs and relationships to some vertebrates species are discussed.
41711859|Fifty-one of 62 sheep dogs in central Utah were successfully purged for diagnosis of cestodes in 1981. Tapeworms were identified in the purged fecal samples of 33 (64.7 percent) animals. Minimum infection rates in the dogs which were purged were: 9.8 percent for Echinococcus granulosus, 29.4 percent for Taenia pisiformis, 27.5 percent for T. ovis krabbei, 27.5 percent for T. hydatigena, and 2.0 percent for T. serialis. The prevalence of E. granulosus decreased from 27 percent in 1971 to 9.8 percent in 1981.
41712635|Size-density-age relationships in curlleaf mountain mahogany communities were studied in 25 study plots, each 30  30 m, in western and central Nevada. The influence of total vegetation cover (site potential) and relative mahogany cover (mahogany dominance) on the observed size-density-age relationships was investigated. A positive linear relationship was found between mean mahogany height and mean mahogany age. A positive nonlinear relationship was found between mean mahogany crown volume and mean mahogany age. Negative nonlinear relationships were found between mean mahogany density and mean mahogany age, and mean mahogany density and mean mahogany crown volume. Strong negative relationships were found between the mean combined density of established seedlings, juvenile, and immature mahogany and mean mahogany age and mean mahogany crown volume. Including total cover in the regression relationships between size, age, and density never increased the r value by more than .05. The addition of relative mahogany cover improved the r value for the relationship between mean mahogany density and mean mahogany crown volume by .28. The strong size-density and age-density relationships found indicate that intraspecific competition is probably occurring in the communities sampled, and that established seedlings, juvenile, and immature plants are the first individuals affected. Direct tests are needed to confirm these relationships.
41712836|We compared nectar production in wild populations and greenhouse-grown populations of the monkey flower species of section Erythranthe of the genus Mimulus. Nectar was sampled from over 1000 flowers. For each flower the volume of nectar was measured with a calibrated micropipette and the percentage of sugar with a hand refractometer. Percentage of sugar varied little from flower to flower in both field and greenhouse studies, but volume varied markedly from flower to flower in field studies and even more in greenhouse studies. This high variance in nectar volume appears to be intrinsic. The amount of nectar in greenhouse populations tended to increase with time in the absence of pollinators. The amount of nectar in field populations tended to remain the same with time despite withdrawals by pollinators. Thus, nectar appears to be replenished both with time and as a response to pollinator withdrawals. The latter conclusion was corroborated by sampling nectar at 2-h intervals all day and comparing the total volume produced by a flower to the volume of nectar produced in control flowers sampled only at the end of the day.
41712775|Published fish blood parameters are limited to commercially cultured species (e.g., rainbow trout [Oncorhynchus mykiss] and channel catfish [Ictalurus punctatus]). However, as walleye (Stizostedion vitreum) and other fish increase in value to the angler, hatchery and fish managers will require data on these species. Blood sera were collected. from live walleye in the field, creatinine values were determined colorimetrically, and health range values were established from these data. Creatinine levels of walleye serum (0.06-0.72 mg/dl) were higher in three species but lower than recognized in a recent catfish study. Creatinine levels may be important in predicting diseases in which the kidney is adversely affected.
41712281|The effects of grazing on the cryptogamic and vascular plant communities at two sites near Camp Floyd State Park, Utah County, Utah, were studied. The grazed site was subject to heavy grazing up until seven years prior to the study. The ungrazed site within the park boundaries had been protected from grazing for 20 years prior to the study and had a well-developed algal-lichen-moss crust. We found that the algae of the grazed site had recovered in terms of degree of crusting. There were no significant differences in the algal communities of the two sites when prevalent species were used as blocks in the ANOVAR analysis. However, when major algal groups were used as blocks, the analysis was significant, with the more recently grazed site having lower algal frequency. This difference, together with a few compositional differences, indicates that, although the algal community seven years following grazing is very similar to the algal community free of grazing for 20 years, the seven-year site is still in the process of recovery and community development. The diatom collections had a higher density in the grazed site, though the difference was not significant. Recovery of the lichen and moss community was not complete. The lichen Collema tenax and the mosses Bryum pallescens and Tortula ruralis were all significantly more abundant in the ungrazed area. Total cover of the lichen and moss components of the soil crusts was significantly lower in the more recently grazed area. Vascular cover was also lower.
41712905|Riparian ecosystems are important components of landscapes, particularly because of their role in biodiversity. A first step in using a "coarse-filter" approach to riparian biodiversity conservation is to determine the kinds of riparian ecosystems. These ecosystems vary substantially in plant species composition along a single river reach, as well as between rivers, and yet the river-reach scale has received little attention. We sampled the vascular plant composition of 67 contiguous patches of riparian vegetation along a reach of the Animas River, in southwestern Colorado's San Juan Mountains, that is relatively undisturbed by human land uses. Using cluster analysis and detrended correspondence analysis, we identified eight riparian community types along the reach. Using a new technique, we combined overstory size-class data and understory cover data to identify community types. The eight community types, which are in part the products of past floods, are spatially arranged along the reach in relation to variation in valley morphology, tributary location, and geomorphic landforms. These eight community types do not necessarily represent successional stages of a single potential vegetation type. This study at the river-reach scale suggests that sampling and analysis, as well as conservation, may need to be tuned to the scale of patchiness produced by flood disturbances in the riverine landscape, since vegetation varies significantly at this scale.
41711430|Sceloporus megalepidurus halli, subsp. nov., is described from San Jos Lachiguiri, Oaxaca, Mexico, from one adult male.
41712546|Growing numbers of elk (Cervus elaphus) on winter ranges might adversely affect sympatric wintering mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) if diets of the two species are similar. Diets of elk and deer on a northern Utah range were analyzed for overlap in winter with microhistological analysis of fecal samples. Diets overlapped 71%. No significant difference was found in use of grasses or shrubs between elk and deer; however, use of forbs was significantly different. Shrubs comprised the largest proportion of the diets of both elk and deer. Deer might be under more severe dietary stress than elk on poor winter ranges.
41711633|Seventeen genera and 60 species of diatoms were identified from four different substrates in a warm spring-fed pond near Goshen, Utah. The diatom forms sampled included both plankton and periphyton. A minimum of 400 individuals were counted from each sample. Diversity and similarity indices were calculated, and substrate relationships were identified on their basis.
41711753|New generic synonymy in the world fauna of Scolytidae includes: Acanthotomicus Blandford (=Isophthorus Schedl), Acrantus Broun (=Chaetophorous Fuchs, Chaetoptelius Fuchs), Cosmoderes Eichhoff (=Erioschidias Schedl), Ernoporicus Berger (=Ernopocerus Balachowsky), Ernoporus Thomson (=Euptilius Schedl), Hylurdrectonus Schedl (=Xylogopinus Schedl), Ozopemon Hagedorn (Dryocoetiops Schedl), Scolytogenes Eichhoff (=Cryphalomorphus Schaufuss), Stephanopodius Schedl (=Cryphalomimetes Browne), and Xylechinus Chapuis (=Squamasinulus Nunberg). Genera new to science and their type-species include: Anaxyleborus (Tomicus truncatus Erichson), Apoxyleborus (Xyleborus mancus Blandford), Cryphalogenes (Cryphalogenes euphorbiae Wood), Ernocfodius (Cryphalus corpulentus Sampson), Hadrodemius (Xyleborus globus Blandford), Leptoxyleborus (Phloeotrogus sordicauda Motschulsky), Microperus (Xyleborus theae Eggers), Taphrodasus (Xyleborus percorthylus Schedl), and Taurodemus (Xyleborus sharpi Blandford). The new name Hylurdrectonus corticinus is presented to replace H. araucariae (Schedl 1972). Dryocoetes coffeae Eggers is transferred to Eulepiops. The following genera are treated in a revised context: Crytogenius, Dryocoetes, Eulepiops, Ernoporicus, Ernoporus, Xyleborus, and Xylechinus. Cryphalogenes euphorbiae and C. exiguus (Sri Lanka) are named as new to science.
41712075|Thirty-five study sites were established in the meadow communities surrounding Utah Lake in central Utah. The study sites ranged across several community types. Glaux maritima was found in all sites but varied as to its ecological importance in these communities. Sixteen soil factors were measured relative to the stands studied. Cover of Glaux maritima correlated with parts per million sodium and total soluble salts in the soil. No other factors correlated significantly with the cover of Glaux maritima. Glaux maritima occupied only those sites with high levels of moisture throughout the growing season. The high moisture levels came from springs, seeps, elevated water tables, and early seasonal inundation. High levels of Glaux maritima cover corresponded to low numbers of species in the habitat.
41713133|We surveyed 7 species of predatory birds weekly during a 12-month period (December 1992 through November 1993) in the east Mojave Desert, California. The Common Raven (Corvus corax) was the most frequently observed species with an average of 6.9 sightings per 100 km. Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura), Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus), American Kestrels (Falco sparverius), Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos), and Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus) were seen in decreasing order of frequency of observation through the study period. Ravens, Red-tailed Hawks, Loggerhead Shrikes, American Kestrels, and Prairie Falcons were seen throughout the year. Turkey Vultures were not present during winter months, while Golden Eagles were seen only during November and December. Turkey Vultures, Red-tailed Hawks, and ravens were most numerous on agricultural lands, while Loggerhead Shrikes were most common at urban areas. Raven numbers increased with increasing number of linear rights-of-way parallel to the survey route. Perching was the most common behavior type, although Turkey Vultures and ravens were often observed soaring, flying, or standing on the ground near highways. Transmission powerline towers and telephone poles were used as perch sites disproportionately to availability.
41713136|Cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum L.) is a dominant weed that has increased the frequency of wildfire in the Great Basin since its introduction about 100 yr ago. This study examines characteristics of respiratory metabolism in several different populations. Seeds from 6 populations were germinated and metabolic heat rates (q) and dark respiration rates (Rco) of all seedlings were measured calorimetrically at 15 and 25C or (for 3 populations) at 5 intervals from 5 to 35C. Growth rates, substrate carbon conversion efficiencies, and Arrhenius temperature coefficients were calculated from the data. Results show that cheatgrass metabolism is most efficient at temperatures near 0C; at temperatures above 20-25C, efficiency goes to zero. Cheatgrass populations differ in their temperature dependencies of substrate carbon conversion efficiency and predicted growth rate. Measurements of respiratory heat and CO rates as functions of temperature can be made relatively quickly and used to aid understanding of metabolic adaptation by invasive and native species to the environment.
41711451|New synonymy is proposed as follows: Pityokteines Fuchs (= Orthotomides Wood), Araptus foveifrons (Schedl) (interjectus Wood), n. comb., Cryptocarenus seriatus Eggers (= bolivianus Eggers), Hylastes gracilis LeConte (= asper Swaine), Procryphalus utahensis Hopkins (= aceris Hopkins), Scolytodes mourus (Blandford) (= Hexacolus ellipticus Eggers), Scolytus hermosus Wood (= sylvaticus Bright), Xyleborus adelographus Eichhoff (=vitiosus Schedl), Xyleborus catulus Blandford (=intricatus Schedl), Xyleborus nepos Eggers (signatus Schedl), Xyleborus titubanter Schedl (= dissidens Wood). The following species and subspecies are named as new to science: Cnesinus electus (Costa Rica), C. pilatus (Mexico), Hylastes asperatus (New Mexico), Scolytus torulus (Costa Rica), S. laetus (Mexico), Scolytodes amabilis and S. lepidus (Mexico), S. obesus (Panama), Pseudothysanoes concentralis and P. tumidulus (Mexico), Thysanoes tuberculatus (Mexico), Pityokteines mystacinus (Washington), Ips pilifrons subsp. thatcheri (Nevada), Araptus attenuatus (Mexico), A. fossifrons (Mexico, Guatemala), Amphicranus parilis (Mexico), Corthylus cecropii (Costa Rica).
41712092|Hybridization between the pocket gophers Thomomys bottae and T. townsendii at Gold Run Creek in Honey Lake Valley, Lassen County, California, is examined by electromorphic and morphologic characters and by the distribution of ectoparasitic mallophagan lice. Hybrid formation is minimal (about 12% of the total sample of 104 individuals examined), but both F hybrids and a few presumptive backcross individuals are apparent. Nevertheless, no evidence of genic introgression based on five diagnostic allozyme loci is present in parental populations of either taxon within a mile of the hybrid zone. Similarly, louse species unique to each parental gopher host do not penetrate beyond the geographic limits of the genetic hybrid zone into the range of the opposite gopher species. A narrow zone of hybridization is thus concordantly defined by genetic, morphologic, and ectoparasitic parameters. These two gopher taxa are thus genetically if not reproductively isolated and should be considered separate biological species.
41711617|New synonymies and new data affecting North American Pityophthorus are proposed as follows: chalcoensis Hopkins (= herrerai Hopkins) and nigricans Blandford (= chiapensis Bright). Neotypes are designated for the following species described by Eichhoff: concentralis, cribripennis, infans, puchellus, and tuberculatus. New species are: carinatus (Canada), cavatus (Manitoba, Saskatchewan), euterpes (Mexico), hesperius (British Columbia), impexus (Mexico), intentus (Arizona), laticeps (Mexico), malleatus (Arizona), mesembria (Guatemala), montezumae (Mexico), scalptus (British Columbia, Colorado), trepidus (California), and vespertinus (Mexico).
41711469|Three desert Artemisia tridentata communities in Rush Valley, Utah, were trapped for small rodents during the summer of 1970, and population densities were estimated for each population category using Lincoln's index. Animals were weighed and rodent biomass calculated by species throughout the summer. Population, biomass, and other data were then analyzed to gain an understanding of the community relationships of the three study areas to each other as well as to the A. tridentata community types of the Great Basin. Peromyscus maniculatus, Eutamias minimus, and Reithrodontomys megalotis were common to area 1, whereas P. maniculatus, E. minimus, and Perognathus parvus were common to areas 2 and 3. The peak estimated standing crops were 182.8 (74.0), 143.1 (57.9), and 129.7 g/acre (52.5 g/ha) for areas 2, 1, and 3 respectively. The population and biomass of area 2 peaked in midsummer, area 1 early summer, and area 3 late summer.
41711889|Diatoms epiphytic on Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steaded stems were collected from a single clone at the southern end of Provo Bay, Utah Lake, Utah. Diatom populations from both living and dead stem sections were analyzed. Species diversity in each sample was high, indicating that the stems provide a relatively stable habitat for diatom epiphytes. Of the 23 genera found, only Gomphonema and Navicula showed significant trends toward stem preference. The diatoms in this study support the current view that Utah Lake is a slightly saline, eutrophic system.
41712006|Quadrat and propagule trapping studies were made on the moraine of the Schoolroom Glacier and in adjacent dry alpine meadow vegetation in the Teton Range in 1978-1979. Forty-six species of vascular plants were collected. Distributionally, three groups of species exist. One of these is concentrated primarily on the moraine, a second in the meadow, and the third in a narrow ecotonal band at the base of the distal slope of the moraine. The moraine slopes are steep and unstable, with vegetation cover ranging from 1 to 9 percent, dominated by Cirsium tweedyi (Rydb.) Petr. Along the more stable moraine crest the vegetation cover is heavier, and is similar to that in the meadow. The meadow vegetation cover is about 50 percent, dominated by Astragalus kentrophyta Gray. Using a combination of cover and frequency as a measure of importance, dominance-diversity curves were constructed for the moraine and meadow. Both approach geometric series, which are suggested as indicating harsh environments. Abiotically pollinated species are more successful on the moraine than biotically pollinated species, but the reverse is true for the meadow. Propagule trapping studies suggest that dispersal of anemochorous propagules onto the moraine is very low compared with dispersal in the meadow.
41712573|Collection data, bibliographic citations, and curatorial information on 52 names of New Mexico grass types are compiled. A bibliography of taxonomic research pertinent to the study of New Mexico grasses is cross-referenced with genera known to occur in the state.
41712861|Ecological and phytochemical factors potentially affecting winter dietary discrimination by porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum) in the mountain brush zone of Utah were studied. Porcupines utilized gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) as their primary winter food and roosting resource. Big-tooth maple (Acer grandidentatum) was the most common tree species in the study area but was rarely utilized by porcupines. Conifer species were used as a food and roosting resource significantly less often than they occurred in the study area, despite thermal advantages provided by their relatively dense canopies. Oak feed trees were successfully separated from conifer feed trees by discriminant analysis 100% of the time. Oak trees were correctly classified as feed and nonfeed trees 71% of the time. Gambel oak contained higher amounts of crude protein, fiber, and tannins, but was lower in ether extract fractions and fatty acid content than conifers. A layer of adipose tissue used as an energy reserve by porcupines may have relaxed energy intake demands sufficiendy to permit them to concentrate on a diet of oak tissue, which is high in protein, rather than a high-fat conifer diet. A diet relatively high in protein may have facilitated digestion of food material high in fiber. Temperature did not affect selection of tree species used for roosting. Rock and snow caves were utilized infrequently and the study population ranged widely. Three of 15 study animals were eaten by predators.
41712401|Previously, physiological studies of rubber and resin production during the growing season of Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. turbinatus indicated a negative correlation between rubber and resin content. The resin was highest in the spring and lowest in the summer, whereas rubber was highest in the summer and lowest in the spring. Individual compounds were followed during the growing season to see if they correlated with the rubber or resin trend. The total compounds in the cyclohexane fraction followed the resin pattern. Individual compounds varied in their changes during the growing season. Limonene, for example, was negatively correlated with rubber production, whereas  cubebene was positively correlated. The possible metabolic pathways between resin and rubber are discussed.
41711519|The aquatic and semiaquatic Hemiptera from 12 localities in Marble Canyon and Grand Canyon are reported, along with those from 1 locality in the Escalante Canyon. Fourteen species are recorded and compared to the water-bug fauna of the southwestern United States and western Mexico. Ochterus rotundus n. sp. is described from the Grand Canyon and the mountains of western Mexico.
41711858|Various aspects of the reproduction and embryology of Walker Lake Lahontan tui chub, Gila bicolor, were investigated during the spring-summer period of 1976, 1977, and 1981. Tui chub were found to spawn in littoral regions of the lake beginning in late May or early June. Early in the season male chub substantially outnumbered females over the spawning grounds, with a normal 1:1 sex ratio gradually approached as the season progressed. The developmental period between fertilization to hatch-out was shortened by increases in water temperature. Selected stages of embryonic development are described from egg fertilization through post-hatch.
41711406|Acute, short-term (96-hour) tests were conducted to determine the relative sensitivity of low oxygen concentrations to 20 species of aquatic insects. In addition, the longer-term effects of low oxygen levels on the survival, molting, growth, and emergence of 21 species were studied. This paper encompasses work conducted at the University of Montana Biological Station from 1968 to 1970 and at the University of Utah from 1966 to 1972. An evaluation of the average minimum dissolved-oxygen requirements of the different groups of aquatic insects tested indicates that the mayflies are the most sensitive, that the stoneflies are next, and that the caddis flies, freshwater shrimp, true flies, and damselflies follow, in that order. While two species of mayfly could tolerate as low a dissolved-oxygen concentration as 3.3 mg/1 for 10 days, a level of 4.6 mg/1 was required for 50-percent survival at 30 days. Fifty percent of the true flies and damselflies tested were able to survive at levels ranging from 2.2 to 2.8 mg/1 for periods ranging from 20 to 92 days.
41711660|The distributions of Cottus bairdi, C. rhotheus, and C. beldingi exhibited a highly significant positive degree of association. Conversely, the distribution of C. confusus exhibited a highly significant negative association with the distributional complex, C. bairdi, C. rhotheus, and C. beldingi. These species of sculpins can be grouped into two assemblages; one based on the distribution of C. confusus and the other based on the combined distributions of the other three species. The factor or factors limiting the downstream distribution of C. confusus or the upstream distribution of the other three species could not be positively identified. However, we hypothesize that competition between C. confusus and one or more members of the C. bairdi, C. rhotheus and C. beldingi complex is involved. In the area of overlapping distributions among C. bairdi, C. rhotheus, and C. bairdi we hypothesize that resource partitioning is occurring. However, the data did not allow evaluation of this hypothesis.
41711677|The first record of Patapius spinosus (Rossi) in Idaho and Nevada is reported, having previously been found in America only in California.
41712130|Growth rates estimated using the scale annuii of flannelmouth sucker, Catostomus latipinnis, did not differ between fish collected from the Gunnison and Colorado rivers, and the Green and Yampa rivers. However, body condition and fecundity were significantly greater in the former population. Age of first maturity for male and female fish from all rivers was IV; and most fish were mature by age VII. The smallest mature female collected was 405 mm, and the smallest mature male was 391 mm total length. Fecundity ranged from 4,000 ova in fish 450 mm long to 40,000 ova in a 500-mm fish: mean ovum diameter was 2.39 mm. Ripe male flannelmouth suckers were collected from early April through June; ripe females were collected from both study areas during May and early June.
41712193|Circumstantial evidence is presented that suggests the Mourning Cloak undergoes regular seasonal upand downslope movements in northern California. The species breeds at low elevations in spring and then disappears until autumn; its disappearance coincides with the appearance of fresh individuals in the Sierra Nevada alongside obvious hibernators.
41711492|In three ecological studies in the southern parts of Nevada, Idaho, and Utah, spiders of 138 species, scorpions of 10, solpugids of 29, and phalangids of 2 species were obtained by pitfall capture. Significant differences in species occurrence were noted between the three geographic and ecologically distinct areas. Within each geographic area, arachnids differed in species occurrence and abundance in different plant communities. Only three species of spiders and four species of scorpions were common to all three geographic areas.
41711772|This report includes data collected during an investigation by Brigham Young University personnel from 1971 to 1976, as well as a literature review. The fauna of the Kaiparowits Basin is represented by 7 species of amphibians (1 salamander, 5 toads, and 1 tree frog), 29 species of reptiles (1 turtle, 16 lizards, and 12 snakes), 183 species of birds (plus 2 hypothetical), and 74 species of mammals. Geographic distribution of the various species within the basin are discussed. Birds are categorized according to their population and seasonal status. Avian habitat relationships are discussed, and extensions of range are reported for 5 species of birds. Three threatened or endangered avian species occur in the basin. Four avian species seem to have declined significantly in numbers in recent years.
41712409|A fire history of the Paunsaugunt Plateau in southern Utah was developed using dendrochronological methods. Fire frequencies of individual ponderosa pine trees from three sites on the plateau varied from 19.5 to 47 years. Composite fire intervals for the three sites ranged from 15.2 to 18.4 years. The last recorded fires in these study areas occurred in 1892, 1902, and 1911, corresponding to the initiation of fire suppression policies in the West. The absence of fire since 1911 may be contributing to a recently documented decrease in ponderosa pine regeneration within the high-elevation, mixed-coniferous forests of the Paunsaugunt Plateau.
41711653|During 1976 and 1977, 798 fish representing 11 species from eight collection sites in Utah were examined for metacercariae of Diplostomum spathaceum, which causes the fish eye fluke disease, diplostomatosis. Eight species were infected. The infection rate ranged from 7 percent of 46 Salmo gairdneri from Soldiers Creek Reservoir to 100 percent in 7 species of fish from four collection sites. Summary charts for four years of data are given for collection sites, piscine hosts in Utah, and fish hosts for Strawberry Reservoir, Utah.
41713100|A new species of caddisfly, Psychoronia brooksi (Limnephilidae), is described from New Mexico, and Psychoronia brevipennis (Banks) 1904 is designated as a junior synonym of Psychoronia costalis Banks 1901. Additional distributional records and notes for 51 caddisfly species are also presented.
41712848|We examined patterns of habitat use by Greater Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis tabida) in the Intermountain West, April-October 1991-92, to determine whether cranes exhibited a specific preference for crops, fields, and areas within a field. This information will help farmers and wildlife managers direct nonlethal control methods to the sites where crane damage is most likely to occur. We conducted surveys along two 37-km transects weekly in Cache Valley, Utah, and biweekly in Bear River Valley, Rich County, Utah, and Lincoln County, Wyoming. We recorded 5814 cranes in 662 separate groups. Most were located in pasture/hay (34%), small grain (39%), alfalfa (9%), plowed (9%), fallow (4%), or corn (1%) fields. An index of feeding activity for each field and habitat type suggested cranes fed at approximately the same rate in each field and habitat type. Crane diurnal activity patterns during summer and fall revealed that grainfields were used heavily throughout the day.
41712489|We evaluated movement distance (an index of home range size) based on capture histories of 32 postbreeding Townsend ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendii) on a 15 X 15 trap grid in southwestern Idaho. Capture frequencies and movement distances of adult males were significantly greater than those of other sex/age groups. Members of the same sex/age group were rarely captured at the same grid location, evidence of mutual avoidance within sex/age groups. These results are compared with those for other species of ground squirrels.
41711954|Fertilized ova of razorback sucker, Xyrauchen texanus, were adhesive for 3 to 4 hours after fertilization. Cleavage was completed at 24 hours, gastrulation occurred at 34 hours, and blood circulation was established at 117 hours. Hatching occurred from 5.2 to 5.5 days after fertilization. Larvae were from 6.8 to 7.3 mm TL at hatching. Yolk was assimilated at 13 days (10 mm TL). All fins were formed and had ossified rays at 64 days (27 mm TL). The unique nuchal keel appeared about 200 days after fertilization.
41711950|The effect of complete defoliation, prior to flower stalk appearance, on the reproductive success of foothill deathcamas, a toxic range plant, was studied in northern Utah. Defoliated plants did not replace their leaves. Defoliation had no effect on total number of flower stalks produced but did significantly slow the rate of stalk emergence and reduce the number of plants that produced open flowers. The number of leaves produced by control plants was also positively associated with the probability of producing a flowering stalk. Few plants in either defoliated or control treatments set seed, probably because of inactivity of pollinators during a cold and wet spring. It is suggested that species, such as deathcamas, which either produce leaves early in spring or are liliaceous geophytes, may be especially vulnerable to herbivory.
41712501|Presented from a worldwide treatment of the Scolytidae are cases of new synonymy, replacement names for newly detected junior homonyms, and the descriptions of species new to science as follows. New synonymy includes: Acanthotomicus quadrituberculatus (Schedl) (= Mimips fallax Eggers), Amasa schlicht (Stebbing) (= Xyleborus glaber Eggers, Xyleborus brevipennis Schedl), Ambrosiodmus apicalus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus cristatus Hagedorn, Xyleborus fabricii Schedl), Ambrosiodmus asperatus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus citri Beeson, Xyleborus cristatuloides Schedl), Ambrosiodmus colossus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus szentivanyi Schedl), Ambrosiodmus declivispinatus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus tectus Schedl), Ambrosiodmus funereus (Lea) (= Xyleborus nepos robustus Schedl), Ambrosiodmus hagedorni (Iglesias) (= Ambrosiodmus guatemalensis Hopkins), Ambrosiodmus lewisi (Blandford) (= Xyleborus lewekianus Eggers), Ambrosiodmus obliquecaudata (Motschulsky) (= Xyleborus semirufus Schedl), Ambrosiodmus obliquus (LeConte) (= Xyleborus melanarius Schedl), Ambrosiodmus rubricollis (Eichhofi) (= Xyleborus taboensis Schedl, Xyleborus strohmeyeri Schedl), Arixyleborus canaliculatus (Eggers) (= Arixyleborus subsimilis Schedl), Arixyleborus imitator (Eggers) (= Xyleborus granistriatus Eggers), Arixyleborus leprosulus Schedl (= Arixyleborus aralidii Nunberg), Arixyleborus mediosectus (Eggers) (= Xyleboricus angulatus Schedl), Camptocerus major (Eggers) (= Camptocerus uniseriatus Schedl), Camptocerus orientalis Eggers (= Camptocerus tectus Eggers), Camptocerus suturalis (Fabricius) (= Camptocerus hirtipennis Schedl), Coccotrypes advena Blandford (= Dendrurgus philippinensis Eggers, Dendrurgus ternatensis Eggers, Dendrurgus minor Eggers, Thamnurgides tutuilensis Beeson), Coccotrypes barbatus (Schedl) (= Thamnurgides ater Eggers, Thamnurgides dipterocarpi Beeson, Thamnurgides bambusae Beeson), Coccotrypes carpophagus (Hornung) (= Coccotrypes trevori Beeson, Coccotrypes pilosulus Schedl, Coccotrypes ceylonicus Schedl, Coccotrypes grisseopuberulus Schedl, Coccotrypes exasperatus Schedl), Coccotrypes cyperi (Beeson) (= Poecilips subaplanatus Schedl), Coccotrypes dactyliperda (Fabricius) (= Coccotrypes borassi Beeson, Coccotrypes eleocarpi Beeson), Coccotrypes longior (Eggers) (= Poecilips oblongus Eggers, Poecilips nitidipennis Schedl, Poecilips apicatus Schedl), Coccotrypes myristicae (Roepke) (= Thamnurgides masoni Beeson), Coccotrypes nitidus Eggers (= Poecilips aterrimus Schedl), Coccotrypes nubilus Blandford (= Thamnurgides parvus Beeson, Thamnurgides himalayensis Beeson, Thamnurgides corticus Beeson, Thamnurgides brevipilosus Beeson, Poecilips mauritianus Browne), Coccotrypes papuanus (Eggers) (= Thamnurgides rubidus Beeson), Coccotrypes rhizophorae (Hopkins) (= Thamnurgides shanorum Beeson), Coccotrypes salakensis (Schedl) (= Thamnurgides opacifrons Beeson, Poecilips acuminatus Schedl), Conophthorus edulis Hopkins (= Conophthorus cembroides Wood), Conophthorus resinosae Hopkins (= Conophthorus banksianae McPherson), Coptoborus usagaricus (Eggers) (= Xyleborus usagaricus subadjunctus Schedl, Streptocranus hendrickxi Schedl, Xyleborus monticolus Schedl, Xyleborus fallaciosus Schedl), Coptodryas elegans (Sampson) (= Xyleborus concinnus Beeson), Coptodryas myristicae (Schedl) (= Xyleborus theae Eggers, Xyleborus brevipilosus Eggers, Xyleborus cylindripennis Schedl), Coptodryas nugax (Schedl) (= Xyleborus jragosus Schedl), Coptodryas reddens (Sampson) (= Xyleborus minutissimus Eggers), Coptodryas undulatus (Sampson) (= Xyleborus leprosulus Schedl), Cryphalus major Stebbing (= Cryphalus morinda Stebbing), Cryphalus ruficollis Hopkins (= Cryphalus fraseri Hopkins), Cryphalus scabricollis EichhofF (= Cryphalus discretus EichhofF, Cryphalus dilutus Eichhoff), Cryphalus sylvicola (Perkins) (= Cryphalus swezeyi Schedl, Cryphalus sylvicola obliquus Schedl), Crypturgus pusillus (Gyllenhal) (= Crypturgus minimus Eggers), Cyrtogenius luteus (Blandford) (= Carposinus pini Hopkins), Dryocoetes autographus (Ratzeburg) (= Dryocoetes brasiliensis Schedl), Dryocoetiops laevis (Strohmeyer) (= Poecilips loebli Schedl), Dryocoetoides paradoxus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus solitaripennis Schedl), Dryocoetoides pseudosolitarius (Eggers) (= Xyleborus pseudosolitarius schizolobius Schedl), Eccoptopterus gracilipes (Eichhofi) (= Xyleborus collaris Eggers), Eccoptopterus limbus Sampson (= Xyleborus squamulatus duplicatus Eggers), Eidophelus imitans EichhofF (= Phellodendrophagus elegans Krivolutskaya, Ptilopodius nitidus Schedl), Ernocladius corpulentus (Sampson) (= Margadillius corpulentus sundri Schedl), Ernoporus antennarius Schedl (= Euptilius papuanus Browne), Euwallacea andamanensis (Blandford) (= Xyleborus granulipennis Eggers, Xyleborus intextus Beeson, Xyleborus senachalensis Beeson), Euwallacea bicolor (Blandford) (= Xyleborus bicolor unimodus Beeson, Xyleborus rodgeri Beeson, Xyleborus rodgeri privatus Beeson), Euwallacea destruens (Blandford) (= Xyleborus pseudobarbatus Schedl, Xyleborus nandarivatus Schedl), Euwallacea fornicatus (Eichhofi) (= Xyleborus whitfordiodendrus Schedl, Xyleborus perbrevis Schedl, Xyleborus schultzei Schedl, Xyleborus tapatapaoensis Schedl), Euwallacea quadraticollis (Eggers) (= Xyleborus duplicatus Schedl), Euwallacea sibsagaricus (Eggers) (= Xyleborus dalbergiae Eggers), Euwallacea velatus (Sampson) (= Xyleborus assamensis Eggers, Xyleborus asperipennis Eggers), Euwallacea wallacei (Blandford) (= Xyleborus siporanus Hagedorn, Xyleborus ovalicollis Eggers, Xyleborus perakensis Schedl), Euwallacea xanthopus (Eichhofi) (= Xyleborus semirudis Blandford, Xyleborus rudis Eggers, Xyleborus semipilosus Eggers, Xyleborus neohybridus Schedl, Xyleborus artehybridus Schedl), Gnathotrupes bituberculatus (Blandford) (= Gnathotrichus impressus Schedl), Gnathotrupes longipennis (Blanchard) (= Gnathotrichus obnixus Schedl, Gnathotrichus corthyloides Schedl, Gnathotrichus corthyliformis Schedl, Gnathotrupes constrictus Schedl), Gymnochilus consocius (Blandford) (= Problechilus novateutonicus Schedl), Hypocryphalus mangiferae (Stebbing) (= Hypocryphalus opacus Schedl), Hypocryphalus sandakanensis (Schedl) (= Hypocryphalus maculatus Browne), Hypothenemus areccae (Hornung) (= Stephanoderes bambesanus Eggers, Hypothenemus bauhaniae Schedl, Stephanoderes occidentalis Schedl), Hypothenemus birmanus Eichhoif (= Stephanoderes nibarani Beeson, Stephanoderes ampliatus Eggers), Hypothenemus californicus Hopkins (= Stephanoderes zeae Schedl), Hypothenemus crudiae (Panzer) (= Cryphalus mucronifer Wollaston), Hypothenemus donisi (Schedl) (= Ericryphalus madagascarensis Schedl), Hypothenemus eruditus Westwood (= Cryphalus tectonae Stebbing, Cryphalus striatopunctatus Lea, Cryphalus tantillus Lea, Hypothenemus tuberculatus Hagedorn, Hypothenemus pusillus Eggers, Hypothenemus argentinensis Schedl, Hypothenemus cylindricus Schedl, Hypothenemus asaroriensis Beeson, Hypothenemus mauiensis Schedl, Stephanoderes nanulus Schedl, Hypothenemus parilis Schedl, Hypothenemus obscuripes Schedl, Stephanoderes tigrensis Schedl, Hypothenemus parcius Schedl, Hypothenemus cylindripennis Schedl, Hypothenemus vianai Schedl, Hypothenemus mesoleius Schedl, Hypothenemus minutulus Schedl, Cryphalus minutus Schedl), Hypothenemus fuscicollis (Eichhoff) (= Stephanoderes sundaensis Eggers, Hypothenemus ghanaensis Schedl), Hypothenemus hampei (Ferrari) (= Stephanoderes glabellus Schedl), Hypothenemus ingens (Schedl) (= Cryphalomorphus grandis Schedl), Hypothenemus plumeriae (Nrdlinger) (= Stephanoderes cylindricus Hopkins, Hypothenemus guadeloupensis Schedl, Stephanoderes ituriensis Schedl), Hypothenemus pubescens Hopkins (= Hypothenemus minutissimus Schedl), Hypothenemus seriatus (Eichhoff) (= Cryphalus aulmanni Hagedorn, Hypothenemus cassavaensis Schedl, Stephanoderes hawaiiensis Schedl, Hypothenemus striatulus Schedl, Hypothenemus marovoayi Schedl, Hypothenemus asperatus Schedl), Hypothenemus stigmosus (Schedl) (= Stephanoderes garciae Schedl), Leptoxyleborus concisus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus incurvus Eggers), Leptoxyleborus depressus (Eggers) (= Xyleborus sejugatus Schedl), Leptoxyleborus semigranulatus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus artemarginatus Schedl), Monarthrum chapuisi Kirsch (= Monarthrum bolivianum Eggers), Monarthrum ingens (Eichhoff) (= Pterocyclon assequens Schedl), Pityophthorus deodara (Stebbing) (= Cryphalus himalayensis Stebbing, Pityophthorus sampsoni Stebbing), Sauroptilius sauropterus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus sauropteroides Schedl), Scolytogenes knabi (Hopkins) (= Cryphalomorphus alienus Schedl), Scolytomimus pusillus (Eggers) (= Scolytomimus kalshoveni Schedl, Scolytocleptes insularis Schedl), Scolytoplatypus mikado Blandford (= Scolytoplatypus sinensis Tsai & Huang), Scolytoplatypus papuanus Eggers (= Scolytoplatypus luzonicus Eggers), Scolytoplatypus siomio Blandford (= Scolytoplatypus kunala Strohmeyer), Scolytopsis puncticollis Blandford (= Scolytopsis cubensis Wood), Terminalinus crucipennis (Schedl) (= Xyleborus metacrucifer Browne), Terminalinus hirtus (Hagedorn) (= Xyleborus hirtuosus Beeson), Trypodendron laeve Eggers (= Trypodendron piceum Strand), Theoborus ricini (Eggers) (= Xyleborus solitariceps Schedl), Webbia quattuordecimspinatus or 14-spinatus Sampson (= Webbia quattuordecimspinatus or 14-spinatus Schedl), Xyleborinus andrewesi (Blandford) (= Xyleborus persphenos Schedl), Xyleborinus artestratus (Eichhoff) (= Xyleborus rugipennis Schedl), Xyleborinus gracilis (Eichhoff) (= Xyleborus neogracilis Schedl), Xyleborinus saxeseni (Ratzeburg) (= Xyleborus subspinosus Eggers, Xyleborus pseudogracilis Schedl, Xyleborus retrusus Schedl, Xyleborus paraguayensis Schedl, Xyleborus cinctipennis Schedl), Xyleborus adelographus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus accomodatus Schedl), Xyleborus adusticollis (Motschulsky) (= Xyleborus vestitus Schedl), Xyleborus approximatus Schedl (= Xyleborus potens Schedl), Xyleborus biconicus Eggers (= Xyleborus bicinctus Schedl), Xyleborus bidentatus (Motschulsky) (= Xyleborus quadridens Eggers), Xyleborus caraibicus Eggers (= Xyleborus variabilis Schedl), Xyleborus crinitus Schedl (^ Xyleborus nigericus Browne), Xyleborus emarginatus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus emarginatus semicircularis Schedl), Xyleborus eximius Schedl (= Xyleborus apicenotatus Schedl), Xyleborus fallax Eichhoff (= Xyleborus amphicranulus Eggers), Xyleborus ferrugineus (Fabricius) (= Xyleborus rufopiceus Eggers), Xyleborus grossmanni Schedl (= Xyleborus acuminatus Schedl), Xyleborus mascareniformis Eggers (= Xyleborus onerosus Schedl), Xyleborus multispinatus Eggers (= Xyleborus acanthus Schedl), Xyleborus mutabilis Schedl (= Xyleborus itatiayaensis Schedl), Xyleborus perforam (Wollaston) (= Xyleborus criticus Schedl), Xyleborus perlongus Eggers (= Xyleborus pulcnerrimus Schedl, Xyleborus pulcheripes Schedl), Xyleborus similis Ferrari (= Xyleborus novaguineanus Schedl, Xyleborus dilatatulus Schedl), Xyleborus subcostatus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus subcostatus dearmatus Eggers), Xyleborus sulcicauda Schedl (= Xyleborus tenuipennis Browne), Xyleborus volvulus (Fabricius) (= Xyleborus silvestris Beeson, Xyleborus granularis Schedl), Xylosandrus ater (Eggers) (= Xyleborus retusiformis Schedl), Xylosandrus cylindrotomicus (Schedl) (= Xyleborus semitruncatus Schedl, Xyleborus ramulorum Schedl), Xylosandrus mutilatus (Blandford) (= Xyleborus sampsoni Eggers). The species Cosmocorynus vagabundus Schedl is transferred to the genus Amphicranus, and the species Xyleborus lineatopunc tatus Eggers is transferred to the genus Cyrtogenius. New names are proposed for junior homonyms as follows: Araptus frontis (for Gnathocranus frontalis Schedl 1978, now in Araptus), Araptus guadeloupanus (for Brachydendrulus guadeloupensis Schedl 1970, now in Araptus), Coccotrypes brunnipes (for Coccotrypes brunneus Nunberg 1973), Coccotrypes robustulus for Poecilips robustus Schedl 1972, now in Coccotrypes), Coccotrypes striatulus (for Thamnurgides striatus Eggers 1927, now in Coccotrypes), Hypothenemus aterrimulus (for Lepiceroides aterrimus Schedl 1957, now in Hypothenemus), Hypothenemus ruginosus (for Pachynoderes rugifer Schedl 1977, now in Hypothenemus), Mimiocurus monticulus (for Mimiocurus montanus Schedl 1957), Monarthrum boliviensis (for Cosmocorynus bolivianus Schedl 1970, now in Monarthrum), Monarthrum dentatulum (for Monarthrum dentatum Eggers 1935), Monarthrum sexdenticulum (for Anchonocerus sexdentatus Eggers 1935, now in Monarthrum), Pityophthorus abietinus (for Pityophthorus abietis Kurenzov 1941 and P. sibericus Nunberg 1956), Pityophthorus brighti (for Pityophthorus blackmani Bright 1977), Pityophthorus micrograptinus (for Breviophthorus micrographus Schedl 1972, now in Pityophthorus), Pityophthorus subsimilans (for Breviophthorus subsimilis Schedl 1966, now in Pityophthorus), Scolytogenes papuensis (For Xyloeryptus papuanus Schedl 1975, now in Scolytogenes. The following names are described as new to science: Cryphalus dipterocarpi (India), Cryphalus felis (India), Cryphalus fulmineus (India), Gnathotrupes colaphus (Venezuela), Gnathotrupes nectandrae (Venezuela), Mimiocurus beesoni (India), Pityophthorus cedri (India), Pityophthorus chilgoza (India), Pityophthorus glutae (India), and Scolytogenes indiens (India).
41704199|The Psoralea lanceolata complex is widely distributed in western North America from Saskatchewan to Texas and westward to Washington, Oregon, Nevada, and Arizona. The complex has received many interpretations, mostly on the basis of provincial floras and manuals. The present paper attempts to summarize the treatments of previous workers and to present an overview of the complex. The Psoralea lanceolata var. stenophylla is proposed. Distribution maps and illustrations of all entities are included.
41713004|Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) brood-rearing sites have been described for portions of their range, but brood-rearing habitat use and characteristics of brood-rearing sites used by Rio Grande Wild Turkeys (M. g. intermedia) in the Pacific Northwest were unknown. We described cover types at 362 brood-rearing sites and measured habitat characteristics at 64 of these sites used by a recently established Rio Grande Wild Turkey population in southwestern Oregon during May-September 1989 and 1990. Hens with broods used 9 of 10 available cover types. Meadows, mixed hardwood/conifer woodlands, and savannas were used more often than expected (47% of observations, P 0.05). Broods used mature mixed conifer and dense sapling/pole mixed conifer cover types less than expected and did not use brushfields. Many brood-rearing sites were characterized by a parklike appearance. Understory vegetation averaged <20 cm tall and occupied 44-52% of brood-rearing sites, whereas bare ground accounted for 35-55%. Brood-rearing sites were on southeast slopes more often than expected and north slopes less than expected (P  0.05). We suggest that land managers maintain mixed hardwood/conifer woodland and savanna cover types adjacent to meadows on south slopes to provide brood-rearing habitat for Rio Grande Wild Turkeys in southwestern Oregon.
41712120|A classification of the natural vegetation of Colorado is presented. This classification, which uses the Plant Association as the basic unit, was developed by sorting data in the scientific literature, supplemented by field research. The classification uses a standardized nomenclature. Citations are given for the literature from Colorado and adjoining states for each Association. The classification includes a total of 403 Plant Associations, with 28 Angiosperm Forests/Woodlands, 2 Mixed Angiosperm-Gymnosperm Forests/Woodlands, 114 Gymnosperm Forests/Woodlands, 100 Shrub Associations, 74 Grassland Associations, 38 Graminoid Associations, and 47 Herb Associations.
41712941|We investigated the roosting ecology of silver-haired bats (Lasionycteris noctivagans) in the Black Hills of western South Dakota. Using radiotelemetry, we located 39 roosts, 10 of which were maternity aggregations containing 6 to 55 bats. The roosts were mostly in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) snags that averaged 39 cm diameter at breast height. Solitary bats preferred roosting under loose bark or in crevices in trees, regularly moving among trees. All maternity aggregations were found in tree cavities, primarily those created by woodpeckers. Roost trees were located in patches of forest with relatively high snag densities, about 21 snags/ha. This study suggests that snags play an important role in maintaining silver-haired bat populations in ponderosa pine ecosystems.
41712180|A cafeteria-style study was conducted during the winter for two years with tame mule deer to determine if there were preferential differences between accessions of forage kochia (Kochia prostrata). Deer consumed significantly more of P.I. numbers 314929, 330708, and 356826 than any of the other accessions. Other plant adaptive characteristics and nutritive qualities are also reported.
41712834|Erigeron kachinensis is a rare endemic of the Colorado Plateau in southeastern Utah. This perennial composite grows in small, isolated populations at seeps and alcoves arising along canyon walls in Cedar Mesa Sandstone substrates. Characteristics of six Erigeron kachinensis sites in Natural Bridges National Monument, San Juan County, Utah, were studied to determine habitat requirements for this species. Sites were analyzed with respect to geology, soil chemistry, physical properties, and vegetational characteristics. The alcoves studied were very saline, often with soil surfaces covered with a white crust of salt. Living cover was enhanced by perennially moist soils, diminished amounts of solar radiation, soil salinity, and above-average amounts of available soil phosphorus. Kachina daisy vegetative growth appears to be favored by these same abiotic factors. The most commonly associated plant species on E. kachinensis sites were Aquilegia micrantha, Calamagrostis scopulorum, Zigadenus vaginatus, and Engeron kachinensis. These species and the daisy accounted for more than 75% of the total living cover in the alcoves studied. A principal components analysis procedure was developed for evaluating site suitability for Erigeron kachinensis. This daisy has been successfully introduced to a site selected using that model.
41712709|Soil compaction was measured at four sites within two abandoned mining camps in the western Great Basin Desert, Nevada. Bulk density and macroporosity values were generated from soil samples collected in areas of different land use intensities in camps that had been abandoned for approximately 70 years. Results show that significant differences remain in bulk density values between abandoned roads ana undisturbed areas in both towns, and that the areas around foundation peripheries are still significantly more compacted in one town. There were no significant differences between land use groups as measured by macroporosity. Estimated soil recovery, based on a linear model using bulk density values, suggests that approximately 100 to 130 years are necessary for complete loosening to occur for abandoned roads, and that 100 or fewer years are necessary for complete amelioration of the foundation periphery areas. The wetter townsite, with more freeze-thaw days, finer-grained soils, and greater plant cover, had shorter recovery estimates. These findings suggest that the results of human-use impacts in arid areas may still be apparent long after disturbances cease.
41712177|Insectivorous fishes were sampled from March, 1983 to February 1984, in Flint Creek, Delaware Co., Oklahoma. There was insignificant habitat segregation between Etheostoma spectabile and E. punctulatum and seasonal habitat partitioning between Cottus carolinae and both darters. Mature E. spectabile ate primarily chironomids and mayflies, whereas juveniles fed primarily on microcrustaceans. Mature E. punctulatum consumed fewer Ephemerella and Leptophlebia than E. spectabile , feeding on Stenonema and other crustaceans. Juvenile E. punctulatum fed mainly on amphipods and mayflies, and juvenile E. spectabile ate primarily microcrustaceans. Cottus carolinae elected primarily mayflies in spring-summer and chironomids in January-February. Coefficients of dietary overlap were highest between larger E. spectabile and juvenile E. punctulatum and lowest between immature E. spectabile and mature E. punctulatum. Overlap between the two darters was significantly correlated with differences in mean prey size (p<0.0005). Overlap between sizes of E. spectabile was also significantly correlated to differences in mean prey sizes. Etheostoma spectabile generally preferred smaller prey than E. punctulatum. All three species avoided Stenelmis. Cottus carolinae avoided microcrustaceans. The study showed that resource partitioning among these three insectivorous fishes is affected by complex interactions of habitat and prey electivity, and prey size selectivity.
41712102|This paper presents data on the distribution of Pinus longaeva on the Markagunt Plateau, Utah; and the Snake, Egan, and White Pine ranges of eastern Nevada. It also presents data on the present-day density and age structure of three P. longaeva populations and the growth rates of individual trees within these populations. Conifer species richness and the relative abundance of P. longaeva varies clinally from the Markagunt Plateau to the White Pine Range. The Markagunt Plateau has relatively high conifer species richness (10 species) and low relative abundance of P. longaeva (1%). The White Pine Range has low conifer richness (4 species) and high P. longaeva relative abundance (34%). Individual tree growth rates were low but highly variable in all populations studied. The three populations studied had mixed age structures with a general trend of more younger individuals at the lower elevations. Possible explanations for the present distribution of P. longaeva and the population structures observed are discussed.
41712153|The second nesting record for the Great-tailed Grackle (Quiscalus mexicanus) in Nevada is reported from the central part of the state approximately 240 km north of the previous record. Since 1912 this species has undergone a dramatic northward extension of its previous range in the United States, presumably as a result of increased agricultural irrigation in areas that were previously desert or short-grass prairie.
41711153|A comparative study was made of an exclosure in the mountain brush vegetation of the Wasatch Mountains, Utah. The exclosure is located in Pole Canyon, near Provo, Utah, and was initially analyzed in 1948 and 1949 by Allman (1952, 1953). The dominant woody species of the vegetation in the exclosure were bigtoothed maple (Acer grandidentatum) and Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii). Results indicated that the maple had increased in relative cover whereas the oak decreased Serviceberry (Amelanchier alnifolia) had increased in both relative cover and frequency. Frequency data of forbs and grasses showed a general increase in early flowering annuals and perennials. Starf lower (Tellima parviflora) and wyethia (Wyethia amplexicaulis) were two of the more prominent species which were new in the exclosure. The complete disappearance of western wheat grass (Agropyron smithii) from 67 percent frequency and the increase of Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) represented the greatest changes of grasses in the exclo sure. Precipitation was recorded from May 1, 1958, to April 30, 1959. Soil data obtained included pH, soluble salt content, cation exchange capacities, mechanical analyses, and content of available calcium, magnesium, and potassium. Soils were analyzed at sixinch intervals to a depth of 24 inches.
41712655|The genus Capnia in North America is reviewed and compared to other genera in the family. The genus is divided into 10 species groups. A key to the 51 species of Capnia in North America is given along with a listing of type localities, type repositories, diagnoses, and distributions. New illustrations of structures bearing characters important for identification and classification are presented. An annotation of the list of Capnia of North America given by Stark, Szczytko, and Baumann (1986) reflecting current generic placement of species is produced. From this list Capnia bakeri and sugluka are moved to Mesocapnia. Capnia barbota Frison is placed in synonymy under Capnia decepta. The movement of cygna (synonym of venosa), elevata, fibula, manitoba, venosa, and wanica to Capnura (Nelson and Baumann, 1987b) is noted. Capnia disala and ensicala are placed in Paracapnia.
41711698|The borage Family Boraginaceae is treated for the southwestern United States. Treated are 18 genera, 113 species, and 24 varieties from Arizona, New Mexico, and the desert regions of southeastern California. A key to the genera and species is included along with detailed descriptions, distribution data, chromosome counts when known, and comments for many of the taxa. A proposed new combination is Pbgiobothrys scouleri (H. & A.) I. M. Johnston var. cusickii (E. L. Greene) Higgins.
41712410|Common ravens are usually rather shy birds around their nests and avoid nesting too near human activity. We here report the use of overpasses along heavily traveled Interstate Highway 84 in Idaho and Utah for nest placement. Nests are within 6 m of passing vehicles.
41711495|One species of copepod (Ergasilus elongatus), one trematode (Diclybothrium hamulatum, two nematodes (Camallanus oxycephalus and Contracaecum sp.), and two cestodes (Marsipometra hastata and M. parva) were recoverd from 17 paddlefish (Polyordon spathula) collected from the Yellowstone River, Montana, on 11 and 18 May 1973. The male paddlefish averaged 69.4 nematodes 157.6 cestodes per infected fish while the females averged 12.0 nematodes and 415.7 cestodes. The higher intensity of cestode infection in female paddlefish was attributed to their larger size and consequent greater intake of food resulting in more exposure to the cestode intermediate hosts (Cyclops bicuspidatus).
41712272|Ultrastructure of the chloroplasts of white rubber rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Pallas) Britt. ssp. albicaulis) was observed with electron microscopy. In addition, leaf anatomy was observed with light microscopy. Previously, it had been reported that the leaves of this desert shrub exhibited a relatively high rate of photosynthesis when compared to other C plants. Comparisons with chloroplasts of other C and C plants emonstrated a reduced amount of granal stacking in the rabbitbrush. However, the classification of rabbitbrush as a C plant is confirmed. RUBP-carboxylase concentration is reported at about 450 mg  ml stromal space based on the estimation of 1 mg of chlorophyll per 25 ul of stromal space in a normal C chloroplast and data from an assay to determine the ratio of RUBP-carboxylase to chlorophyll.
41711820|Bird species density, diversity, and species richness in relation to habitat and seasonal variations were studied in the Betatakin Canyon area of Navajo National Monument, Arizona. The two most prominent habitat types are a riparian forest deep in the canyon bottom and a mature pinyon-juniper woodland on the mesas and slopes above the canyon. One hundred thirty-five species of birds were encountered during the study and recorded by season and habitat. The avifauna assemblages demonstrate definite habitat selection into groups associated with the riparian and pinyon-juniper woodland communities. Diversity, density, and species richness were greatest in the riparian habitat during the spring and summer months. The differences in bird community composition were greater between seasons than between habitats. Pinyon pine and Gambel oak were highly selected as perch sites in the pinyon-juniper and riparian areas, respectively.
41713075|Population density, reproduction, and survivorship were compared between 2 populations of Sceloporus grammicus occurring at different altitudes (3700 m and 4400 m) on the eastern slopes of Iztaccihuatl Volcano, Puebla, Mxico. Lizards in both populations matured at the same age (14-15 mon) and size (39-42 mm SLV). Population density was slightly greater at high altitude (131-163 per ha) than at low altitude (52-83 per ha). Survivorship and Ro were higher at the low-altitude area, but in general there were no significant demographic variations between altitudes that have been reported in lizard population at higher latitudes. Studies of lower-elevation populations might reveal some differences because previous studies indicate that litter size increases at lower altitudes, although they do not differ between our 3700 m and 4400 m populations.
41712465|This is a study of the populations of Thamnophis sirtalis that occur in Chihuahua, Mexico, and the adjoining U.S. state of New Mexico. Reference is made to previous studies dealing with geographical and systematic relationships. Additional data are provided for the New Mexico subspecies (dorsalis), and the relationship of T. s. parietalis to the New Mexico population is discussed. The Chihuahua population is described as a new subspecies.
41712679|An artifact constructed from a bison (Bison bison) hornsheath was recovered from the surface of a sandstone shelter also containing skeletal remains of bison and bighorn (Ovis canadensis). Radiocarbon dating of bison, bighorn, and the artifact indicate that all co-occurred on the central Colorado Plateau, southeastern Utah, either between A.D. 1405 and A.D. 1420, or between A.D. 1535 and A.D. 1605. Skeletal remains of the bison imply that the animal was of the local faunal community during the transition between Protohistoric and Historic time.
41711385|New synonymy affecting North and Central American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Arapius Eichhoff (= Neodryocoetes Eggers, Thamnophthorus Schedl, Sphenoceros Schedl), Coccotrypes Eichhoff (= Poecilips Schaufuss), Gnathotrichus Eichhoff (= Ancyloderes Blackman, Prognathotrichus Bright), Gnathotrupes Schedl (= Gnathotrypanus Wood), Araptus hymenaeae (Eggers), n. comb., (= Neodryocoetes insularis Eggers, Neodryocoetes caribaeus Blackman, Neodryocoetes guianae Blackman, Neodryocoetes hoodi Blackman), Araptus laevigatus (Eggers), n. comb. (= Neopityophthorus insularis Eggers, Neodryocoetes guadeloupensis Schedl), Araptus macer Bright, n. comb. (= Neodryocoetes tuber culatus Bright), Araptus politus (Blandford), n. comb. (= Neodryocoetes hubbardi Blackman), Araptus tabogae (Blackman), n. comb. (= Neodryocoetes vinealis Bright), Cnesinus elegantis Wood (= Cnesinus zapotecus Bright), Coccotrypes advena Blandford (= Thqmnurgides persicae Hopkins), Corthylocurus barbatus (Blandford) (= Corthylocurus cincinnatus Bright), Corthylocurus mexicanus (Schedl) (= Corthylus anomalus Bright), Cor thy lus mexicanus Schedl (= Corthylus glabinus Bright), Crypturgus pusillus (Gyllenhal) (= Crypturgus atomus LeConte), Dendrocranulus carbonarius (Ferrari) (= Xylocleptes floridensis Hopkins, Xylocleptes anonae Hopkins), Dendrocranulus cucurbitae (Le-Conte) (= Xylocleptes californicus Hopkins, Xylocleptes venturina Hopkins, Xylocleptes punctatus Hopkins), Dendrocranulus macilentus (Blandford) (= Dendrocranulus grossopunctatus Schedl), Hylastes salebrosus Eichhoff (= Hylastes scobinosus Eichhoff), Hypothenemus seriatus (Eichhoff) (= Stephanoderes pulverulentus Eichhoff), Ips spinifer (Eichhoff) (= Orthotomicus sabinianae Hopping), Leperisinus aculeatus (Say) (= Hylesinus imperialis Eichhoff), Micracis lignator Blackman (= Micracis truncatus Wood), Micracis swainei Blackman (= Micracis photophilus Wood), Micracis suturalis LeConte (= Micracis meridianus Blackman), Monarthrum querneus Wood (= Monarthrum bifidus Bright), Orthotomicus caelatus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus vicinus LeConte, Xyleborus punctipennis LeConte), Coccotrypes indicus (Eggers) (= Xyleborus conspeciens Schedl, Coccotrypes insularis Eggers, Poecilips eggersi Schedl), Phloeoborus asper Erichson (= Phloeoborus ovatus Chapuis, Phloeoborus rugatus Blandford), Phloeoborus rudis Erichson (= Phloeoborus elongatus Chapuis, Phloeoborus rugipennis Eggers), Phloeotribus armatus Blandford (= Phloeotribus mixtecus Bright), Phloeotribus demessus Blandford (= Phloeotribus tuber culatus Eggers), Phloeotribus pilula (Erichson) (= Phloeotribus obliquus Chapuis, Phloeotribus manni Blackman), Phloeotribus setulosus Eichhoff (= Phloeotribus asperatus Blandford), Pityoborus frontalis Wood (= Pityoborus seyerus Bright), Pityoborus secundus Blackman (= Pityoborus tertius Blackman, Pityoborus immitus Bright, Pityoborus intonsus Wood, Pityoborus ramosus Bright), Pycnarthrum hispidum (Ferrari) (= Nemobius lambottei Chapuis, Pycnarthrum gracile Eichhoff, Pycnarthrum quadraticolle Eichhoff, Pycnarthrum transversum Blandford, Pycnarthrum reimoseri Schedl, Pycnarthrum reticulatus Schedl), Pseudopityophthorus declivis Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus truncatus Bright, Pseudopityophthorus curtus Bright), Pseudopityophthorushondurensis Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus montanus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus micans Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus squamosus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus opacicollis Blackman (= Pseudopityophthorus aesculinus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus pruinosus (Eichhoff) (= Pseudopityophthorus pulvereus Blackman, Pseudopityophthorus tropicalis Wood, Pseudopityophthorus convexus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus singularis Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus acuminatus Bright), Pseudopityophthorus tennis Wood (= Pseudopityophthorus hirsutus Bright), Stenocleptus sulcatus (Bruck) (= Stenocleptus ceanothi Blackman, Stenocleptus rhois Blackman), Thysanoes texanus Blackman (= Thysanoes vachelliae Blackman, Thysanoes ratamae Blackman), Trypophloeus striatulus (Mannerheim) (= Trypophloeus nitidus Swaine), Xyleborus capucinus Eichhoff ), Xyleborus rufithorax Eichhoff), Xyleborus pubescens Zimmermann (= Xyleborus pini Say of Eichhoff), Xylosandrus curtulus Eichhoff (= Xyleborus biseriatus Schedl). Carphotoreus, n. gen., is described for Chaetophloeus alni Bright. Coccotrypes sannio (Schaufuss) is treated as a taxon distinct from Coccotrypes advena Blandford; and Gnathotrichus consentaneus Blandford is a valid species distinct from Gnathotrichus sulcatus LeConte. Gnathotrichus bituberculatus Blandford and all described South American species of Gnathotrichus are transferred to Gnathotrupes.
41712004|Examination of stomach contents indicated that second-year Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum larvae consumed Limnephilus sp. larvae but rarely ingested the case. Feeding observations of captive salamanders on caddisfly larvae supported this finding. Extraction of caddisfly larvae from their case was accomplished only when larval salamanders quickly seized the anterior portion of ambulatory Limnephilus sp. extended from their case and vigorously shook the trichopteran from side to side.
41711363|The Physaria species which occur in Utah are revised. This study is based on the treatment of this genus by Rollins (1939) and Mulligen (1967). Keys, descriptions, distribution maps, herbarium specimen citations, and discussions of the taxonomy of the genus are presented.
41711561|Two mule deer herds were studied on comparable, adjacent winter ranges in Utah. Significant differences in overwinter fawn survival were attributed to intensive predator control.
41712407|The characteristics of kokanee (Oncorhynchus nerka) spawning stocks in the Green River and Sheep Creek (tributaries to Flaming Gorge Reservoir) are described as observed in fall 1985 and spring 1986: the time of spawning; length, age, and sex structure of the stocks; fecundity and egg retention; density of eggs in redds; and the timing of downstream drift of emerging fry. The time of spawning, length-frequency distributions of spawning fish, and egg density in redds differed between the two stocks, but other differences were not observed.
41711688|A successful ground nesting by Swainson's Hawks, Buteo swainsoni, is reported for central Utah. Unusual aggressive nest defense behavior is described for this ground nesting pair.
41711686|Selected stonefly genera found in North America are classified as to their occurrence in: cold lotie, warm lotie, or lentie habitats. Most genera occur only in the cold lotie, but several occur both in cold and warm lotie systems. Few are found exclusively in warm lotie habitats and almost none in lentie. Lake or true lentie inhabits are found to usually be cold lotie species which have adapted to life in the wave-washed shores of cold mountain lakes. Even though data at the specific level would be even more useful, especially where different faunal regions are involved, stoneflies are probably the best insect indicators of aquatic environmental quality at the generic level.
41711838|The nest of the ant Formica propinqua W. M. Wheeler is reported from Washoe Co., Nevada.
41711733|Michel Gandoger, a notorious "splitter," proposed several new entities in the plant genus Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) in a 1906 paper published in Belgium. Because he used the term species at two different ranks, in violation of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature, many of his names are invalid. Unlike his papers published in France, this one was apparently edited so that some names were validly published and some are invalid. A review of the 1906 Eriogonum paper shows that a majority of both specific and infraspecific entities proposed are valid, but some names, long in use and assumed to be valid, are, in fact, invalid. Even so, most of his names are synonyms. Each name proposed by Gandoger is reviewed and a nomenclatural and taxonomic disposition made. Two new combinations are made within E. luteolum Greene, var. caninum (Greene) Reveal and var. pedunculatum (S. Stokes) Reveal.
41712879|A new subspecies of Artemisia arbuscula is described, A. arbuscula ssp. longicaulis Winward & McArthur, ssp. nov. This taxon is a landscape dominant in portions of northwestern Nevada and adjacent California and Oregon at elevations from 1050 to 2000 m on shallow or argillic (clayey) soils. It differs from A. arbuscula ssp. arbuscula in its long floral stalks and large leaves. Morphological, chemical, ecological, and cytological data suggest that it is of hybrid origin. It is hexaploid (6x). We hypothesize that 2x A. arbuscula ssp. arbuscula and 4x A. indentata ssp. wyomingensis are its parents.
41712867|This study investigated local distribution and foraging behavior of the spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) in Dinosaur National Monument, Colorado-Utah, by monitoring audible echolocation calls. The occurrence of this species was verified in a variety of habitat types in canyon bottoms and other relatively low elevation sites, indicating that the animals are widely distributed and locally common in the area. Foraging spotted bats concentrated flight activity in the open-air space above meadows and occasionally exploited near-canopy habitat (within 8 m of foliage). Bats began to forage shortly after dark, and activity levels were relatively constant throughout the night. Foraging spotted bats attacked airborne prey every 2.15 min on average. Consistent with published observations, spotted bats maintained exclusive foraging areas. Distinct vocalizations indicating agonistic encounters occurred when a bat encroached on the foraging area of a conspecific.
41711678|Collections of diurnal insects from a population of Phlox bryoides on shortgrass prairie in southeastern Wyoming showed the flowers to be visited predominantly by Synhalonia fulvitarsis, a long-tongued bee. Analysis of pollen loads carried by captured bees revealed that almost all individuals were collecting Phlox pollen. P. bryoides may be an exception to the generalization that the genus Phlox is exclusively pollinated by Lepidoptera.
41712612|Six species of the coccidian genus Eimeria (E. larimerensis [prevalence = 17%], E. bilamellata [12%], E. beecheyi [34%], E. morainensis [43%], E. callospermophili [21%], and E. spermophili [5%]) were recovered from Wyoming ground squirrels (Spermophilus elegans elegans) collected during 1983, 1984, 1985, and 1986. Infected ground squirrels were found to harbor from one to five species simultaneously. The 1007 hosts examined were collected from two different habitats: (1) a xeric desert shrub-steppe and (2) an irrigated alfalfa-brome field. All species of Eimeria occurred at each study site during all years, although the prevalence of each species varied between years. This is the first report of these congeries of species infecting this host. In a second study of sympatric populations of Wyoming ground squirrels and white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus), we found three species of Eimeria present in both host populations (E. beecheyi [white-tailed prairie dog prevalence = 83%, Wyoming ground squirrel = 52%], E. morainensis [22%, 52%], and E. bilamellata [17%, 10%]). This is the first report of these three species infecting white-tailed prairie dogs. Eimeria larimerensis was found in Wyoming ground squirrels but not in prairie dogs.
41711746|This paper is the third in a series dealing with a revision of the flora of Utah. Treated herein are 9 genera and 23 species, including both commonly cultivated, escaped, and indigenous representatives. Proposed new taxa include Sphaeralcea grossulariifolia (H. and A.) Rydb. var. moorei Welsh, Sphaeralcea leptophylla (Gray) Rydb. var. janeae Welsh, and Sphaeralcea psoraloides Welsh.
41711684|Stenopelmatus mescaleroensis is described from New Mexico as new to science. A key to the Stenopelmatus of the United States is presented with notes on chaetotaxy used for these crickets.
41711399|Rodent trapping was conducted in representative northern Great Basin habitat types for six consecutive years to determine the magnitude of density change, the specific habitat affinities, and the effects of habitat alteration on rodent density. Although species responded differently, total rodent density was greater in depleted shadscale and sagebrush communities than in comparable pristine sites. However, disturbed sites with nearly pure stands of weedy introduced annuals supported few rodents. Several species exhibited abrupt and concurrent yearly changes in density. The factors causing these changes were not identified. Until this information is available, we can develop only crude models to predict the direction and magnitude of population change.
41712555|Radiotelemetry was used to evaluate lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) nesting response to herbicidal conversion of sand shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) rangeland to grassland. Hens selected nest sites in residual grasses within lightly grazed sand shinnery oak habitat with > 75% vertical screening in the first 0.33 m and 50% overhead cover.
41712491|Annual plant populations in northwestern New Mexico were found to be spatially and temporally highly variable. During favorable years annual plant species have patterns of dominance and diversity that are different from those of perennial species. Measurement of perennial plant diversity in plant communities is a poor predictor of productivity. Both perennial and annual components of plant communities should be considered in measurements of diversity and productivity.
41711870|Analysis of morphological characters of Arceuthobium apachecum and A. blumeri indicates there are several geographically consistent differences between these taxa, which supports their current classification at the specific level. Shoot height and perianth lobe number exhibited considerable geographic variation, and some morphological characters examined were continuous. Peak flowering and seed dispersal periods for these species differed slightly. Altitudinal, seasonal, and latitudinal variations in flowering and seed dispersal were detected and may be responsible for the differences in phenology between these taxa.
41712726|The present distribution of the Mexican vole (Microtus mexicanus) is not entirely the product of post-Pleistocene forest fragmentation and extinction; recent dispersal also is indicated. Literature records further suggest that this phenomenon may reflect a general pattern of northward range expansion in many southwestern mammal species.
41711540|A survey of the helminth parasites of 100 stray cats and 50 dogs was conducted. Each host was euthanized, and the internal organs were excised and examined for parasites. Helminths identified from cats included the tapeworms Dipylidium caninum and Hydatigera taeniaformis, and the nematodes Physaloptera sp. and Toxocara mystax. Two species of coccidia, Isospora felis and I. rivolta, and one ectoparasitic mite, Cheyletiella parasitivorax, were also recovered from cats during sugar flotation of the feces. Helminths identified from dogs included the tapeworms D. caninum, Taenia hydatigena, T. krabbei, and T. pisiformis, and the nematodes Filaroides milksi, Toxascaris leonina, and Toxocara cards. Of those parasites collected, D. caninum, T. canis, and T. mystax are known to cause accidental infection in humans and could represent potential health hazards in this region.
41712795|Globemallows (Sphaeralcea spp.) are arid land forbs suitable for seeding with crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum [L.] Gaertner). However, little is known about the quantitative role of total nonstructural carbohydrates (TNC) in relation to globemallow tolerance of grazing, or about seasonal dynamics of mineral elements. The objectives of this study were to compare TNC and element pools (concentration X biomass) in the roots, crowns, and shoots of clipped versus undipped S. munroana (Dougl.) Spach. Seedlings of S. munroana were transplanted to a northern Utah field site in 1985. Interplanted crested wheatgrass provided a uniform competitive background. One-half of the globemallows were clipped to 5 cm on 10 May 1986 when stems were elongating and root and crown TNC pools were low. The remaining globemallows were not clipped. Root, crown, and shoot pools of TNC and elements (N, P, K, Ca, and Mg) were determined on 1 May, 20 May, 7 June, 11 July, 22 September, and 5 November 1986, and 29 May 1987. Defoliation did not affect shoot weights during a 1-year period. Experiment-long TNC and element pools also were not affected by clipping. Results indicate that S. munroana shoot recovery from a single spring grazing during a 1-year period would not be impaired by low root and crown TNC pools, and that TNC stored in the roots and crowns would account for only 7% of the regrowth produced. Furthermore, TNC and element pools of roots and crowns were generally constant from May to September but increased from September to November. TNC and element pools in shoots increased from May to September and then generally declined by November. TNC pools of roots and crowns declined during winter.
41711734|Twenty Catostomus latipinnis and 50 Catostomus discobolis from La Verkin Creek and the Fremont River in southern Utah were collected and surveyed for parasites. Data from the survey indicated that 83 percent of the fish were infected with at least one parasite, with the fish from La Verkin Creek harboring more parasites. Twelve genera and 12 species of parasites were identified from these fish. A monogenetic trematode, Gyrodactylus elegans, which was found in 90 percent of the fish, was the most common parasite. Comments are included on habitat and host variations for the parasitofauna from suckers taken from the two locations.
41711993|The 27-acre Kramer Palouse Natural Area located in southeastern Washington State represents the best remaining example of what was once the most productive portion of the original Palouse Prairie. This area is being maintained in its pristine condition as a key to the past and as a memory to a unique and once extensive prairie land by the Department of Forestry and Range Management at Washington State University.
41712699|In Platypodidae the new name Genyocerus strohmeyeri replaced the junior homonym G. albipennis Strohmeyer, 1942, and the new name Platypus apphnatulus replaced the junior homonym Platypus applanatus Schedl, 1976. New names are presented in Scolytidae as replacements for junior homonyms as follows: Cryphalus brownei for Cryphalus artocarpus Schedl, 1958; Cyclorhipidion dihingicum for Xyleborus dihingensis Schedl, 1951; Hypothenemus aterrimulus for Lepiceroides (now Hypothenemus) aterrimus Schedl, 1957; Hypothenemus krivolutskayae for Hypothenemus insularis Krivolutskaya; Pityophthorus africanulus for Neodryocoetes (now Pityophthorus) africanus Schedl, 1962; Scolytogenes papuensis for Xylocryptus (now Scolytogenes) papuanus Schedl, 1975; Scolytogenes paradoxus for Scolytogenes papuanus Schedl, 1979; Xyleborinus spiniposticus for Eidophelus (now Xyleborinus) spinipennis Schedl, 1979; Xyleborus formosae for Xyleborus formosanus Browne, 1981. New combinations for fossil Scolytidae include Dryocoetes diluvialis for Pityophthoroidea diluvialis Wickham, 1916, and Hylesinus hydropicus for Apidocephalus hydropicus Wickham, 1916. Phloeotribus zimmermanni Wickham, 1916, is transferred to the family Curculionidae. In Scolytidae, Cryphalophilus Schedl, 1970, is a junior generic synonym of Scolytogenes Eichhoff; Macrocryphalus Nobuchi, 1981, is a junior generic synonym of Hypothenemus Westwood, 1836; Nipponopolygraphus Nobuchi, 1981, is a junior generic synonym of Polygraphus Erichson, 1836; Pseudocosmoderes Nobuchi, 1981, is a junior generic synonym of Cosmoderes Eichhoff, 1878; Taphrocoetes Pfeffer, 1987, is a junior generic synonym of Taphrorychus Eichhoff; Trypanophellos Bright, 1982, is a junior generic synomym of Liparthrum Wollaston. New specific synonymy in Scolytidae includes: Brachyspartus moritzi Ferrari (=Corthylus obtusus Schedl), Carphoborus minimus (Fabricius) (=Carphoborus balgensis Murayama), Coccotrypes dactyliperda (Fabricius) (= Coccotrypes tropicus Eichhoff), Cryphalus scabricollis Eichhoff (=Cryphalus brevicollis Schedl), Ficicis despects (Walker) (=Hylesinus samoanus Schedl), Hylastes plumbeus Blandford (=Hylurgops fushunensis Murayama), Hylurgops interstitialis (Chapuis) (= Hylurgops niponicus Murayama), Hylurgops spessivtsevi Eggers (=Hylurgops modestus Murayama), Ips stebbingi Strohmeyer (=Ips schmutzenhoferi Holzschuh), Phloeosinus rudis Blandford (=Phloeosinus shotoensis Murayama, Polygraphus kaimochi (Nobuchi) (= Polygraphus querci Wood), Polygraphus proximus Blandford (=Polygraphus magnus Murayama), Scolytogenes braderi Browne (=Scolytogenes onentalis Schedl), Scolytoplatypus parvus Sampson (=Scolytoplatypus ruficauda Eggers), Sphaerotrypes querci Stebbing (=Chramesus globulus Stebbing, Sphaerotrypes tectus Beeson), Sueus niisimai (Eggers) (=Sphaerotrypes controversae Murayama), Tomicus brevipihsus (Eggers) (=Blastophagus khasianus Murayama, Blastophagus multisetosus Murayama). The European Hylastes opacus Erichson is reported as an established breeding population in New York (USA). Phloeosinus armatus Reitter of Asia Minor is reported as causing economic damage as a new introduction to Los Angeles County, California. The following species are named as new to science: Cyclorhipidion subagnatum (Philippine Islands), Dendrotrupes zealandicus (New Zealand), Polygraphus thitsi (Burma), Triotemnus pilicornis (India), and Xyleborus magnificus (Peru).
41712422|A list of the algal species that have been reported from the state of Utah is presented. Also listed are the habitats from which these algae were collected. A total of nearly 1,900 taxa have been identified to the species level or below. Diatoms comprise the largest group, with nearly 1,000 taxa, followed by the green algae with over 550 taxa.
41711699|The subfamily Anomiopsyllinae in North America consists of five genera: Anomiopsyllus Baker; Callistopsyllus Jordan and Rothschild; Conorhinopsylla Stewart; Megarthroglossus Jordan and Rothschild; and Stenistomera Rothschild. The revision of Anomiopsyllus was the subject of a previous paper, and the remaining four genera are treated herein. The North American genus Jordanopsylla Traub and Tipton and the Palearctic genus Wagnerina Ioff and Argyropulo had been included in the subfamily Anomiopsyllinae by Ioff and Argyropulo, but these two genera possess characters which are not consistent with the current definition of the subfamily. All species are considered to be "nest fleas," but modifications for a nest habitat are more pronounced in some species than others. Diagnoses, descriptions, and keys are given for genera and most species. In addition, illustrations, host records, and geographical distribution are given for each of the 21 species.
41712600|Efforts between 1982 and 1990 have failed to recover and secure three natural populations of endangered Sonoran topminnow (Poeciliopsis o. occidentalis) at Bylas Springs, Arizona. Flooding in the Gila River in 1977-78 allowed ingress by predatory mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), and topminnows began to decline. Since that time (1) one stock has been replaced twice and is again nearly gone because of depredations by mosquitofish that resisted two eradication attempts; (2) topminnows at a second spring were extirpated through vegetation encroachment after fencing to protect the habitat from livestock; and (3) a third population was lost to mosquitofish, restocked after the nonnative was removed, and the restocked population is again in jeopardy, or extirpated, since mosquitofish reinvaded. Recommendations for a more intensive program of recovery are based on reassessments of past efforts and new suggestions for eradication and exclusion of mosquitofish.
41711878|During the years 1965-1971, considerable data were gathered that included information concerning species not previously reported. These included Chionactis occipatalis talpina, Coleonyx variegatus utahensis, Crotaphytus colforis bicinctores, Cnemidophorus tigris tigris, and Sauromalus obesus obesus. Although complete information concerning their life histories is not reported, some information concerning growth and reproduction is included.
41704202|The taxonomic history of the genus Gymnodamaeus is reviewed for North American species. A new species, Gymnodamaeus chalazionus, is described from Colorado and compared with species from both the western and eastern U.S. Among other features, the new species differs from G. veriornatus Higgins, 1961, in the shorter interlamellar hairs and the surface structure of the notogaster and genital plates. The new species is also compared with G. quadricaudatus Jacot, 1937, G. pearsei and minor Banks, 1947; with G. gildersleeveae and ornatus Hammer 1952, from Canada, and with G. elegantulus Hammer, 1958, from South America. Twelve scanning electron micrographs are used to delineate some of the details of integument and other features.
41712192|Reviewed are the oak taxa as they are presently understood in Utah. Keys and descriptions are included, occurrences are cited, and problems of hybridization are discussed. Named as new varieties from Utah are Quercus gambelii Nutt. var. bonina Welsh and Quercus havardii Rydb. var. tuckeri Welsh. Both varieties occur in southeastern Utah. Quercus eastwoodiae Rydb. is proposed as a hybrid.
41712150|The efficacy of cutting (haying) versus burning was compared for control of marsh vegetation in Utah. Cutting reduced production of hardstem bulrush (Scirpus lacustris), alkali bulrush (S. maritimus), and cattail (Typha spp.) compared to levels found on burned plots, but differences were significant (P < 0.05) only within the alkali bulrush vegetation type. Clipping saltgrass (Distichlis spicata) plots greatly reduced production upon reflooding, which produced results similar to prescribed burning and reflooding. Heat penetration into the sediments during the fire was not sufficient to cause substantial belowground mortality. Without belowground mortality, prescribed burning alone did not change aboveground production or species composition. Flooding after fire did eliminate saltgrass, but a single prescribed burning or cutting was not an effective management tool for reducing production of cattail, hardstem bulrush, and alkali bulrush.
41712862|The chronology of Juniperus occidentalis (western juniper) expansion in eastern Oregon, the effect of plant canopy and interspace on J. occidentalis seedling establishment and growth rates, and the age of J. occidentalis maximum reproductive potential were determined. Measurements were recorded in twenty-two 0.4-ha plots established in sagebrush-grassland communities and six 0.1-ha plots in Populus tremuloides (quaking aspen) communities. J. occidentalis began increasing during the 1880s in stands containing trees > 130 yr old. Relatively steady establishment ensued into the 1950s and then began to progress at a geometric rate in the 1960s. J. occidentalis encroachment into aspen stands began between 1910 and 1920. The largest proportion of juvenile trees established beneath Artemisia species in sagebrush-grassland communities. J. occidentalis trees appeared to reach full reproductive potential at >50 yr of age. The ratio of male: female trees increased from 1.7 in scattered J. occidentalis stands to 3.8 in closed stands. The initiation of J. occidentals encroachment during the late 1800s coincides with optimal climatic conditions for Juniperus berry production and establishment, reduced fire-return intervals, and heavy livestock grazing. The accelerated increase in J. occidentalis expansion since 1960 may be due to the continued absence of fire, abundant woody plant cover, and the large increase in J. occidentalis seed production.
41712566|Patterned ground consisting of Mima-type earth mounds and associated sorted stone circles and nets is widespread on the Columbia Plateau of western North America. Studies of the geometric relationships of mounds and stone nets to slope aspect and steepness were carried out at the Lawrence Memorial Grassland Preserve, north central Oregon, in June 1987. Mound and moundfield characteristics were sampled on randomly chosen 1-ha plots on slopes of different aspect and steepness. Mounds were largest, most circular and symmetrical in form, and most fully encircled by beds of size-sorted stones on level sites. On slopes of increasing steepness, mounds decreased in size, showed increasing asymmetry and downslope elongation, and became connected into lines oriented up-and downslope. Encircling stone beds became more weakly developed or disappeared on upslope and downslope sides of the mounds, and the lateral beds developed downslope extensions that eventually merged with those of adjacent upslope and downslope mounds. These patterns are interpreted as reflecting changes in the manner of soil translocation by northern pocket gophers, Thomomys talpoides, due to their responses to tunneling on slopes and to the modification of the flow of water across the slope because of the presence of mounds.
41711803|In this study, mule deer population trend data (deer-days-use/hectare) were statistically analyzed with range area data that were extracted from LANDSAT satellite imagery. The remote sensing techniques developed use multidate, winter images of an area in central Utah. Snow-covered areas and vegetational areas mapped from the imagery were composited into 26 maps representing the approximate winter range available to mule deer on 26 dates over a five-year period (1972-1977). Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources pellet-group transect data were statistically analyzed with range data measured from the satellite imagery. Range area accounted for a fairly large proportion of the variation in deer-days-use/hectare (r = .83). This result seems reasonable since deer population density should increase as available range decreases.
41712439|Five species of Ciconiiforms breed in Wyoming: the American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus), Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), and White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi). Field surveys conducted from 1984 through 1986 indicate that at least 151 Great Blue Heron colony sites exist in Wyoming, making it the most abundant and widespread Ciconiiform in the state. Only small breeding populations have been discovered for the remaining species. Except for the Snowy Egret, where numbers of active nests have remained relatively stable, population trends are unknown for the other species. We believe most colonies have been found in Wyoming, but additional inventories may result in the discovery of other nesting areas, especially for the Great Blue Heron.
41712142|Crystal Ball Cave is located in a small outlier of the Snake Range in Snake Valley 1.7 km (1 mile) west of Lake Bonneville at its highest level. Original vertebrate skeletal material (mostly mammalian) has been found in shallow dry dust 61 m (200 feet) inside the cave. Radiocarbon dates show that fossils have been accumulating since at least 23,000 Y.B.P. It appears that wood rats and possibly small carnivores transported the fossils into the cave because only the smallest elements of large mammals are represented. The fossil assemblage represents a much more boreal community than the present local fauna. Fish, Ondatra zibethicus, and Musteh cf. vison, which require perennial water, were recovered, as were Ochotona princeps, Lepus cf. americana, Microtus cf. pennsylvanicus, Vulpes vulpes, and Maries americana, which have also been extirpated from the Snake Range. Marmota flaviventris, Neotoma cinrea, cf. Cervus elaphus, and Ovis canadensis were recovered but now occur only at higher elevations in the range. Extinct taxa recovered are Smilodon cf. fatalis, Equus species, Camelops cf. hesternus, Hemiauchenia cf. macrocephala, cf. Symbos cavifrons, and a new species of Brachyprotoma, herein named B. brevimala. This is the first recovery of Brachyprotoma from the western United States.
41711348|Observations indicate that Formica obscuripes flies earlier in Nevada than in other parts of the country where the flights have been recorded. The alate males are the first to emerge from the nest. These are eventually succeeded by alate females, and finally only females are seen. F. obscuripes flew during periods when air temperatures were 20.526.5 C, when relative humidities were about 18%, and when solar input was about 1.35 langleys. Slight winds approaching 3 mph did not keep the ants from flying but may have influenced their direction of flight. The nests of F. obscuripes observed near Reno differ from those reported in other areas in that they do not have such an extensive thatch covering them.
41712510|Habitat use and selection by Merriam's Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) in Wasco County, Oregon, was studied during 1981-82. This turkey population selectively used forested cover types (such as ponderosa pine-Douglas-fir-oak, ponderosa pine-oak) characterized by a variety of structural features, species, and age classes. The population used single species forested cover types (oak, ponderosa pine) less than expected, used nonforested cover types in proportion to their availability, and avoided forested cover types with structure simplified by logging activities. The four age and sex classes had large seasonal home ranges ($\bar X$ = 1,615 ha); the smallest home ranges were exhibited by adult males in winter and the largest were shown by subadult males in fall. In most instances, turkeys used cover types as they were available. We suggest that structural complexity of vegetation, both within and among cover types, is an important component of habitat for Merriam's Wild Turkeys that should be considered in the evaluation of potential release sites and in habitat management plans.
41712175|From 1972 to 1982 three exceptionally large sauropod scapulocoracoids and other equally large sauropod bones were collected from the base of the Brushy Basin Member of the Upper Jurassic, Morrison Formation, in western Colorado. Two of the scapulae are conspecific, but the third represents a second genus and possibly a new family. The two conspecific specimens are described here as: Supersaurus vivianae; the second genus is described as Ultrasaurus mcintoshi, and a large, robust anterior dorsal vertebra of unique form is described as Dystylosaurus edwini. Various miscellaneous elements are referred to the three genera.
41712769|Shrub-form and tree-form Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) stands contain a potentially significant fuelwood resource. Information on their growth characteristics can form a basis for future stand management. Stem analyses showed that height growth of shrub-form stems essentially ceased after age 50, while tree-form stems continued to increase in height until approximately age 100. Both stem forms continued to increase in basal area and volume at a relatively constant rate as the stems increased in age and size. Increases in all size measures were substantially greater in tree-form stems than in shrub-form stems. Mean bole volume for tree-form stems at age 100 was over 16 times that of shrub-form stems. Sprouts from tree-form stands would reach minimum size for fuelwood marketing in approximately 45 years.
41711938|Named as a new species is Penstemon albifluvis J. L. England. The species is known from the Uinta Basin of Utah and Colorado.
41713051|Reexaminaron of a semiarid foothill rangeland, first evaluated in 1948, indicated that secondary succession continues to shift toward a perennial grass-forb community formerly dominated by xeric shrubs, particularly big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata spp. vaseyana). The direct role of livestock grazing in establishment and maintenance of shrub-dominant plant communities appears confirmed in the decline of shrubs upon cessation of livestock grazing in summer and continued browsing by mule deer in winter. The reduction of shrub forages on mule deer winter ranges is a major factor in population declines.
41712336|At four sites in Idaho, frequency was measured separately with three different-sized plots (10  25, 15  33.5, and 20  50 cm) arranged in a nested configuration. These individual frequency values were added together to create a summed "frequency." This summed value was compared to the original frequency values generated by each individual plot size in respect to its ability to detect range trend. The summation procedure consistently detected smaller changes in frequency than any individual plot size. In addition, the summed values detected a significant change in more species at each site. Summing the frequency values usually detected changes at a lower alpha level than did any single plot (0.10 vs. 0.20).
41712144|The 23 species and subspecies of Poa that occur in New Mexico are described in detail. Collection locations of these species in New Mexico are given in dot distribution maps. A descriptive key to the species of Poa that occur in Arizona, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, and New Mexico, including general distribution for species not in New Mexico, is provided. Three new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Poa arctica subsp. aperta; P. fendleriana subsp. longiligula ; P. f. subsp. albescens. Subgeneric affinities of species of the southern Rocky Mountain region are indicated. Of the 25 species that occur within the region, the geographic affinities are; circumpolar (P. alpina, P. arctica, P. glauca, P. interior, and P. leptocoma), Beringian (P. lettermanii, and P. pattersonii), Eurasian weeds (P. annua, P. bulbosa, P. compressa, P. palustris, P. pratensis (also circumpolar), and P. trivialis), Pacific Northwest (P. bohnderi, P. cusickii, P. nervosa, and P. stenantha), northern Great Plains (P. arida), southern Great Plains and South American Pampas (P. arachnifera), Great Basin-Californian (P. fendleriana and P. secunda), and Middle and Southern Rocky Mountain (P. bigelovii, P. curta, P. occidentalis, P. reflexa, and P. tracyi). The only native diploid Poa species known in the Southern Rocky Mountains, the contiguous United States, and southern Canada are P. lettermanii and P. occidentalis.
41711821|A clutch of 8 eggs was incubated. Three hatchlings emerged and were weighed, measured and color pattern indicated.
41711426|Six new species of Microvelia are described from North and Central America: depressus, glabrosulcata, leavipleura, paura, psilonota, and reflexus. These species are compared to Microvelia austrina Bueno, and the austrina group is designated to hold them. The habitats and phoresy of the group are discussed.
41712117|Monthly percent nutrient and moisture levels of plant species on two summer ranges in the River of No Return Wilderness Area of Idaho were determined. Festuca idahoensis exhibited the highest average crude protein content of graminoids on both study areas. Achillea millefolium and Balsamorhiza saggittata at Rush Point and Trifolium spp. and Achillea millefolium at Cold Meadows possessed the highest mean crude protein content of the forbs examined. Grasses exhibited greater average seasonal levels of crude fiber, and forbs generally contained significantly larger levels of Ca, P, and moisture.
41712091|A four-season live trapping study in the Whirlwind Valley, on the Lander and Eureka county lines near the Humboldt River, yielded two species previously unrecorded from both counties, Ammospermophilus lencurus and Peromyscus truei. Both records represent minimal airline range extension of 113 and 105 km. It is suggested that the distribution of A. leucurus may include the entire northeastern quadrant of Nevada. The occurrence of P. truei in sagebrush habitat 21 km from the nearest pinyon woodland is unusual and suggests that this species may occur patchily distributed throughout the lower elevation ranges in the northern portion of the state.
41712588|The soil fungal community beneath pinyon (Finns edulis Engelm.) and one-seeded juniper (Juniperus monosperma [Engelm.] Sarg.) tree canopies is described and compared with fungi from adjacent interspace soils dominated by blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis [H.B.K.] Lag.). Significantly higher organic matter contents and fungal propagule levels were found in soils beneath pinyon and juniper trees than in interspace soils. Soils under pinyon and juniper trees contained similar chemical, physical, and biological properties and, consequently, many groups of fungi in common (64% of the species isolated were common to both). In contrast, soil fungi in adjacent interspace soils were vastly different from those collected in soils beneath pinyon and juniper canopies (44% and 48% species in common, respectively). Soil fungi that were isolated more often from pinyon-juniper soils than from interspace soils included Absidia spp., Beauvaria spp., Gliocladium spp., Mucor spp., Penicillium cyclopium, P. fascicuhta, P. frequentons, P. restrictum, Thamnidium spp, and Trichoderma spp. Soil fungi that were isolated more often in interspace soils than in pinyon or juniper soils included Aspergillus alutaceus spp., A. fumigatus, some Fusarium spp., Penicillium luteum, and P. talaromyces.
41712296|Hatching chronology of Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) in northeastern Oregon was determined from 431 immatures examined from 1981 to 1985. Young hatched from 1 May through 8 July; median hatching dates for the five years ranged from 27 May to 5 June. Peak hatching in Oregon occurred from one to four weeks earlier than in most portions of the range of Blue Grouse but were similar to north central Washington and Idaho. Variations in hatching dates possibly were related to rainfall.
41711689|Populations of reptiles were examined in grazed and ungrazed habitats dominated by sagebrush (Artemisia trdentata) or by crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cirstatum) on the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL) Site in southeastern Idaho. The sagebrush lizard (Sceloporus graciosus) and the short-horned lizard (Phrynosoma douglassi) were the only species of reptiles encountered in sufficient numbers to permit statistical analysis. Both of these species preferred sagebrush habitats to areas dominated by crested wheatgrass. The sagebrush lizard was most abundant in the native, ungrazed, sagebrush habitat, and the short-horned lizard was most plentiful in the sheep-grazed area dominated by big sagebrush.
41711374|Notes are given concerning distribution and habitat for Och terus barberi Schell, Hydrometra aemula Drake, Metrobates artus Anderson, Metrobates denticornis Champion, Rhagovelia becki Drake and Harris, Velia beameri Hungerford, Velia summersi Drake, Abedus (Abedus) breviceps Stal, Abedus (Deinostoma) herberti Hidalgo, Ambrysus buenoi Usinger, and Ambrysus thermarum La Rivers. The following synonymies are noted: Hydrometra aemula Drake 1956 = Hydrometra ciliata Mychajliw 1961, new synonymy; Gerris paludum Fabricius 1794 = Gerris uhleri Drake and Hottes 1925, new synonymy. The macropterous form of Velia beameri is described.
41712875|A two-year field experiment was conducted to investigate factors hypothesized to affect the reproductive potential of Astragalus kentrophyta var. implexus and to test the importance of trade-offs between growth and reproduction in this species. Levels of mineral nutrients, water, herbivory, and competition were manipulated. Seed output and growth of individuals in treatment groups were compared against control plants. Neither water nor mineral nutrients alone were shown to affect growth or reproduction. Herbivory was shown to be similarly unimportant in affecting growth and reproduction. Competition with other species influenced growth but not reproduction. No significant tradeoffs between growth and reproduction were detected within years. However, there did appear to be a trade-off between these major fitness components when compared between years.
41711643|New synonymy of American Scolytidae is proposed as follows: Coccotrypes cyperi (Beeson) (=Thamnurgides indicus Eggers), Pityophthorus attenuatus Blackman (= Pityophthorus pusillus Wood), Pityophthorus digestus LeConte (= Pityophthorus aphnatus Schedl), Pseudohylesinus sericeus (Mannerheim) (= Pseudohylesinus yasamatsui Nobuchi), Xyleborus mutabilis Schedl (= Xyleborus meridensis Wood). New names are proposed to replace junior homonyms as follows: Pityophthorus indigus for Pityophthorus indigens Wood, 1977 (nee Wood 1976), and Xyhborus devexulus for Xyleborus devexus Wood, 1977 (nee Schedl, 1977). The following species are named as new to science: Conophthorus echinatae (Missouri), Lymantor alaskanus (Alaska), Pityophthorus delicatus (Mexico), P. rubidus (Arizona and Mexico), P. vesculus (Panama), Scolytodes comitabilis, S. crinalis, S. crinitus, S. decorus, S. genialis, S. habilis, S. libidus, S. perpussilus, S. semipunctatus (Venezuela).
41712233|The major hanging gardens and associated water seeps in Zion National Park were surveyed for the presence of the Zion Snail (Physazionis). Environmental parameters, including water depth, water velocity, substrate slope, and algal cover, were measured to determine their effect on the local distribution of the snail. Large populations (densities 125 to 250/m) were found in the Virgin River Narrows area of the park and at a hanging garden and seep located 1.0 km north of Scout Lookout. Densities in other localities were low in comparison. Snails were not found in all hanging gardens or seeps. The major factor controlling within seep distribution was determined to be water velocity. Experiments were conducted to test the ability of the snail to remain attached during differing water flows. The snail showed an ability to remain attached during high flows, but few snails were found in areas of high flow.
41712641|Understory phytomass production in a western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis) woodland was examined relative to tree size in central Oregon in 1983 and 1984. Vegetation was sampled in two zones, the canopy zone (beneath the canopy) and the intercanopy zone (the space between canopies), on two adjacent sitesa lower slope site with shallow soil and an upper slope site with deeper soil. Sampling was stratified into three tree size classes. Individual species production was significantly affected by tree size and location relative to tree canopy. Production of bottlebrush squirreltail, bluebunch wheatgrass, cheatgrass, miscellaneous annual grasses, perennial forbs, and annual forbs increased with increasing tree size. Sandberg bluegrass production was greater in the intercanopy than the canopy zone, while production of bottlebrush squirreltail, bluebunch wheatgrass, miscellaneous annual grasses, and both perennial and annual forbs was greater in the canopy zone. Production of cheatgrass was determined by the interaction of tree size and zone. Phytomass relationships were expressed to a greater degree on the upper slope site, where total production exceeded that of the lower slope site by approximately 50% the second year of the study. Individual trees appear to exert a great influence on associated vegetation as western juniper woodlands progress from the seedling (tree establishment) phase to closed stands of mature trees. Original community dominants appear to be spatially segregated beneath tree canopies and associated with large trees, while formerly less common species, such as cheatgrass, come to dominate the entire site.
41712493|A bulk sampling of gastropods collected near Great Salt Lake, Utah, revealed several fish bones of Gila atraria (Girard). The early date of this find, coupled with the relationship of the Gilbert lake transgression and successive regression of approximately 11,000 years B. P., reveals a death assemblage induced by a series of saline inundations into the freshwater paludal environment.
41712554|The development of black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) burrow mounds was monitored for three years. Entrances were flagged at points where a prairie dog was observed digging into the ground (primary entrances, n = 22) and digging out of the ground (secondary entrances, n = 8). In all samples it was observed that primary entrances became dome mounds and secondary entrances crater mounds. It is suggested that, although induced airflow (presently, a popular model) may partly explain the presence of mounds, architectural types (dome vs. crater mounds) are the result of energy constraints associated with building materials that differ at the two entrances.
41711472|The evolutionary divergence of five closely related populations of the yellow monkey flower, Mimulus guttatus, was compared with the length of time the populations could have occupied the site and with the ability of the populations to intercross. Populations from the younger sites were found to be morphologically intermediate to populations from the older sites. Ability to intercross was not correlated with morphological divergence at this stage of evolution.
41712545|The observed distribution and relative abundance of two morphologically similar species of sucker, Catostomus, have shifted dramatically over the past four decades in Sagehen Creek and nearby streams in eastern California. The mountain sucker, C. platyrhynchus, formerly abundant and more numerous than the Tahoe sucker, C. tahoensis, has become relatively rare and during this study was consistently less abundant than the Tahoe sucker at all eastern California sites in 1983. Similar shifts in abundance were not seen at the three Nevada sites. Behavioral observations and data on spatial and temporal patterns of habitat use, collected in Sagehen Creek between May and September 1982 and 1983 using a snorkel survey method, indicate nearly complete overlap between mountain and Tahoe sucker habitat use and an absence of any agonistic behavioral interaction between species. The decline of the mountain sucker in these areas is likely the result of an interaction of loss of habitat due to reservoir construction and destructive management practices. These changes may have led to the elimination of isolating mechanisms between the two species and may be increasing the opportunity for introgressive hybridization.
41712318|Historical notes extracted from a taxonomic revision of American representatives of Sitona Germar are presented. Described as new to science are Sitona alpinensis (Utah to Northwest Territories), bryanti (Arizona), and oregonensis (Oregon to Washington).
41712035|Nests of Plain Titmice and Blue-gray Gnatcatchers are reported from Wyoming for the first time. Both species probably breed fairly commonly in southwestern and south central portions of the state.
41711381|The natural history of Sceloporus magister was studied in populations at the Nevada Test Site, Mercury. Individuals were marked and kept under surveillance from 1965 through 1970. Reproductive cycles were examined by field observation and by autopsy. Hatchlings appear in the population in July and August. Growth is rapid for the first year. Sexual maturity is reached before the second hibernation or soon after emergence from it. Territoriality is a pronounced behaviorism; individuals have been observed to remain in a small area for several years. Food consists of arthropods, with ants the predominant item. Reproduction occurs during May and/or June with only one clutch per year. Density is variable and depends on the appropriateness of the habitat.
41712743|Changes in vegetation including area occupied, canopy cover, and maturity class of cottonwoods (Populus spp.) within lower-elevation zones of the Colorado River and Rio Grande in Colorado were monitored over 25-and 37-year intervals, respectively, using photo-interpretative methods. Estimated loss of cottonwoods along the Colorado River was 2 ha/km (17.5%), and remaining stands had become more open and older. Cottonwoods along the Rio Grande increased 1.6 ha/km (9.3%) with minor canopy cover and maturity class changes. Area occupied by shrubs and river channel changed little along the Colorado River, but declined along the Rio Grande. Loss of hay meadow occurred along both rivers, whereas developed land increased along the Colorado River and farmland increased along the Rio Grande. Wildlife habitats along the Colorado deteriorated much more rapidly than those along the Rio Grande during monitored intervals.
41712994|Coleogyne ramosissima is a desert shrub that forms a nearly monospecific shrubland and occupies a well-defined elevational band between approximately 1050 and 2150 m on mountain ranges in southern Nevada. The Coleogyne shrubland shares relatively broad upper and lower ecotones with Pinus-Juniperus and Larrea-Ambrosia plant communities, respectively. We characterized the extent that environmental factors correlate with Coleogyne density and examined variation in biotic and abiotic factors along the lower elevational boundary of Coleogyne in Lucky Strike Canyon near Las Vegas, Nevada. Coleogyne density was positively correlated with gravimetric soil moisture, soil organic matter, Coleogyne water potential, Coleogyne stem and leaf phosphorus, and Coleogyne leaf biomass. However, Coleogyne density was negatively correlated with soil temperatures, soil compaction, and Coleogyne stem and leaf nitrogen. Coleogyne stem biomass and elongation were generally negatively correlated with Coleogyne density. Coleogyne density was weakly correlated with soil pH, soil depth, soil nitrogen, soil and leaf phosphorus; these variables did not exhibit a consistent pattern with increasing elevation. Edaphic factors, particularly soil moisture and soil organic matter, appear to play a major role in determining the distribution of Coleogyne shrublands in southern Nevada.
41716170|Colonization of macroinvertebrates in a headwater mountain stream was monitored using basket and Surber samplers. Taxa showed differences in colonization ability based both on dispersal ability and feeding strategy. Collector-gatherer feeding groups that could actively enter the water, i.e., Baetis mayflies, were the first organisms to colonize bare or new substrate. The slowest colonizers were heptageniid mayflies that colonized primarily from upstream migration. All organisms examined increased drifting behavior in response to decreases in discharge.
41716185|Little is known about the basic characteristics of the western harvester ant (Pogonomyrmex owyheei) in the absence of anthropogenic disturbances. We examined the role of P. owyheei as an agent of disturbance in an area of semiarid vegetation in central Oregon known as the Horse Ridge Research Natural Area (HRRNA) that has been largely free of livestock grazing and other significant anthropogenic influences for over 23 yr. We determined density and size characteristics of nest sites and estimated total area cleared by P. owyheei activities on HRRNA. From random sampling of twenty-five 0.04-ha plots we found a mean nest density/standard error of 1.6 ( 0.16) nests/0.04 ha. Mean area cleared per nest site was 4.8 m, which results in an estimated barren area of 46,080 m on the 240-ha HRRNA. Comparing our findings to others on P. owyheei and P. occidentalis, we found nest density and mean cleared area to be in the middle range of reported observations under a variety of land-use influences. The literature suggests that moderate disturbance may increase nest site density, but little relationship exists between disturbance history and mean size of nest sites.
41713022|We conducted an experiment on eastern fence lizards (Sceloporus undulatus) during August-September 1995 near Los Alamos, New Mexico, (1) to ascertain if lizards that were relocated short distances exhibited homing, (2) to investigate a possible barrier to movement, and (3) to determine the effect of translocating individuals from a transplant area on lizards in a recipient area. We relocated 15 of an estimated population of 39 (95% CI 36-45) lizards an average distance of 46 m. Fourteen of 15 translocated lizards returned to within 6.81 (${s_{\bar x}}$ = 1.43) m of the original capture location. Movement distances did not vary (F = 0.76; 1,53 df; P = 0.381) between resident and translocated lizards during the pretreatment period and did not vary for resident (F = 2.86; 1,12 df; P = 0.1166), but varied between pretreatment and posttreatment periods for translocated (F = 14.65, 1,7 df, P = 0.0065) lizards. Translocated lizards did not affect the resighting probability of resident lizards (F = 0.96; 1,14 df; P = 0.34), but this may be related to low power (1   = 0.15) and translocated lizards moving out of the area quickly.
41712971|Pinus aristata Engelm. forest vegetation in Colorado was studied to determine vegetation composition and the relationship between vegetation and environment. Species percent cover, tree size class, and environmental variables were recorded for 49 plots. Previously collected data for 4 plots from New Mexico were included. Environmental variables included latitude, longitude, elevation, slope, aspect, topographic position, parent material, percent rock cover, mean rock size, litter depth, estimated plot age class, and evidence of anthropogenic disturbance. Soils were analyzed for texture, depth, and percent carbon and nitrogen. Pinus aristata foliage was analyzed for percent nitrogen and phosphorus. Direct and indirect gradient analyses (CANOCO) were used to determine environmental factors associated with community composition. Vegetation in P. aristata forests is influenced primarily by elevation and soil pH. Substrate, soil texture, topographic position, and geographic location are secondary factors. Six plant associations were identified using cluster analysis (listed in an elevational sequence from low to high): Pinus aristata / Festuca arizonica Vasey, Pinus aristata / Festuca thurberi Vasey, Pinus aristata / Juniperus communis L., Pinus aristata / Vaccinium myrtilus L., Pinus aristata / Ribes montigenum McClatchie, and Pinus aristata / Trifolium dasyphyllum Torr. & Gray.
41716175|Three acts of predation by Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica hudsonia) on small mammals indicate that magpies will not only attack prey opportunistically encountered at close range, as suggested by recent literature, but will also pursue prey detected at long distances.
41712895|The small deciduous tree Celtis reticulata (netleaf hackberry) reaches its northern limit in Idaho, where, contrary to most of its western range, it often occurs as an overstory dominant. Two hundred fifty stands of this tree were sampled throughout Idaho. Celtis is slow-growing, averaging 4 m tall at 50 yr, and long-lived (to 300-400 yr). It occurs in a variety of habitats, from riparian to rocky uplands. Trees grow best where topographically sheltered, such as in draws and narrow canyons, and where soils are loamy. Although plants grow more slowly as surface rock cover increases, stands are often associated with rock, with a mean surface cover of 39% rock. Differences in growth rates were unrelated to parent material and aspect. Most stands are reproducing, in spite of habitat degradation caused by overgrazing, alien plant invasion, and increasing fire frequencies. Stands are typically represented by one dominant cohort; however, young, even-aged stands are rare and are generally found along waterways on stream terraces or at the high-water line. Although slow-growing, C. reticulata shows promise for land managers interested in site enhancement. This native species is long-lived, produces fruit used by wildlife, and provides structural diversity in a semiarid landscape (with a maximum height of 12 m) in areas that are becoming increasingly dominated by exotic plant species.
41712194|Microhabitat characteristics of blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were analyzed in breeding and wintering habitats in southeastern Idaho. Breeding habitats typically were open sagebrush (Artemisia spp.), mixed shrub, mountain mahogany (Cercocarpus ledifolius), and maple (Acer grandidentatum) stands on east to south facing aspects of slopes below 2100 m elevation. Breeding blue grouse selected areas with approximately a 50:50 or greater open to cover ratio. Blue grouse selected areas with higher tree coverage than available on average within the mixed shrub vegetation type. Hens with broods preferred sites with relatively tall (>50 cm) herbaceous vegetation. During autumn and winter, blue grouse preferred high elevation (>2285 m) stands of open (50% tree cover) conifer. Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) were preferred as winter roost trees. Sites selected in winter had significantly more Douglas-fir than those selected in autumn.
41711863|Vegetation and soil differences with respect to slope position were studied on foothill knolls in the Uinta Basin of Utah. Plant communities on windswept ridges (top of slope) exhibited several unique characteristics when compared to the other slope communities. These communities at the top and base of slopes were sufficiently different in respect to plant life form composition, plant cover, wind-adapted growth forms, and percent exposed rock that they should be considered separate community types. Mineral concentrations in plant tissue and soil samples declined downslope in some cases and increased in others. Diversity decreased downslope as shrubs became dominant over grasses and forbs. Management of these communities should require special consideration due to the changes in the community structure with slope position.
41711491|Partial correlation analysis indicates that Beechey ground squirrels show a strong preference for digging burrows under and around large objects, may show a weaker tendency to locate their burrows under the cover of tree canopies, and avoid digging burrows in areas with both treecanopy and ground cover (stones, logs). These relationships hold for large but not small burrow systems. The need for unobstructed visual surveillance and an autumn food supply are proposed to be determinants of these preferences.
41711509|Diplostomum spathaceum (Trematoda: Diplostomatidae) causes a disease known as diplostomatosis (eye fluke disease) and has been found to be widespread throughout the fish of Utah. Totals of 756 snails (5 species), 893 fish (21 species) and 6 species of birds were examined for the presence of larval and adult D. spathaceum from 17 collecting sites throughout Utah. Pathologic effects such as blindness, subacute inflammatory reactions, cornea perforation, and ruptured globe due to diplostomatosis upon the fish host are listed. Fish host and parasite infection data of D. spathaceum for the major lakes of Utah are given.
41713087|Throughfall and stemflow are important components of hydrologie processes in forests, but relative contributions of multiple factors, including precipitation volume, plant size, and folivory (leaf removal by defoliators), on throughfall/stemflow have not been reported. This paper reports the relative influences of precipitation volume (0-230 L m), sapling size (1.46.7 cm diameter at root collar; 0.07-0.45 kg calculated dry foliage mass), and manipulated folivory (0-20% foliage removal) on throughfall volume and N, K, and Ca fluxes as evaluated with stepwise multiple regression in a young Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) ecosystem. Precipitation volume explained most variation in throughfall volume (R = 0.81). Folivory and sapling size each had significant but minor effects on throughfall volume and nutrient fluxes. These data indicate that folivore effects, while significant, are masked by precipitation in this wet ecosystem. Wider ranges in sapling size and folivory and/or drier conditions likely would improve interpretation of their influence on throughfall volume and chemistry.
41712290|Bear Lake is a large, relatively pristine lake located in a graben valley. The lacustrine environment is more than 35,000 years old. Over that period of time, the Bear River intermittently flowed into Bear Lake. Approximately 10,000 to 8,000 BP, the Bear River ceased flowing directly into the lake. Between 1912 and 1924, channels were dug that diverted Bear River flows into the lake. An analysis was conducted to determine the impacts of Bear River flows upon the hydrologie and nutrient budgets of the Bear Lake ecosystem. In addition, the resulting limnological conditions were evaluated. Based upon eight years of historical data (1976 to 1984), regression relationships were developed that allowed an estimation of the historical conditions in Bear Lake (1923 to present) with and without the influence of the Bear River.
41712755|Microbial spatial heterogeneity and bacterial composition of homogeneous surface soils showing evident microbiotic crust development located under Utah juniper canopies in Colorado National Monument were studied. Four distinct homogeneous sampling sites positioned along a 12-m transect were compared on the basis of bacterial density and taxa composition. Bacterial densities showed a range differing by several orders of magnitude. In comparisons of adjacent soil samples or samples taken from two different sampling sites within close proximity, adjacent samples showed no more similarity to each other on the basis of bacterial density or taxa composition than did more widely separated samples. The bacterial composition of these soils included members of the genera Bacillus, Micrococcus, and Arthrobacter. Actinomycetes were also prevalent.
41712437|Time-activity budgets of drake Gadwall and Northern Shoveler ducks were studied in the winter of 1985. Total duck numbers peaked in mid-March. Gadwall numbers increased from late January to mid-March and then declined, while Northern Shoveler numbers declined from late January to mid-February and then increased to mid-March before declining. Behavior categories considered in the time-activity budgets were flying, preening, swimming, courtship, feeding, and resting. Time allocated to these different activities varied for both duck species, with feeding being the only behavior pattern wherein differences were significant. Gadwalls spent 58% of their time feeding, Northern Shovelers only 26%. Possible reasons for these differences are suggested.
41712338|The native bee fauna visiting and pollinating a population of sweetvetch in Grand Teton National Park was surveyed. The papilionaceous flowers were exploited by 37 bee species, most of which had long mouthparts. Most species collected pollen as well as nectar. Bees foraged most heavily in early afternoon when pollen was most abundant. However, there was no indication that bee species were competing for limited pollen resources: there was no difference among three time periods in percent sweetvetch pollen carried in the scopal pollen loads of bees nor was there any evidence that some species were displacing the foraging times of others. The advantages of developing a native species as a commercial pollinator of sweetvetch are discussed and several potential candidates are mentioned.
41712107|Eight new records of vascular plants indigenous to North America and one significant range extension are reported for the flora of Colorado.
41712859|Thirty-one stonefly species representing eight families were collected during the March 1987 to May 1990 study period. Genera represented by more than one species included Capnia, Utacapnia, Taenionema, Suwallia, Triznaka, Isogenoides, and Isoperla. Peak species richness was recorded on or near the summer solstice in 1988 and 1989. Climatic differences between years were reflected in nymphal development and emergence phenology of most species. New or important corroborative life history data are presented for 11 stonefly species of this assemblage. The hyporheic nymphal development of most chloroperlid species limited the number of early instars sampled and our capacity to interpret voltinism. Limited nymphal data suggested a univoltine-slow cycle for Plumiperla diversa (Frison). Adults of Suwallia pallidula (Banks) and S. wardi (Banks) were present for an extended summer period, but the bulk of their respective emergence times was temporally separated. Isogenoides zionensis Hanson, Pteronarcella badia (Hagen), and Pteronarcys californica Newport were all shown for the first time to have a 910-mo egg diapause, and all three species have a semivoltine life cycle. Skwala americana (Klaplek) and Isoperla fulva Claassen were further confirmed to have univoltine-slow cycles. Univoltine-fast and univoltine-slow life cycles are reported for the first time in I. phalerata and I. quinquepunctata, respectively. Regression analysis revealed that six of the eight abundant species had extended emergence patterns (slopes of <5%/d), while only two had synchronous patterns. Warmer spring and summer temperatures in 1989 increased the slopes for five of the eight species studied, but did not change their synchrony designation. Nine of 11 abundant species advanced their median emergence date in 1989 over 1988. This and the higher slope values are consistent with a hurried nymphal development and narrower emergence period due to the warmer thermal regime of 1989.
41711685|Three experiments were conducted to determine if water from the Great Salt Lake altered in chemical composition and dilution can be used successfully to sustain a species of hermit crab Pagarus sp. and the American Lobster (Homarus americanus). Great Salt Lake water altered by freshwater dilution will not sustain the hermit crab or the American lobster. Great Salt Lake water can be altered chemically by dilution to support growth of the American lobster. American lobsters maintained in Instant Ocean synthetic sea water (control) grow at a more rapid rate than animals sustained in altered Great Salt Lake water. A plastic primer coat used for plastic tank repair appears to be a moult inhibitor for the American lobster. Lobsters afflicted by the primer coat are not able to reverse the damage by continued moults.
41712803|An examination of death certificates at the Utah Bureau of Health Statistics from 1900 through 1990 indicates that Utah has a very low incidence of human fatalities due to venomous bites and stings. During this 91-year period, 20 fatalities were recorded from bee (10) or hornet (1) stings, spider bites (4), and rattlesnake bites (5). There were eight additional fatalities during the early part of this century recorded from "insect bite," "apparently insect bite," or "unknown agent poisoning," some of which may have included spiders. No deaths were recorded from Gila monster or scorpion envenomizations, although in 1962 one death in San Juan County was recorded as "venom poisoning, unknown agent, possible scorpion." Utah statistics follow the national pattern, indicating that bee stings cause more fatalities than spider bites or rattlesnake bites. Rapid deaths (within minutes) occurred in the majority of bee sting fatalities, resulting from allergic reactions (anaphylaxis), whereas protracted death times of days or months, resulting from infection, followed most spider and unknown insect bites. Only two spider bite fatalities occurred within 1-3 days, suggesting black widow envenomization. Two of the five fatalities from rattlesnake bite resulted from handling the offending snake, one fatality was recorded as a homicide, and one other envenomization occurred in Arizona, with subsequent death in Utah.
41712613|Douglas-fir beetle-infested Douglas-fir trees were partially caged to determine the emergence period and beetle production. Beetles began emerging in April, but emergence peaked between 10 and 26 June. In 1987 and 1988 beetle emergence averaged 20 or more per sq. ft. of bark. Annual growth of the infested trees showed a decline prior to the beetle outbreak followed by an increase during the outbreak.
41711848|Vegetative and atmospheric parameters were evaluated at 16 different nest sites of ring-necked pheasants in Utah County, Utah, to determine which parameters are influential in the nest site selection process. These data indicate that total vegetative ground cover, high amounts of cover immediately surrounding the nest cavity, and drying power of the air are the parameters most influential in nest site selection.
41711535|One male each of Splendidofilaria columbensis n. sp. and S. hibleri n. sp. was found in the subcutaneous fascia of the thighs of a single band-tailed pigeon. The relationship of female worms could not be correlated with the males. Chandlerella robinsoni n. sp. was recovered from the blood vessels of the liver and the fascia of the thighs of six birds. Keys to the males of the species of both genera, together with drawings of the spicules of each species, when available, are included.
41712787|This study was designed to describe dietary changes by comparison of information on long-term diet and plant food availability of California Quail (Callipepla californica) in western Oregon. We examined crops from 222 California Quail collected in 1976-78 and 1985-87. Diets included 14 key plant foods (annual frequency > 15%) among 53 taxa consumed; 10 of the 14 key foods were similar between time periods. Collectively, key foods contributed 87% of the diet by aggregate dry mass during 1985-87; six species of legumes (family Leguminosae) composed 67% of diet. Relative rankings of availabilities of key foods were similar between 1976-78 and 1985-87. This study revealed that quail were opportunistic within the group of key foods because 9 of the 14 key foods were consumed in different frequencies between the two periods. Legumes were an important dietary component in western Oregon because they composed the bulk of the diet, were among the most frequently consumed, and most were taken in substantially greater proportions than available.
41711969|Cryptogamic soil crusts of Betatakin Canyon in Navajo National Monument were investigated to understand the influence of such crusts on soil moisture relationships and potential sediment production. Crusts sampled were part of the pinyon-juniper community and were studied in paired units. The presence of crusts on soils significantly increased the depth of water penetration and decreased runoff. Soils showed reduced infiltration of water where lichen and algal crusts were present and enhanced infiltration rates where mosses were present. Crusts appear to cause surface sealing and therefore likely reduce surface evaporation rates as well.
41712943|This study analyzed spatial location patterns of Cercocarpus ledifolius Nutt. (curlleaf mountain mahogany) plants, classified as current-year seedling, established seedling, juvenile, and immature individuals, at a central Nevada study site. Most current-year seedlings were located in mahogany stands in which large, mature individuals had the greatest abundance. These stands had greater litter cover and a thicker layer of litter than areas with few current-year seedlings. Most established young Cercocarpus were located in adjacent Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (mountain big sagebrush) communities, or in infrequent canopy gaps between relatively few large, mature Cercocarpus. We discuss potential roles of plant litter, root growth characteristics, nurse plants, and herbivory in the establishment and renewal of Cercocarpus communities.
41711171|Pinus ponderosa occurs in abundance on the Pine Ridge escarpment in northwestern Nebraska. Within and adjacent to the Pine Ridge are areas of mixed-grass prairie. Transects were run in the middle and along fringe areas of pine stands to determine if P. ponderosa was encroaching upon the grasslands of the surrounding mixed prairie areas. Results indicated that encroachment was taking place, especially in areas of soil disturbance or where a more open type of vegetation existed.
41711845|Franklin's Gulls first arrived in southeast Oregon in 1943, but the first nest was not located until 1948. From 1949 to 1964 gull numbers showed annual fluctuations. An increase began in 1965 and continued through 1980. By 1980 an estimated 2500 Franklin's Gulls were nesting on Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, Harney County, Oregon. The species arrives in April and nesting begins by 1 June. Average nest and egg measurements were similar to those from other areas within the species range.
41711558|Thelypodiopsis argMacea Welsh and Atwood sp. nov. is described from specimens collected on the Green River Shale Formation in Uintah County, Utah.
41713069|A total of 66 algal species representing 32 genera were recovered from soils of 10 sites in the Catavifia region of the Central Desert of Baja California, Mexico. The most common species encountered were the cyanophytes Nostoc commune and Schizothrix calcicola, the chlorophyte Myrmecia astigmatica, and the diatoms Hantzschia amphioxys, Hantzschia amphyoxys f. capitata, Luticola cohnii, Luticola mutica, and Pinnularia borealis var. Scalaris. Nine species not found in any previous studies of North American desert soils were present in our study sites, including 3 taxa new to science: Cylindrocystis brebissonii var. deserti, var. nov.; Elakatothrix obtusata, sp. nov.; and Fasciculochloris mexicana, sp. nov. Attempts to correlate species composition with soil chemical and physical parameters were unsuccessful apart from a pH effect on cyanobacterial distribution. Overall composition of the soil algal community in the Catavifia region is distinct from other desert sites we have studied, although some cosmopolitan desert soil taxa were present.
41712017|In 1981, 20 sediment-collecting tanks and troughs were installed on range and timbered sites of the Caribou National Forest. Measured erosion losses from the first year of study were contrasted to Universal Soil Loss Equation (USLE) estimates utilizing three different vegetative factors. State of Idaho C factors, National Rangeland C factors, and the Vegetative Management (VM) factors were studied. The erosion estimates of all three USLE tests were significantly different than measured soil losses. All equations overestimated the measured mean soil loss, 0.52 megagrams/ha/yr (0.23 tons/ac/yr), by 33, 3,000, and 2,000 percent, respectively. The soil erodibility factor (K), Rangeland C, and VM showed significant relationships to soil loss. The K and VM factors accounted for 88 percent of the variability in sediment loss in multiple regression models. Erosion equations suitable for use on this study area are presented.
41711881|Phalacropsylla morlani, from New Mexico is described as new to science and figured. It is separable from the other species in the genus by the possession of 18 spines in the pronotal comb and by the distinctive shape and setation of the male distal arm of sternum IX. Other species in the genus have 14 to 16 spines in the pronotal comb. Host and distributional records for P. allos are given.
41711504|This paper is a revision of the Hydrophyllaceae of Utah. Nine genera and 52 species are treated. Keys, descriptions, synonymy, illustrations, distribution maps and citations for representative specimens are included.
41712571|Summer food habits of coyotes (Canis latrans) in the River of No Return Wilderness Area, Idaho, were determined. Analysis of 51 scats (fecal samples) revealed that Columbian ground squirrels (Spermophilus columbianus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) exhibited the greatest frequency of occurrence for identified food items, being detected in 57%, 27%, and 16%, respectively, of scats examined.
41712105|The Columbian ground squirrel (Spermophilus columbianus (Ord)) is represented by two recognized subspecies, S. c. columbianus (Ord) and S. c. ruficaudus (A. H. Howell), that occupy allopatric but adjacent geographical areas in Washington, Oregon, and Idaho. Since numerical cranial characteristics of these subspecies have not been documented, we measured 8 cranial characteristics on 94 adult and 32 juvenile Columbian ground squirrels in an area considered to be occupied by S. c. columbianus. Body weights and standard body measurements were recorded for adults and juveniles. The study area included portions of the River of No Return Wilderness Area in central Idaho. Howell's (1938) original descriptions seemed to differentiate S. c. ruficaudus from our sample of Columbian ground squirrels. Juvenile Columbian ground squirrels did not attain full cranial development until their second season. Length of maxillary tooth row in juveniles, especially females, may closely approximate adult dimensions by the end of their first summer.
41712174|Mating system variation in anuran amphibians of the Arizona-Sonoran Desert was reviewed. Male density and breeding period duration were negatively correlated in seven bufonids and pelobatids. Variation in male mating behavior and ability of females to freely select their mates unhindered by active-searching males also was related directly to male density. These observations support hypotheses relating ecological factors to mating system organization. It is suggested that male calling behavior, and anuran lck mating sytems in general, may be significantly influenced by prdation on vocalizing males.
41712765|In March 1991 a 10-year return flood (368 ms) occurred in the Hassayampa River, a perennial stream (0.1 ms base flow) within the Sonoran Desert. Depth of the floodwater ranged from 2.64  0.20 m (mean  SD) near the stream to 0.47  0.31 m in the highest floodplain zone (Prosapis forest). Flow velocity was 1.7  0.6 m s and 0.9  0.4 m s in these same zones. An average of 8 cm of sediment was deposited on the floodplain, with maximum deposition (to 0.5 m) on densely vegetated surfaces 1-2 m above the water table. Native riparian vegetation showed resistance and resilience to the flood disturbance. Plants on high floodplains (e.g., Prosopis velutina trees and saplings, and Populus fremontii and Salix gooddingii trees) had low mortality. Populus fremontii and S. gooddingii "pole" trees and saplings were on less aggraded floodplains and sustained varying mortality depending on floodplain elevation and depth of flood waters. For example, P. fremontii pole trees on 1-2-m-high floodplains averaged 6% mortality, compared to 40% for those on low floodplains (<1 m above the water table) where standing water was >2 m. Seedlings of Populus fremontii and Salix gooddingii established abundantly after the flood along overflow channels and main channel sediment bars, contributing to age-class diversity for these episodically recruiting species. The exotic species Tamarix pentandra had greater mortality of pole trees (62%) and low post-flood recruitment compared to P. fremontii and S. gooddingii. Survivorship of shrub species also corresponded to floodplain elevation. Zizyphus obtusifolia grew on high-elevation floodplains and had no mortality. Shrub species of lower-elevation floodplains underwent mortality but revegetated after the flood via asexual reproduction. For example, stem density of the dominant shrub (Baccharis salicifolia) declined by half but recovered to pre-flood levels by late summer primarily via stem sprouting. Dominant herbaceous plants on stream banks and low floodplains (i.e., the rhizomatous perennial grasses Paspalum distichum and Cynodon dactylon) similarly compensated for a 50% decline in cover by vegetative spread. The post-flood herbaceous understory vegetation in high-elevation floodplain zones (i.e., Prosopis velutina forests) remained sparse throughout the summer and shifted in composition from nearly monotypic stands of exotic annual species to more diverse mixtures of native and exotic annual grasses and forbs.
41712893|Benthic macroinvertebrates from four habitat types (river channel, ephemeral side channel, river backwater, and seasonally inundated wetland) were examined from the Green River at the Ouray National Wildlife Refuge, Uintah County, UT, June-August 1991. Four major taxa (Nematoda, Oligochaeta, Diptera: Ceratopogonidae, and Chironomidae) were quantified. Cluster analysis of densities showed that habitat types with comparable flow conditions were the most similar. Highest to lowest overall benthic invertebrate densities of the four habitats were as follows: ephemeral side channel, river backwater, seasonally inundated wetland, and river channel. Nematodes were the most abundant taxon in all habitat types and sample dates except the August sample of the river channel and river backwater and the July sample of the seasonally inundated wetland.
41711887|A questionnaire survey was conducted in Sanpete County, Utah, to determine the knowledge of dog owners concerning hydatid disease and an identification of some basic sheep management practices there. The households surveyed included 21 (Group I) that had one or more dogs infected with Echinococcus granulosus tapeworms at more than one annual field clinic, and 19 others (Group II) that had one or more dogs infected when the study first began in 1971-72, but had not had any infected dogs identified at field clinics during subsequent years. The results showed that 92.5 percent of households knew the cause of the disease and how it is transmitted, and that 90 percent knew of someone who had been operated on for surgical removal of hydatid cysts. There was no significant difference in the level of knowledge of the disease between the two groups of respondents, nor in their sheep management practices. Even though the level of infection of the parasite in dogs has decreased since the project started, certain sheep management practices persist among respondents in both groups that allow for continued transmission of the parasite in this region.
41712247|Average linear movement by populations of Dipodomys ordii, Microtus montanus, Perognathus parvus, and Peromyscus maniculatus was investigated over a 15-month period by live trapping on a low-level, radioactive waste disposal area in Idaho. No significant differences in movement among habitats were observed seasonally, excepting M. montanus in spring. Average linear movements within habitats ranged from 20 to 70 m for all species, but some patterns varied seasonally and among age classes for individual species. Although predation on contaminated small mammals from the disposal area is a vector of radionuclide transport, local movements by these rodents do not appear to be of sufficient magnitude to contribute significantly to redistribution of radioactive particles.
41711962|Intercanine crown distances of 605 wild South Dakota red foxes and 249 badgers of unknown age were measured; adults and juveniles were diagnosed by radiographs of canine teeth. In foxes, T-tests between similar age, between similar sex, and between combined age groups were significant at .01. In badgers, significance was found only between adult males and juvenile males and between adult males and adult females at .05.
41712304|The influence of artificial shade on the distribution and abundance of juvenile chinook salmon was studied in a side channel of the South Fork Salmon River, Idaho. Fish biomass and abundance were greater in shaded than in unshaded areas when compared to both cumulative incident light reaching the study sections during the 72-hour test runs and instantaneous incident light conditions at the end of the 72-hour test runs. Because conditions may be atypical at the time of instantaneous light measurement, we prefer cumulative incident light for relating light and shade conditions to daytime distribution (abundance and biomass) of juvenile chinook salmon.
41711482|Noteworthy records of reptiles from the state of Jalisco, Mexico, are presented. The first state records of Coleonyx elegans nemoralis, the second state record for Geophis tarascae, and notes on the distribution and reproduction of Eumeces breviroslris indubitus are discussed.
41711811|An investigation of the avifauna of Mt. Dellenbaugh, Arizona, and nearby areas on the Shivwits Plateau was conducted during fall 1974 and during spring and summer 1975. A total of 92 species of birds was recorded, of which 56 were considered resident. Species composition is discussed in relation to habitat.
41712771|Growth of smallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieu) was described for three widely spaced areas progressing downstream in Flaming Gorge Reservoir, Wyoming-Utah. Significant differences among areas were detected only for age-1 fish. Growth in the reservoir was compared with that of populations in other lentic habitats of varying growing season lengths in North America; slow growth in the reservoir was related to the relatively short growing season (less than 90 days).
41711384|A primary factor limiting plant species diversity in desert grasslands seems to be soil texture. Loamy soils consistently support more species than do adjacent sands. This is probably related to the increased micro-environmental differences associated with heavy textured soils. Such soils would be expected to have more micro-topographic and soil moisture variations than sandy soils.
41711603|Nectar-sugar concentrations and major flower visitors were determined for 15 species of plants in the Eagle Lake area of Northeastern California. Sugar concentrations for 12 of these are reported for the first time, with means ranging from a low of 10 percent in Mentzelia hevicaulis to a high of 63 percent in Ranunculus uncinatus. The utilization of the various nectar concentrations varied with the type of flower visitor as well as with the habitat and distributional ranges of the plant and/or animal. Hummingbirds and hawkmoths were not observed visiting the flowers they typically visit in other areas (e.g. Aquilegia and Ipomopsis, or Oenothera), but here preferred more concentrated nectar (Cirsium spp., with ${\bar x}$ of 57 percent sugar). Specialization in nectar use is reported at the generic and specific level in Hymenoptera and Lepidoptera; solitary bees, as a whole, used slightly less concentrated nectar (${\bar x}$ = 38 percent sugar) than butterflies (${\bar x}$ = 44 percent sugar).
41711614|The study revealed representatives of 9 families, 22 genera, and 59 species occurring within the study area. No new species and no new state records were collected, but a number of new localities have been added.
41711578|Hydroperla crosbyi in Texas exhibited a univoltine, fast life cycle over the three-year study period. Adults emerged in February-March when mean daily stream temperature reached ca. 15 C. Reared females in the lab deposited up to three egg masses. Mean fecundity of dissected females was 787 eggs/female. Oviposition in the field was observed and described. Eggs were triangular in cross section, brown, and measured 400 m  535 m. They underwent an ca. seven-month diapause until mean daily stream temperature decreased to 18 C. Eyespots appeared, and hatching followed in two to three weeks. First instar nymphs were measured and described. Male and female nymphs underwent 12 and 14 instars, respectively, and could be sexed by the sixth. Fast growth occurred in the coldest season and Simuliidae and Chironomidae larvae were preferred food throughout development. Eggs contained a mean of 6.21 cal/mg. Ash-free mean caloric value of last instar nymphs was 6.0 cal/mg. Adult males and females lost 33.8 percent and 57.6 percent, respectively, of their caloric pool through their ca. 12 days of life.
41712381|Microvelia rasilis Drake was taken in Montezuma Well, Yavapai Co., Arizona, along with Microvelia hinei Drake and Hydrometra aemula Drake (Heteroptera: Hydrometridae). These are all new to this locality; however, the latter two species are previously known from Arizona.
41712711|A new genus, Aplanusiella (type-species, Aplanusiella utahensis, n. sp.) and two new species, A. utahensis and A californiensis, are described and illustrated. The two species are allopatric and coexist on the same host genus, (Atriplex) with members of a closely allied leafhopper genus, Aplanus. Notes on distribution of hosts and leaflioppers as well as leafhopper intergeneric relationships are also given.
