23779506|Quantifying evapotranspiration (ET) over vast ecosystems such as the Sandhills of Nebraska is crucial in linking the surface, subsurface, and atmospheric processes affecting a region. There are numerous methods of obtaining large-scale ET estimates, but most are constrained by the availability of data. This study investigates implementation of an approach that uses a simple land-cover-based standardized tall (ETrs) and short (ETos) surface reference crop evapotranspiration and crop coefficient to compute actual ET over various spatial and seasonal scales. Subsequently, computed ETrs was used to get the preliminary estimate of regional ET over the entire Sandhills at the 30 m scale by using Landsat vegetation data. Therefore, while the final ET values are a close approximation to actual ET, it does not relate to the real water consumption by the vegetation in the Sandhills. The 30 m ET values were aggregated at four different scales (500 m, 1 km, 5 km and 10 km) using three methods of interpolation (nearest neighbor, bilinear interpolation, and cubic convolution) in estimating coarser-scale ET. Although the differences in the estimated ET among these four resolutions and three interpolation methods were generally small in magnitude, aggregation resulted in a mean percentile error of up to 4% when compared with estimated high-resolution 30 m ET over the region. In general, both nearest neighbor and bilinear interpolation methods were found to perform better than the cubic convolution method.
23782178|Botswana has a variety of ecosystems, all of which support a multitude of wildlife species. The Kalahari is a vast semidesert that covers over 84% of the country. Grasslands along with scattered trees and drought-resistant undergrowth dominate large tracts of the Kalahari's landscape. The northeastern Kalahari extends into the wetter environments of Botswanathe Okavango Delta, the Savuti, and the Chobewithin which grassland habitats support abundant wildlife species. Botswana is unique in that most of its biodiversity remains intact, with a higher percentage of its total landmass conserved than any other country. Botswana achieves this level of protection primarily through ecotourism, which operates at several levels in working toward biodiversity conservation. Government policy on tourism aids ecosystem conservation in Botswana by employing a high-income, low-volume tourism policy. This paper examines and gives specific examples of where and how Botswana has used ecotourism as a tool for biodiversity and grassland conservation. It further looks at the other factors that play a role in successfully conserving Botswana's grassland habitats.
24156331|To date, wetland conservation programs and policies have focused on wetlands primarily as wildlife habitat. In spite of the extensive efforts of wildlife interest groups, wetlands continue to be lost. Successful wetland conservation in North America will require that society, as a whole, perceives broader and more significant values of freshwater wetlands than simply their role as wildlife habitat. Identifying and quantifying the functions of wetlands to the maintenance and renewal of critical freshwater resources are important steps toward expanding the base of support for wetland conservation/restoration programs throughout the continent. This paper introduces the functions and values of prairie wetlands related to the quantity and quality of fresh water. Subsequent papers in this issue evaluate the current state of our knowledge of these functions and values, identify priority information needs, and make specific recommendations for the use of this information to enhance wetland conservation restoration programs and policy.
23775702|In South Dakota and North Dakota, political pundits, journalists, politicians, academics, and citizens often reduce political questions to an east-west divide. Here we statistically examine whether an east-west divide occurred in presidential voting behavior in the Northern Great Plains over the last century. We found that there were four presidential voting regions in South Dakota and North Dakota. These presidential voting regions reflect the economic, ancestral, and political cultures and landscapes of this area of the Northern Great Plains.
23775558|In 1992, Douglas Bruce, a non-practicing lawyer and landlord from Colorado Springs, Colorado, successfully mobilized popular support for Amendment 1, a ballot initiative that has restricted the taxing and spending powers of state and local governments in Colorado. For most Coloradans, Douglas Bruce is now a household name. Using a historical perspective to examine the role Bruce played in advancing Amendment 1, this study offers the analytic concepts of faux populism, populist entrepreneurs, and the public mood. Faux populism is the transposition of an illdefined, but tangible public mood into a ready-made ballot initiative that is offered to the people by a populist entrepreneur. The primary question driving this inquiry is: How did Douglas Bruce successfully tap the widespread, but ambiguous animosity held by many Coloradans towards government and taxes, and turn it into his particular cause of limiting the taxing and spending powers of state and local governments?
23779570|Western harvester ants, Pogonomyrmex occidentalis, are seed eaters that occur in short- and mid-grass prairies. Harvester ants are efficient seed predators but they may also be seed dispersers. We examined what ants collect to address that question. We also studied how different cattle grazing intensities affected harvester ant nest densities. Items collected by western harvester ant foragers returning to their nests were categorized as non-seeds, seeds, and nothing. Harvester ants collected large amounts of non-seeds (48%), followed by seeds (33%) and nothing (19%). Western harvester ants tolerate some environmental stress caused by grazing because nest densities were highest in moderately grazed grasslands. Interestingly, other aboveground arthropods in Colorado grasslands are reported to decrease in response to grazing, especially moderate to heavy grazing regimes. Harvester ants prefer to collect seeds but do not collect them exclusively.
23779477|The present study was designed to examine the roles of family cohesion and adaptability, parent and peer attachment, and acculturation in predicting prosocial behavior tendencies in Latino adolescents from Nebraska. A total of 63 Latinos (M age = 14.52 years) from Lincoln, NE, completed measures of acculturation, parent and peer attachment, family adaptability and cohesion, and tendencies to perform prosocial behaviors. Results of a series of multiple regression analyses suggest that acculturation negatively predicted prosocial behavior tendencies (i.e., the higher the level of acculturation, the lower the tendency to perform prosocial acts). Peer but not parent attachment, and family adaptability but not cohesion, positively predicted prosocial tendencies. Discussion focuses on the integral roles that parents and peers play in healthy social development of Latino youth, and in the importance of incorporating culture into current models of prosocial development.
23775575|Blowout penstemon (Penstemon haydenii S. Wats.) is the rarest plant endemic to the Great Plains and is the only officially endangered plant species in Nebraska. The endangered species recovery plan calls for an increase in viable populations from five to ten and an increase in plant numbers from about 6,000 to 15,000. Research conducted on survival of greenhouse grown seedlings transplanted at three sites in the Nebraska Sandhills showed that transplanting seedlings was feasible. Greatest survival was obtained when blowout penstemon seedlings were transplanted into blowoutgrass [Redfieldia flexuosa (Thurb.) Vasey] communities in blowout depressions. Plants were not long lived, but they produced seed for continuation of the species. Their relatively short life span may be directly related to the temporary aspect of suitable habitat in blowouts.
23779540|Debate persists about the dynamics of segregation and their consequences for Latinos as well as others. This paper draws from the most recent census to examine these dynamics and their consequences in three midwestern cities: Omaha, Lincoln, and Lexington. By shifting the focus to new centers of Latino population growth, we clarify the complexities of Hispanic segregation across the United States. Our findings extend and inform previous debates in several ways. Using the index of dissimilarity, we find evidence of rising segregation in Omaha and Lincoln while Lexington appears a model of integration, at least at first glance. Class factors, in part, account for these disparate patterns. However, the evidence also points to the continuing significance of race/ethnicity. Most telling perhaps is evidence of white flight across all three cities, suggesting that current debates must be broadened to include micropolitan areas like Lexington as well as metropolitan areas. Though problematic on many levels, the dynamics of segregation that we uncover have not had as devastating a set of consequences for Latinos in the Heartland as for others. Rather, split labor markets have created a set of job opportunities in the meatpacking industry that in turn provide a measure of economic stability for Hispanic enclaves, at least in the short term. This finding further pushes scholars to theorize the complex ways in which class factors tied largely to local labor markets intersect with cultural barriers as well as racial bias to shape the fate of Latinos across the United States.
23777765|The past decade has been a period of turmoil for the manufacturing sector in both the U.S. and Canada, and rural manufacturing firms in both countries have been subjected to substantial competitive pressures. The purpose of this study was to identify the firms that comprise the manufacturing sector in North Dakota and in the Provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan, and to identify their needs in order to increase economic activity in the region. Data came from a survey of 333 firms conducted in 1991. Overall, the findings indicate that the firms comprising the manufacturing sector in Manitoba and Saskatchewan are quite similar to their North Dakota counterparts. Many are relatively new, and most are relatively small. The Canadian firms have experienced less favorable recent trends in sales and employment growth. However, with substantial experience and widespread interest in international trade, combined with substantial excess capacity, the Canadian firms may be well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement and the North American Free Trade Agreement.
23775749|Clearly, the doctrine of prior appropriation played an integral part in Justice Willis Van Devanter's decision in Wyoming v. Colorado (1922). Not so clear was the pervasive influence of equity in the justice's opinion. In many ways, Van Devanter's thinking is in keeping with the historical unfolding of the United States Supreme Court's use of equity to resolve interstate water conflicts.
23779769|Throughout the western United States, natural resources managers are attempting to address the growing, and often competing, demands that municipal, agricultural and environmental interests have for water. The Platte River Cooperative Hydrology Study (COHYST) is a multi-agency effort that seeks to improve understanding of the ecology, geology, and hydrology of the Platte River watershed in central and western Nebraska. Information regarding the types, areal extent, and locations of crops (especially irrigated crops) is critical for estimating consumptive use of water. Digital land-cover and land-use datasets of the central and western Platte River valley have been prepared for four years: 1982, 1997, 2001, and 2005. Mapping was carried out using multidate Landsat satellite imagery in combination with ancillary geospatial data. The mapping was validated using field observations collected independently. Overall accuracy of the maps developed ranged from 74% to 82.7%. All land-cover maps and full documentation are available online at http://www.calmit.unl.edu/cohyst/.
23782174|Cattle ranching in Latin America supports wildlife conservation. Ranching probably represents one of the few land uses in which we can advance conservation goals. The approximately 950,000 km2 of Bolivian, Brazilian, Paraguayan, Colombian, and Venezuelan savannas that are privately owned and dedicated to meat production provide a model for conservation programs. We present a geographic and historical description that covers several centuries and ends with descriptions of seven successful cattle ranches (three in the Venezuelan Llanos and four in the Brazilian Pantanal) where cattle ranching, ecotourism, and wildlife conservation coexist. These three activities support each other: tourism creates additional income for cattle ranchers while promoting protection of natural heritage and wildlife research.
23775698|Past conditions in North American prairies have left behind animals and plants whose features were shaped by interactions, some of which no longer exist. For example, pronghorns are fast runners but there are now no fast predators to chase them. Similarly, bison activity structured grasslands, but few prairie reserves now have bison. Here I draw attention to possible cases where ecological patterns are best explained by conditions not present in the modern prairie and propose that such outcomes may be more important than presently thought. My aim is to stimulate a reevaluation of prairie organisms and the effect of their interactions in light of this hypothesis.
23777812|The counties of the Texas Great Plains have been part of a depopulation of the rural "heartland" of the United States. This paper traces the loss of population in these counties since 1910 and tries to account for the reasons underlying the trend. Four major groups of variables are analyzed through stepwise regression to determine their relative conceptual importance: demographic factors (age-structure and percent Hispanic), environmental factors (annual rainfall, percent irrigated land, and amount of oil production), geographic factors (distance to an urban central place and population size of a county's central place) and socioeconomic factors (lack of diversification of local economy, per capita income and percent of population with a high school diploma). The percent of the population greater than 65 years was most closely associated, both as a cause and effect, with depopulation. Probing beyond this somewhat inherently linked demographic variable, the next most important factor underlying depopulation was the distance of a county to a major metropolitan area. Also associated with depopulation were the lack of economic diversification, insufficient water supply and lower levels of income.
23779966|In recent decades, the migration that has long been characteristic of life in the Great Plains has meant the steady relocation of population from rural to metropolitan counties. While much has been written about the social and economic consequences of this migration, far less is known of its political consequences. In Nebraska, the least-populated counties experience the most severe out-migration, and are the most reliably Republican. To discern a relationship between population migration and political outcomes, this study analyzes the six open-seat races for United States senator that have occurred in Nebraska since 1976. An econometric model that explains Democratic vote share at the county level demonstrates that larger growth in a county's population exerts a positive and significant influence on the proportion of the vote won by the Democratic candidate, when partisanship and other race-specific variables are controlled for. Consolidation of more of the state's population into fewer counties has increased the competitiveness of well-qualified Democratic candidates.
23775701|Despite large increases in the participation of women in the paid labor force, occupational segregation by sex continues to be a significant characteristic of the labor market in the US. To better understand occupational segregation, we developed a new measure of occupational segregation that allows us to identify "female-dominated," "male-dominated," and "integrated" occupations. We use the new measure to examine differences in occupational segregation in the Great Plains states of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas, compared with the US as a whole. Our results indicate that more women on the Great Plains are employed than expected, given male employment patterns in the US. However, women on the Great Plains are disproportionately represented in occupational categories that are traditionally "female-dominated." To the extent that female-dominated occupations pay lower wages than male-dominated occupations, women in the Great Plains states suffer lower income levels than women elsewhere in the US.
23775669|The Rainbasin area of south-central Nebraska is an important component of the central flyway of migratory waterfowl. Little is known or has been reported about the morphology of large basins in the Rainbasin. A subsurface investigation was conducted to determine the morphology of two basins in Clay County, Nebraska. Transects were located across two sample areas, and seventeen test holes were drilled to determine loess thickness and stratigraphy. Radiocarbon dates were obtained from buried paleosols. The modern basin landscape was determined to be a direct result of 2.5 to 8 m of loess deposition on an older basin landscape. The modern landscape generally mirrors the paleolandscape except that the modern basin ridges seem to have less relief than the paleoridges. The paleobasins were formed prior to the Early Wisconsinan deposition of the Gilman Canyon Formation. It is likely that other large basins within the eastern Rainbasin are underlain by paleobasins and are the result of prior basin-forming processes.
23780097|This article addresses a current gap in the inequality literature by identifying demographic and economic factors that best explain persistent income inequality across N = 817 nonmetropolitan block groups in Nebraska between 1979 and 2009. Over one-half of rural places in Nebraska have average levels of income inequality, one-quarter have persistently low inequality, and one-fifth of places have persistently high levels of income inequality. Results of multinomial logistic regression suggest that persistently high-inequality places in rural Nebraska tend to be smaller, more urbanized, more ethnically diverse, more wealthy, more specialized in high-skill and low-skill industries, and have experienced fast growth in urbanization, incomes, and professional services. By contrast, low-inequality places tend to be larger, less urban, less diverse, less well educated, less wealthy, less engaged in the labor force, and have experienced population declines and slower growth in urbanization, educational attainment, and incomes.
23779598|Sericea lespedeza [Lespedeza cuneata (Dum.-Cours.) G. Don], an exotic, drought-hardy perennial legume was first introduced into the United States from Japan. It was planted from the 1930s through the 1950s as a forage crop, for healing erosion scars on farmlands, establishing cover on mine spoils, and as cover for wildlife. The species range was unintentionally increased in the 1980s when seeds harvested from infested rangelands were planted on Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres. Sericea lespedeza has spread to extensive areas of native prairie and other lands not under cultivation in the more humid regions of the Great Plains in Texas, Oklahoma, Nebraska, Kansas, and eastward into Missouri and Iowa in the past decade. Left uncontrolled, the plants may dominate native grasslands. Hectares infested with sericea lespedeza in Kansas increased from 3,200 in 1988 to 187,492 in 2001, and it now occurs in 72 of the 105 counties. Seeds are disbursed primarily by wildlife and humans. Herbicides are available but expensive and often ineffective in long-term control. A potential biological control is the lespedeza webworm (Tetralopha scortealis Lederer, Family Pyralidae), a defoliating moth, larva that reduced seed production 98% in infested plants. Lespedeza webworms were successfully transplanted into a sericea lespedeza population not previously infested. Severe drought in 2001 reduced lespedeza webworm numbers by 87% to 100% in sites sampled in eastern Kansas.
23775725|The relationship between monthly midtropospheric circulation variations, occurring in the North American sector, and surface temperature and precipitation across the Great Plains is evaluated for the middle month of each season (January, April, July, and October). The results demonstrate that monthly Great Plains temperature variability is strongly associated with the major patterns of midtropospheric circulation variation during all months considered. Temporally, the strongest associations are observed during October. However, January, July, and April also exhibit spatially coherent regions of strong association. Spatially, the relationship tends to be strongest in the northern Plains, with decreasing association to the south. Precipitation-midtroposphere relationships are weaker than those for temperature during all months. The association between the midtroposphere and precipitation is relatively strong from late fall through late spring. However, the convective nature of precipitation in the region during the summer months limits any strong relationships in July. In a spatial sense, no preferred regions of precipitation explanation were indicated in the analysis.
24156334|Agricultural applications of fertilizers and pesticides have increased dramatically in the prairie pothole region since the middle 1960s, and agrochemical contamination of surface and groundwater has become a serious environmental concern. There is growing interest in the potential of prairie wetlands as sinks for excess nutrients in this agricultural landscape. As much as 50% of the fertilizer nitrogen applied to cultivated crops may be lost as nitrate in agricultural drainage water, and prairie wetlands may be especially effective as nitrate sinks. The effectiveness of prairie wetlands as sinks for nonpoint source nitrogen loads is likely to depend on the magnitude of nitrate loads and the capacity of the wetlands to remove nitrate by dissimilatory processes. Performance forecast models are needed to evaluate the effectiveness of prairie wetlands as nitrogen sinks from a watershed scale framework. This will be made significantly more difficult by the spatial and temporal complexity of prairie pothole wetlands and by their hydrologie diversity. Future research should focus on identifying the principal factors controlling nitrogen transformation in prairie wetlands and on developing general predictive tools for modeling nitrogen fate in these systems.
23779634|Geomorphological and archeological evidence indicates potential linkages between Plains aboriginal occupation and dune activity in the Elbow Sand Hills of southern Saskatchewan, Canada. Vegetation encroachment has rapidly outpaced migration of an active dune complex over the last 65 years. Optical ages of stabilized dune remnants indicate that dune activity predates Euro-Canadian settlement (ca. AD 1900). Early Euro-Canadian explorers observed local occupation and exploitation of the sand hills by aboriginal groups for herding and impounding bison. Mapping of archeological sites in relation to physiography reveals that sand dunes, in close proximity to permanent water resources, were preferred areas of occupation. Collectively, these results support the hypothesis that aboriginal occupation disturbance may have perpetuated dune activity in the Elbow Sand Hills until the late 19th century, and that Euro-Canadian settlement and land use emphasizing conservation may have encouraged recent stabilization. We propose that similar aboriginal occupation disturbances may have been responsible for perpetuating dune activity in other dune fields in the Great Plains. To this end, climatic variability should not be considered exclusive of other drivers of dune activity in semivegetated inland dune fields of the Great Plains.
23779726|Declining retail trade in rural America is a concern for rural residents, their leaders, and rural development professionals. This cross-sectional study presents a framework for understanding relationships between changes in retail trade and rural population declines. The study uses county trade pull factors as a benchmark for retail trade in Nebraska and develops a theoretical and a statistical model to explain changes in this measure. The model suggests that retail trade in a given county is a function of the customer base, the buying power of those customers, and the quality of the retail environment.
23775643|Efforts to save remnant wild bison from extermination have resulted in the establishment of herds on private, public, and tribal lands. Ironically, their successful restoration has evolved into a profitable agricultural industry and a practical alternative to raising domestic cattle. Bison restoration actively managed by humans raises ecological, ethical, and evolutionary questions about whether we are compromising their native ability to function in a grasslands ecosystem. In this essay I examine current bison management practices, conflicting human values about land-use practices, and emerging land-use initiatives focusing on wild bison and ecosystem restoration in the northern Great Plains.
23774367|Non-insulin dependent diabetes is a rising health concern among the Omaha Tribe. The problem has developed from negligible levels in the 1960s to a significant health threat today. As of 1992, 35% of the Omaha Tribe adult population residing on the reservation had been diagnosed with the condition, and the actual proportion of people with the condition is probably much higher. The age of onset of the disease is decreasing so that people as young as 10 years of age are diabetics. The increase in diabetes is at least partly due to changes in diet practices that include the emergence of new traditional foods and the consumption of prepared or convenience foods. Preliminary observations suggest that the modern diet that includes federally subsidized food programs may contribute to the problem.
23779536|Sandhills of eolian origin and currently active dunes in Oklahoma are located mainly on the northern side of the main rivers. Their longitudinal distribution spans a gradient of annual precipitation ranging from 914 mm in the east to 403 mm in the west. Vegetation types along this gradient include cross-timbers woodlands in the east and sand-sage and short grasses in the west. The information presented here is a preliminary assessment of sand dune dynamics and morphology, soils, and vegetation as the basis for an ongoing study on past and present processes of sand dune stability. For this purpose, six areas along the east-west precipitation gradient were selected to evaluate potential sources of information. Pedostratigraphic data were used to reconstruct prehistoric landscape-change events and sequential aerial photographs were used to reconstruct modern processes affecting sand dune stability in the context of climate change and human agency.
23778287|Death and disability remain serious problems in the meatpacking industry, which increasingly depends on Latino workers. Here we examine these problems and the dynamics that heighten and minimize the hazards encountered in meatpacking plants. Drawing from published and unpublished sources, we provide statistical profiles and ethnographic accounts to capture the health and safety risks Latino workers face in the meatpacking plants of Iowa, Kansas, and Nebraska. Guided by recent research in labor market segmentation and the politics of social regulation, we trace the increased risk of injury and illness for Latinos to three intersecting dynamics: corporate conduct and misconduct on the shopfloor, segmented labor markets and limited unionization, and finally, the failure of regulatory agencies to set standards and actively enforce health and safety laws. While these problems occur across the tri-state region, our analysis indicates that the responsiveness of regulatory actors varies by stateand the dynamics that drive inspections and penalties also vary, to some extent, across states. More specifically, regulatory officials in Iowa have historically been more responsive to complaints and accidents, in part due to union pressure. These findings suggest several important lessons for both scholars and labor that are not fully acknowledged in previous research.
23780092|Surveys for the American burying beetle, Nicrophorus americanus Olivier (Silphidae), between 2001 and 2010 in Nebraska resulted in 11 new county records for this endangered species and 465 new county records for 14 other silphid species. A total of 5,212 American burying beetles were captured in more than 1,500 different locations. Using mark-recapture data, we estimated the population size of the American burying beetle (ABB) for six counties in the Sandhills. Blaine County (2003) had the largest population, with an estimated 56 ABBs per km2 (1,338  272 ABBs). The remaining estimates were between 2 and 36 ABBs per km2, which were calculated for Loup (2010) and Holt (2010) Counties, respectively. We calculated movement distances, finding that some American burying beetles moved as far as 7.24 km in a single night. This new information greatly contributes to efforts to conserve the American burying beetle in the Great Plains and provides knowledge about other silphid species distributions, which may play a role in recovery of the American burying beetle.
23777983|Habitat fragmentation exacerbates the problem of habitat loss for grassland and wetland birds. Remaining patches of grasslands and wetlands may be too small, too isolated, and too influenced by edge effects to maintain viable populations of some breeding birds. Knowledge of the effects of fragmentation on bird populations is critically important for decisions about reserve design, grassland and wetland management, and implementation of cropland set-aside programs that benefit wildlife. In my review of research that has been conducted on habitat fragmentation, I found at least five common problems in the methodology used. The results of many studies are compromised by these problems: passive sampling (sampling larger areas in larger patches), confounding effects of habitat heterogeneity, consequences of inappropriate pooling of data from different species, artifacts associated with artificial nest data, and definition of actual habitat patches. As expected, some large-bodied birds with large territorial requirements, such as the northern harrier (Circus cyaneus), appear area sensitive. In addition, some small species of grassland birds favor patches of habitat far in excess of their territory size, including the Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis), grasshopper (Ammodramus savannarum) and Henslow's (A. henslowii) sparrows, and the bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). Other species may be area sensitive as well, but the data are ambiguous. Area sensitivity among wetland birds remains unknown since virtually no studies have been based on solid methodologies. We need further research on grassland bird response to habitat that distinguishes supportable conclusions from those that may be artifactual.
23780293|The Great Plains has experienced population loss for most of the 20th century while the Rocky Mountain region has experienced rapid population growth in the past few decades. This paper examines net migration by county for Montana between 1995 and 2000 disaggregated by age and educational level. Montana was chosen because it straddles the Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions and thus provides an opportunity to compare and contrast net migration and population change in two regions undergoing fundamentally different population processes. Regression analysis was applied to determine the predictor variables responsible for net migration between 1995 and 2000. Dependent variables concerned economic, demographic, and environmental characteristics of each of the counties. Overall, median household income and the Rocky Mountains explained the greatest amount of variance in the dependent variables, suggesting that both economics and the environment play a role in migration patterns in Montana.
23780055|We studied relations between river size, fish species diversity, and fish species composition along four major rivers in the Great Plains of southwestern South Dakota to assess patterns of species diversity and composition. We expected diversity to increase with river size and fish composition to change via species addition downstream. Previous surveys of 52 sampling stations provided fish assemblage data, and we used the Geographic Information System (GIS) to determine watershed area by station. Watershed area did not predict species richness or species diversity (Fisher's ), so species richness of 12  3.5 SD species and Fisher's  of 2.3  0.87 SD characterized species diversity in the study area. Cluster analysis of faunal similarity (Srensen's Index) among the 52 sampling stations identified two geographically distinct faunal divisions, so species composition was variable within the study area, but changed via species replacements among faunas rather than species additions downstream. Nonnative species were a minor component of all faunas. Uniform species diversity may be a recent phenomenon caused by impacts of Missouri River dams on native large-river fishes and the unsuitability of rivers in the Great Plains for nonnative species. Variation in faunal composition may also be recent because it was affected by dams.
23778232|Explorers and colonists in the American grasslands viewed the landscape as barren and its people as savage. Both the land and its people needed to be controlled, and this often led to the destruction of both the environment and its inhabitants. Our perception of the landscape influences our actions toward it. As we redefine our perception of the landscape, we act differently toward it. We have begun to appreciate the important ecological functions provided by prairie grasslands. Understanding all the resources in plains communities  the human, social, financial and environmental forms of capital  and the impact of each of these types of resources on the others should allow resilience to change and movement toward a more sustainable future, one that balances people and place in the grasslands.
23778881|Current research suggests that there may be positive local economic benefits associated with holding local sporting and other tourism-related events in communities. This study examined the economic impact of two municipal hockey tournaments, one urban and one rural, in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan. Based on the responses of three geographically-oriented travel groups (Total N=169), an estimated CDN $137,442 was generated by both tournaments; 87% was associated with the larger urban tournament in Saskatoon. However, the smaller rural tournament generated $10,635 revenue in Kamsack and vicinity. Evidence of the direct economic input from tourism should help communities and organizations who are interested in implementing similar tournaments provide incentives for local business owners to assist in the creation and continuation of such events.
23803426|We sampled the soil seed bank underneath and surrounding eastern redcedar (Juniperus virginiana L.) trees at two mixed-grass prairie sites in Nebraska. Our objectives were to investigate the seed bank for seed number and seed viability in various directions and distances from individual trees. Additionally, we planted seeds to determine seed longevity and viability in the soil seed bank. Six female trees were selected at each site. At each tree, 16 soil samples were collected using a 10  10 cm quadrat at four distances (inside the canopy and 0.5, 2, and 5 m from the canopy) in each of the cardinal directions. Seeds were counted and viability tested using 1% 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride. We found that most seeds were recovered inside the canopy, and seed numbers rapidly declined as distance from the canopy increased. Seed recovery and viability over time decreased, with an average of only 3% of the potential seeds recovered. Our results indicate that eastern redcedar recruitment does not rely on long-term accumulation of seeds in the soil seed bank.
23803422|The religious landscape of the Plains is dominated by four major denominations: Lutherans, Catholics, Methodists, and Baptists. But beneath these prevailing majorities are others that are declining (Presbyterians) and increasing (Pentecostals and Mormons) in membership and places of worship. Jews, Muslims, Charismatics, and Baha'i are also increasing in metropolitan areas, where the greatest diversity exists. "Religious geology," a concept that depicts religious diversity, exhibits sharp regional variations.
23779721|Nine years of groundwater monitoring data has documented the important influence that topographic relief and location in the groundwater flow system have on the hydrologic function of interdunal valleys. The western "wet" valley at the Gudmundsen Sandhills Laboratory in central Nebraska, which is a net discharge area, is more strongly buffered from the effects of annual-scale climatic variability than the eastern "dry" valley. The east valley is generally an area of net recharge and as such is more responsive to climatic variability. This study employed a simple water balance approach to estimate evapotranspiration (ET) from water level measurements in the west valley for four specific time intervals in 1998-99 that included growing and senescence periods. The estimates of ET ranged between 5-6 mm/day in the mid-growing season and 2-3 mm/day during the period of senescence.
23779576|When the Comanches, a Native American community originally from the Great Basin region, migrated to the Southern Plains in the early 1700s, they encountered Spanish colonies, missions, and military and administrative personnel as well as newly introduced trade items. Spain attempted to incorporate the Comanches into the region's emerging political economy through a variety of means including the use of treaties, coercive force, and economic inducements. Because of the Comanches' decentralized political organization, their conquest of the Apaches, and Spain's tenuous control over its northern frontier, the Comanches successfully retained control over their own articulation within the region's political economy. In order to examine the means by which the Comanches retained their independence, this paper explores the Comanches' decentralized political organization, relations with the Apaches, and strategic responses to trade agreements and peace accords offered by the Spanish.
23775646|In January 1997 the National Wildlife Federation and the InterTribal Bison Cooperative signed a memorandum of understanding formally recognizing our common goals of ending the slaughter of Yellowstone bison and working to repatriate buffalo to Native American reservations. It was the first time a formal relationship had ever been established between Native Americans and a national conservation organization. The partnership had two goals. The first goal was to reestablish management of North American bison as one of the premier wildlife species of the West, by restoring bison to those tribal and public land habitats capable of supporting their long-term survival. The second goal was to enhance the availability of wild bison to Native Americans for cultural and subsistence uses. Our partnership has been a rallying point for bison advocates and illustrates the importance of repatriating bison to tribal lands. The partnership also presented opportunities for Native Americans to demonstrate their management capabilities and to affirm the importance of bison to the health of Indian people and the vitality of their culture. Our work together has opened up many new conservation avenues. One example is the National Wildlife Federation's recent involvement with the newly established InterTribal Prairie Ecosystem Restoration Consortium, assisting with the development of prairie dog management plans on Indian reservations. Here we summarize the results of our partnership and look to the future of conservation and restoration of natural resources on tribal lands.
23780127|A study of feeding preference was conducted on two tallgrass prairie grasshopper species, the autumn yellow-winged grasshopper Arphia xanthoptera (Burmeister) and the short-winged green grasshopper Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder), to determine if they would feed upon introduced grass species. Both grasshoppers were offered two non-native cool-season grasses, smooth brome (Bromus inermis Leyss) and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.), and two native warm-season grasses, big bluestem (Adropogon gerardii Vitman) and sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula Michx.). Live biomass of the plants was weighed before and after feeding to quantify the amount of each plant species consumed by the grasshoppers. Statistical analysis showed that D. viridis strongly preferred smooth brome (P  0.05) over other species offered. A. xanthoptera also consumed more smooth brome than the other grass species offered. These results suggest that both grasshopper species accept non-native grasses and perhaps prefer them to tallgrass prairie species. Because the tallgrass prairie ecosystem of the Great Plains has been dramatically impacted by human activity, documentation of the response of native insects to incursion by exotic plants is important to preservation efforts. Moreover, if grasshoppers feed on invasive sod-forming species such as smooth brome and Kentucky bluegrass, they may become an important ally in maintaining native plant diversity in remnant grassland ecosystems.
23778285|The objective of this study was to determine if an Ethnic Food Frequency questionnaire more accurately reflected food intake among immigrant Hispanic women compared to US-born Hispanic women. Participants in the study consisted of 30 immigrant and 25 US-born Hispanic low-income women living in the Grand Island, Nebraska, area. A traditional food frequency questionnaire used by the Nebraska Women, Infants, and Children's (WIC) Special Supplemental Food program and a modified questionnaire containing ethnic foods were administered to the women. The immigrant group consumed more of the traditional Hispanic foods than did the US-born group. A traditional food frequency questionnaire that did not include ethnic foods did not accurately measure food intake among recently arrived Hispanic immigrants. Use of a modified food frequency questionnaire that reflects typical ethnic foods of recently arrived immigrant groups would be important for assessing nutritional status of new immigrants. Such an instrument would be useful in health clinics and other medical settings that serve new immigrants.
23779723|A small, isolated population of the threatened western prairie fringed orchid (Platanthera praeclara Sheviak & Bowles) occurs at Pipestone National Monument, Minnesota, in a mesic prairie that is periodically burned to control invasive cool-season grasses. During 1995-2004, monitoring counts of flowering orchids in the monument varied considerably for different years. Similar precipitation amounts in the spring and histories of burning suggest that fire and precipitation in the spring were not the causes of the variation. For the eight non-burn years in the monitoring record, we compared the number of flowering plants and the precipitation amounts during six growth stages of the orchid and found a 2-variable model (precipitation during senescence/bud development and precipitation in the dormant period) explained 77% of the annual variation in number of flowering plants. We also conducted a fire experiment in early May 2002, the typical prescribed burn period for the monument, and found that the frequency of flowering, vegetative, and absent plants observed in July did not differ between burned and protected locations of orchids. We used the model and forecasts of precipitation in the spring to develop provisional burn decision scenarios. We discussed management implications of the scenarios.
23804533|The Cooper model postulates that a dichotomy exists in the size and seasonality of bison kill sites from the Folsom age (10,800-10,200 years ago). This dichotomy is a result of changing settlement and subsistence patterns, from population aggregation in the late summer and early fall for large-scale kills, to a dispersed pattern with small bison kills during all other seasons. Attendant to the change in human population aggregation and number of bison harvested are changes in bison butchering techniques, choice of camp location, and ritual activity. It is postulated that ritual activity of an aggregated group is manifest in the painted bison skull at Cooper. The evidence in support of the Cooper model is presented in summary form.
24156314|The High Plains of North America extends from Canada to northern Mexico. This grassland region is subject to prolonged drought, herbivory, and wildfire. Organisms that are indigenous to the High Plains are adapted to these environmental factors. Periodic droughts occur at inexact, but few year, intervals. The grazing by free ranging bison, the indigenous large herbivore, has been replaced by grazing of fenced domestic stock. Fire regimes throughout human occupation of the region have been greatly influenced by human activities. Cultivation of wheat and com also is carried out in the region. Predicted climate changes in this region are increased temperature and reduced effective precipitation. Paleontological records document past climate changes from which certain predictions may be made about the effects of current models of Global Change. Ecological studies at the ecosystem, community, species, and population levels are defensible. Land use modifications should be undertaken immediately to minimize deleterious effects of Global Warming.
23780098|The purpose of this study was to gauge the impact of agriculture and energy policies on conservation practices through a survey of conservation reserve program (CRP) contract holders in a selected Prairie Pothole Region of North DakotaBurleigh, Kidder, and Stutsman Counties. The survey results showed that 48% of respondents are considering returning CRP acres to annual crop production once the contract expires. The largest influence on post-CRP land use was the market prices for production of annual crops. Respondents also identified lack of knowledge of conservation programs as a large hurdle to participation. This may indicate a need for improved communication from program information sources such as the Farm Service Agency and the Natural Resource Conservation Service, from where most contract holders get their information. These findings also provide interesting insight into the motivation and decision-making process surrounding conservation programs, in particular continued participation in the CRP. By understanding the main motivation and considerations for conservation participation (market prices, cost-sharing opportunities, and expected cost of production), federal conservation programs will be able to maximize conservation efforts, which will benefit landowners and resources alike.
23778286|The last decade has seen a significant growth of the Latino population in the Midwest, particularly in rural communities. We discuss the forces that have stimulated the growth of the Latino population in the region. We use data from the Current Population Surveys (1988-1997) to assess the demographic and employment growth of the Latino population in the Midwest. Because of the limitations of secondary data, we also illustrate the growth of the Latino population with evidence from Nebraska and a selected area of the state. Data analysis suggests that population estimates of the Latino population generated by the US Bureau of the Census do not accurately reflect the magnitude of the Latino population growth in the region. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of Latino population growth to midwestern communities.
23775700|We studied current strengths and contemporary stresses of Omaha Indian families living on the reservation in northeast Nebraska. Interviews with 60 tribal members revealed that major family and tribal strengths included: extended family support, spiritual values and religious practices, community generosity and support, Omaha culture and traditions, and a determination of many tribal members to recognize and overcome their problems. Respondents also identified major stresses that included: alcohol use, family breakdown, tribal leadership, unemployment and their children's education. Social Interaction Theory suggests that the identification of stresses should be more common than the identification of strengths by an oppressed minority. Our findings are consistent with this expectation. Respondents had much more to say about problems than about strengths. In addition, we found that Omaha strengths, such as community group orientation, may inadvertently make solving some problems more difficult. While the study has limits, it is the first to initiate an evaluation of the Omaha's perception of their situation and well-being.
23779482|The print media has the potential to educate the general public about newly arriving Great Plains populations, influence refugee resettlement programs, and motivate volunteers to assist in transitions. Thus, accuracy of news items is crucial to successful assimilation of new populations to host communities. In this paper, we provide results from a content analysis of eight Nebraska newspapers regarding Sudanese refugees. We focus on refugee population descriptors, cultural characteristics, resettlement issues, and refugee goals to determine what could be learned about refugees from Sudan if one used local print media. Consistent with theories of stereotyping, results suggest that limited, and sometimes erroneous, information would be acquired about any of the Sudanese tribes if one relied exclusively upon print media. Despite this potential setback, Nebraskans are assisting Sudanese refugees in resettlement and learning how difficult it is for refugees to understand and incorporate US culture into their fragile existence.
23780057|The highest concentrations of arsenic in groundwater are found in the Nebraska Panhandle, southwestern Nebraska, and the Republican River valley. Data from 33 public water supply wells indicate that significant variability in arsenic concentrations did not occur over a one-year study. The general absence of temporal variability in arsenic concentrations suggests that the collection of one sample per year from most wells will adequately characterize the arsenic concentrations to which the population drinking this water will be exposed. The collection of additional samples is strongly recommended if the reported arsenic concentrations are at, or slightly above, 10 g/L in order to verify that the average arsenic concentration is above the maximum contaminant level. Short-term (4 to 24 hours) sampling experiments indicate that arsenic concentrations may increase, decrease, or remain relatively constant during the first 30 to 60 minutes after a well is turned on. The potential for these changes need to be considered when collecting samples for regulatory purposes. It is recommended that the sampling scheme be designed around the operational history of the individual wells within a system. This will provide a more realistic assessment of the arsenic concentration to which the consumers of the water are exposed.
23779398|Physiographic regions are natural landforms valuable for research and management landscape stratification. Accurate regional delineations may increase research sampling and management effectiveness. Soils data in the U.S. Department of Agriculture Natural Resource Conservation Service (USDA-NRCS) State Soil Geographic Data Base (STATSGO) were used in a Geographic Information System to delineate 13 South Dakota physiographic regions. Soil mapping units were selected within physiographic regions in the STATSGO coverage in ARC/INFO to delineate geographic features. Several modifications to prior South Dakota physiographic region delineations are proposed. Soils data may be used to provide detailed and objective delineations of natural landforms. A map and brief description of South Dakota physiographic regions are presented.
23779728|Coproducts of processing agricultural commodities are often marketed for use as livestock feed through private transaction. The resulting lack of historical price information prohibits the use of positive time series techniques to estimate demand. Linear programming is used as a normative technique to estimate step function demand schedules for coproducts by individual livestock classes. Seemingly unrelated regression is used to smooth demand schedules by fitting demand data to generalized Leontief cost functions. Estimates are adjusted for data censoring using probit analysis. Aggregate quantity demanded of sugarbeet pulp, wheat middlings, and potato waste is relatively responsive to price changes (i.e., demand is elastic) but less so for specific species and at higher prices for sugarbeet pulp (i.e., demand is inelastic).
23779773|The lion's share of financial losses caused by drought is shouldered by crop and livestock producers. Producers' perceptions of and responses to drought were studied in the mid-1960s, the mid-1980s, and again in this study. Direct and indirect impacts are experienced by nonfarm businesses, communities, and individuals as well; some of those impacts have not been well researched and were integral to this project. Interviews with crop producers, livestock producers, and community members were conducted in Frontier County, NE, in late summer 2006. Producers are very perceptive of the drought hazard, a result found in the two previous studies. Adoption of drought mitigation practices has increased over the past 40 years. Producers are concerned about the myriad of factors they must consider when planning their farm or ranch operations, particularly as they are trying to adjust to water restrictions imposed as an outcome of the Kansas-Nebraska lawsuit regarding Republican River flow, but overall they are basically optimistic. Community members were very concerned about the future of farming and the quality of rural life. They expressed fears that changes in farming practices may lower the value of land, affect the tax base, and ultimately impact the school system and other county services.
23777885|During the 1980s crisis in the agricultural economy, some observers claimed that many towns were too small, too isolated, or too distant from larger population centers to survive in times of economic turmoil. We decided to evaluate these assumptions through a series of in-depth case studies of thriving small communities in the Great Plains. The communities we studied fit the general description of towns that were doing better than expected. Using an anthropological approach, the teams of field researchers from the Heartland Center for Leadership Development visited communities, ranging in size from 300 to 6,000, in Colorado, the Dakotas, Kansas, Nebraska, and Texas to interview opinion leaders, positional leaders, and average citizens. These findings were updated recently through telephone interviews. The findings suggest that leadership, rather than size or location, is a clearly critical factor in whether or not a community survives. This article summarizes the research approach, reviews examples of local leadership behaviors and community development strategies that illustrate these characteristics, reflects on the characteristics commonly shared in thriving small towns, and offers some ideas for additional research that may add to this or related bodies of knowledge.
23778224|The central grassland region occupies the center of North America in the United States, Canada and Mexico and is a unique resource for the continent. While there are no other areas with comparable features, the largest similar grassland areas occur in Europe and Asia. The uniqueness of the region derives from its size, its relative flatness, and the smoothness of its physical gradients. The smooth gradients in precipitation and temperature are the reasons why most gradients in ecosystem properties are also smooth. The west-east gradient in precipitation and the north-south gradient in temperature result in corresponding gradients in plant community types, net biomass production by plants, soil carbon storage, and nitrogen availability to plants. One of the most striking features of the present condition of the central grassland region is that a huge fraction of the original native grassland have been replaced by cropland.
23779908|Despite favorable locations and the potential for economic development, Native American tribes have not developed their ecotourism markets substantially. In this paper we present a choice experiments analysis of potential tourists' and local residents' preferences for alternative ecotourism development scenarios for the Standing Rock Sioux Indian Reservation. The choice experiments' elicitation featured attributes of both cultural and nature-based tourist attractions. Survey results demonstrated that visitors interviewed at powwows had significantly different preferences from those interviewed at local tourist attractions. Results from all samples showed positive preferences toward an amphitheater, a nature trail, and a bison meal, and no preference toward an all-terrain-vehicle (ATV) trail. Non-powwow tourists had significant willingness to pay for a number of potential attractions, including nature trails, a road through the bison pasture, and an interpretive center with amphitheater show.
23804538|The American burying beetle (Nicrophorus americanus Olivier) is the only insect found in Nebraska currently on the federal endangered species list. I conducted surveys in 1995, 1996, and 1998 to determine range and population size of the American burying beetle in south-central Nebraska. A total of 826 individuals were captured during these three years. A Sequential Bayes Algorithm was used to estimate population size based on mark and recapture data. Results from this study and other studies identify the range of this population in south-central Nebraska as an approximately 4,500 km2 area located south of the Platte River in Gosper, Frontier, Dawson, and Lincoln counties. Mark and recapture data from 1998 indicate the population size within this area is greater than 3,000 individuals. This exceeds the recovery goal of 500 individuals/population established by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and as such, along with populations in Oklahoma and Arkansas, also meets the recovery goal of three separate populations of that size within the Midwest Geographic Recovery Area for the species as identified in the Recovery Plan.
23778437|Dollar values were estimated for four prairie potholes and a wetland complex in North Dakota. Assessing these values required careful consideration of the ecological values and the societal values on a site-specific basis. Assessments of value were made from four perspectives owner, user, regional, and social. Values of specific outputs and total values varied among the five study sites. Annual per hectare values varied from the $10 owner value for the Nome wetland to the $921 regional value for the Alice wetland. The greatest analytical obstacle to obtaining more refined estimates was the physical and biological data needed to technically quantify wetland functions (e.g., groundwater recharge rates, groundwater flow paths and flow rates, runoff water storage capacity, impacts of runoff timing on flood synchronization, and sedimentation rates).
23779801|In the Great Plains, soil water is one of the most critical factors related to sustainable production on cropland and rangeland, while the need for better water management grows in the face of increasing water demand during dry years. Soil water is also an important factor related to flood modeling and quantification of the boundary conditions in atmospheric models such as global circulation models. The objectives of this study were to install a wide-area automated soil-monitoring network, determine effective calibration procedures, and develop new products to illustrate the status of soil water. Soil-monitoring sensors were established at 51 sites across Nebraska under rain-fed conditions and under a grass cover. Four sensors were installed at each site at depths of 10, 25, 50, and 100 cm. The sensors were calibrated for three soil types: sandy, loamy, and clay. Data are collected daily, assessed for quality, and archived. Six quality-assurance (QA) tests were developed based on the properties of soil water, the statistical characteristics of the measurements, the soil properties, and the precipitation measurements. The quality-assured data from the network are used in maps to determine the spatial status of soil-water availability as expressed by the percentage of maximum available water in the layer (or profile). Data is also presented on the interannual and mean annual patterns of soil water across a range of climates, from semiarid to subhumid, in the Great Plains. The results of this study demonstrate the feasibility of monitoring soil water. This capability will be valuable in drought mitigation, water management planning, ecosystem research, and other studies. The dataset will be of great value for researchers in the Great Plains to quantify weather forcing, climate change, and the water balance, especially in rangeland areas.
23777990|This phenomenological analysis concludes that the American family farmer is a steward of the environment in a way that the corporate farmer is not. As a study of consciousness, phenomenology recognizes that family farmers have more sensitive and less selective experience because of living in the farm environment. It draws from the first-hand accounts articulated by family farmersaccounts that reflect their firsthand and direct experiences of the farm environment. Although considered to be irrelevant by many scientists and statisticians, phenomenological accounts of direct experience are important starting points for the scientific study of farmers and their knowledge of environmental problems.
23780299|Simulation models of soil-related biological processes usually require soil temperature data. Frequently these soil temperatures are simulated, and the soil temperature algorithms cannot be more complicated than the original process model. This situation has led to the use of semi-empirical-type relationships in these process models. The objective of this study was to evaluate a hybrid soil temperature model, which combines empirical and mechanistic approaches, in an agroecosystem and a tallgrass prairie in the Great Plains. The original hybrid soil temperature model was developed and verified for a temperate forest system. This model simulated soil temperatures on a daily basis from meteorological inputs (maximum and minimum air temperatures) and soil and plant properties. This model was modified using different extinction coefficients for the plant canopy and ground litter. The agroecosystem consisted of a no-till rotation system of corn (Zea mays L.) and soybeans (Glycine max [L.] Merr.). Soil temperatures were measured at different depths in multiple years (three years and two-and-a-half years in the agroecosystem and tallgrass prairie, respectively). In the agroecosystem, the root mean square error of the modified model simulation varied from 1.41 to 2.05C for the four depths (0.1, 0.2, 0.3, and 0.5 m). The mean absolute error varied from 1.06 to 1.53C. The root mean square error and mean absolute error of the modified model were about 0.1-0.3C less than the original model at the 0.20.5 m depths. For the tallgrass prairie, the mean absolute errors of the simulated soil temperatures were slightly greater than the agroecosystem, varying from 1.48 to 1.7C for all years and from 1.09 to 1.37C during the active growing seasons for all years.
23777886|The comprehensive nature of Walter Prescott Webb's (1931) text, The Great Plains, has made this book a classic reference. However, the scientific errors and omissions, as well as the availability of more current research on the geology, hydrology, and physical geography of the region, suggest that the information presented should be viewed with more skepticism.
23778880|The population of rural towns in the Great Plains is generally declining. Between 1980 and 1990, over two-thirds of the 105 counties in Kansas lost population. The towns have been struggling with economic and demographic changes. In a number of Kansas towns, residents organized to save or refurbish their theaters. In this study I gathered information on the outcome of these activities from municipalities in Kansas in which a movie theater is owned by the town, the Chamber of Commerce, or a community group. Economic impact, fund raising activities, and volunteerism connected with the theater were explored. The results show that the theaters contributed to community pride, while suggesting neutral to positive economic impact. The various strategies used to acquire, renovate, and maintain the theaters provide ideas for rural community development elsewhere.
23779504|The October 1998 flood on the upper Guadalupe River system was produced by a 24-hour precipitation amount of 483 mm at one station, over 380 mm at several other stations, and up to 590 mm over five days, precipitation amounts greater than the 100-year storm as prescribed in Weather Bureau Technical Papers 40 (1961) and 49 (1964). This study uses slope-area discharge estimates and published discharge and precipitation data to analyze flow characteristics of the three major branches of the Guadalupe River on the Edwards Plateau. The main channel of the Guadalupe has a single large flood-control structure at Canyon Dam and five flood dams on the tributary Comal River. On the upper San Marcos River there are five detention dams that regulate 80% of its drainage. The Blanco River, which has no structural controls, generated a peak discharge of 2,970 m3/s from a 1,067 km2 basin. Downstream of Canyon Dam, the Guadalupe River generated a peak discharge greater than 3,000 m3/s from an area of 223 km2. The event exceeded the capacity of both the Comal River and San Marcos flood-control projects and produced spills that inundated areas greater than the 100-year floodplain defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
23774311|The Popper thesis, that large parts of the U.S. Great Plains are best suited to their pre-settlement role of buffalo commons and should be returned to that state, might also be applied to portions of the Canadian prairies north of the 49th parallel. The Canadian Dry Belt, often referred to as the Palliser Triangle, has suffered drought and environmental degradation similar to the U.S. Great Plains. Rural depopulation began in the 1920s, and in the 1930s the region became known as the Canadian Dustbowl. As early as the 1920s, some farmers had begun to work together to develop land-use strategies suited to the dry environment, and the Lethbridge and Swift Current agricultural research stations had been established. It was not until the mid-1930s, however, that the federal government created the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Administration. PFRA took a comprehensive approach to the problem. Along with the provincial governments and other groups, it embarked upon programs to change land-use, develop irrigation, improve farming techniques and diversify the agricultural economy. More recently, subsidies to agricultural producers have slowed the process of returning marginal farmland to pasture or wildland. Nevertheless, a large area of land in the Dry Belt is now under forms of management that are more compatible with the environment, such as the Grasslands National Park, wildlife lands, provincial parks, community pastures, and ecological reserves. The reestablishment of the buffalo commons in parts of the southern Canadian prairies has been under way for some timebut without the buffalo.
23775611|Farmsteads reflect more than the nature and health of agricultural activity on individual farms and across geographic regions; they provide a reliable record of other aspects of cultural and economic adjustment and change. This paper considers the farmsteads constructed by the Ukrainian immigrants and their descendants who settled in one district of the Canadian prairies beginning in 1896. A field survey of four townships reveals that between the time of initial settlement and the present four distinct generations of farm structures were erected. These generations of buildingslabeled here pioneer, traditional, transitional, and modern provide clear evidence of the economic progress and cultural adjustment made by Ukrainian farm families. More specifically, a parallel set of changes took place in house, barn, and outbuilding design and construction as families became more fully integrated into Anglo dominated Canadian society, giving up their traditional Old World building practices and replacing them with the more standard building forms, materials, and technology of their Anglo-Canadian neighbors.
23780094|Archeological and paleontological records indicate that the pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) have a history of at least 20,000 years of occurrence within the current boundaries of Nebraska. Pronghorns occurred throughout the state for much of its history. With the evidence at hand we concluded that the eastern boundary of the geographic distribution of the pronghorn south of the Niobrara River in Nebraska at the beginning of the 19th century was along the western perimeter of the eastern deciduous forest and tallgrass prairie. This excluded most of the easternmost tier of counties in the state. This geographic arrangement persisted throughout most of the Holocene. The boundary, however, was never a straight line, but a dynamic system of fluctuating distribution. By the early 20th century, the pronghorn was nearly extirpated from Nebraska, with only scattered herds in the western panhandle. With a ban on hunting beginning in 1907 and management by the Nebraska Game and Parks Commission, the population in the panhandle had increased to the point that a hunting season was reinstituted in 1953. To establish herds of pronghorns in previously occupied areas beyond the panhandle, 1,106 individuals were translocated between 1958 and 1962 primarily to the Sandhills region of Nebraska. Currently, the pronghorn possess stable populations throughout nearly half of Nebraska, including the panhandle and most of the Sandhills.
23780013|The eastern woodrat is a characteristic, charismatic rodent in the prairie region. We assessed the distribution of eastern woodrats (Neotoma floridana) within the mosaic of interspersed grasslands and woodlands on the Konza Prairie Biological Station. In summer 1996 we recorded the placement of eastern woodrat nests in 10 areas that differed in prescribed fire regimes. Although most vegetation in our study sites (>90% of the area) was native tallgrass prairie, all of the nests (n = 122) were associated with woody-shrubby vegetation. Nests of the eastern woodrat were more common along limestone outcrops that had trees and shrubs (16 nests/km) than in the other four types of linear, wooded habitats (<2 nests/km). Seven of 78 nests were damaged or destroyed in areas burned by prescribed fires in April 1997. Large-sized eastern woodrat nests were less common in sites that experienced annual fires than in those sites that had less frequent fires. This pattern suggests that eastern-woodrat nests are vulnerable to prairie fires. The frequency of large eastern woodrat nests may be an indication of time since last burn in a tallgrass prairie ecosystem.
23775670|Rapid change is a hallmark of rural settlement on the Canadian Prairies. All the stages from the initial trickle of pioneers through the closer settlement of established farms to widespread and severe depopulation have been telescoped into a mere one to five generations. This paper focuses upon the geographical patterns of rural population change within the region during the twentieth century. Fundamental to this purpose are township population maps. Several main sub-regions of population change are identified. The grassland zones were settled relatively late, the rural population peaked early at moderate to low densities, and decline to sparse populations was rapid and permanent. Earlier settlement, later peaks, more variable declines partly because of ethnic differences, and higher population densities characterize the more moist parkland belt. Only in the main zones of urban influence and areas of considerable non-farm resource development have sizeable rural populations been retained or regained.
24156316|In an effort to stem Nebraska's loss of population and create new employment opportunities, the State Legislature passed the Nebraska Employment and Investment Growth Act in 1987. The legislation provides various tax incentives to businesses that make new investments in the state or create "new jobs," the majority of which are located in metropolitan counties. However, the largest number of jobs to result from this legislation is at IBP's beefpacking plant in Lexington. Previous studies of the impact of beefpacking plants upon small towns found high levels of social disruption associated with the arrival of the workers. Lexington, by contrast, has so far been able to avoid many of the adverse social impacts associated with sudden population growth by a de facto policy of restricting new housing construction in the community.
23775697|Corn production in the United States provides an example of the agricultural changes that have occurred in recent times. Because all such agricultural activity potentially can affect the environment to some degree, the challenge is now to quantify and understand those effects. Although monitoring of the environment for such effects is not new, the procedures often fall short of providing reliable quantitative data. One example is the inconsistent, incomplete, and unreliable information currently available to assess US surface water quality and trends in that quality. The utilization of probability-based sampling designs could play a vital role in the improvement of information on the interface between agricultural activity and environmental quality.
23774369|The historical conflict of interest between states and American Indian nations has encompassed jurisdictional disputes ranging from land rights, water rights, and taxation to civil and criminal issues. Many of these political, legal and economic disputes currently center on Indian gaming on reservations within state boundaries. The tribes have been put in the position, yet again, of fighting to define and articulate the exercise of their perceived sovereignty rights vis-a-vis the rights of the states. The federal role, as designated trustee of the tribes, has been and continues to be, an ambiguous, dynamic one. This paper explores the history, current disputes and economic development potential generated by the passage of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (1988), with particular emphasis on tribes resident in the Great Plains.
23804534|The popular vision of the Great Plains as a region of ongoing population decline is only partly appropriate. In a fundamental transformation of the population geography previously set in the late 19th century, there is an emerging divide between growing metropolitan centers concentrated along the region's periphery and a vast interior struggling to hold its traditional rural population. The size and geographical distribution of population within the Great Plains region is examined over time with the aid of cartographic and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) techniques. Intercensal net migration rates estimated using the vital statistics-based residual method are mapped by county for several decades since 1890 and are tabulated for metropolitan-nonmetropolitan setting and other relevant geographical characteristics. Several subregions within the Great Plains are identified as becoming more culturally diverse due to net immigration or faster natural increase among Hispanic, black, Native American, or Asian culture groups.
23779910|Census data demonstrate that the movement of population in the rural Great Plains is not oneway. People do indeed move into as well as out of the region. Past research has identified perceptions of the quality of life in rural areas as an important consideration in the decision to migrate to such areas. However, those studies have not segmented the population of migrants in such a way as to fully inform efforts to recruit new residents. Using data collected from a survey of new Nebraska Panhandle residents, this study describes the motivations of recent migrants from both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan points of origin, and identifies significant differences in how both push and pull factors are perceived.
23779430|The Seymour aquifer of north-central Texas is identified as containing elevated levels of nitrate. The area has been designated as a Hydrologic Unit Area under the President's Water Quality Initiative. The effect of alternative production practices on the relative changes in nitrate leaching through the vadose zone was measured by adding an extended soil profile in the EPICWQ simulation model. Net returns from alternative production methods were estimated by using returns from associated yield and adjusting the cost of different levels of nitrogen, irrigation, and harvesting. Tradeoffs between nitrate percolation and net returns were explored by plotting the net returns-percolation data points for various methods of production. The results indicate that the relationship between nitrate percolation and net returns is not strictly positive for all production methods; potential remains where a lower percolation level could be achieved without a significant reduction in farmer's profit.
23775692|The Nebraska Sand Hills region is a giant dune field that is presently stabilized by prairie vegetation. During numerous severe droughts within the last 15,000 years, the dunes have lost their plant cover and have migrated freely. Wetlands between dunes are extensive in the central Sand Hills and are connected to the High Plains (Ogallala) aquifer. Lakes and wetlands were formed when dunes blocked and deranged stream systems. Evaporation of water from wetlands may benefit adjacent dune vegetation during extended droughts, by locally increasing humidity and rainfall. Buried bison tracks are abundant within the dunes, suggesting that grass and water remained available in some interdunes, even during episodes of dune migration. Study of the geologic processes operating within this dune field enhances not only our ability to read the paleoclimatic history of the Great Plains, but also our understanding of features found within similar deposits from the rock record.
23779437|The Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) has effected major changes to the landscape, especially in the northern Great Plains. Breeding birds have responded dramatically to habitat changes by colonizing CRP fields, often in large numbers. The vegetation in most CRP fields consists of introduced grasses and legumes, along with a variety of weedy species. This paper describes the bird populations found during three years of surveys on more than 300 CRP fields in western Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, and eastern Montana. We relate densities of selected species to geographic location, annual effects, conservation practice adopted, and vegetation features.
23779505|The acid weathering of pyrite-bearing Pennsylvanian clastic sedimentary rocks in southeastern Nebraska locally produces the secondary sulfate minerals alunogen, copiapite, epsomite, felsbnyaite/basaluminite, gypsum, halotrichite, jarosite, rozenite, and slavikite. Of these mineral occurrences, four are first-time discoveries in the state or the surrounding region. Slavikite (NaMg2Fe5(SO4)7(OH)6  33H2O), which has been reported only once before in North America and from a handful of sites in Europe and South America, was found in abundance at an outcrop at Brownville, NE. The pH values in 1:1 solutions of deionized water of the studied minerals, excluding epsomite, range from 1.94 to 4.82. Therefore, segregations of secondary minerals in themselves are significant microenvironmental reservoirs of acid that can be mobilized during precipitation events. Because of its role in liberating and concentrating ions such as Al3+, Fe2+, Fe3+, Mg2+, and SO42-, acid rock weathering should be considered in local to regional assessments of surface-water and groundwater chemistry. Observations also suggest that rock weathering by the growth of sulfate salts is a potential factor in local hillslope development, one that has not previously been considered in the study area.
23778436|Canadians mythologize the aesthetics and importance of canoe travel in their nation's development. However, on the Plains, the canoe proved a far from ideal transport mode. The navigation history of a typical small northern Plains river, the Qu'Appelle, illustrates the problems European canoeists faced on the Plains. Key problems included inadequate wood supplies, highly seasonal and variable river flows, meandering rivers, and the lack of feasible portages between major watersheds. Additional handicaps, dangerous in combination, were restricted visibility while canoeing and poor relations with Plains Indian nations. Retracing the forgotten Qu'Appelle river fur trading route confirmed historical evidence of the canoe's shortcomings. That the canoe was employed to the extent it was may reflect the slow adaptation of woodland fur traders to Plains travel.
23779720|Recent decreases in rainfall and the accompanying decreases in groundwater levels since 1999 indicate heightened vulnerability to drought in Nebraska and the surrounding Great Plains. Precipitation across Nebraska during 2000-2005 ranged from 72% to 108% of the 30-year normal value, with fully 90% of 150 stations reporting below-normal precipitation. Simultaneously, groundwater levels declined more than 9 m in the most heavily impacted areas, most of which were already experiencing declines due to extensive irrigation development and low recharge rates. Thus, recovery from the drought and long-term intensive land use will be particularly challenging in densely irrigated areas of Nebraska. In contrast, contemporaneous groundwater-level changes in areas with little groundwater irrigation were comparatively modest. These observations demonstrate that drought mitigation efforts in the central and northern Great Plains must consider the combined effects of area-specific reduced recharge, local geohydrology (especially as it affects recharge), and increased groundwater withdrawals.
23779970|White-tailed jackrabbit (Lepus townsendii) populations in the Northern Plains have been in a general decline for the past decade or longer. A suggested reason for this population decline was reduced body condition of individual jackrabbits due to habitat changes. In order to evaluate body condition, we determined the kidney fat index of 314 white-tailed jackrabbits harvested in 44 counties throughout South Dakota. We removed and weighed kidneys and all perirenal fat associated with the kidneys from collected jackrabbits. We measured kidney weight to determine times of high metabolic activity as indicated by an increase in mass. Body condition was assessed by measuring the amount of kidney fat within each collected jackrabbit. Seasonal fluctuations were evident in average kidney weight and kidney fat for both sexes of white-tailed jackrabbits. The kidney fat index in both male and female peaked in winter and was near 0% in summer. We believe that changes in body condition as indicated by the kidney fat index were related to the onset of breeding season rather than availability of food resources.
23777879|Past human groups of the High Plains have been variously characterized as starving nomads and affluent foragers. In fact, these terms do not capture the multi-faceted nature of the human foraging experience on the High Plains. Relying on human ecology and archaeological interpretations, this paper examines the coping strategies used by Late Prehistoric foragers in the high variance environment of the High Plains, which was relatively less variable during the early part of the Late Prehistoric time period and more variable in the later part.
23780093|Sera samples were collected from 21 free-ranging, captured female elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) in 199596, and tissue and sera samples were collected from 415 hunter-harvested elk from 1995 to 2006 and tested for selected diseases. Titers for Anaplasma marginale were detected in 81 of 436 (19%) elk. Occurrence of antibodies to anaplasmosis increased from 4 to 40 elk from 2002 to 2006. Titers for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were detected in 18 of 346 (5%) samples. Titers for Leptospira interrogans serovars were detected in 21 of 289 (7%) of samples from 1995 to 2004. Titers for bluetongue virus (BTV) and epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV) were detected in 65 of 370 (18%) sampled elk during 19952006. Biologists collected obex tissues from 566 elk from 1997 to 2009 and found evidence of chronic wasting disease (CWD) in one elk in 2009. No brucellosis was detected. Due to the prevalence of several diseases in elk in Nebraska, we recommend that surveillance efforts continue.
23775674|The species composition and soil-site characteristics of three prairies from the Missouri Coteau of southeastern South Dakota were used 1) to determine the major environmental variables responsible for vegetational patterning and 2) to describe the plant communities on these prairies. Vascular plant species composition was significantly correlated (p < 0.01) with a suite of variables that strongly influence available soil moisture, and with soil pH and conductivity. Cluster analysis yielded five groups at the 38% similarity level. From the lowest (in elevation) and most mesic to the highest and most xeric, the five groups (communities) are: wet meadows with prairie cordgrass (Spartina pectinata Link) and sedge (Carex praegracilis W. Boott.) as the most important species; meadows with prairie cordgrass and switch grass (Panicum virgatum L.); swales with Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) and big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii Vitman); slopes with Kentucky bluegrass, sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula [Michx.] Torr.), and needleleaf sedge (Carex eleocharis Bailey); and crests with Kentucky bluegrass and needleleaf sedge.
23779478|This qualitative study involved interviewing 40 Chinese Americans residing in Lincoln and Omaha, NE, and Naperville, IL, on their perceptions of family strengths and acculturative stress. Themes related to family strengths include family support leading to achieving a renewed sense of family, contextual support from friends and community, communication among family members, spiritual well-being, and balancing host and heritage cultures. Themes pertaining to acculturative stress are language barriers, loneliness, and loss of social status and identity at the early stage of immigration. New dimensions are being added to the current family strengths model. Implications for health professionals are provided.
23779510|The rapid influx and new demographic patterns of Latino immigrants to the United States have precipitated numerous pressing issues, among them health and healthcare disparities. The relatively recent phenomenon of high Latino immigration rates to rural areas is increasingly common in the Midwest and Great Plains states, where they are drawn by the labor market. A rural setting, low socioeconomic status, and high concentrations of minorities have been shown to be closely intertwined, and such regions are often medically underserved. Such describes rural southwest Missouri, where we collected data in four counties on demographics, socioeconomic factors, healthcare perceptions, and use of medical services by Latino immigrants. The health of a community is reflected by the health of its subpopulations, which are strongly impacted by socioeconomic factors. Results from several interviews and focus groups, and from our surveys of 300 Latino households, showed that low socioeconomic status and poor English proficiency are associated with frequent lack of regular preventive medical and dental care. Most respondents in our sample lack health insurance and commonly use low-cost clinics and health departments. We propose outreach efforts that emphasize preventive health care to better incorporate immigrants and augment their health status, and thus those of their communities at large.
23779485|This is the story of Iranian engineer Mostafa Jamshidi and his twenty-five years in Nebraska: his student days, his experiences with the immigration department and his eventual citizenship, his work history, and his personal life as told by his English teacher and surrogate mother. His language skills, soccer playing, and personality enabled him to combat his homesickness and the harassment of the immigration officials. The University of Nebraska at Omaha and the Nebraska Department of Roads gave him a place to learn and grow despite the time and geography in which he was born. The Great Plains, with its friendliness, openness, and fairness, has been fertile ground for this struggling, successful young engineer.
23780010|Although rangeland grasshopper populations have been studied for more than 120 years, little is known of the spatial patterns in grasshopper numbers between outbreak cycles. This information is necessary to understand how grasshopper outbreaks develop and to correctly design research, monitoring, and modeling projects. We used exploratory data analysis and geostatistics to identify the spatial patterns in grasshopper numbers for 1993 through 1997 in Colorado. The same family of models (spherical) provided the best fit to the sample data for all years, which implies that similar processes influenced grasshopper densities over these years. The parameters of the models differed among years, however, which suggests that the scale of spatial patterning changed over time. Since Colorado grasshopper densities were patterned at scales larger than those reported for other areas of the Great Plains, our results suggest that survey methods for Colorado are not adequate to identify small-scale "hot spots" of high grasshopper numbers, inhibiting prediction of potential outbreak foci in this region.
23779637|Knowledge of how current-year grazing and drought stress affect subsequent-year herbage production is needed to enhance the management of semiarid Sandhills prairies. This study quantifies subsequent-year effects of defoliation and precipitation on prairie sandreed (Calamovilfa longifolia), a high-seral, warm-season tallgrass, and total graminoid herbage production in the Nebraska Sandhills. Mainplots (9.0 m2) received either ambient precipitation (noncovered) or precipitation was excluded during April-May, June-July, or August-September, resulting in 66% to 135% of the long-term average (434 mm) precipitation. All species in 1.0 m2 defoliated subplots were clipped in early July at the stubble height required for 30%, 60%, or 90% defoliation of C. longifolia. Measurements were made during July of the following year. Yield of C. longifolia declined about 5% for each 10 percentage points of defoliation compared to 3% yield declines for all graminoids (grasses and sedges) combined, regardless of precipitation regime. Additionally, excluding precipitation during June-July reduced tiller density by about 44% and yield and percent composition of C. longifolia by about 25% compared to ambient precipitation. Periodic full growing-season deferment may be necessary to maintain high-seral species dominance in these grassland communities, particularly in pastures where overgrazing and drought stress occur concurrently during June or July.
23780014|Leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula) is an invasive exotic weed in Great Plains rangelands and pastures. Aphthona nigriscutis, the black dot flea beetle, was released as a biological control agent in nine heavily infested sites in south-central Manitoba (three sites in 1986, three in 1988, and three in 1990). In 1992 we evaluated beetle impact by sampling the vegetation in 25  25 cm quadrats. We measured cover, height, density, and biomass of leafy spurge, the cover of litter and bare ground, and the presence of other plant species both at the release point and at randomly-chosen nearby nonrelease reference points at each site. Leafy spurge near the release points showed significantly lower cover, biomass, height, and stem density than at the reference points. Also, release points had significantly more bare ground, higher grass and sedge biomass, and greater plant diversity. Other plant species, especially perennial grasses and sedges, increased in frequency, while frequency of leafy spurge did not change over time. Data such as these are important if we are to employ management techniques that can both reduce invasive weeds and restore native species diversity to the Great Plains prairies and rangelands.
23782179|Temperate grasslands are one of the world's great biomes and were once home to some of the largest assemblages of wildlife the earth has ever known. Today these grasslands are considered the most altered terrestrial ecosystem on the planet and are recognized as the most endangered ecosystem on most continents. While species and habitat declines continue, temperate grasslands have the lowest level of protection of the world's 14 biomes. With only 4% of the biome under protected status, considerable effort will be required to increase this level of protection. Several international bodies have suggested that achieving at least a 10% level of protection should be considered a minimum, yet this is a monumental challenge in an ecosystem now so vastly altered. This paper presents a global overview of the status of protected areas in the context of the health and extent of the world's temperate grasslands and identifies the scope of remaining opportunities and regional priorities for increasing the level of protection. The Temperate Grasslands Conservation Initiative will facilitate international collaboration for, and develop a strategy to achieve, meaningful protection and sustainable use. The Northern Great Plains ecoregion is of international significance and can make a valuable contribution to the global restoration of the temperate grasslands biome.
23779481|This descriptive study identifies the key concerns voiced by the Hispanic community and service providers in rural southwestern Missouri. Three surveys were conducted in 2001 with 381 Latino adults, Latino youth, and human service providers located in over 20 rural cities and towns throughout southwest Missouri. Demographic information, socioeconomic status, and mobility patterns of Latino respondents are profiled, and their housing, educational, and healthcare needs are reported. Language barriers, legal and documentation issues, a lack of job availability, and nonacceptance in the broader community are identified as key concerns of Latinos. Human-service providers identified language barriers, a lack of understanding of cultural differences, a lack of funds to develop culturally appropriate services, and a lack of job availability for Latinos with lower formal education as significant problems. Strategies for improving access to basic health, educational, and social services through a service integration model are suggested.
23803421|The religious heritage of the Great Plains is illustrated in distinct denominational regions. Mapping county-level data on major denominations reveals that Catholics and Lutherans are strongest in the Northern Plains, Methodists in the Central Plains, and Baptists in the Southern Plains. Counties that are increasing in population and closest to metropolitan and interstate areas experience the most diversity. During the last fifty years, Lutherans and Methodists have lost members, while Catholics and Baptists gained. The Central Plains is experiencing the most dynamism.
23778439|Rural homelessness, particularly in the Great Plains region, is under-researched. Most current understandings of homelessness are based on research in metropolitan regions. This paper suggests that the general structural frameworks, which have been developed to model homelessness in metropolitan areas, can serve as a useful starting point for understanding rural homelessness in Nebraska. By using a "key informant" survey of homeless service providers in Nebraska it is clear that there are several niches of homeless persons (Native Americans, migrant workers, meat-packing workers, and transients) present in Nebraska that are not discussed in the existing literature.
23775751|Public policy in such areas as the environment is increasingly being shaped by the courts as they resolve conflicts. There is some question whether the courts are able to include in policy decisions those values that are not derived from economic utility. In this article, the values represented by traditional Native American beliefs about nature and particularly water are examined. While NativeAmericans have won some court battles over water, the judges have usually decided on the basis of contractual and treaty agreements and not on the basis of the preservation of traditional values. Cases arising in the Great Plains reflect this tendency in judicial thinking.
24156332|Wetlands in the prairie known as potholes or sloughs represent an ever-changing mosaic of surface waters interacting with the atmosphere, groundwater, and each other in a variety of ways. Studies of groups of adjacent wetlands in different parts of the glaciated North American prairie have enabled some connections to be made between hydrologie processes, biological communities, and use of these wetlands by wetland-dependent wildlife. Understanding controls on variability in water levels, water volume, and salinity in these wetlands sets the stage for understanding controls on biological communities utilizing these wetlands. The role that natural variability in water and salinity plays in making these wetlands an important resource for waterfowl will provide an important context for those who are responsible for artificially altering the variability of water and salinity in prairie wetlands.
24156336|Many wetlands in the prairie pothole region are embedded within an agricultural landscape where they are subject to varying degrees of siltation. Cultivation of wetland catchment areas has exacerbated soil erosion; wetlands in agricultural fields receive more sediment from upland areas than wetlands in grassland landscapes and hence are subject to premature filling (i.e., they have shorter topographic lives). Associated impacts from increased turbidity, sediment deposition, and increased surface water input likely have impaired natural wetland functions. Although trapping of sediments by wetlands is often cited as a water quality benefit, sediment input from agricultural fields has potential to completely fill wetlands and shorten their effective life-span. Thus, the value placed on wetlands to trap sediments is in conflict with maximizing the effective topographic life of wetlands. Herein, we provide an overview of sedimentation, identify associated impacts on wetlands, and suggest remedial management strategies. We also highlight the need to evaluate the impact of agricultural practices on wetland functions from an interdisciplinary approach to facilitate development of best management practices that benefit both wetland and agricultural interests.
23777810|This paper examines the feasibility of establishing a regional presidential primary for the Great Plains States. It reviews the introduction of primaries for selecting national convention delegates, and the slowness of these states to adopt this method. Further, it surveys the use of the primary in the region, noting the independence of Great Plains voters in both the prereform and post-reform periods. Finally, the paper recommends that Great Plains States adopt a regional primary; suggests they select the earliest possible date in order to enhance their influence on the selection of presidential nominees; and offers several alternative proposals, depending upon whether the states of Texas and, possibly, Oklahoma are retained as part of such a regional primary.
23779599|The depopulation of the Great Plains continues to draw the attention of rural scholars. However, a number of aspects of migration in the region remain poorly understood. For example, what differences exist among migrants in terms of their economic characteristics? Recent research shows that there is tremendous variability in the amount of income each migrant brings to or takes from a region. Using county-level Internal Revenue Service data for migration flows between 1995 and 1998, we explore the spatial patterns of income and population migration, while contrasting the income flows of in-migrants versus out-migrants. The results show that income flows out of the Great Plains exceed what might be expected given the pattern of net out-migration, and that many of the migration flows into the region may be reinforcing pockets of poverty. These findings should concern local officials worried about preserving public and private services in rural areas in the face of a declining population and tax base.
23780130|We interviewed 200 tourists at Fort Robinson State Park and Chadron State Park in the Pine Ridge region of northwestern Nebraska during July and August of 1997 to determine attitudes toward elk (Cervus elaphus) and elk management in Nebraska. Fifty-nine percent of the respondents were aware that elk occupied the Pine Ridge, 95% favored free-ranging elk, and 55% favored hunting as a means of managing the population. Nebraska residents were more aware of elk and elk hunting in the Pine Ridge than were nonresidents. Also, more residents had observed elk and were willing to drive longer distances to view elk in the Pine Ridge. Respondents in older age groups (5564) were more knowledgeable about elk. More urban tourists were in favor of elk than those from rural communities, but attitudes toward elk hunting were similar between urban and rural residents. Seventy-six percent of respondents wanted an increase in the population of elk. Men were more aware of elk populations than women and more supportive of hunting as the best method to manage the population. We found no differences between gender for maintaining free-ranging elk, knowledge of hunting seasons, or willingness to drive, pay, or spend time to view elk. Our results revealed that tourists had positive attitudes toward free-ranging elk and management practices in Nebraska. Elk herds should be managed to provide maximum opportunity for both consumptive and nonconsumptive uses while minimizing negative impacts to property owners and the ecosystem.
23779572|Several counties of south-central and southeast Kansas experienced floods in the first week of November 1998. The communities of Arkansas City and Augusta were among those most severely affected by these floods. This study is based primarily on a mail questionnaire survey of residents of these two communities, and it examines respondents' satisfaction with four emergency response measures employed by local officials and emergency management agencies before and during the flood event. The extent of external support victims received and the level of their satisfaction with that support were also investigated. The analysis of the survey data shows that the emergency response efforts and the support victims received were rated poorly. Furthermore, the satisfaction scores differed significantly between respondents from Arkansas City and those from Augusta. The findings suggest that the extent of damage and preparedness are directly associated with victims' satisfaction with emergency measures undertaken by emergency management agencies. The study further suggests that the respondents of Arkansas City were relatively more satisfied with emergency measures than their counterparts in Augusta. Unlike in Arkansas City, city officials in Augusta had little time to prepare for the flooding. Hazard preparedness appears to be an important determinant of victims' satisfaction with emergency measures.
23779911|Agricultural lands can be used as a terrestrial sink for atmospheric CO2 by changing their management and/or use. The goal of this study was to evaluate the economic potential of carbon sequestration on cropland in the spring wheat producing region of the northern Great Plains. In order to provide a more realistic assessment of the economic potential for agricultural carbon sequestration, this study reflects regional trends in land management practices, incorporates the value of co-products from the conversion of cropland to permanent grass, and considers producer differences in crop production profitability. The economic model compared the expected net present value of (1) maintaining current farm practices, (2) switching tillage practices, or (3) converting cropland to permanent grass over a 20-year time horizon. Six different carbon prices ($10, $25, $50, $75, $100, and $125 per metric ton) were used to gauge producer/landowner response to incentive payments. A carbon price of $25 per metric ton led to a 29% increase over the baseline level of C sequestration, representing 49% of the study area's technical storage capacity. The study area's technical capacity to store C was fully attained when the price of C was increased to $125 per metric ton.
23775728|How humans perceive, respond, and adapt to long-term climatic change are questions of fundamental interest to nature and society researchers. This paper analyzes the effect of drought experience on Great Plains farmers' perceptions of long-term climate change. Approximately three-quarters of all farmers surveyed believed that the climate is, or is possibly, changing. Drought experience, while perhaps not initiating concern for climate change, can solidify peoples' perceptions of the certainty and nature of the change. The potential cognitive heuristics used in the formation of climate change perceptions are discussed.
23782175|There are increasing numbers of private (nonprofit and for-profit) centers that carry out conservation research and education in locations of environmental concern. Such centers generate revenue streams that directly support conservation programs and also sustain surrounding human communities. This paper assesses the size of the centers' economic impacts. We conducted separate studies of the economic impacts of the Cheetah Conservation Fund (Namibia) and (jointly) the Rowe Bird Sanctuary and Whooping Crane Trust (central Nebraska, USA). We collected data on direct expenditures and surveyed visitors and volunteers on their spending. For the Cheetah Conservation Fund, we estimate total economic impact using a Social Accounting Matrix developed for Namibia to determine appropriate multipliers. For the Rowe Sanctuary and the Whooping Crane Trust, we employ the IMPLAN Pro modeling software. We find that the Cheetah Conservation Fund generates a total economic impact of US$4.13 million per year and Rowe Sanctuary/Whooping Crane Trust generates US$3.80 million annually; the former sustains 177 jobs and the latter creates 63 jobs. Are such impacts significant? Two considerations suggest they are. First, such centers tend to be located in remote, usually rural areas where even small impacts may be important in sustaining local human communities. Second, for Africa alone we identified some 352 active conservation centers (undoubtedly a large undercount), so if on average each had an economic impact equal to that of Cheetah Conservation Fund, their combined impact would total about $1.5 billion per year.
23775752|The legal profession is highly differentiated by practice situation, clientele, and community setting, producing multiple professions within the practice of law. Using community size as the independent variable, this paper argues that the structuring of a legal career has less to do with the commonalities of legal training or the presumed solidarity of a learned profession and more to do with the characteristics of the community in which professional practice takes root. With a comparative approach, using data selected from a sample of rural lawyers in communities of 20,000 or less in Missouri, a midsize (150,000) Missouri city, and a metropolitan setting (Chicago), this paper demonstrates that law careers are deeply rooted in the social, economic, and political characteristics of their communities and tend to mirror the dominant local institutions. In large-scale settings where the population is broadly stratified, legal careers are distributed within a professional hierarchy that mirrors the economic and social setting. Institutional practice is the norm while entrepreneurial practice is experienced as a residual form. In smaller settings, where populations are more homogeneous and the economic base does not support institutional practice, entrepreneurial practice is the norm. Entrepreneurial careers include diverse clientele, a concentration on personal plight matters and deep involvement in community activities. The community is thus argued to be the prior and fundamental source of structuring for the professional career of lawyers.
23779969|There are various methods available for estimating magnitude and trends of evapotranspiration. Bowen ratio energy balance system and eddy correlation techniques offer powerful alternatives for measuring land surface evapotranspiration. In spite of the elegance, high accuracy, and theoretical attractions of these techniques for measuring evapotranspiration, their practical use over large areas can be limited due to the number of sites needed and the related expense. Application of evapotranspiration mapping from satellite measurements can overcome the limitations. The objective of this study was to utilize the METRIC (Mapping Evapotranspiration at High Resolution using Internalized Calibration) model in Great Plains environmental settings to understand water use in managed ecosystems on a regional scale. We investigated spatiotemporal distribution of a fraction of reference evapotranspiration (ETrF) using eight Landsat 5 images during the 2005 and 2006 growing season for path 29, row 32. The ETrF maps generated by METRIC allowed us to follow the magnitude and trend in ETrF for major land-use classes during the growing season. The ETrF was lower early in the growing season for agricultural crops and gradually increased as the normalized difference vegetation index of crops increased, thus presenting more surface area over which water could transpire toward the mid-season. Comparison of predictions with Bowen ratio energy balance system measurements at Clay Center, NE, showed that METRIC performed well at the field scale for predicting evapotranspiration from a cornfield. If calibrated properly, the model could be a viable tool to estimate water use in managed ecosystems in subhumid climates at a large scale.
23778231|Grasslands are integral to the economic health of Canada's rural prairies, making up 30% of the agricultural land base in Canada's three prairie provinces. These grasslands support agriculture, through grazing of livestock, and recreation, such as hunting and ecotourism. These grasslands are also environmentally significant, providing habitat for native plants and animals. The economic and environmental significance of these grasslands should not be undervalued. Economic opportunities and environmental policies and regulations affect the management of these lands. Current issues that may affect how the prairie is used include the: potential species-at-risk legislation, other initiatives for biodiversity enhancement, greenhouse gas regulations or incentives, carbon sequestration opportunities, and economic diversification to support economic growth. Decisions on these issues will affect the way prairie grasslands contribute to the region's economic and environmental sustainability.
23780058|The purpose of this paper is to provide quantitative fire history information for a geographically unique region, the Loess Hills of northwest Missouri. We sampled 33 bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa Michx.), chinkapin oak (Q. muehlenbergii Engelm.), and black oak (Q. velutina Lam.) trees from the Brickyard Hill Conservation Area in northwest Missouri. The period of tree-ring record ranged in calendar years from 1671 to 2004 and fire-scar dates (n = 97) ranged from 1672 to 1980. Fire intervals for individual trees ranged from 1 to 87 years. The mean fire interval was 6.6 years for the pre-Euro-American settlement period (1672-1820), and 5.2 years for the entire record (1672-1980). A period of more frequent fire (mean fire interval = 1.6 for 1825 to 1850) coincided with Euro-American settlement of the area. The average percentage of trees scarred at the site was 16.8%, or about 1 in 7 trees sampled per fire. No significant relationship between fire years and drought conditions was found; however, events prior to 1820 may have been associated with wet to dry mode transitions.
23775730|Carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel combustion have increased markedly in this century. Increased carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere are thought likely to help produce a warming of global climate. Many strategies to reduce or reverse the anticipated global warming point to reductions of fossil fuel combustion as a primary ingredient. This paper examines the possibility of obtaining a decrease in world petroleum supply as a result of reducing interest rates relative to the rate of inflation.
23779395|World War II accelerated the movement of rural and small town Iowa women into manufacturing industry. Scholars have debated the significance of World War II for gender relations, but the recent consensus is that only focussed studies of particular localities can address the complexity of the changes effected by the War. This study looks at Iowa women in meatpacking plants. Assessing the economic background, their prior efforts to enter packing plants, and the resistance they met in the plants makes their limited gains understandable. Women of rural and small town wage earning households had always been workers, usually in the informal sector; and their World War II experience was a continuation of this pattern in a formal job setting. While the women did not consistently press for gender equality as workers, they achieved more security and higher incomes than they had had previously.
23774368|Applied anthropology has much to offer the educational evaluator role, especially in cross-cultural settings concerning language and bilingual education programs. This study examines the evolution of an elementary school Indian language and bilingual education program in a small, northern plains American Indian reservation community, the use of anthropological research methods, and the role of the external evaluator. Findings suggest that evaluation and change recommendations are more likely to be accepted when they are derived from the participants in the program rather than from an external evaluator.
23780295|The purpose of this study was to utilize Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technology and spatial analysis coupled with the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) alumni data from 1930 to 2004 in order to compare and contrast the changing distribution patterns of five-year alumni cohorts. Mean centers, location quotients, and cluster analysis were used to assess the degree to which UNK alumni cohorts have migrated over the 75-year period, the extent to which any regionalization or lack thereof occurs, and the proportion of UNK alumni per county compared to college graduates as a whole. These spatial patterns were then compared to migration trends throughout the United States for the same period.
23777764|A water use regulation order by the Chief Engineer of the Division of Water Resources of the Kansas State Board of Agriculture addressed a controversial issue: water allocation for agricultural, wetland, and urban users in Central Kansas. The specific study area includes Cheyenne Bottoms Wetland, a preserve with important habitat conditions for many migratory bird species. This region is economically dependent on irrigated agriculture. Groundwater withdrawal for irrigation had caused the water table to decline and left the wetland with no consistent water source. The Chief Engineer required many farmers to reduce their irrigation water use. An evaluation of this order indicates that it was a logical regulation, given current water law. Although many farmers fear its impact on future water use regulation decisions, analysis reveals that this decision will not set a legal precedent.
23775694|The pre-settlement Platte River is commonly described as a mostly unwooded prairie river, comprised of water, sand, and wet grassland. However, primary historical accounts do not support this prairie river concept. Instead, the early accounts and quantitative information from the General Land Office survey indicate that, prior to settlement by European immigrants, the Platte was a wooded river traversing a prairie landscape. Woodland was reported as dense on innumerable islands in the channel, but scattered along on the outer banks. This woodland was cleared during exploration and early settlement. Thus, the openness of the post-settlement river observed early in the 1900s was an artifact of deforestation rather than of the result of natural processes. Since the 1930s, however, reforestation and channel narrowing have occurred in response to reduced streamflow and less demand for timber. The new woodland harbors high biodiversity, while occupying some areas formerly available to certain aquatic avifauna. This historical synthesis should help to reformulate restoration targets for the Platte River ecosystem.
23779573|Human population size in the Great Plains ecosystem before European contact has been of longstanding interest to scholars. The same is true of bison numbers. Given the near total dependence on bison by nonagricultural precontact humans, integrating information on both human and bison numbers from that time is of further interest, providing the focus for this paper. Recent research on the behavioral ecology of bison and related ungulates has led to the identification of two distinct, although not mutually exclusive, populations: resident and migrant herds. Moreover, migrants tend to vastly outnumber residents, often by more than 4 to 1. The best available evidence supports estimates of about 30 million bison in the Plains ecosystem during prehistoric and early historic times. Of these, about 6 million likely were nonmigrants at any one time. These numbers provide a basis for estimating the numbers of human bison-hunters. We review four possible combinations of human use of resident and migratory bison populations and their implications for human numbers. Archaeological and historical information provides evidence that year-round use of residents, together with seasonal use of the more numerous migrants, was the most likely pattern of human usage of bison. Hence, we estimate the sustainable human bison-hunting population to have been 86,000-130,000. This estimate is close to past population estimates based on direct counts and other extrapolations.
23779568|Recorded presettlement observations of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) are not adequate to fully determine their abundance and distribution. Early naturalists and explorers made only casual reports of prairie dogs on an opportunistic basis; their written records do not represent systematic surveys. Cumulative accounts of prairie dog control efforts, together with the known current prairie dog distribution in North Dakota and Montana, clearly show that most journalists failed to record prairie dog colonies. Also, they restricted their travels to a few common routes, and as a result only a very small and select portion of the landscape was surveyed. The hypothesis that prairie dogs dramatically increased in abundance following settlement is highly speculative. It ignores the fact that the Great Plains were once populated by large numbers of native ungulates, and that prairie dog control efforts began as early as the 1880s. Many lines of evidence suggest that the black-tailed prairie dog was common prior to European-American settlement and occupied 2%-15% of large landscapes (400,000 ha or more). There are systematic accounts of prairie dogs at the time of settlement, government records concerning poisoning efforts, physical evidence of abandoned historic colonies, and contemporary information on prairie dog ecology, dispersal, distribution, and abundance, as well as presettlement accounts of large colonies measured in miles. The association of an obligate predator (the black-footed ferret [Mustela nigripes]) and a commensal bird species (e.g., mountain plover [Charadrius montanus] and burrowing owl [Athene cunicularia]) with the prairie dog (Cynomys spp.) is considered additional evidence that prairie dogs were abundant and widespread for an extended period. The presence of black-tailed prairie dogs throughout the short- and mixed-grass regions of the Great Plains from southern Canada to northern Mexico provided an important and unique habitat to a variety of wildlife species. We conclude that the black-tailed prairie dog was more abundant than suggested by tallies of observations in the journals of early European travelers.
23778223|Research on biodiversity, landscape ecology, grazing management, greenhouse gas effects, control of invasive species, riparian ecology, sustainable development, and related fields is forging a new and broader understanding of the Great Plains and its grassland ecosystems. This research documents dramatic changes that are taking place across the Great Plains and their consequences. First, we review the factors that led to the January 1999 symposium, Great Plains at the Millennium, sponsored by the USDA Agricultural Research Service, USDA Forest Service, Ecological Society of America, Society for Range Management, as well as the Center for Grassland Studies and the Center for Great Plains Studies at the University of Nebraska. Then, we highlight the primary themes developed by the speakers. The funding for this special issue was provided by grants from the USDA Agricultural Research Service and USDA Forest Service.
23779433|Chemical control of weeds has increased agricultural productivity, but complete reliance on chemicals has serious drawbacks. These include high cost per acre, decreasing effectiveness, negative effects on plant community diversity, and increased opportunities for environmental contamination. One alternative is biocontrol, the use of biological factors that naturally limit weed populations. Long-term research goals focus on improving our knowledge of the processes that control and limit potential plant pests naturally and to use that knowledge to develop predictable, sustainable, low-cost, biologically-based weed management strategies. This paper reviews the ecological under-pinnings of classical biological control of weeds, including basic research on the interaction of natural enemies with native thistles in Nebraska. The fundamentals for developing a biological weed control program are summarized and research in the central and northern Great Plains on applying biological controls to limit introduced noxious rangeland weeds is reviewed. This is followed by a discussion of one of the problems associated with biological control, the potential secondary effects of biocontrol agents on non-target plant species. The evidence suggests that biological control is an ecologically-sound, sustainable and economical option for limiting introduced rangeland weeds. Biological control represents an attractive technique for limiting the negative impacts of high weed densities, while not eradicating the introduced weed. Expanding interest in sustainable agricultural systems and more environmentally-friendly pest control and the prohibitive costs of chemical control suggest that biological weed control is likely to become an increasingly important part of rangeland management.
23774366|Today, intertribal participants at Southern Plains powwows (Oklahoma and Texas) celebrate common history and culturetheir sense of Indianness through the enactment of ceremonial song and dance. The Kiowa play a central and assertive role in the Southern Plains powwow network, and they use the Gourd Dance as the vehicle to identify their Kiowaness. The thesis of this paper is that the Kiowa continue to maintain their tribal identity through performances of the Gourd Dance, which they claim as their own. The maintenance of identity is traced from the late nineteenth century through the evolution of Kiowa dances leading up to the Gourd Dance.
23779603|Unlike most of the Great Plains, Texas's Edwards Plateau lies near large, rapidly growing metropolitan centers. County-to-county migration data for the period 1985-1990 were used to examine migration patterns in Edwards Plateau counties. Weighted standard distance and stream efficiency values were used to analyze county in-migration fields of 28 nonmetropolitan counties. A key finding was that net in-migration to counties closest to metropolitan areas was not mere "urban spillover." There were also indications that counterurban migration extended beyond metropolitan-adjacent counties to more sparsely populated destinations. Counterurbanization was occurring from central counties of the nation's largest metropolitan areas and some Texas metropolitan areas. In-migration from the Gulf Coast of Texas played an important role in the Edwards Plateau. The migration system of the Edwards Plateau appears to have functioned differently than nonmetropolitan counties in the High Plains. Continued change is supported by data from the 2000 census.
23779915|The relationships among seasonal change, population dynamics, social pressures, landscape dynamics, anthropologic disturbances, and behavioral ecology are complex. Therefore, migration and seasonal movements are poorly understood and dispersal continues to be one of the least understood aspects of animal ecology in North America. We reviewed scientific literature on movements of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) in western and midwestern landscapes to identify gaps in our knowledge and direct future research. We used electronic databases, library catalogs, Internet search engines, and peer-reviewed journals to conduct key word searches for pertinent articles. We found that deer disperse due to habitat conditions and social pressures that are based on seasonal influences. Dispersal rates and distances vary regionally and are influenced by landscape characteristics and competition for resources such as food, cover, and mates. Migration and dispersal may influence local population levels. Decisions to manipulate densities, sex ratios, and age structures should account for local deer movements.
23780056|Gizzard shad are a riverine species commonly transplanted into manmade reservoir systems to provide prey for predatory game fish. Thermally limited, the range of their native distribution extends into the midwestern Great Plains. Following the harsh winter conditions of 2000-2001, numerous incidents of extensive gizzard shad die-offs were reported in eastern Nebraska during spring ice-out. In an effort to determine the breadth and extent of mortality, statewide fish population surveys conducted between 1994 and 2004 were examined, and it was found that gizzard shad were extirpated from seven flood-control reservoirs in a localized area of eastern Nebraska. Meteorological data confirmed that extreme cold and windy conditions were prevalent in the area during early December 2000, and may have been correlated to this unique extirpation event. Hydrologic connection to groundwater and wind sheltering may have protected smaller waterbodies from extirpation.
23779445|Since its introduction into Canada in 1973, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been controversial. Proponents argue that EIA is a practical means of achieving sustainable development because major projects are subject to an independent review before they are issued a license to proceed. However, the government's role in promoting resource-based development such as the ALPAC pulp mill (northern Alberta) and the Repap mills (northern Manitoba) has attracted considerable resistance. Public opposition to pulp and paper megaprojects in western Canada has reinforced the contradiction between the government's role as development promoter and as protector of northern resources and aboriginal populations. Analysis of the ALPAC and Repap controversies indicates that the EIA process is a highly imperfect means of resolving environmental disputes. EIA in Western Canada is being held hostage to overriding political conflicts, notably the demands of economic development, such as provincial governments anxious to promote growth by selling their resources in global markets, and environmental preservation. This contradictory commitment to economic development and environmental preservation has been played out through the evolving EIA review process.
23780296|A consortium of tribal bison producers, tribal and state university faculty, and business professionals defined a "brand" of Native American-raised bison that would reflect the cultural and spiritual values of American Indians and the historic relationship between American Indians and bison. Following a concept-testing market-research approach, surveys were distributed to potential producers and consumers of this "Good Buffalo." The consumer respondents indicated that environmentally friendly production practices (89%), humane treatment of animals (82.1%), and supporting prairie restoration were very important aspects of the brand. Price was very important for only 42.7% of consumer respondents, and being raised by American Indians was very important to 28% of consumer respondents. The number of producer survey respondents was too small to present clear conclusions. However, since completion of the brand development, Native American Indian and non-Native bison producers with similar interests have formed a business and adopted the brand concepts developed.
23775723|Evidence of wind erosion, accumulation of airborne sediments, and drought is preserved on the Southern High Plains. Eolian deposition in the Holocene concentrated between 6000 and 4500 years ago. The Blackwater Draw Formation indicates episodic wind erosion and deposition in the past 1.6 million years. The Ogallala Formation suggests a vast, sandy eolian plain accumulated episodically between 4 and 11 million years. Warmer and drier conditions predicted for the region in a globally-warmer climate will thus be superimposed upon prevailing characteristics of wind and relative aridity that have dominated recent geologic time.
23777768|This study examines the spatial evolution of drought severity within the contiguous United States during the first six months of average Great Plains-centered drought events. It identifies Great Plains-centered drought events from 1895-1989 based on the drought history of the North Central, South Dakota and Low Rolling Plains, Texas climatic divisions. Time series of warm- and cold-season average drought severity based on Great Plains drought for all United States 'climatic divisions are calculated and spatially analyzed. Mapped patterns show spatial teleconnections in drought development. Cold-season drought patterns based on the North Central, South Dakota climatic division are clearly in-phase with droughts in the lower Mississippi Valley. Drought patterns based on the Low Rolling Plains, Texas climatic division reveal that droughts are in-phase across the southwestern United States, but are largely out-of-phase with the eastern states.
23779574|In a country where more than 40% of the agricultural land is farmed by tenant operators, the question of how that land base is farmed becomes paramount. In this study we examined soil erosion levels in relation to land tenure and surveyed tenant farmer practices and attitudes in Nebraska and South Dakota. We found leased land was farmed and maintained by tenants in an environmentally sustainable manner. Furthermore, we found no evidence to suggest variation from this norm due to type of lease, size of farm, type of farm organization, or landowner classification. While educational level and years of experience (age) contributed to soil stewardship practices, to a great extent tenant farmers in these Great Plains states farmed leased land in a conscientious manner to maintain their integrity and reputation in the community as being a good farmer. Landowners, as well as society at large, benefit from this perspective.
23779633|Recognition of the human right for indigenous peoples to freely express their spiritual beliefs is essential to expanding tolerance for the earth-based spirituality of many indigenous peoples. Awareness of such beliefs must be extended to support the spiritual significance of what indigenous peoples believe are their sacred lands. Physical landmarks such as mountains or rivers hold essential spiritual meaning for many tribes. Linkages to indigenous peoples' knowledge systems can yield a greater understanding of their social values and cultural differences in public debates over human rights and their struggles to protect their sacred lands. This paper reviews the impact of the Garrison Dam on the Three Affiliated Tribes of the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in North Dakota. A discussion on the Draft United Nations Declaration of Indigenous Human Rights demonstrates the ongoing global struggle of indigenous peoples to protect their sacred lands and cultures.
23780125|The relative influence of physical, chemical, and biotic wetland characteristics on wetland use by spring migrating lesser scaup (Aythya affinis [Eyton]; hereafter "scaup") is not well understood. We compared characteristics of used and unused wetlands in eastern South Dakota. Used wetlands were larger (>2 ha; P = 0.05), with higher amphipod densities (>500 individuals m-2; P = 0.01) and higher chlorophyll-a concentrations (>0.2; P < 0.05). These wetlands had lower ionic conductivity (1.8 mS; P = 0.02), lower nitrates (1.0 ppm; P = 0.01), lower submerged aquatic vegetation density (P < 0.01), and lower fine sediment proportions (150 m grain size; P < 0.01). Wetland use was best described by amphipod and submerged aquatic vegetation densities. The predictive model explained 50.4% of the variation in scaup use in a reserve dataset. Thresholds of tolerance by amphipods in relation to wetland habitats in the upper Midwest should be investigated further as indicators of a broader range of water and habitat quality characteristics for scaup.
23779836|Mammals impact prairie ecosystems through burrowing activities. Burrows used by carnivores were studied in four habitat types at the Konza Prairie Biological Station, a native tallgrass prairie near Manhattan, KS. We surveyed nearly 40 km of 10-m-wide transects and counted burrows in upland, slope, and lowland prairie and along ravines. Burrows were placed selectively along slopes (7.3 per km) and to a lesser extent along edges of ravines (4.2), but only infrequently in upland (0.6) and never in lowlands (0.0). We also recorded features (e.g., location, aspect, and slope steepness) along slope transects at a 30 m intervals to estimate availability of these features. Points of hills (18.7 burrows per km) were used more than sides of hills (2.0) or upper ends of ravines (1.5). Burrows on points were placed selectively on steep rather than shallow slopes and on south- and west-facing slopes rather than north- and east-facing slopes.
23780099|Landscapes such as the Great Plains have been described as lacking human scale. This study developed a quantitative model of human scale and compared it with viewers' perceptions of visual structure. Visual structure was selected from the physical features of Otoe County, NE, forming boundaries, found as ground textures, vegetative screens, and topographic breaks and was depicted in photographs of landscape scenes. The model used and tested nine classes of scale based on grain and extent of the photos rated by viewers against those from the model. Viewers identified boundaries representing grain and extent that were synthesized into a viewer-perceived scale class. Good agreement with the proposed model occurred at four smaller scales but deteriorated as scale increased. Larger-scale scenes appear to offer more opportunities for the viewer to select closer or farther visual boundaries, thus changing their interpretation of scale.
23804537|The Great Plains is one focus of the debate in the United States over appropriate land use and sustainability. Within the Plains region, eastern Colorado represents a case study that permits researchers and policymakers to focus on important relationships between agricultural land use, population change, and the sustainability of agriculture, environment, and communities. Colorado Front Range urban areas experienced large increases in population from 1950 to 2000 that resulted in a 35% reduction in total farmland. In the urban fringe region, farmland declined rapidly since 1978 and harvested irrigated cropland declined by 16% since 1990. Rural population in eastern Colorado decreased from 1950 to 1970 and then stabilized. Rural areas experienced decreased total farmland, harvested dryland, and rangeland, as well as intensification of agriculture because of a 76% increase in harvested irrigated land (1950 to 1997). Inflation-adjusted agricultural product income remained stable because of large increases in crop yield from irrigated crops and animal production. The surprising result of this analysis is that agriculture and population are not declining throughout the Great Plains.
23778283|The Latino population in the Midwest has been increasing rapidly. Latinos have been in Omaha, Nebraska, since the late 1800s. However, the development of modern meatpacking plants and a low unemployment rate have resulted in a large population of "newcomers" to the city. Latino "oldtimers" differ from newcomers in their experiences. I examine, through photo elicitation, attitudes of a selected population of Latino oldtimers toward newcomers as contextualized through segmented assimilation. Results indicate oldtimers in this sample have some misgivings about newcomers. Furthermore, I argue that downward assimilation of Latino newcomers is likely given the conditions to which they migrate.
23777985|Anthropogenic modification of native woodlands and grasslands in the Great Plains has altered the abundance and distribution of many species of mammals. To study habitat effects on the eastern woodrat (Neotoma floridana), we surveyed nests of the eastern woodrat in woodlands, grasslands, and croplands along 77 km of secondary roads in three counties in north-central Kansas. All nests were located in woodlands (<2% of habitat), although grasslands and croplands constituted 36% and 62% of habitat surveyed, respectively. In our survey, nests were associated positively with shelterbelts (3.6 nests per 100 m of road edge) but not with shrub patches (1.1 nests per 100 m of road edge) or riparian woodlands (0.3 nests per 100 m of road edge). Consequently, we specifically censused nests in an additional 12 riparian woodlands and 12 shelterbelts. Nests of eastern woodrats were less dense in riparian woodlands (9.4 nests/ha) than in shelterbelts (55.5 nests/ha). Density of woodrat nests decreased as width of a wooded area increased. Further, nests per 100 m of length of woodland did not increase as the width of woodland increased. These patterns suggest that woodland edge, not woodland interior, is the primary factor in abundance of eastern woodrats in this region. Although the eastern woodrat has previously been considered a woodland species, our results suggest that this assessment is incorrect. Our observations demonstrate that anthropogenic modification of the Great Plains, in the form of planted shelterbelts and expanded riparian woodland, likely has increased the distribution and abundance of eastern woodrats, compared to the mid-1800s.
23779770|Most attempts to map the frontier of agricultural settlement in western Canada have used land alienation data or population density calculated from census returns. Both methods are fraught with difficulties. Population density data are only available at five-year intervals at the 36-square-mile township level. Land alienation does not always reflect settlement. In Manitoba, entire townships were alienated years before they were occupied. The organization and building of schools is a better indicator of actual settlement and the emergence of community-based institutions. To test this hypothesis, school formation and land alienation in 35 townships in southeastern Manitoba were plotted. This showed a close correlation between school formation and land alienation. All rural schools in Manitoba were then plotted by year from 1871 to 1959 using GIS software. Interpretation of this mapped data supports the contention that the formation of rural school districts is an effective and easily employed indicator of the limits of frontier settlement. These mapped data suggest that the idea of a well-defined frontier line of settlement is not the best analogy to describe the progress of agricultural settlement in Manitoba.
23775642|Grazing management on the Great Plains has been criticized for not more closely matching the presumed grazing patterns of bison. The critics assume that bison "flash grazed," that is, grazed heavily for a short time, then moved on, and did not return for months or even years. This assumption complements the traditional view of an annual north-south migration of the herds. However, evidence from explorers' and other travelers' journals contradict both flash grazing and annual north-south migration. In a few cases where prolonged continuous observations were made in the same favorable habitat, bison were seldom absent. In Canada, bison sometimes moved from the plains into the bordering aspen parklands during severe winter weather, but not regularly and not north-south. Throughout the Great Plains, bison numbers were so great and so thoroughly spread over the country that if a herd moved on, they were quickly replaced by another, giving little opportunity for rest or regrowth of the plant communities. Bison appeared to move in response to local conditions of forage availability, as influenced by weather, fire, and previous grazing. In at least one case, bison remained on a depleted watershed until they starved, rather than moving to an adjacent watershed with adequate forage.
23779539|Nature tourism is increasingly being considered as an economic development opportunity for rural areas of the Great Plains. As rural communities seek to develop nature tourism, questions regarding the attributes and interests of the nature tourist arise. This study sought to address these questions through a survey of participants at a birding festival held in central North Dakota in June 2004. The festival participants were predominately from outside the local area, and most of these visitors were from out of state. The festival participants were middle-aged and highly educated, and had relatively high income. The visitors spent an average of three nights in the local area, with an average local expenditure of $160 per person. The visitors enjoyed the festival and the area; almost all would recommend the birding festival to a friend. The potential for growth of nature tourism in the area appears substantial.
24156339|Land and water resources of the Prairie Pothole Region support important economic and ecologic activities. Scarce resources, such as wetlands, should be allocated among these activities such that society's well being is enhanced. Such allocation requires knowledge of the relative values of resources, something that has been largely missing in the wetland literature. This paper describes the practical realities of wetland economics, using the Prairie Pothole Region as an example. Ongoing human and economic activities in the PPR are presented as an introduction to the economy of the area. The purpose for economic valuation of wetlandsachieving the "greatest good"is briefly discussed. The connection between wetlands and human values is described. Five types of wetland valuation methods are discussed: market, surrogate/proxy, revealed preference, stated preference, and benefits transfer. Finally, some suggestions are made to add value to all types of wetland science by enhancing the collaboration among wetland scientists.
23775609|Settlement of the western United States resulted in clearing and degradation of many wooded areas. The loss of biodiversity and erosion of soil which followed produced a landscape which is still being restored. The first section of the paper reviews the settlement history of western South Dakota, describing the ecological effects of rapid population growth upon the landscape. The second part focuses on a smaller area, that of a family's ranch, which has undergone land management changes and woodland restoration since 1950. Studies which document an increase in woody species diversity and abundance, the population structure of trees, and the area occupied by woody vegetation are summarized. Sampling included measurements of woody vegetation in the field and of riparian and scarp woodland cover from 1956 and 1991 aerial photography.
24156335|There is abundant, albeit fragmentary, evidence that prairie wetlands are being contaminated extensively by agricultural pesticides (primarily herbicides and insecticides) and other anthropogenic contaminants. Such inputs can affect fundamental ecosystem properties such as primary production which, in turn, affects habitat and resource supply for wetland fauna. We review data on the use of pesticides, off-site transport of residues from treated land, and the frequency with which these residues are subsequently detected in receiving streams and wetlands on the prairies. As the environmental distribution of a pesticide is affected by its chemical and physical properties, and the abiotic and biotic characteristics of the receiving wetland, greater insight into its ecological impacts will be obtained from considering the underlying partitioning and degradative processes that determine distribution rather than from case-by-case studies of persistence. Future research on chemical contamination of prairie wetlands should include the development and testing of dissipation and fate models under conditions typical of prairie wetlands using a process-oriented approach, emphasizing the roles of adsorption and photolysis in a shallow, high area to volume environment. Output from a computer model based on the fugacity concept (QWASFI: Quantitative Water, Air, Soil, Film Interactions) indicates the potential to predict the environmental behavior of specific chemicals in wetlands.
23779508|This article reports partial findings from a five-year study that examined the attitudes, perceptions, and expectations regarding higher education among a sample of American Indian students attending a predominantly non-Indian university. Most notably, this article examines some of the factors associated with two specific personal assessments of the college experience: (1) the impact of college upon their appreciation of Native American heritage and (2) the level of satisfaction with the college experience.
23779571|Climate change models predict that ecotones, which are boundaries between two biomes, are likely to be the first place we see the effects of climate change. However, very little baseline data exist for these areas and their current community structure. In order to better understand the community dynamics of an ecotonal forest, a 2.2 ha 60year-old upland forest in northeastern Kansas was monitored for 10 years. This oak-hickory forest at the ecotone with the tallgrass prairie biome is growing more slowly than other forests of similar species composition farther east, possibly due to lower levels of available soil moisture or nutrient-depleted soil. The aboveground biomass (122 Mg/ha) was 15%-25% less than more eastern forests of similar composition and age. The study area contained three slightly different landscape units, typical of the regional matrix of land-use histories, edaphic characteristics, and forest compositions. A portion of the study area with a history of greater disturbance had the greatest number of small trees and a higher biomass and density of early successional species. Over the 10year study period, differences among landscape units became less pronounced, with tree biomass and species composition becoming more uniform. We expect that in the next 50 years, the forest will become more homogenous across the study area with respect to aboveground biomass and species composition. This suggests that land-use history plays a minor role in determining community composition in this ecotonal forest, and that biological and environmental factors play a larger role.
23777881|Low-density development consumes large tracts of the rural landscape surrounding Great Plains cities. Our objective was to determine how low-density sprawl influences the presence of birds. We used logistic regression models developed for two eastern Great Plains study areas for 1966-1990 to determine the probability of occurrence of bird species on the same areas in 1902. The two areas experienced different levels of low-density urban sprawl from 1902-1990. Birds associated with forests and forest edge are expected to decrease in both areas. Some of these are species of high concern. Dickcissel, a grassland bird, is expected to increase in the area of low sprawl, whereas several bird species associated with intense development, such as the house sparrow, are expected to increase in the area with a greater level of urban sprawl. We conclude that changes in land use and human activity associated with urbanization are influencing plains bird communities.
23775640|Understanding how bison behaved in the past can provide key insights for today's managers, ecologists, and anthropologists. However, the direct application of both historic documentation and modern field observations may not provide the necessary insights for understanding bison behaviors in archeological and paleontological contexts. In order to develop a better understanding of possible behavior within these contexts, we have developed individual foraging histories for 22 Bison bison from the Glenrock Buffalo Jump assemblage of the Plains Late Prehistoric period in Wyoming and four Pleistocene B. priscus from the Ukraine. Incremental stable carbon isotopic values of dental enamel were used to determine foraging histories. The progressive development of enamel allows for samples to be selected that represent distinct periods of an individual's life. Comparison of these dietary patterns among members of a herd can demonstrate foraging behaviors of cohorts and, in turn, the entire assemblage. Application of this high-resolution paleodietary technique provides new information on bison behaviors in a paleontological and archaeological context.
23780012|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations have in the past, and continue today, to increase in the Great Plains and North America. However, their impact on native plant species and endangered ecosystems such as the tallgrass prairie is poorly documented. To better understand the consequences of increasing deer numbers for native shrubs in grasslands, we assessed the extent of their summer browsing activity on six shrub species (wild plum, rough-leaved dogwood, smooth sumac, fragrant sumac, and coralberry) along transects that spanned riparian margins to upland tallgrass prairie. The proportion of terminal shoots browsed was quantified along established white-tail deer trails and in parallel transects off trails in watersheds that varied in fire history at the Konza Prairie Biological Station (Kansas). Proximity to deer trails was a strong determinant of deer browsing activity. Along trails, 20% of the twigs surveyed (N = 60,032) were browsed, whereas off trails less than 1% of twigs (N = 14,785) were browsed. Coralberry and rough-leaved dogwood comprised 80% of the shrub cover along trails, whereas wild plum, prickly ash, smooth sumac, and fragrant sumac had less cover, in that order. However, browsing was greatest on wild plum and rough-leaved dogwood (between 40% and 50% of available twigs), and the proportion of twigs browsed out of the total twigs used was highest for rough-leaved dogwood. Based on preference ratios (use/abundance), white-tail deer are likely to have the greatest impact on the less common wild plum and smooth sumac as well as rough-leaved dogwood. Interestingly, white-tail deer avoided the most common shrub, coralberry, at this time of year. Our results suggest that even in summer, when deer tend also to forage on herbaceous species in grasslands, deer browsing may have significant local impacts on woody species of tallgrass prairies in the Great Plains. Concurrent increases in woody plant cover and abundance in grasslands throughout the Great Plains suggest that deer browsing is not yet intense enough to prevent shrub expansion into tallgrass prairie.
23779722|Nitrogen is increasing in terrestrial ecosystems as a result of agricultural practices and the burning of fossil fuels. This increase is expected to be accompanied by changes in water availability due to global warming. We examined the effects of nitrogen and water manipulations on Schizachyrium scoparium, one of the dominant grasses in the Great Plains. Schizachyrium scoparium responded positively to watering, with an increase in photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, water and nitrogen use efficiencies, and water potential. Under watered conditions, fertilization had no significant effect on measured parameters, except for nitrogen-use efficiency. Significant differences appeared between fertilized and nonfertilized plants under moderate drought, with fertilized plants maintaining higher photosynthesis and water-use efficiency than nonfertilized plants. Water potential declined with water stress but did not differ between fertilization treatments, while nitrogen-use efficiency was significantly higher under nonfertilized than fertilized treatment. Differences among fertilization treatments disappeared under severe drought. We conclude that S. scoparium will likely respond positively to fertilization under moderate drought in the Great Plains. However, under severe drought, fertilization will not provide any physiological advantages to S. scoparium.
23779396|Critics of education in the United States asserted that high school students' performance fell after 1960. The decline has been linked to high school curricula which lost academic rigor in comparison to high school curricula in earlier decades. This study investigates the curricula of selected high shcools in Nebraska, using random samples of graduating seniors taken every 10 years from 1953 to 19830 Findings show that the proportions of students' programs devoted to more demanding English, social sciences, mathematics, business, and natural science courses diminished during the study period. Grade inflation was observed in smaller public schools, but not in larger public schools nor in Catholic schools.
23774364|The (Dawes) General Allotment Act of 1887 was meant to fulfill the United States Government policy of allotting individual parcels of Indian reservation lands in an effort to break up communal societies, forcing tribes to move towards the white man's ideal of civilized culture. Three decades earlier, Article 6 of the Treaty of 1854 allowed for the survey and allotting of the Omaha's northeastern Nebraska reservation, placing the Omaha Nation at the leading edge of federal policy a generation before the Dawes Act. Two interrelated groups of tribal members identified as "Make-Believe White-Men" and the "Progressives" who signed an 1882 petition are tracked through the allotments of 1871, 18831884, and 1900. Though numerically small these politically active groups had a great impact on the shaping of federal policy relating to the Omaha Nation. Their success or failure at emulating white culture was interpreted as an example of the attitude of all Omaha people. Their patterns of land-taking, as well as the unexpected growth of land leasing which developed with allotments, showed Omaha innovation within a traditional framework.
23779533|Integer programming techniques were used to determine the optimal windbreak pattern for corn and soybean production over a 70-year planning horizon. Field windbreaks provide numerous benefits to agricultural producers, including increased crop yields, erosion control, and wildlife habitat. However, windbreaks involve costs of establishment, maintenance, removal, localized yield reductions, and a loss of income resulting from cropland dedicated to windbreaks. As with any farm investment, windbreaks must be economically viable if they are to be adopted by producers. In addition to the direct costs of establishment, maintenance, and removal, yield increases must be large enough to replace opportunity costs of yield losses due to cropland removed from production and yield reductions in the area immediately adjacent to the windbreak. The economic viability of windbreaks is examined here by comparing the yield benefits resulting from climatic protection to total costs. A key question in determining economic viability is how closely windbreaks should be spaced. Assuming a conservative growth rate and tree height (20 feet in 40 years), the optimal spacing was approximately 386 feet, or 13 times the height of the windbreak. The net return results for the optimum pattern were 7.61% and 9.23% over unprotected production for corn and soybeans, respectively, assuming windbreak maturity is reached at 40 years. Net returns increased as the time required for windbreaks to reach maturity decreased. For taller windbreaks, the optimal spacing remains at 13 times windbreak height, but the absolute distance between windbreaks increases and the number of windbreaks required for optimal protection decreases.
23775644|Prior to their demise in the late 1800s, bison coexisted with and helped sustain a diverse and spectacular assemblage of animals and plant communities on the Great Plains. Bison, in concert with fire, exerted strong control on the structure of the vegetation by grazing, trampling, and wallowing. The changes in the vegetation induced changes in many animal populations. These impacts, coupled with the bison's role as the major converter of grass to meat, so greatly affected other species that some have called bison a "keystone" species in the Great Plains ecosystem. The black-tailed prairie dog, dependent on bison grazing over a large part of the Great Plains, amplified the keystone influence of bison by its own grazing and burrowing activities and its utility as prey. Although modern bison-growing practices usually will preclude restoration of the large predators and scavengers that once were a part of the great faunal spectacle, other species can return, often even on small acreages. Maintenance of a habitat mosaic is the key to restoring some of the original biodiversity lost to the historic pursuit of single-species pastoralism.
23779483|How do women from patriarchal cultures adapt to gender equality and feminism in the Great Plains? How do women from Eastern Europe change as a result of living in a gender-neutral environment? The study (1) identifies the major cultural differences that Eastern European women perceive between gender-related norms in Eastern Europe and the American Midwest, (2) examines the strategies that women use to cope with these differences, and (3) investigates when encounters with American feminists help and when they hinder immigrants' adaptation. Eastern European culture is characterized by a greater separation of gender roles and little concern about sexism. Women from this region perceive male and female behavior in American culture as ambiguous and gender-neutral. They observe egalitarian gender relations in the US, but do not prefer the forms of male-female interaction that this involves. They adapt to US culture behaviorally but do not significantly change their values about gender relations. The negative attitude of feminist activists toward gender roles in Eastern Europe often creates resistance toward American ways and slows immigrants' adaptation.
23779802|Opuntia polyacantha Haw. (plains prickly-pear) is a common cactus in the Great Plains of North America. We used two data sets, from Montana and Colorado, to test the hypothesis that there is a range of precipitation event sizes upon which O. polyacantha specializes. Events smaller than this range (>2 to 6 mm) do not moisten sufficient soil to be utilized, and larger events have negative effects on the status of O. polyacantha because they favor the development of taller and denser grass canopies. Multiple regressions of either green cladode density (northern mixed prairie) or O. polyacantha frequency (shortgrass steppe) with precipitation event sizes indicated negative effects of large precipitation events on the yearly changes in the either density or frequency of O. polyacantha. We suggest that weather conditions in the Great Plains may cause O. polyacantha to be controlled almost entirely by light competition from grasses and other negative biotic effects.
23779909|The purpose of this study was to examine patterns of similarity and difference in psychosocial well-being among 42 first-generation, Spanish-speaking Latinas, 23 second-generation, English-speaking Latinas, and 25 English-speaking Caucasian women residing in five unique rural Nebraska communities. Participants completed a series of self-report survey instruments to assess indices of psychosocial health, including: marital satisfaction, marital communication, family communication, social support, and depression. Spanish-speaking Latinas and English-speaking Caucasians evidenced the greatest similarity in patterns of experience. Twenty-eight percent of the total sample (n = 25) scored above the clinical cutoff for depression. Implications and suggestions for future work are discussed.
23780009|Migration of young Latinos and Latinas has increased in many towns in the Midwest. These young people will experience the perinatal period in a new cultural environment. We focus on the interface between families fo Latino origin and the Midwest health-care system, particularly in the care of the pregnant woman or couple and in the care of the infant. Issues of culture are central in the perinatal period, and often the staff in health-care centers is not aware of the importance of several traditional and "folk" health-care beliefs in this period. These beliefs impact the care of the pregnant woman, the baby, and the couple's conception of health and illness, as well as the remedies to solve problems. We review, from the mother and infant mental and physical health point of view, the main culturally based health beliefs and precautions and the culture-bound conditions in pregnancy and for the baby.
23779435|Modern industrialized agriculture is based on monocultures of annual crops requiring massive levels of biocide, fertilizer, and fossil fuel inputs. This form of agriculture has led to soil erosion and chemical contamination of soil and ground water. The Land Institute is studying a new model for grain agriculture, based on the prairie ecosystem, involving diversified plantings of perennial seed crops. Species we have studied include eastern gamagrass, wildrye, Illinois bundleflower, wild senna, Maximilian sunflower, hybrid perennial sorghum, and hybrid perennial rye. The Land Institute's research program develops perennial polycultures based on basic questions concerning high seed yield, overyielding, nitrogen supply by a legume component, and biological management of weeds, insect pests, and plant diseases. Results to support the model are presented.
23778229|This essay suggests that there is a discrepancy between historical accounts of the natural state of the Great Plains by European explorers and the likely strong influence of the North American Indians resident in the area. The preconceived notion of the Great American Wilderness appears to have obscured the explorers' perceptions of the many ways in which the indigenous peoples had manipulated and influenced both the vegetation and the abundance of animal life in the Plains. Clearly, this challenge of the total wilderness paradigm has major implications for future restorations in the Great Plains.
23777811|Using a community classification based on key demographic and geographic factors and data from the U.S. Census, analyses from 212 small communities indicate significant inter- and intra-state differences. The communities studied were located in two states within the North Central Region. The sample was limited to incorporated places with populations between 1,000 and 2,500. Several commonly-held ideas about small communities are either challenged or confirmed by this research. Similarities and differences among the communities as well as between the states support the conclusion that small communities have diverse characteristics. Not all small communities of this size are geographically isolated places with declining population. While many small communities have a large proportion of their residents age 65 or older, not all do. Finally, while most small communities are populated by large proportions of white residents, some small communities have growing minority populations. The diversity of small communities has substantial implications for public policy decisions such as the allocation of Community Development Block Grant funding or the distribution of services for community residents. Recommendations for future research directions are also presented.
23779601|Upheaval causes many people to flee intolerable conditions in their own countries and to seek better lives elsewhere. The United States plays a pivotal role in the resettlement of refugees uprooted by these crises. The refugee resettlement program in North Dakota primarily assists the refugees in making a better life, and it ultimately helps the state's quest for population growth, ethnic diversity, and economic development. This study deals with refugee resettlement in North Dakota communities, specifically Bosnian refugees in Grand Forks. Survey questionnaires and interviews were used to gain an understanding of the issues that the Bosnians face in adjusting to life in the community. Their concerns include the lack of employment opportunities with a livable wage, learning English, and job/skills training.
23775554|The paper examines the issue of underinsurance. It discusses how the concept can be measured and employs the measure in assessing the number of underinsured in the State of Nebraska. The paper examines the social and economic characteristics of the uninsured, both an at-risk group defined by low income and a group with higher income, and compares each to a corresponding set who are not underinsured. The paper reports a multivariate analysis of factors related to underinsurance and compares the above categories with respect to health status and access to health care.
23774312|This study investigated woody plant composition, structure, and biomass of hedgerows and fencerows, and for effects between human attitudes and management practices. Fencerows arise as narrow strips of woody and herbaceous plants at field margins and property boundaries. Hedgerows grow from intentional linear plantings. Exotic species were more important in fencerow composition. Hackberry, Missouri gooseberry, American plum, and white mulberry readily inhabited both fencerows and hedgerows. Woody plants exhibited clumped distribution in both hedgerows and fencerows. A moisture gradient emerged as a factor in distribution of species. Management caused a significant difference in species richness and biomass in both hedgerows and fencerows. Hedgerows (discounting basal area of Osage-orange) had less tree biomass than fencerows and were more evenly distributed between center and margin. For all hedgerows, there was a significant difference between management schemes based on preservation-removal attitude scores.
23780060|Wetland restoration typically includes modifications to soils, flora, and hydrology. Will the return of wetland hydrology to former saline wetlands create conditions suitable for wetland taxa, especially saline wetland indicator species? To answer this question we evaluated the potential restoration efficacy of historical saline wetland soils by re-exposing them to wetland hydrological conditions simulated in a greenhouse. Agricultural lands contained no saline indicator plants and limited wetland species, likely due to significant and long-term land alteration. Restored wetlands showed only a few additional wetland taxa, and seeds of saline wetland plants emerged from soils of only one restored site. Because land alteration threatens the seed bank status of current saline wetlands, potential restoration sites, and even historical saline wetlands under agricultural production in Nebraska, preservation of existing sites that currently have saline dynamics and affluent seed banks may be the only means for continued restoration.
23779479|This paper discusses the impact of population influx on small communities using the city of Schuyler, NE, as a case study. As a small city of 4,000 some residents, Schuyler experienced a proportionally significant population influx in the past decade largely due to an increase of immigrant population. Unlike large cities, Schuyler has fewer resources to cope with the impact of a drastic population increase on its physical conditions and environment. The population expansion also impacted its previously homogeneous social and cultural environment. Through surveying long-time and newly arrived residents and comparing responses of the two groups, the study revealed similarities and differences between the two groups in response to questions regarding a variety of issues related to the population influx. The survey investigated residents' perceptions of changes in the physical and social/cultural environment, housing quality and development priorities, and concerns for future development of the city and its housing.
23782177|Mongolia and North America contain expansive grassland ecosystems that remain sparsely populated, dominated by agriculture, and support relatively isolated human communities dependent on natural resources. Until recently Mongolians raised livestock using extensive pastoralism without seriously threatening most of the region's biodiversity. Yet that changed rapidly following the recent transition from a communist, command-control economy to a democratic, free-market economy. The main challenges to protecting biodiversity on grasslands in Mongolia include overgrazing, poaching, mining, and inadequate management, training, and resources. Mongolia and the Great Plains both retain great opportunities for biodiversity conservation that could also benefit local people. Mongolia has begun embracing nature-based tourism as a means of providing additional jobs and enhanced livelihoods to local communities on its steppe grasslands. Nature-based tourism development in Mongolia may provide a model for conserving biodiversity in the Great Plains. Similar developments are beginning in the Great Plains but have focused primarily on big game hunting and dude ranches. Expanding the model in the Great Plains to include Native American cultures and wildlife viewing may offer alternatives that help restore biodiversity and enhance livelihoods.
23780007|This essay examines the arrival and growth of Latino population, principally Mexican American, into the Platte River valley region of Nebraska from 1890 to 1996. It outlines the history of the push and pull factors of immigration from Mexico and the various phases and characteristics of Latino settlement in the Midwest generally and in Nebraska specifically. It reviews demographic patterns over the 20th century and concludes with observations based upon census projections that indicate that the Nebraska Latino community will become the state's primary minority community by 2025.
23780294|Current models of farmer conservation practices minimize the role of individual personality characteristics. This study examined the relationship between farmers' use of conservation practices that impact surface water quality and the personality characteristics of work motivation, environmental attitude, and moral reasoning about the environment. A significant negative predictive relationship was found between an externally based self-concept and pro-environmental behaviors. This finding lends support to the notion that farmers concerned about what their neighbors and peers think may not believe their efforts to benefit surface water will be adequately recognized. A significant negative predictive relationship was found between anthropocentric reasoning and pro-environmental behaviors. This finding indicates that farmers who are concerned about the health of the environment for the sake of human health and well-being are less likely to use conservation practices. Implications for research and practice are included.
23779724|Smooth sumac (Rhus glabra L.) is a resprouting shrub native to the tallgrass prairie region that increases in density without an active disturbance regime. Our objective was to use prescribed fire and herbicides to decrease smooth sumac density as a strategy to improve a degraded tallgrass prairie remnant. In two separate experiments repeated in space and time, we used prescribed fire in combination with herbicides at various rates and two application methods to develop an effective management scheme for reducing smooth sumac. We used a randomized complete block design with 13 herbicide treatments and a control with three replicates in burned and non-burned areas. Results were similar in both experiments in which herbicide treatment and burning were the significant main effects. All herbicide treatments reduced smooth sumac stem density compared to the control, but no distinct advantage was detected regarding specific herbicide, application rate, or whether the herbicide was applied as a broadcast spray or with a hand-held wick. We expected burning to make the plant more susceptible to herbicides, but burning increased stem density. In this tallgrass prairie remnant, we determined that herbicides were the most effective management tool in reducing smooth sumac stem density.
23775671|Mobility decisions and the effects of migration upon the quality of life of elderly people who had recently relocated to or within Brandon are assessed and compared with the responses of a non-mover "control group." Although confirming many established results concerning the migration of the elderly, other conclusions also emerged. For instance, migrants and non-movers have a number of different social demographic characteristics, and their needs and desires appear to be quite dissimilar. Although non-movers appear apprehensive about the future, many movers see positive outcomes, in terms of life satisfaction, resulting from their migration. The research also raises the question of whether contemporary service and support patterns are appropriate for the people who need them. If these elderly are not to be "forced" or "imposed upon" to move, then different policies must be enacted that build more distinct and creative support systems.
23775608|Voting behavior in the three largest Aboriginal communities of AlbertaBlood Tribe, Peigan Nation, and Four Nationsis contrasted with non-Aboriginal voting behavior using polling-station counts from 16 general elections and the 1992 constitutional referendum. Lower voter turnout and distinctive patterns of party preferences among Aboriginal voters are examined more closely using data collected through standardized, openended interviews conducted in conjunction with a voter mobilization effort on the Peigan Reserve in 1996. Although respondents did not report refraining from participation in Federal or Provincial elections to avoid compromising their sovereigntyan argument sometimes made by national Aboriginal organizationsthe responses often exhibited pessimism or disillusionment in other respects.
23777769|The North Dakota Prairie Pothole Region is one of the most unique and important wetland environments for waterfowl in North America. A water balance climatology is developed for this region for the period 1895-1990. A monthly water balance time series for the 96-year period was computed utilizing the Thornthwaite water balance methodology and a regional time series developed from area-weighted National Climate Data Center divisional data. Results illustrate the unique seasonal dynamics of the mean soil moisture regime, the frequency distribution of selected water balance variables over the period of record, and the large intra-annual and interannual variability which characterizes the hydroclimatic environment of the Northern Great Plains. Long-term analysis of the water balance variables revealed statistically-significant linear trends toward warming and increased soil dryness. The increased soil dryness trend, however, has been concentrated in the summer months after the peak waterfowl breeding and migratory period. Trends toward decreased precipitation and increased spring soil dryness, although suggested by the data, are not conclusive at the 0.05 level. Inferences related to waterfowl production, global warming, historic loss of wetlands, and resource management issues are noted.
23780100|Land-cover and land-use change usually results from a combination of anthropogenic drivers and biophysical conditions found across multiple scales, ranging from parcel to regional levels. A group of four Level III ecoregions located in the U.S. northern Great Plains is used to demonstrate the similarities and differences in land change during nearly a 30-year period (19732000) using results from the U.S. Geological Survey's Land Cover Trends project. There were changes to major suites of land-cover; the transitions between agriculture and grassland/shrubland and the transitions among wetland, water, agriculture, and grassland/shrubland were affected by different factors. Anthropogenic drivers affected the land-use tension (or land-use competition) between agriculture and grassland/shrubland land-covers, whereas changes between wetland and water land-covers, and their relationship to agriculture and grassland/shrubland land-covers, were mostly affected by regional weather cycles. More land-use tension between agriculture and grassland/shrubland land-covers occurred in ecoregions with greater amounts of economically marginal cropland. Land-cover change associated with weather variability occurred in ecoregions that had large concentrations of wetlands and water impoundments, such as the Missouri River reservoirs. The Northwestern Glaciated Plains ecoregion had the highest overall estimated percentage of change because it had both land-use tension between agriculture and grassland/shrubland land-covers and wetland-water changes.
23774313|Chromosomes were studied in somatic cells of 60 plants of blue grama, Bouteloua gracilis (Willd. ex Kunth) Lag ex Griffiths, collected from a 7-hectare field of native range at the Central Plains Experiment Range (CPER), Nunn, Colorado, to determine chromosome constitution in relation to the plant characteristics. Somatic chromosomes were studied in root tips collected from vigorously growing plants in the greenhouse. Acetocarmine squash method was used to make slide preparation. The majority of the plants were 2n=40. However, three plants were 2n=50 and two were 2n=60. The pentaploid plants (2n=50) were recorded for the first time in this report. Additional 94 plants collected from entire CPER were all 2n=40. The basic chromosome number of blue grama was determined to be x=10. There was no significant relation between chromosome number and morphological traits: culm height and number, basal diameter, and plant dry weight.
23779913|Elk (Cervus elaphus) were historically found throughout North America but were extirpated from Nebraska and much of the Great Plains in the 1880s due to consumptive uses by settlers, miners, market hunters, and others. Elk began to reappear in Nebraska in the 1950s and 1960s, and established a stable, nonmigratory population that currently consists of seven herds and an estimated 1,400 individuals throughout western and central Nebraska. The reappearance and subsequent persistence of elk in Nebraska suggests there is adequate habitat to support a self-sustaining population. The general movement of elk eastward may lead to an eventual statewide distribution, and populations being established in states to the east and south of Nebraska, where elk populations were historically present and suitable habitat still exists. We examined published historic accounts, museum and archeological records, and current literature to determine historic and current distribution of elk in Nebraska and the Great Plains.
23775557|Despite the recent enactment of federal and provincial reduction targets, the majority of government and private sector research has focused primarily on household recycling strategies while little attention was given to other dimensions critical to the achievement of sustainable waste management. Although distinct problems may exist in rural jurisdictions, the literature continues to address the problems inherent in the management of wastes in urban centers rather than rural communities. The aim of this research was to close this gap by examining the issue of municipal waste management in rural Manitoba. Special emphasis was placed upon: (1) the amount and type of solid waste generated, and associated management activities, (2) the social, economic, political and jurisdictional factors influencing regional strategies and (3) the level of awareness and willingness of rural Manitobans to address the solid waste problem. Questionnaires were distributed to the 104 Rural Municipalities (RMs) in the province from which a response rate of 40 percent was achieved, and waste management officials in four municipalities were directly interviewed to provide a more in-depth analysis. The most conspicuous conclusion of the study is that, like other communities, household recycling continues to be the primary waste diversion activity in rural Manitoba. There is a deficiency in perceptual recognition of a waste management problem as there is still available landfill capacity in the area. This factor may partly explain why the 4Rs (reduction, reuse, recycling, and recovery) strategies or initiatives are not vigorously
23779838|The Nebraska Sandhills consist of 50,000 km2 of dunes, currently stabilized by vegetation. Radiocarbon dates of paleosols, blocked paleovalleys, and sand beds found in interdunal wetlands suggest that the Holocene had significant periods of dune reactivation. A paleoecological investigation was conducted in Jumbo Valley, NE, in an interdunal wetland known to contain sand layers interbedded with peat. The sedimentary record in two cores is continuous, except for some loss due to surficial burns. Macrofossils indicate that the late Pleistocene was cool and wet, with current vegetation establishing around 12,000 years ago. Sand and bulk density profiles reveal significant periods of dune activity in the intervals 9200-7000, 6400-5400, 4000-3000, 2700-2300, 2100-1800, and 950-700 calendar years before present (cal yr BP). Profiles also indicate four significant wet intervals: 6900-6500, 4700-4000, 5200-5000, and 1300-1000 cal yr BP. Dune activity prior to 6000 cal yr BP was most likely caused by drought, while after 6000 cal yr BP, increased frequency and severity of fires appear to have also contributed. This study reveals that the Sandhills have experienced many droughts, including as recent as 950-700 cal yr BP, that were more severe than any experienced in the last century.
23777984|The abundance and habitat associations of overwintering birds in Platte River Valley of central Nebraska may influence their long-term survival. I observed a total of 51 species over a three-year period in shrub-grassland, forest, grassland, and cropland habitats during the winter. Grassland habitats had the lowest abundance of wintering birds, while abundances in shrub-grassland, forest, and cropland habitats were higher and similar. Species richness was highest in forests ( x= 2.97 species) and lowest in grasslands (x= 0.73 species) and croplands (x= 0.57 species). Overall, horned larks (Eremophila alpestris), American tree sparrows (Spizella arborea), black-capped chickadees (Parus atricapillus), dark-eyed juncos (Junco hyemalis), western meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta), and red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) were the most abundant wintering birds in the Platte River Valley. American tree sparrows (34%) accounted for most of the birds in shrubgrasslands, while black-capped chickadees (18%), dark-eyes juncos (11%), and American tree sparrows (10%) accounted for most of the birds in forests. Grasslands were dominated by American tree sparrows (39%) and western meadowlarks (27%), and croplands were dominated by horned larks (43%), red-winged blackbirds (25%), and western meadowlarks (16%). The winter bird community in the Platte River Valley is dominated by woodland-associated species. Many of the woodland-associated species that overwinter in the Platte River Valley have likely benefited from the development of woodlands in the region.
23779840|Much of the research on Mexican Americans and earnings has focused on either national samples or on states such as California and Texas. Even though Mexican Americans have become more visible in the Midwest, we know very little about their earnings in the Midwest. Using an individual level sample consisting of data on 1,807 Mexican Americans from the 2000 Integrated 1% Public Use Microdata Series, we examine the extent to which human capital, family status and industry concentration predict earnings. Multivariate analyses reveal that education and years in the U.S. are positively associated with earnings. However, Mexican American women yield lower returns to their education compared to their male counterparts. Women also experience an earnings penalty for having children while men do not. In addition, workers concentrated in the peripheral sector earn significantly less than workers in the core sector. The findings are interpreted in terms of human capital and labor market theories and directions for future research are discussed.
23778230|The influence of human activities on riparian zone vegetation differs markedly by ecoregion and stream size. Large rivers, dams and water diversions affect ecological processes more than local land uses do. However, for small streams, the reverse is generally true. Examples demonstrating these relationships include studies completed on the Missouri River in North Dakota, the Platte River in Nebraska, and Foster Creek in western South Dakota. On the Missouri River, damming has stopped river meandering and the regeneration of riparian forests in gaps between reservoirs. In contrast, on the Platte River, diversion of a large portion of the flow for cropland irrigation has contributed to the expansion of riparian forests. And on Foster Creek, the riparian zone was destroyed by homesteading early in this century; however, the creek is recovering because of improved land management. I conclude that restoration methods need to be tailored to deal with the large variation in stream response to human use.
23779767|It is our thesis that members of the Stephen Long Expedition of 1819-20 completed the first biodiversity inventory undertaken in the United States at their winter quarters, Engineer Cantonment, Missouri Territory, in the modern state of Nebraska. This accomplishment has been overlooked both by biologists and historians, but it should rank among the most significant accomplishments of the expedition. The results of this inventory allow us to evaluate the environmental, faunal, and floral changes along the Missouri River in the intervening nearly 190 years. The historical records form a visual image of a dynamic riverine system in which a highly meandering river flows through a wide valley filled with oxbows, palustrine wetlands, and scattered groves of trees. This system has now been modified to a channelized river with the surrounding wetlands drained and converted to agricultural and municipal purposes. The suppression of prairie fires and the adoption of irrigation practices have promoted the growth of trees and other woody vegetation. The city of Omaha and its suburbs are expanding and encroaching on the site from the south and west. At least three taxa recorded at the site have become extinctEctopistes migratorius (passenger pigeon), Conuropsis carolinensis (Carolina parakeet), and Canis lupus nubilus (plains subspecies of the gray wolf)and several more have been extirpated from the region. For mammals, the data indicate that nine species of the 1819-20 fauna have been lost, and two species have been added, thus resulting in a net loss of seven species. These changes represent a net loss of 15% of the mammalian biodiversity originally present in the Engineer Cantonment area. The species richness estimator for Engineer Cantonment in 1819-20 is 403 for vertebrates, insects, snails, and plants, but it is clear that this number is extremely low, because plants were not thoroughly surveyed by the expedition and only a small fraction of the insects were collected.
23779575|In this article we compare the Canadian Heritage Rivers System with the US Wild and Scenic Rivers Act and analyze case law in order to identify the best means of ensuring preservation of Great Plains rivers. We find that fear of federal dictates provides a powerful political weapon for opponents of river preservation policies. Therefore, we conclude that national officials should work with state, provincial, and local officials to develop cooperative plans that enable local residents to participate in river management decisions. Cooperative river management policies avoid the perception of federal government action as threatening to state sovereignty, thereby removing a significant rhetorical and political obstacle to water preservation.
23779768|The relationship between carrion and blow flies is well understood, but in situations where fresh carrion sources are unavailable, as may occur on the Great Plains, the potential for multigenerational colonization of a single carcass exists. By testing this possibility through a replicated choice/no-choice experiment using pig carcasses, we were able to demonstrate that multigenerational colonization of carrion by blow flies does not occur. Fresh pig carcasses were exposed to blow fly infestation, then placed in insect exclusion cages. After the emergence of this first generation of blow fly adults, "choice" cages were supplied with a fresh pig cadaver. No multigenerational colonization of the parent carcass took place in any of the choice or no-choice replicates. This demonstrates that carcasses act as temporary resource islands, with a "window of opportunity" of colonization in the ecosystem, and are vital for the biodiversity of the Great Plains.
23779912|This study documents over six centuries of historic fire events at Devils Tower National Monument in northeast Wyoming, USA. The 691-year tree-ring chronology is based on 37 ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa C. Lawson) trees collected at the monument. The period of tree-ring record ranged in calendar years from 1312 to 2002 and fire scar dates (n = 129) ranged from 1330 to 1995. The mean fire interval (MFI) for the entire record was 24.6 years, and intervals for individual trees ranged from 4 to 119 years. A period of increased fire frequency (MFI = 5.7 years) occurred from about 1860 to 1880, corresponding to the period of Euro-American exploration and settlement of the region. Comparisons of fireclimate relationships derived from Devils Tower, the Black Hills, and other Great Plains sites suggest that Devils Tower presettlement fire events were more similar to those of grasslands. Despite this, current fire intervals and vegetation assessments suggest that conditions are departed from historical conditions. In the Great Plains, temperature appears to be a strong regional-scale determinant of fire frequency, which may become more evident considering global warming predictions.
23778284|Using interviews conducted in two Nebraska communities, we illustrate health-care challenges for Latinos in meat-processing communities. Two hundred twenty-one Latinos (48% male), primarily of Mexican descent, were interviewed face-to-face by bilingual interviewers. Fifteen percent of the respondents are between the ages of 20 and 24, 75% are between 25 and 44, and 10% are between 45 and 64. Nearly half have lived in the United States for five or fewer years. Aday's (1993) framework for predicting populations at risk is used to identify factors affecting health status and utilization. These factors include measures of human capital, social status, and social capital. It is found that barriers to utilization include, among others, transportation, lack of understanding of the health-care system, income, insurance, inconvenient office hours or location, and distrust of doctors. Variables significantly affecting health status include age, length of residence, and perceived racism. Policy recommendations are considered based on the findings.
23779725|Vehicle training, a common disturbance of military lands, is part of a suite of land uses that also includes cattle grazing. Yet, no studies have examined their interaction. Our objective was to review the effects of vehicle training and grazing on grassland soils and vegetation and develop a state-and-transition model that incorporates grazing and training for Fort Hood, TX. Both grazing and training can cause soil compaction and vegetation disturbance, altering hydrology and increasing erosion. While the effects of grazing largely depend on stocking rate, vehicle training causes greater disturbance when wet soils are driven on, when vehicles are turned sharply, and as the number of vehicle passes increases. Grazing and training are expected to maintain grasslands in secondary succession, though eroded sites dominated by annuals also could develop under frequent training. The state-and-transition model may guide decision making for military land managers faced with training and grazing effects.
23775672|Movements of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus Rafinesque) in the eastern Great Plains and Midwest were examined. The proportion of deer that move between distinct summer and winter home ranges varies among different populations. Seasonal migration between home ranges is influenced primarily by phenological period, agricultural activities, and the availability of cover and food. Corn provides a nearly unlimited source of cover and food in summer and early fall. In late fall and early winter, deer move to areas of permanent cover, such as wooded river bottoms, draws, or slopes. Hunting, crop harvest, or seasonal change may influence deer movements and distribution, depending on the past experiences of individual deer and their situation. Emigration rates increase with deer population density because of increased social pressures, increases may or may not be proportional to the increase in overall populations. The ability of white-tailed deer to adapt to human activities has allowed them to thrive throughout the region, and current populations are stable to increasing. The availability of large tracts of secure winter cover and safe travel corridors between seasonal ranges are the primary factors limiting their populations.
23775729|The potential for social adaptation to climate change on the Great Plains is examined, and a framework offered for sharpening the inquiry into regional agricultural sustainability. The future of Plains agriculture in a worsening climate depends on several factors, but a key characteristic is whether the system is fundamentally adaptable (able to change form and function markedly under new conditions) or resilient (likely to attempt to maintain "normal" operations via disaster relief and other social maintenance schemes in future droughts). In a cumulative climate deterioration, adaptive strategies are likely to yield less abrupt social dislocation, but debate over the sustainability of Plains agriculture even in the absence of climate change demonstrates the need for a concerted, collaborative examination of regional development trends by Plains researchers.
24156337|Relatively little is known about the factors which regulate inwater biogeochemical processes and food chains in prairie wetlands. Climatic warming, increased UV-radiation and agricultural activities will have interacting effects on these wetlands. We examined the effects of these processes on prairie wetland functioning and productivity with particular emphasis on production and cycling of organic carbon, especially dissolved organic carbon (DOC). Autotrophic and heterotrophic production are temperature dependent and temperature increases or decreases could affect production under more extreme climate change scenarios. DOC concentrations could decrease with increasing bacterial production and photolysis, leading to increases in UV-radiation penetration. This is pertinent to prairie wetlands because of their general shallowness. Considering the potential consequences of climatic warming, increased UV-radiation and agricultural activity on biogeochemistry and food chains, it is imperative that we obtain an understanding of the major rate processes in prairie wetlands and how these may be affected by external processes.
23779727|In recent years, bison products have been incorporated into the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR). This paper examines the factors leading up to this particular development and the structural problems that have yet to be resolved within the program. Altogether, the findings illustrate that cultural traditions, health problems, and economic concerns instigated the federal government to embark upon this new policy. Unfortunately, while the program has responded to tribal demands in certain respects, it has not resolved underlying structural inequalities between tribal and nontribal communities. In particular, the FDPIR does not acknowledge the problematic nature of production-consumption networks within the program. These networks currently undermine some of the fundamental reasons for including bison in the FDPIR.
23779805|The surface waters of eastern and central Kansas once supported an impressive variety of native freshwater mussels, but a widespread decline in species richness accompanied the urban, industrial, and agricultural development of this region. Statewide mussel surveys implemented during the past two decades have shed new light on the scope and severity of this decline. Of the 48 mussel species originally known from Kansas, six are now extirpated, one lacks reproductively viable populations (i.e., faces imminent extirpation), and 38 others have suffered evident range reductions or a widespread thinning of former populations. Soil erosion and stream siltation, other forms of water and sediment pollution, physical habitat degradation, stream flow attenuation, and declines in the native fishes serving as biological hosts for larval mussels all have contributed to these changes. Dams and other impediments to fish migration now hinder the reestablishment of mussel colonies following prolonged droughts and major water pollution events. Some mussel populations in this region display unique morphological, developmental, and genetic attributes, implying their continued attrition may lead to the eventual loss of distinctive forms or subspecies.
23779509|A number of small towns in the Great Plains have recently started to offer free land and other incentives to entice new residents in the hope of reversing persistent depopulation. Based on in-depth interviews, this study assesses the initial performance of the free land programs in six small towns in central Kansas and analyzes the factors that have affected the migration decisions of the new residents. The initial results of these programs have been impressive. Not only have they attracted multiple new residents and increased enrollments in local schools, but they have also elevated long-time residents' pride in their community and created a positive synergy. The new residents' migration decisions were influenced by a number of push and pull factors. The free land and other incentives are not enough to trigger migration, but they have effectively changed some migrants' destination choice to a small town in central Kansas. Without the free land, most new residents, particularly those from out of state, would not have moved there. Contrary to our expectations, the relative locations of small towns with respect to larger cities do not appear to have affected new residents' destination choice.
23774310|This study explores the role of groundwater exploitation on population change in the High Plains Ogallala region. Results from several multiple regression analyses are examined to assess the relationship between 1980-1990 population changes in 184 counties with the dominance of irrigated agriculture, change in irrigated acreage, historical population change, farm size change, population density, urbanization, and the level of agricultural employment. Change in irrigated acreage is significantly associated with population change for Nebraska and for the 90 counties that have an urban place. However, the more important factors are the degree of urbanization among the urban counties and long term patterns of historical change in the nonurban counties. Population has actually increased slightly for the entire region between 1960and 1990 but has become more concentrated. The findings challenge the feasibility of applying the buffalo commons approach to the Ogallala region. The implications of adopting other regional development policies are discussed.
23779971|Over the past century, the interactions between agricultural land use and government cropland retirement programs have affected pheasant population change. Two government land retirement programs that returned croplands to grasslands, Soil Bank in the 1960s and the current Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), help to illustrate these connections. From 2007 to 2010, South Dakota lost 41% of its CRP lands and experienced an 18% decline in pheasants per mile. However, because of where CRP expirations have occurred and where pheasant populations are found, some regional variability is seen. Western South Dakota (Region 1) had an 80% increase in pheasants per mile and a 51% decrease in CRP land, while central South Dakota (Region 2) had a 22% increase in pheasants per mile and a 42% decrease in CRP land. Region 3 saw a 51% decrease in pheasants per mile and a 25% decrease in CRP land, and Region 4 had a 45% decrease in both pheasants per mile and land in the CRP. These differences are explained by regional land use and land cover, the extent to which row crop agriculture dominates each region, and the variability in the abundance of pheasants found in each region.
23779441|Reisner (1986) coined the term "Cadillac Desert" to describe the high costs associated with irrigated agriculture in the American West. This concept can logically be extended to the northern-most reaches of the Great Plains in Canada to perform a critical analysis of irrigated agriculture in southern Alberta. Today irrigation technology, which arrived with the Mormon immigration of the 1880s, keeps over a million acres of former shortgrass prairie green. Costs of one of the world's largest snow melt irrigation systems are examined on several dimensions: the massive infusion of state funds necessary to build and maintain the system, environmental degradation in the form of salinization, expansion of low or no food value crops, and intensification of the domination of the farmer-to-consumer chain by transnational corporations. Possible water regimes under global warming conditions are discussed, along with the implications of Free Trade.
23804536|In several areas of the United States previously not known for foreign populations, the number of Hispanics and Asians have increased in the past two decades. I examined the percentage change for Hispanics and for Asians for 41 cities in the states of Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota between 1990 and 2000. Hispanics and Asians are then disaggregated by ethnic subgroup, and regression analysis is used to determine the characteristics of cities that attract or repel different subgroups for both 1990 and 2000. In 2000 Mexicans, Other Hispanics, and Vietnamese were attracted to cities with low income levels and cities with a flourishing meat-processing industry. Chinese, Koreans, and Indians were attracted to cities with a public university and high levels of income. Clearly, Hispanics and Vietnamese were attracted to different cities than were the other Asian groups. This most likely reflects the educational differences between the two groups.
23779397|Principle components analysis and multiple regression were used to examine spatial variations in quality of life indicators, and relationships between quality of life indicators and net migration rates for North Dakota counties between 1980 and 1990. Three quality of life dimensions were identified: Affluence, Suffering, and Demography. Of the three derived indicators, Affluence was the best overall statistical determinant of county migration rates. Adverse quality of life and migration trends were especially evident for counties with high non-white population proportions; such counties may need special development policies.
23782171|Like many parts of the world, the Northern Great Plains faces immense challenges to sustainable land use. Privately owned conservation areas have emerged as a potential solution. This article reviews five global trends in so-called private protected areas and discusses their implications for the Northern Great Plains. The trends point to five recommendations to the Northern Great Plains community: (1) act now to tap rapidly growing policy support; (2) combine many models, including private protected areas that are owned by individuals and groups, formal and informal, large and small, and are dedicated to strict protection as well as sustainable use; (3) cultivate diverse revenue streams with emphasis on carbon payments, hunting, and tourism; (4) connect spatially through private-public or private-private partnerships to generate both ecological and economic benefits; and (5) cultivate a reputation for delivering high-quality products and services. The trends and recommendations should be of interest wherever landowners, policy makers, academics, and others seek to integrate economics with ecology in the Northern Great Plains.
23779842|Use of energy-intensive inputs in agriculture is generally considered to be unresponsive to price increases in the short run. An increase in diesel and natural gas prices directly increases costs of energy used on farms for irrigation, machinery operation, and heating. Energy-intensive production inputs such as fertilizer prices also increase due to higher energy costs. This study assesses the impact of substantially higher energy prices in 2000 and 2001 on whole-farm production costs on 983 Kansas farms using actual whole-farm data. It is hypothesized that the impact on fuel, irrigation energy, and fertilizer costs will be significantly more than the impact on seed and chemical costs. Higher prices for fuel, irrigation energy, and fertilizer in 2000 and 2001 raised production costs and lowered net farm income, depending upon farm type and location by an average of $2,697 to $51,685 below what it would have been without these energy price increases. Dryland farms and irrigated farms are impacted most by increasing fertilizer and irrigation energy costs, respectively, and both kinds of cost increases are due to higher natural gas prices.
23777988|The Great Plains economy is influenced much more by federal spending and taxation than is the nation as a whole. Results were generated from analyzing federal fiscal activities at three different levels: a state-by-state analysis, an analysis of the 478-county region, and an analysis by county category for two Great Plains states (Nebraska and South Dakota). In several Great Plains states, federal spending represents well in excess of 25% of the state's economic activity. Federal spending, especially farm program payments, are of particular significance to nonmetropolitan counties in the Great Plains. This level of federal dependency, coupled with recent and proposed changes in federal programs and policies, make this a critical time for Great Plains residents and their advocates and political leaders. Much additional research is needed to help inform the relevant constituencies regarding the scope and importance of federal programs to the Great Plains region.
23775667|The weather of 1849 in the central Great Plains and western interior of the United States has been reconstructed in numerous analyses of diaries from the mass migration to the California goldfields, military post records, and other archival materials. These studies have demonstrated that the spring and summer periods of 1849 were unusually cold and wet, particularly in the eastern region of the Oregon Trail (near Kansas City). Historical sources from the valley of the Red River of the North of Norht Dakota, Minnesota, and Manitoba support this contention and extend the climatic reconstruction 1,000 km northward. Spring breakup of the Red River was exceptionally late, snow fell in the Red River Settlement on several days in late May, and widespread, heavy rainfall from June to August caused unusual and protracted flooding of the Red River and its tributaries. Instrumental records from Fort Snelling and Norway House confirm the anecdotal accounts. Similarly abnormal weather was produced by the July, 1958 synoptic pattern and it is suggested that this pattern may provide a suitable large-scale analog than others which have been suggested. As unusual as these observations appear to be when compared with the modern record, they may have been more typical of conditions on the Great Plains in the first half of the nineteenth century.
23803420|The relationship between political theory and economic development is often overlooked. In this research, political theorizing about what makes democracies work is linked to the production of wealth in rural Nebraska towns. Evidence shows that social capital in rural settings actually can help with economic development. The evidence also shows that suburban towns may actually inhibit the development of social capital.
23779538|The purpose of our project was to investigate well-functioning adolescents to identify familial influences that may account for their positive developmental outcomes and healthy life choices. A family systems perspective was used to conceptualize this project. More than 300 teenagers were surveyed about family influences on adolescent outcomes. Results indicated that teen religiosity, parental warmth, parental monitoring, and a low occurrence of stressful life events were related to teen depression, participation in risky behaviors, and parental-teen conflict. General conclusions were drawn about the importance of the family environment on teen behavior and the usefulness of a systems point of view when studying individual behavior.
23777767|For the majority of Native American tribes on the Great Plains, contact with Euro-Americans resulted in a number of changes in their lifeways. For the Omaha tribe, the introduction of both the horse and firearms meant a diversification in nutritional strategies and a florescence in their culture. After being confined to their reservation in 1855, the Omaha continued to remain largely self-sufficient in food production. During the early years of the reservation until the turn of the century, the Omaha were highly successful farmers, producing surpluses of cash and garden variety crops. In this paper I argue that today the situation is quite different. Few Omaha are able to produce their own food as most of their land has either been sold or leased. The tribe's dependency on processed, store-bought foods and government commodities has increased dramatically in the last fifty years. From an analysis of changing foodways over the past 200 years I conclude that, associated with this dependency, is a marked increase in chronic dietary diseases such as diabetes and obesity.
23775578|In 1976, a study by the Judicial Services Division of the Bureau of Indian Affairs concluded that insufficient information is available on Indian tribal courts, suggesting that they have been largely ignored by historians and political scientists alike. By examining a specific court the Oglala Sioux Tribal Court a fuller understanding of its vital role in the operation of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation can be gained. From 1870 to the present, the Oglala Sioux Tribal Court has experienced a series of changes dictated by federal Indian policy including the replacement of tribal legal traditions with federal laws such as the Major Crimes Act of 1885. The passage of the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA) in 1934 and the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968 brought a new era to the tribal court. Today, severe budget restrictions and increasingly high crime rates have created problems for the Oglala Sioux Tribal Court. Nevertheless, the court has become the linchpin for effective tribal control of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation.
23775641|The North American buffalo (Bison bison) has survived near extinction to become a commodity (meat, hides, and hair) in a consumer-driven market. Since this is a growth industry, primarily young bulls are slaughtered for meat, while most females are used to build the herd. Bison meat is highly palatable, and previous research showed that grain-finished bison meat is low in fat and high in protein. However, bison may be grain- or grass-finished. In this study we found few differences in nutrient content of the meat between grain- or grass-finished bison. Grass-finished animals had a little more moisture (75.9 vs. 74.6 %) and less fat (1.7 vs. 2.2%). The largest difference was in fatty acid profiles (expressed as percentages of total fat), with grass-finished bison containing on average 5% more saturated fatty acids, 6% more polyunsaturated fatty acids, and 11% less monosaturated fatty acids than meat from grain-finished bison. Bison meat is low in sodium. It is also an excellent source of phosphorus, zinc, selenium, and vitamin B12, as well as, iron, niacin, vitamin B6, and other minerals and vitamins. In summary, bison meat is a low-fat, low-sodium, nutrient-dense food, making it a nutritious food, whether it is grain- or grass-finished.
23779511|Irrigation is vital to the economic activity of the west-central Great Plains. The crops grown, the distribution of center-pivot irrigation systems, and the basic transportation infrastructure is the same in northwest Kansas, northeast Colorado, and southwest Nebraska. But buyers of agricultural land face a different price for irrigated cropland in each of the states, even when the production characteristics of the land are similar. After accounting for factors like productivity and local property tax differences, we argue that it is the difference in water marketing rights between the three states that explains the price difference. The link between land values and water marketing rights is statistically developed by using Ordinary Least Squared (OLS) regression techniques. After adjusting for differences in property taxes, the analysis reveals that the implicit value of full water-marketing rights in the region is approximately $1,026 per acre. This valuation is within the range of estimates provided by other comparable studies across the country.
24156311|Employment data for women living on farms/ranches in six Wyoming counties were gathered in 1985 and 1986 as part of a farm/ranch households survey. This paper focuses on female employment and its contribution to the economic viability of farm operations, by considering the importance of women's as well as men's employment in maintaining the economic viability of farming/ranching operations during a farm crisis and a wage boom. Although an equal percentage of females and males work off-farm, the data show gender-defined patterns. While size of farm operation was a major predictor of the likelihood of engaging in off-farm employment for men, age and education level proved important predictors of women's employment off the farm. Both men and women recognized that the need for off-farm income conflicted with the perceived negative consequences for the farming operation as a result of off-farm work, but comments on the questionnaire suggest that husbands were more comfortable having their wives get a job than taking one themselves.
23779837|Currently, the northern river otter (Lontra canadensis) is listed as a threatened species in South Dakota. We determined whether adequate habitat was available for reintroducing river otters in South Dakota. The 17 rivers/creeks included in the analysis were selected according to stream size, water gradient, and water permanence. A vegetation transect was conducted and a water sample was collected at each study site, ranging from one to four per river. Rivers/creeks were rated (1 = least suitable to 5 = most suitable) according to habitat requirements of river otters in the following categories: stream characteristics, watershed features, water quality, prey availability, and other factors. Based on the habitat survey and rating criteria, rivers/creeks with high ratings have sufficient riparian habitat (vegetation bordering water), water quality, and prey availability for river otters. The five highest-rated rivers were the Bad, Big Sioux, James, North Fork of the Whetstone, and Little White.
23779428|The City of Lincoln draws water from a well field along the banks of the Platte River near Ashland. Since 1989 we have monitored the infusion of atrazine into this well field via recharge from the Platte River. Samples of water from the river, several monitoring wells and production wells were analyzed by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometer following solid phase extraction. Atrazine concentrations were found to be less than 0.1 ppb before the growing season every year through 1989-1992. Atrazine in the Platte reached maximum concentrations of 5, 11, 19, and 19 ppb respectively in these years. These increases corresponded to precipitation events and agricultural practices in the Platte River basin. Following a time delay, high concentrations were observable in the well water samples and ultimately in Lincoln municipal tap water.
23780008|High mortality from invasive cervical cancer among Mexican-descent Latinas living in the Great Plains could be substantially reduced if they would utilize screening procedures regularly. To understand possible influential factors on their screening behaviors, we investigated which variables differentiate women age 50 and older who are most compliant with cervical cancer screening guidelines from those who are less compliant. Of 184 women surveyed, 100 were compliant with a yearly Pap smear while 84 were not compliant. Discriminant function analysis revealed that, apart from the significance of sociodemographic factors and acculturation, women who were most compliant significantly received more health-care provider interventions, complied with breast cancer screening, and were more motivated to engage in general health behaviors. Findings suggest that health-care providers can help women comply successfully with cervical cancer screening guidelines by educating and referring them for Pap testing when they provide other health care services to these women.
23779439|Data collected during 1957-1989 on the Platte and North Platte rivers was analyzed to detect changes in the temporal and spacial distribution of staging sandhill cranes. The data indicate that a significant west-to-east shift in crane distribution has developed since the late 1960s. The most negative changes have occurred between Lexington and Kearney, Nebraska, where vegetation encroachment has been most pronounced. A significant increase in crane numbers between the Wood River and Highway 34 bridges is attributed to the result of vegetation scouring flows and active removal of woody vegetation.
23782172|Increasingly, private land around the world is being set aside for conservation. The Laikipia District in Kenya is one area where wildlife conservation has been relatively successful on privately owned lands. This region supports a higher diversity of large mammals than any other region in East Africa, yet only 2% of the district is formally protected. Land is mostly owned and managed by private ranchers or groups of Maasai families on "group ranches." In most private ranches, wildlife conservation and tourism have become important sources of revenue over the last two decades. Wildlife, once merely tolerated, are now considered desirable by most people. On group ranches, wildlife conservation is also gaining ground, albeit more slowly. Land on group ranches is being set aside specifically for wildlife, and income from wildlife-based tourism now supplements livestock ranching. In both types of ranches, however, land management practices may need to be refined to conserve a broader assemblage of fauna and flora. Populations of some threatened herbivores have fallen, and many ranches are experiencing woody encroachment, decreases in grass cover, and increases in bare ground and erosion. Conservation enterprises also face the challenge of achieving independence from foreign capital. They will need to diversify their income-generating activities and build local capacity. Regional coordination, though relatively strong, could be improved to provide greater scope to promote conservation. These challenges and successes illustrate the potential for private-land conservation in a region of high biodiversity.
23778875|The tallgrass prairie once was continuous throughout the eastern Great Plains. Now, scattered remnants remain. The distribution of some of the most interesting and socially valuable remnants occur along the base of the Rocky Mountains as relicts from a past era. When the species composition of these Colorado grasslands is compared with that of the eastern tallgrass prairie by an index of similarity, the relationship is clear, even though the climates of the two regions differ greatly. It is likely that this western tallgrass prairie is left over from past geologic times rather than the product of long distance seed dispersal. Today, the persistence of tallgrass prairie is threatened. These threats include urbanization, mismanagement, under-valuation by the people who inhabit the regions, and invasion by exotic plant species. These are serious, but correctable, problems. The conservation and restoration of the remaining tallgrass prairie is justified because these relicts contain valuable ecological and genetic resources for the future.
23778228|We study bison (Bos bison) herds that are managed year-long without protein or energy supplements in large mixed prairie pastures in Nebraska, South Dakota, and North Dakota. We also manage cattle (B. taurus) grazing during the growing season in separate, but adjacent pastures. Management reflects the divergent evolution of bison and cattle with their respective human cultures and landscapes. Bison exhibit a stronger preference for the perennial grasses that form the prairie matrix, and they are strongly attracted to open landscapes during the growing season. Cattle include more forbs in their diet, and they use wooded areas and riparian zones more intensively. At similar annual stocking rates, the amount of grass remaining at the start of the dormant season is higher under year-long bison grazing compared to growing season cattle grazing. There are inherent differences between bison and cattle, suggesting that they be managed differently. Under our respective management regimes, bison are less productive than cattle, but they require less processed feed and labor inputs. We recommend that the focus of mixed prairie conservation be on developing ecologically sound goals and practices for grazing management, rather than on whether bison or cattle are more appropriate grazers.
24156333|Small wetlands in the semi-arid northern prairie region are focal points for groundwater recharge. Hence the groundwater recharge function of the wetlands is an important consideration in development of wetland conservation policies. Most of the groundwater recharge from the wetlands flows to the moist margins of the wetlands and serves to maintain high vapotranspiration by the vegetation surrounding the wetlands. Only a small portion of the recharged water flows to regional aquifers, but this portion is important for sustaining groundwater resources. Wetland drainage eliminates the local flow systems, but may have little effects on regional aquifers other than a slight lowering of the groundwater levels. Further research should focus on the effects of wetland drainage on regional groundwater levels, the role of small ephemeral ponds in groundwater recharge, and the contribution of groundwater inflow to the water balance of large permanent wetlands.
23780298|Regional climate models suggest that summers in the Great Plains may become increasingly dry during this century, raising concern about the availability of water resources for irrigation and municipal water supplies. While the models predict drier conditions across the region, the impact of climate change on water availability at the local scale will depend largely upon the soils and their ability to store water during dry periods. This study presents a soil water climatology for Kansas using a climatic water balance approach. Monthly observations of temperature and precipitation for the period 19502006 are used to calculate climatologies of actual evapotranspiration, soil water utilization and recharge, and runoff at the soil unit level. Results indicate that actual evapotranspiration rates are small across the state during the winter and spring, reaching a maximum during summer. Soil water utilization is greatest during summer in eastern Kansas; soil water recharge is greatest in the spring in central Kansas and during the fall in eastern Kansas. Soil moisture surplus (runoff) is most pronounced in eastern Kansas during spring and early summer, and soil water shortages (deficit) are common year-round in western Kansas and in soils with low field capacities during the summer months.
23803424|Two sections of the Missouri River, one extending 94 km downstream from Gavins Point Dam, and the other extending 62 km downstream from Fort Randall Dam, are legally designated as National Recreational Rivers. An ichthyofaunal list and fish habitat data were needed for conservation planning by states and federal agencies (e.g., National Park Service). We collected fish during three summers from four macrohabitats, using five fish collection techniques, and measured fish habitat characteristics. Temperature, conductivity, and turbidity varied little, but substrate, depth, and velocity differed among macrohabitats (e.g., depth and velocity in the channel exceeded those elsewhere; sand dominated the substrate except in silt-laden tributary mouths and backwaters). We collected 21,699 fish of 53 species and combined our survey with others to compile a list of 92 species. Common recreational species included walleye (Sander vitreum) and catfishes (Ictaluridae). Twenty nonnative species were present. Seventy-two native species have persisted, but the pallid sturgeon (Scaphirhynchus albus) is endangered and a few other species (e.g., native minnows) may be in decline.
23779630|This paper examines the contemporary land-cover changes in two western Great Plains ecoregions between 1973 and 2000. Agriculture and other land uses can have a substantial effect on grassland cover that varies regionally depending on the primary driving forces of change. In order to better understand change, the rates, types, and causes of land conversion were examined for 1973, 1980, 1986, 1992, and 2000 using Landsat satellite data and a statistical sampling strategy. The overall estimated rate of land-cover change between 1973 and 2000 was 7.4% in the Northwestern Great Plains and 11.5% in the Western High Plains. Trends in both ecoregions have similarities, although the dynamics of change differ temporally depending on driving forces. Between 1973 and 1986, grassland cover declined when economic opportunity drove an expansion of agriculture. Between 1986 and 2000, grassland expanded as public policy and a combination of socioeconomic factors drove a conversion from agriculture to grassland.
23779774|The decisions made by individual farmers to adopt conservation practices that improve surface water quality will be of increasing importance in the 21st century. Currently, models attempting to explain pro-environmental behaviors ignore or minimize the role of individual personality characteristics. In this paper we give an overview of current research regarding how personal characteristics influence the adoption of Best Management Practices (BMPs) and propose an expansion of measured characteristics to include farmers' work motivation, environmental attitude, and moral reasoning toward the environment. Our purpose is to spur an interest in understanding the antecedents to the pro-environmental behavior of farmers that benefit surface water quality. We include several propositions regarding the direction of correlation between characteristics and pro-environmental behavior. We propose a positive correlation of pro-environmental behavior with a pro-environmental attitude, ecocentric reasoning about environmental issues, intrinsic process motivation, goal internalization motivation, and a farmer's internal self-concept. We propose a negative correlation between pro-environmental behavior and a low environmental attitude, anthropocentric reasoning about environmental issues, instrumental motivation, and a farmer's external self-concept. We also discuss policy and education implications.
23775673|The relative influences of interannual climate variability, technological development, and management strategies on crop yields are difficult to separate. Assessment of climate impacts and of an agricultural system's ability to protect crops from weather-related yield changes are important questions receiving considerable attention in view of the potential for climate change. Statistical and ecological crop-climate studies have assumed that the combined effects of technology and management have produced linear or exponential yield increases in most crops in recent years. In this study, an empirical assessment of influences of management and technology on wheat yields in north-central Colorado was made using a control crop of unmanaged native shortgrass vegetation. A signal of climate variability was identified for the native grass, and was removed from the record of wheat yields, leaving departures termed the Management-Technology Index (MTI). The shape of the MTI curve was distinctly unlike the linear or exponential trend assumed in other models. The Index showed high variability from 1940 to 1963, but from 1963 to 1982 was characterized by step-functional increases. The step-functional behavior was interpreted to reflect the process of innovation diffusion.
23779798|Wind energy has been growing rapidly in the Great Plains because of the region's favorable wind resources and because it has been stimulated by a federal production tax credit and by state renewable portfolio standards. Wind energy installations also offer economic development opportunities for rural areas. The purpose of this study was to determine the socioeconomic effects of the recent development of a wind energy center on nearby communities. Project construction occurred over a six-month period, with the workforce peaking at 269. Project operation supports 10 permanent jobs and expenditures to local businesses and households totaling $1.4 million annually. These include easement payments to landowners totaling $413,000 the first year. In addition, the project is expected to make annual local property tax payments totaling $456,000. Wind energy projects do offer substantial economic benefits to nearby communities.
23777887|This study compares recent trends in family structure between the nation and the northern Great Plains states of Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota, using census data from 1950 to 1990. I focus on patterns in two-parent and non-two parent families, and on married women in the labor force, to evaluate Popenoe's thesis that the American family has been declining since 1960. Two explanations for the differences from national trends have been proposed for families on the Great Plains: they are exceptions to national trends or they only lag behind national trends. Analysis of the rate of change from the previous decennial censuses 1930-1990 suggests that the experiences of families in the northern Great Plains states lagged rather than differed significantly from national trends. Finally, I discuss three major problems with Popenoe's thesis of "family decline": definitions, applications, and lack of historical context.
24156310|Studies have generally found rural residents to be less concerned about environmental problems than urbanites. This difference has been attributed primarily to a nature-exploitative attitude of farmers. The present study finds little support for this proposition, but an alternative explanation, derived from rational choice and exchange theory, is supported. Owner-operator farmers are different from tenants and absentee owners in their level of environmental concern and shift positions across the range of environmental issues, as do rural nonfarm and small town residents. Furthermore, urban respondents are not consistently more likely than all rural categories to show the greatest environmental concern.
23780297|Livestock gains of yearling Hereford heifers were evaluated during 19961999 on two complementary forage grasses, "Bozoisky-Select" Russian wildrye (Psathyrostachys juncea [Fisch.] Nevski) or "Hycrest" crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum [L.] Gaertn. ssp. desertorum [Fisch. ex Link] A. Love). Average daily gains were similar between light and moderate stocking rates for both Bozoisky and Hycrest, and gains trended higher for Hycrest than for Bozoisky at light stocking rates. Total annual (spring + fall) beef production (kg/ha) was consistently greater for moderate (29%46%) than for light stocking of both complementary forages. Spring gains represented >75% of the total annual beef production across forages. Average daily gains on these complementary forages were similar to those on native shortgrass steppe for the summer grazing season, but total annual beef production was two to four times greater with the complementary forages, suggesting that both Hycrest and Bozoisky can fill forage gaps and provide significant contributions to beef production.
24156315|Time series of observed seasonal temperature data from selected locations on the American Great Plains contain a great deal of information on the nature and scales of climate variations over the past century. At four long-term stations in eastern Colorado, trends of increasing mean maximum and minimum temperatures occurred in all seasons except autumn; with most warming preceding 1940. Diurnal range has been decreasing considerably in recent decades, but long-term trends are not consistent at all locations. Interannual variability has also been changed but does not show a systematic trend. Time series similarities across the Great Plains decay rapidly over short distances in and near the Rocky Mountains, but are well correlated over longer distances in a north-south direction parallel to the mountains. The shared variance of mean seasonal temperatures decreased by 50% over a north-south distance of approximately 350 miles. Significant year-to-year differences in north-south and plains-mountains temperature gradients occur across the Great Plains. Changes in north-south winter temperature gradients appear to be related to Rocky Mountain precipitation patterns and other indicators of large scale atmospheric circulation patterns. Such connections offer explanations for variations that occur on an interdecadal time scale.
23778289|In this paper we provide human service professionals with a foundation for understanding the cultural and programmatic issues necessary for effectively addressing the needs of Latinos within a context of demographic transition and decreases in public support for educational attainment, physical and mental health, and occupational success. A long tradition of deficit thinking has shaped many of the current models employed when addressing the needs of Latinos. The authors suggest "community/culturally centered" or "strengths-based" approaches, such as community based organizations (CBOs), as promising alternatives to current practices. Coalitions among CBOs can be the most effective method in creating and sustaining reform of community-based services. These coalitions can better serve Latinos by expanding human service providers' cultural awareness and redefining risk and protective factors according to the framework of the Latino communities they serve.
23780124|The number of lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens) and Ross's geese (C. rossii), hereinafter called "light geese," staging during spring in the Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley of south-central Nebraska has dramatically increased since the late 1980s. However, there has been no documentation of the abundance or distribution of light geese across the Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley and the relationship of distribution to conservation-order activities. We used aerial transect surveys and distance sampling methodology to estimate abundance and distribution of light geese in the Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley in the spring of 2001, 2002, and 2003. In 2001 at peak migration, we estimated approximately 7.3 million light geese in the Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley. In 2002 and 2003 there were approximately 1.2 million and 1.6 million light geese at peak migration, respectively. Distribution did not appear to change in relation to light goose conservation-order activities. However, there was an increased use of the Central Platte River Valley during 2002 and 2003 due to dry conditions. The Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley have become a major spring staging area for light geese. Abundance and distribution appear to be related to water conditions and migration chronology.
23779799|Between February 4 and 7, 1865, Cheyenne, Sioux, and Arapaho warriors engaged a force of U.S. Army soldiers at Mud Springs, Nebraska. Historical records from both sides indicate that this fight marked an early phase of the Indian Wars. Based on systematic metal detections, firearms identification, and terrain analysis, this paper adds archeological insights into the arms and tactics used by the opposing sides. Well-armed Native fighters used terrain to approach U.S. troops, who maintained a defensive posture. U.S. soldiers appear to have dug a rifle pit to see approaching attackers.
23775695|Johnson and Boettcher (2000) question the status of the presettlement Platte River as a prairie river, and they argue that it was "a wooded river traversing a prairie landscape." Here we review evidence in support of the prairie river concept, suggesting the channels of the Platte were predominantly open and largely absent of trees. Direct support for a prairie river is found in the detailed map drawn by Lieutenant Woodbury in locating the site for Fort Kearny in 1847. Woodbury showed a thin strip of timber, located in an area that appeared to be elevated above the influence of active river flows. Woodbury also illustrated the main channel as having vegetated islands only in one location, with only a "scattering [of] trees" along the banks. Historical accounts, an examination of historical perspectives, the distribution of land survey witness trees, a lack of regeneration of trees following supposed deforestation, and population changes in bird distributions over the past 100 years also support the prairie river concept. We argue woodland development is not true restoration in this area. Given current conditions, we suggest that long term management should be for a mosaic of habitats for migratory birds and other species including 10% open river channel in the Big Bend reach of the Platte River in central Nebraska.
23779534|The Platte River has changed from a nearly treeless prairie river to a heavily forested river. These habitat changes have likely benefited many woodland birds, but have harmed other migratory birds such as cranes. In response to this impact on migratory birds, conservation groups implemented a tree-clearing program to enhance habitat for these species. This practice is not without controversy because of concerns about its effect on woodland birds. The goal of this study was to determine the composition and abundance of breeding birds that use these forests and discuss the potential impacts of tree clearing on woodland birds. Surveys were conducted using the point-count method. I observed 56 breeding species during 1998 and 1999. The most abundant woodland birds were house wrens (Troglodytes aedon), Baltimore orioles (Icterus galbula), American goldfinches (Carduelis tristis), blue jays (Cyanocitta cristata), common yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), eastern towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus), European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), and northern cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). The avian community is dominated by migratory species that are forest-edge and open-forest generalists. Certainly, conservationists and managers should consider the impact of the river-clearing program on woodland birds. However, a high priority must be placed on those species that are declining or have been severely impacted by the expansion of riparian forests. Ultimately, conservationists and managers must consider both the detriments and benefits of the program and make management decisions accordingly.
23779771|Once Spirit Lake Dakota Reservation was opened to white homesteading in 1904, the turnover of land from Dakota to Euro-American hands was rapid. Scandinavians, the largest foreign-born group in the state, took advantage of this land-taking opportunity and moved onto the reservation in great numbers, acquiring approximately 25% of the land within six years. In effect, while the Scandinavians lived as neighbors with the Dakota, they also became the harbinger of the dispossession of Dakota land. Using quantitative analysis of landownership specified in plat maps of the reservation in 1910, this article analyzes the gender and ethnicity of the landowners. Oral histories contextualize the processes of land taking and land dispossession. The article then takes stock of landownership in 1929, finding that Dakota landownership declined 50% in less than two decades.
23779636|Conservationists and managers mention grassland restorations as a conservation strategy to reverse the decline of grassland bird populations in the Great Plains. In the Rainwater Basin Region of south-central Nebraska, state and federal resource agencies have used grassland restorations to protect wetlands from sedimentation and agrichemical runoff. These grassland restorations may also provide important habitat for breeding grassland birds. In this paper, we describe the abundance, composition, nesting success, and habitat requirements of breeding birds in grassland restorations in the Rainwater Basin Region. We observed 14 grassland bird species in 12 grassland restorations. The most abundant species were dickcissels (Spiza americana), grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), and bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). We found a total of 84 nests composed of 11 species in restorations. Dickcissels and grasshopper sparrows accounted for 77% of all nests found. Nest success was 31% (26 nests), and the major cause of nest loss was predation, which accounted for 66% (38 nests) of all nest failures. The occurrence of 10 of the species in grassland restorations was influenced by a variety of vegetation variables. Grassland bird species have benefited from grassland restorations in the Rainwater Basin Region. Conservation strategies for grassland birds in the Rainwater Basin Region should continue to focus on restoring marginal croplands back to grasslands.
24156313|A faunal study of the five species of Lucanidae and one species of Passalidae that occur in Nebraska is presented. All of these species are near the extreme western limit of their geographic range in North America, and five of the six species are reported from Nebraska for the first time. The treatment for each species consists of synonymy, description, general distribution, Nebraska locality records, temporal distribution in the state, remarks on identification, reference to larval descriptions when available, and information about the biology and ecology of each species when known. Distribution maps, showing the Nebraska records, are given for each species. Habitus drawings of the adult of each species as well as line drawings illustrating larval characters are provided. A key to all the Nebraska species of Lucanidae is provided.
23775726|This study identifies the spatial variability of the hydroclimatology of the Great Plains. Spatial associations of monthly midtropospheric circulation anomalies, total precipitation, and mean stream discharge are identified using an unrotated principal component analysis. Three hydroclimatic associations, representing synoptic circulation features and associated precipitation and stream discharge patterns, identify specific circulation anomalies and corresponding spatial patterns of surface hydrology in the northern, central, and southern Great Plains. Results indicate that nearly 47% of the hydrologic (precipitation and stream discharge) variability during summer is attributed to synoptic-scale midtropospheric circulation anomalies, with sub-synoptic convectional processes accounting for approximately 42% of the hydrologic variance.
23779965|Historic accounts from the 19th-century western Great Plains contain significant information on Plains ungulates and other animals, particularly as they relate to provisioning the Euro-American travelers. Using data derived from these accounts, a quantitative assessment of the hunting success of the Pike, Long, Glenn, and Dodge expeditions of the early 19th century is presented to ascertain the conditions of these species in the region. These data are then used to assess historiographic models of bison overhunting. This analysis indicates that the western Southern Plains and western Central Plains had differing trajectories of overhunting explained by temporally variable human and environmental impacts.
23778440|This study examined the psychological and socio-economic dimensions of the leisure experience patterns of the expanding older adult population in the Canadian Great Plains or Prairie region. Survey data were collected from a random sample of 2,969 of persons 65 years of age and older residing in southern Saskatchewan. Results indicated that older adults have a wide range of leisure activities with involvement in numerous individual and community related pursuits. However, when differentiated by season, winter activities tended to be passive, solitary, inexpensive, and home-based activities. Moreover, important psychological dimensions in perceived health and activity of older adults did not emerge from factor analysis. The results are discussed in terms of the need for rational planning policy initiatives providing adequate leisure services within dwindling financial resources for the widely dispersed, aging populations of the Prairie or Great Plains regions of North America.
23775645|For over 100 years, bison in the Greater Yellowstone Area have been managed intensely. Even during the years of natural regulation, bison herds have been heavily managed by culling. One of the fundamental goals of the plan for the Greater Yellowstone Area is to maintain the ecosystem's integrity using sound science. In order to reach this goal, it must be recognized that it is a dynamic system, continually undergoing change. However, our knowledge of such changes is extremely limited. In the case of bison, our knowledge is based on non-systematically collected historic records and modern studies of small, isolated populations. In contrast, the prehistoric record can provide a millennia-long record, providing a baseline of pre-European conditions against which the modern situation can be assessed and future management decisions can be made. In this paper, I discuss the application of new and emerging techniques (e.g., stable isotope analysis, pollen and phytolith analysis, and DNA extraction) in the reconstruction of the biology and ecology of prehistoric bison and in contemporary management of bison.
23778879|Widespread economic problems in rural areas have stimulated interest in rural economic development, and particularly in locally-based development initiatives. This paper describes and evaluates a state/local economic development initiative that has been operational in North Dakota for almost ten yearscreation of regional economic development funds financed by local option sales taxes. Data collected through interviews with managers of seven such funds, which have been operating from one to eight years, provide the basis for describing the economic development activities supported by the funds and the results of those efforts. The findings show that the businesses assisted have resulted in creation of substantial numbers of jobs. Six of the funds, which had been operating from four to eight years, provided support to businesses that created almost 4,500 jobs. Of the businesses supported, 89% were still operating at the time the study was conducted. The regional funds appear to be an effective economic development tool and also offer a mechanism for multi-community collaboration to achieve development goals. Additional research is needed to (1) identify key factors associated with success of these initiatives, and (2) quantify the extent to which the observed job creation can be attributed directly to the activities of the regional funds, by use of a "control group" of communities without such development programs.
23775555|The referendum and initiative processes were used six times between 1982 and 1994 to address the issue of gaming in South Dakota. Four of the six votes resulted in pro-gaming outcomes. This study examines how and why voters in the state's sixty-six counties varied geographically in their levels of gaming support over time. Five different ways of regionalizing the state are advanced as possible explanations, and then analyzed using maps, analysis of variance tests, and eta correlation coefficients. The popular East RiverWest River cultural-political divide is found to serve as the best explanation of the geographical distribution of gaming support for only one of the six votes. The other five were better explained by regions delineated by Hogan in the Geography of South Dakota, or by voting regions derived inductively through principal components analysis in the present study.
23803425|The Platte rivers and associated habitats are major wintering areas for Canada geese (Branta canadensis) in Nebraska. The objective of this study was to examine changes in abundance and distribution of Canada geese along the Platte River system during 1960-2000. We used counts of Canada geese based on aerial surveys from the annual Mid-Winter Survey (MWS). The entire lengths of the North and South Platte rivers and the Platte River were surveyed, and counts of Canada geese were made by visual estimation. We examined changes in goose numbers for the North and South Platte rivers, and divided the Platte River into two main sections (Central and East) over four time periods (i.e., decades). There appeared to be change in the distribution of Canada geese along the Platte River system; however, wintering Canada geese increased (>500%) on all river sections from the decades 1960-1969 to 1990-2000. Changes in the distribution and abundance of wintering Canada geese along the Platte reflect increases in populations in the Central Flyway and habitat changes that have benefited wintering geese.
23774309|In December 1987, The Great Plains: From Dust to Dust, a Daring Proposal for Dealing With an Inevitable Disaster," by Frank and Deborah Popper appeared in Planning, a journal of the American Planning Association. While many alternatives have been suggested to solve the environmental, social, and economic problems of the region, the Poppers Buffalo Commons thesis quickly made regional and national headlines. Since 1987, the Poppers, while writing and speaking on this topic at length, have failed to substantiate many of their arguments. Meanwhile, their somewhat facile assumptions have attracted a wide and sometimes favorable audience. This paper contains three section: in the first, we will summarize the major ideas of the proposal; second, we will identify its major methodological weaknesses; and in the conclusion, we will link the proposals implicit and controversial assumptions to a wider geographical context.
23777883|Remnant populations of the greater prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) in Kansas are managed to maintain population size while providing recreational hunting potential. Our aim in this study was to evaluate the effect of adding an early hunting season (late September-October) to the regular season (November-late January). We compared the hunting methods used and the harvest of greater prairie chickens during early and regular hunting seasons for 1990-91 and 1991-92. The use of dogs and walkup hunting techniques were emphasized in early season, whereas pass shooting in feeding fields was emphasized in the regular season. During early season, the reported harvest was composed predominantly of males (55-74%) and juveniles (60-67%). During regular season, the harvest was also composed of more males than females (60% for both years), but it had a similar proportion of adults to juveniles (50-58%). The ratio of males:females varied between each seasons for the two years analyzed. However, the ratio of juveniles:adults was similar between years and larger during early season than during regular season. Juvenile survival is generally lower than adult survival; so, harvesting a larger proportion of juveniles during the early season may mitigate some of the effect of an extended hunting season.
23777882|In the west-central Great Plains, the risk of soil erosion due to wind is high, particularly during winter. One way to reduce soil erosion is to plant winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) early in the season, so that the crop establishes four tillers prior to the onset of winter dormancy. Currently, however, wheat is seeded late in the planting season to reduce disease and insect infestation. In this study, we evaluated potential soil erosion in relation to seeding date. Using historical climate data, we determined the probability that winter wheat plants will establish four tillers prior to dormancy at 55 sites throughout the west-central Great Plains using current seeding dates. For many locations, the currently recommended planting date results in a low probability of achieving the growth required to reduce soil erosion. Planting one to three weeks earlier would reduce the potential of soil erosion during winter months. The use of earlier seeding dates, however, will depend upon the development of wheat cultivars that have improved disease and insect resistance.
24156338|Assessments of wetland restorations in the prairie region are not done routinely and no accepted assessment framework exists. Wetland assessment protocols in the U.S. have varied over time from those emphasizing social significance to those attempting to quantify functions of wetlands from hydrogeomorphic considerations. A conceptual framework for restoration decision-making is presented that is based on optimizing wetland restoration success at both the landscape and site scales. This framework uses societal concerns, knowledge of factors that limit ecosystem recovery, and data on losses of different types of wetlands locally and regionally to establish restoration goals and guide site selection. These goals in turn generate restoration expectations or targets. Currently, restoration expectations are usually formulated only at the basin scale. Prairie pothole wetlands, however, were historically part of wetland complexes. Consequently, restoration efforts should focus on restoring complexes not isolated wetlands. Wetland restoration decision-making thus requires that landscape-level restoration expectations be part of all prairie pothole restorations. Landscape-level expectations should also be used in the assessment of these projects. Reference wetlands or historic data from the wetland and wetland complexes to be restored are used to develop these restoration expectations.
23779968|Political and socioeconomic pressures on riparian areas in semiarid regions of the Great Plains are growing as water resources become more limited. Management along waterways has altered stream ecology and hydrology in ways that encourage the invasion and expansion of native (e.g., Juniperus virginiana) and non-native (e.g., Tamarix sp. and Elaeagnus angustifolia) woody species. One management tool currently implemented to restore the hydrology or increase water yields along waterways in semiarid areas is the removal of vegetation or invasive species. How managers should respond to invasive woody plants to optimize hydrological functions without compromising other riparian ecosystem functions is still debatable. In this manuscript, we provide an overview of the ecological status and hydrological role of riparian vegetation in the northern Great Plains, with examples drawn from the region and other semiarid areas. Additionally, we present information compiled from published studies on water consumption of native and non-native species at both tree and stand levels, and we evaluate the ecohydrological outcomes from removal of invasive woody vegetation. Lastly, we consider the economic costs and benefits of woody species removal, and suggest considerations to help managers make decisions regarding woody species removal.
23777989|This paper examines the residential preferences of rural Nebraskans. Data from the 1998 Nebraska Rural Poll were analyzed at two levels. First, the residential preferences of rural Nebraskans were compared to those of the general population of the United States. Second, the relationships between the attributes of the respondents' current community and their residential preferences were examined. Current community size, the social attributes of the community, and evaluations of local community services were all determined to be important influences on residential preferences. The findings illustrate the possible positive impact on rural Great Plains communities of enhancing social interaction and creatively providing service delivery.
23780061|In the next decades, aging farmers in the United States will make decisions that affect almost 1 billion acres of land. The future of this land will become more uncertain as farm transfer becomes more difficult, potentially changing the structure of agriculture through farm consolidation, changes in farm ownership and management, or taking land out of production. The Great Plains Population and Environment Project interviewed farmers and their spouses between 1997 and 1999. Farm Family Survey participants were ambiguous about their plans to leave farming, transfer land to others, and even long-term land use, largely due to concerns about the continued economic viability of farming. Participants living far from metropolitan areas expected to sell or rent to other farmers, while those near residential real-estate markets expected to sell to developers. Delays in planning for retirement and succession were common, further threatening the success of intergenerational transitions.
23778876|Recent international agreements for controlling emissions of greenhouse gases have focused the attention of both the climate research and policy communities on strategies for reducing the production and emission of these radiatively active substances. Most approaches have adopted a top down perspective, where mitigation strategies are framed at the level of national governments. However, emissions occur at local, rather than national scales. We describe a study aimed at documenting greenhouse gas emissions from a local area in the High Plains of southwestern Kansas that is currently undergoing marked economic change and population increase in response to restructuring of the meat packing industry. We estimate volume and source of emissions for three greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide, and contrast the relative importance of gas emissions at the local, state, and national level. The relative amounts of greenhouse gas emissions and the processes that produce them were found to vary considerably across these three geographic scales. In the study area, agribusiness is the leading source of methane and the greatest overall contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. Utilities and the natural gas industry contributed the largest amounts of carbon dioxide, ranking second and third in overall contribution to greenhouse gas levels, respectively. The proportion of total global warming potential (GWP) contributed by CH4 is somewhat higher at the local level than at the state or national levels. Contribution to total GWP by N2O in the local area is roughly equivalent to the larger geographic areas. Overall, the relative importance of various emission sources shows considerable contrasts across scale.
23780129|The Dust Bowl is a historical vernacular region that has been delimited by a diverse group of academics, literary authors, and popular cultural voices. However, the general public's perception of the Dust Bowl region has not been mapped and analyzed. This research queried residents of 93 Great Plains counties in order to ascertain their perceptions and knowledge of the vernacular Dust Bowl region. Analysis of the responses via the application of geographic information system mapping reveals striking differences between respondents of varying age and place of residence. Findings suggest that spatial understanding of the Dust Bowl phenomena is eroding among young people in the Great Plains. Diminished knowledge of human-environment dynamics should raise concerns in light of the recurrent nature of drought in the region.
23779967|The construction of the Oahe Dam on the Missouri River eliminated thousands of acres of riparian and floodplain lands on the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation in South Dakota. Restoration is needed to replace wildlife habitat. This study focused on site selection for native cottonwood (Populus deltoides Bartr. Ex Marsh. ssp. Monilifers (Ait.) Eckenwalde) restoration to help mitigate this loss. Geographic information systems technologies were used to develop a suitability model for cottonwood restoration. Tribal lands were extracted from a digital dataset of landownership. Those touched by or included in a 46 m border of the Moreau River were candidate sites. Of the 182 candidates, 50 sites were randomly selected for model development. Slope, aspect, stream length and number, soil properties, and land cover criteria were given a numeric score and these were summed; the lowest total score possible was -7 and the highest score possible was 33. The sample sites were evaluated and ranked as high (21 to 33, 7 sites), medium (7 to 20, 35 sites), or low (-7 to 6, 8 sites) for growth and maintenance of riparian cottonwood forests. Five sites were selected for cottonwood restoration using the model developed. Bare root trees were planted mechanically and by hand. Drought conditions limited survival and 50% of the area was replanted. Further data collection may increase the use of geographic information system (GIS) technology and facilitate site selection for cottonwood restoration in the northern Great Plains.
23777766|The Great Plains are sometimes characterized as an economically lagging region. To shed some light on the region's prospects, the locational and structural changes in employment patterns in the northern and central Great Plains were examined for the 1980 to 1990 period. County-level data were drawn from CD-ROM census publications and matched with locational references using Atlas*GIS. Shift-share computations were undertaken for the region as a whole and for metropolitan and nonmetropolitan counties. Employment declined sharply in agriculture and construction, but increased in the service sectors. Compared with the nation as a whole, the region competed poorly in many sectors, though it performed superbly in manufacturing and came close to holding its own in the business service and public administration sectors. Prospects appear bright for the metropolitan centers on the region's periphery, but the bulk of the territory will likely see only localized points of growth.
23779567|It is a common belief that the black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) was an extremely abundant species throughout the Great Plains prior to European settlement. We examined accounts from explorers, naturalists, and travelers in the Great Plains in the 19th and 20th centuries and found few that adequately document the relative abundance and distribution to support this view. Immense prairie dog colonies existed in the western Great Plains before Euro-American settlement, but it appears that the eastern Great Plains supported only localized populations. Historic accounts also indicate that the easternmost extent of the black-tailed prairie dog's range before settlement was at or west of the 98th meridian, which is largely west of the tallgrass prairie. We believe that the recent determination to list the species as threatened under the Endangered Species Act is flawed because presettlement distribution and abundance were overstated.
23777815|In this paper we explore two potential sources of variation in the life experiences of Latinos in the United States: region of the country in which a group resides and national origin. Although scholars have recognized the theoretical importance of these two variables, few studies have empirically examined the relationship of region of the country and national origin to socioeconomic variables such as occupation, education, and income or to cultural variables such as bilingualism and English language proficiency. Data from the 1990 U.S. Census 5% Public Use Micro Sample show that both the social structural and cultural experiences of Latinos in regions where they are few in number, such as the Great Plains, is significantly different than those of Latinos living in other parts of the country. Findings strongly suggest 1) that inferences drawn from historically Latino regional samples will not be valid for populations living in other areas of the country, and 2) that inferences based on the Latino population at large obscure substantial variation in the experiences of specific national origin Latino subgroups.
23780062|Anti-spit tobacco information is replete with fear appeals, including firsthand accounts of death and debilitation, to make users aware of the health risks and dangers. Those dangers, however, are well known by baseball players whose association with spit tobacco is historic. A survey of 217 Iowa and Nebraska college players showed that despite their awareness of spit tobacco's dangers, the players use spit tobacco to relax and focus on the field. This study supports other research showing that fear appeals may not be the most appropriate approach for anti-tobacco advertising campaigns. The study suggests that campaigns should promote relaxation and stress reduction techniques as alternatives to spit tobacco.
23779800|River salinization is a byproduct of water resource development that results from cumulative impacts of flow-regime modifications and crop irrigation. However, historical salinization in the Lower Pecos River is often attributed to natural, high-salinity groundwater. Here, evidence from literature and U.S. Geological Survey gaging stations is reviewed to summarize historical changes associated with water development that potentially contributed to Pecos River salinization. A suite of hydrological changes, initiated in the 1880s, likely contributed to streamflow salinization: (1) reduced flood frequency and magnitude, (2) diminished streamflow, (3) increased evapotranspiration, and (4) increased prevalence of natural, high-salinity groundwater. Salinization is presently highest where these cumulative impacts were greatest (Red Bluff Dam to Girvin, Texas). Prior to water-resource development, higher, fresher streamflows and periodic floods diluted natural, high-salinity groundwater inflows and continuously exported salts from the drainage. Predevelopment salinity was low enough to support at least 44 native fishes, 13 of which have disappeared from the region. Only seven euryhaline natives remain in the most salinized river reach. However, flow-regime restoration and improved irrigation practice could potentially reduce salinization and partially restore a freshwater fauna.
23774314|In 1883 the U.S. General Land Office conducted the sale of the eastern remnant of the Big Blue reservation in Nebraska and Kansas for the benefit of its owners, the Otoe-Missouria Indians. The property sold for an average of $12.22 an acre. It was the highest per-acre price ever offered for Indian lands on the Central and Northern Great Plains. Before the first year of white settlement had come to an end, however, many landholders began to petition federal authorities for payment-time extensions and, eventually, debt reductions. They argued that they had been "forced" to pay more for their lands than what they were actually worth. In the end, after nearly two decades of well-organized white agitation, the politically disadvantaged Otoe-Missourias were compelled to accept an "adjustment" on the outstanding debts due them. This amounted to a loss to the Indians of approximately $169,000. Were the settlers justified in their demands for price reductions? More specifically, were the various contentions that they had based their collective argument on truly valid? This paper will discuss these and other secondarily related questions by means of an inspection of the written historical record, as well as by a quantitative and qualitative analysis of land valuation and ownership data contained in the county deed records.
23779535|Named for the state where it was discovered, Cicindela nebraskana Casey is among the rarest insects in Nebraska. Although this beetle was described in 1909, only nine specimens had been collected in Nebraska in the 95 years before we conducted surveys in 2003 and 2004 in the extreme western portion of the state. Because of scant records, little was known about the Nebraska populations relative to populations of the species in the remainder of the western United States. We discovered two populations in Sioux and Scotts Bluff counties. We review the taxonomy of this species and document its habitat and adult seasonality. This information is vital to conserving this extremely rare species in the Great Plains.
23777986|The growth, condition, and mortality of black crappie, bluegill, and yellow perch were measured in 30 Nebraska Sand Hills lakes (1998, 1999) to determine the value of these parameters in these fish populations compared to other Great Plains populations. Growth was variable for all three fish species, but similar to or higher than populations in other midwestern states. Bluegill condition, as measured by mean relative weight, ranged from 115 to 123, indicating these populations were in very good condition. Mean relative weight by length for black crappie ranged from 94 to 114, but only 83 to 95 for yellow perch. Mean total annual mortality did not vary significantly among the three species, with 38.6% for black crappie, 30.9% for bluegill, and 37.9% for yellow perch (p > 0.50). These mortality estimates were similar to other lightly exploited or unexploited midwestern populations. This study indicates that high-quality panfish populations in the Nebraska Sand Hills had characteristic growth, condition, and mortality traits, and it provides baseline information for future comparisons with other Great Plains fish populations.
23777813|Scholars who have studied the political behavior of residents of Canada's province of Saskatchewan conclude that members of minority groups such as Roman Catholics and people of Central and Eastern European background voted Liberal much more frequently than Conservative, at least prior to the 1930s. There is no reason to question this conclusion when voting throughout the province by a specific minority is considered. However, the same is not always found to be true when the voting behavior of a particular minority group in a single constituency is examined. This paper discusses the German Catholics of the Humboldt Constituency of Saskatchewan and shows that, while they initially strongly favoured the Liberal party, they soon became disillusioned with its position on elementary schools and gave clear evidence of their discontent at election time.
23780128|Groundwater is critical to many aspects of life on the Great Plains. Overdevelopment of this resource can have serious social, economic, and environmental consequences. Aquifer depletion criteria are used in many areas of the Great Plains to implement management responses and limit groundwater development. This study addresses groundwater-level triggers and depletion limitscriteria commonly used in Nebraskawithin the context of interconnected ground- and surface-water systems. Generic models are used to calculate transient water budgets in three hypothetical systems given depletion limits of 5%, 10%, 15%, and 25%. In each simulation, the source of water to the wells changes from aquifer depletion to surface-water depletion, but at rates varying from 1 day to several hundred years. Separate simulations test the effectiveness of groundwater-level triggers at achieving a desired depletion limit. Results suggest that universal application of generic depletion criteria may lead to unintended consequences such as excessive surface-water depletion, excessive aquifer depletion, or conversely, unnecessary constraints on pumping. A holistic process framework for groundwater management is presented to promote the use of aquifer depletion criteria in conjunction with an adaptive management strategy. Such strategies can help ensure the future sustainability of water resources in Nebraska and elsewhere in the Great Plains.
23779839|The purpose of this study was to examine the local socioeconomic impacts of new economic development initiatives in North Dakota's rural (nonmetropolitan) communities. The analysis utilized interview, survey, and secondary data from four communities with recently developed agricultural processing plants, three with manufacturing and/or exported services facilities, and two control communities (i.e., towns that had not experienced the advent of a major new employer during the 1990s). Information from the two groups of development communities and the control communities is compared and contrasted to discern similarities and differences in the effects of the different types of development initiatives and to develop a set of general principles and recommended actions for community leaders to follow when planning for a new employer.
23804539|Over the past 25 years, the James River in North and South Dakota has experienced records in minimum and maximum discharge. Our objectives were to compare: (1) the fish community in the main river after dry (1988-90) and wet (1993-2000) years, and (2) the fish community of both the main river and tributaries between dry (1975) and wet (1998-2000) years. In South Dakota in the main river, there were 10 families and 29 species after several dry years and 11 families and 35 species after several wet years. Percichthyidae was the additional family after the wet years. Basinwide, there were 41 species present after the dry 1970s and 50 species after the wet 1990s. Overall, 93% of the species collected in 1975 have persisted. Our results provide some support for the flood pulse concept, and the findings suggest that the fish community can be useful for biomonitoring of prairie streams.
23779480|Intensive, in-depth interviews were conducted with 45 non-Hispanic white residents of three rural Nebraska meatpacking communities. The purpose of the investigation was to document (1) perceptions of community change; (2) community-wide benefits of a new Latino population; and (3) strategies for strengthening multi-ethnic rural communities. Data were analyzed using Thematic Analyses (Aronson 1994). Application of the findings, for strengthening rural communities, is discussed.
23780292|Ranchers in Cimarron County, Oklahoma, have turned to leasing school trust land to sustain and sometimes expand their operations. Changes in the land tenure process have undergone profound transformations in the last 20 years, greatly impacting land use in the region. Coupled with an almost decade-long drought, land managers pursuing seemingly "traditional" agricultural practices call upon increasingly complicated, mixed private and public tenure options in order to make ends meet. Using a political ecology framework, we examine conflicting relationships between school land, the state, and local land managers as well as the sustainability of cattle ranching on school trust land in Cimarron County, Oklahoma. We conclude that school trust land needs to be re-envisioned in order to ensure the greatest good for the greatest number of people as well as to uphold traditional rights and livelihoods of those in Cimarron County.
23775612|Canada as an historically contingent society, developing within the context of its own internal evolution, has always framed its becoming in its changing political, economic, and cultural relationships with the United States. The border takes on special significance for Canadians as it serves as the basic reference point for historical, literal, symbolic, and psychological interpretations of identity. Yet the meanings assigned to the border vary regionally because of different historic-geographical experiences. This paper examines different types of population, economic, political, and cultural interactions taking place across the border within what can be called the international region of the Great Plains. It attempts to identify and elucidate those forces which served to integrate and differentiate those societies developing on both sides of the forty-ninth parallel. To this end, the paper makes some judgement as to the relevance of the Borderlands thesis in understanding Canadian-American relationships in this part of North America.
23779597|During spring migration, sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) rely on the central Platte River valley in Nebraska as a staging area to replenish depleted energy and nutrient reserves. From mid-February to mid-April 1998-2001, we conducted ground and aerial surveys of sandhill cranes in the central Platte River valley. Peak numbers of sandhill cranes (121,000-285,000 cranes) detected during ground surveys occurred in mid-March (1998, 2001) or early March (1999, 2000). From 42% to 55% of the cranes occurred in cornfields, 26%-38% in lowland grassland, 7%-13% in alfalfa, and 2%-12% in other habitats (soybean, winter wheat, shrub-grassland, upland grassland). In general, sandhill cranes preferred channel widths >150 m and avoided channel widths <100 m. Channel widths at roost sites were significantly wider (P < 0.001) than channel widths at unused sites (229 m + 2.9 S.E. vs. 83 m + 2.1 S.E.). Our research suggests future management of sandhill cranes in central Nebraska should include protecting and restoring critical habitats, maintaining appropriate stream flows, and providing adequate river channel widths and food resources.
23778438|Changes in wetlands in the vicinity of the Phelps and E65 canals operated by Central Nebraska Public Power and Irrigation District in Southcentral Nebraska were examined using aerial photographs taken on seven occasions from 1938 to 1981. According to previous research, nearly 90% of the original wetlands within the surrounding Rainwater Basin were destroyed or altered by draining and filling between 1900 and 1980. Within a zone extending 10 kilometers on each side of the Phelps and E65 canals, however, we observed an increase in the number and total area of wetlands, which we hypothesize to have been caused by an elevated groundwater table. Of additional importance for wildlife management, there was a notable decrease in wetlands temporarily flooded for 2 months or less, and a notable increase in wetlands seasonally flooded for 3 to 5 months each year. These changes were most conspicuous after 1969.
23779632|The economic issues that often arise from Native land acquisition and development can strain relationships between American Indian tribes and non-Indian local governments. As Indian tribes expand their landholdings, political and economic landscapes are transformed. This paper examines intergovernmental relationships and the characteristics and impacts of recent land acquisitions made by two Dakota Indian communities in the Minnesota River Valley of Minnesota. The Upper Sioux Community has enjoyed a level of cooperation from local communities in their rural land acquisitions, while the Shakopee Mdewakanton Dakota Community has experienced vigorous opposition to their urban land acquisitions. Geographic situation may help to explain the variation in level of opposition or support for Native land acquisition, as well as the possibilities for Native land possession vs. ownership.
23775724|Monthly precipitation data in the Great Plains from the late nineteenth century (1851-1890) were compared with modern analogs. Seasonal precipitation changes were identified since 1858-1877, depending on the amount of data available, and additional droughts were inferred back to 1851. Regional droughts did not clearly fit any cycle. Precipitation during fall and winter was less than 1951-1980 averages during most of the late nineteenth century. Wetter than modern average springs and summers occurred in the mid-1870s to the mid-1880s. Relationships of these conditions to changes in mid-tropospheric circulation are suggested. Results from this study can be used for verification of dendroclimatic reconstructions and assessment of climatic impact on settlement.
23777814|The microclimate of an aboriginal winter campsite, set in an incised, south-facing meander of a small creek, is compared to the conditions on the adjacent open prairie at Wanuskewin Heritage Park, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Maximum and minimum temperatures and wind speeds were measured daily, on the prairie and in the valley, along with temperatures in a modern canvas tipi erected in the valley. Maximum temperatures tended to be about 1C higher in the valley, and 2C higher in the tipi, than on the prairie, while minima were 1-2C lower. Wind speeds were reduced to about 50% in the valley. Windchill factors, derived from these data, were reduced between 200 and 250 W m-2, suggesting that the valley site afforded considerable benefit as a winter habitation site.
23775699|Tiger beetles are common predators in open habitats throughout the Great Plains, including the eastern salt marshes. Adult tiger beetles are active searchers that attack and eat small insects. By contrast, their larvae are sit-and-wait predators that form permanent burrows and depend on prey moving within striking distance. We hypothesized that adults and larvae of the tiger beetle, Cicindela togata globicollis Casey, would differ in their utilization of lipid (fat) energy reserves, such as fatty acids, based on differences in the likelihood of starvation. To investigate this, we determined the fatty acid profiles from larvae and adult tiger beetles. We found that normally-feeding adults and larvae did not differ substantially in their fatty acid profiles. But, after fasting for a two-week period, larvae selectively used their lipid reserves while adults did not. Moreover, in contrast to all other insect species studied, we found that larval tiger beetles were not able to biosynthesize fatty acids from acetate. Our findings suggest that larvae optimize the use of fatty acids to allow for a lengthy larval developmental period in environments, such as the Great Plains, that provide unreliable and unpredictable food resources.
23778233|Populations of the greater prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) in Kansas are managed to maintain population size while providing recreational hunting potential. Our aim in this study was to evaluate the effect of adding an early hunting season (late September-October) to the regular season (November-late January). We compared the hunting methods used and the harvest of greater prairie-chickens during early and regular hunting seasons for 1990-91 and 1991-92. The use of dogs and walkup hunting techniques were emphasized in early season, whereas pass shooting in feeding fields was emphasized in the regular season. During early season, the reported harvest was composed predominantly of males (55-66%) and juveniles (60-67%). During regular season, the harvest was also composed of more males than females both years combined, but it had a similar proportion of juveniles to adults (50-58%). The ratio of males:females varied between each season for the two years analyzed. However, the ratio of juveniles:adults was similar between years and larger during early seasons than during regular seasons. Juvenile survival is generally lower than adult survival; so, harvesting a larger proportion of juveniles during the early season may mitigate some of the effect of an extended hunting season.
23779635|Responses of hazelnut hybrids (88BS, BOX1, G17, and GEL502) to water availability (watered and nonwatered) were examined in the field. The study site received 35% of long-term average precipitation between July and September. Photosynthesis (A), stomatal conductance (gs), water potential (), and specific leaf area were generally lower in the nonwatered than in the watered treatment and exhibited significant seasonal decline, which was accompanied by an increase in water use efficiency (WUE) under both water treatments. Hybrids exhibited different strategies to cope with water availability. The hybrid 88BS was more water conserving, with the most decline in gs, the least gradient in , and the lowest discrimination against 13C than in the remaining hybrids, indicating that 88BS responded to drought by increasing WUE and conserving water. BOX1 was more of a water spender, maintaining both higher gs and A, low sensitivity of gs to vapor pressure deficit (VPD) increase, largest gradient in , and the most negative carbon isotope ratio, indicating a higher capacity to absorb soil water and reach limited resources. GEL502 and G17 were more affected by water stress than were 88BS or BOX1. We conclude that relatively drought-resistant hazelnut hybrids suitable for the Great Plains can be identified for successful plantations.
23779484|Noncredit English as a Second Language (ESL) classes often serve as a starting place for new immigrants aged eighteen or older who want to learn survival English. The students attending these classes are widely diverse in terms of motivations, educational and cultural backgrounds, English-language fluency, life experiences, and learning styles. Classes are designed to equip these adult learners with basic English-language abilities in the context of the situations they are likely to encounter daily at work and in the community. This personal essay explores the challenges faced and the strengths revealed by students in these classes as witnessed by an instructor of these courses. Observations suggest that the strong work ethic, spirit of cooperation, and goodwill toward others that are displayed by these most recent immigrants to the Great Plains not only promise their success, but link them to earlier immigrants to the region.
23775577|Frederick Purshs Flora Americae Septentrionalis (1814) is considered to be the standard flora of the nineteenth century. Additional floras of this period were developed by Nuttall, Elliott, and Torrey and Gray. We know that Meriwether Lewis collected some herbarium specimens that contributed to Purshs Flora during the Lewis and Clark Expedition of 1804-1806. Purshs Flora was the first to include plants of the Pacific Northwest. A number of the specimens Lewis collected are in the Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Those who use the Herbarium know and appreciate the contribution of Lewis to botany. Twenty-four of the illustration plates in Flora were drawn by Pursh directly from the specimens. Included are explanations of the origin of the specimens, elucidation of the illustrators, final deposition of the specimens, and notes on the history of the collection and handling and on the process of the drawing. What is not known is the destination of drawings deposited with Clark and why at least one drawing on deposit with the American Philosophical Society differs so radically from that in Purshs Flora.
23779537|A cross-sectional design was used to assess the language skills and prevalence of language disorders among 84 randomly selected public school children (K-5) receiving special education services for emotional and behavioral disorders (EBD). The mean receptive language standard score fell in the nonclinical range, whereas the mean total and expressive standard scores fell in the clinical range. The prevalence rates of total, expressive, and receptive disorders among children with EBD were 54%, 55%, and 42%, respectively. Approximately two-thirds of children experienced a language disorder (i.e., total, expressive, and/or receptive). Half of those experiencing a language disorder met clinical criteria in all language areas (i.e., total, receptive, and expressive). Approximately 86% of children meeting clinical criteria for total, receptive, and/or expressive language disorder were not receiving formal language services (i.e., false negatives). The findings and future research needs are discussed.
23775576|A variety of undesirable plants pose problems for managers of grazingland and/or wildland because they reduce the land's usefulness for livestock grazing or are detrimental to its other functions, such as wildlife habitat or watershed protection. The purpose of this study was to assess the direct and secondary economic impacts of leafy spurge infestations in North Dakota. This involved estimating the extent of leafy spurge infestations on grazingland and wildland, estimating the effects of the infestation on the outputs of both types of land, estimating the direct economic effects of these changes in outputs, and using input-output analysis to estimate the secondary economic effects accruing to other sectors of the state economy.
23779507|Characterizing vegetation composition, carbon/nitrogen (C/N) content of soils, and root-mass distribution is critical to understanding carbon sequestration potential of subirrigated meadows in the Nebraska Sandhills. Five subirrigated meadows dominated by cool-season (C3) graminoids and five meadows dominated by warm-season (C4) grasses were selected throughout the Nebraska Sandhills. Vegetation, soil carbon and nitrogen, and root-mass density distribution were sampled in each meadow. Meadows dominated by C3 vegetation had 12% greater (P < 0.1) yields than meadows dominated by C4 vegetation. Total root-mass density was 30% greater (P < 0.1) in C4-dominated meadows than C3-dominated meadows. Total carbon and nitrogen content was 65% and 53% greater (P < 0.1), respectively, in the A horizon of C3-dominated meadows, but was 43% and 52% greater (P < 0.1), respectively, in the C horizon of C4-dominated meadows. Although meadows dominated by C3 vegetation had more carbon in the soil profile, much of the carbon in C3-dominated meadows appeared to be recalcitrant C4 carbon from historic vegetation.
23780096|Historic herbicide use and grazing have influenced natural diversity and quality of native pasturelands in the Great Plains. Floristic quality assessments are useful to assist agencies in prioritizing conservation practices to enhance native grasslands. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of past land-use practices on the floristic quality of remnant native pastures in eastern South Dakota and southwestern Minnesota. Floristic quality assessments were conducted on 30 native pastures and categorized by past management practices (herbicide application and grazing intensity). Mean coefficient of conservatism (C) and floristic quality index (FQI) were calculated for each site. Results showed that increased herbicide use and grazing intensity resulted in a lower species richness, forb C, and FQI. However, grass and grasslike plants were minimally affected. Pastures that were infrequently sprayed with herbicides and lightly grazed consistently had the highest species richness, C, and FQI. Pastures with no grazing produced similar values to those with moderate grazing. Pastures managed as preserves or wildlife habitat areas had higher FQI than those managed for livestock grazing. The implications of this study should further help ecologists and managers understand the positive and negative effects of grazing practices and herbicide application on tallgrass prairie remnants.
23779399|Federal river protection in the U.S. began in 1968 with passage of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (P.L. 90-542). In addition to the federal system, 33 states have enacted some type of state-level river protection legislation. Currently, over 400 river segments and 15,000 river miles are protected by the state programs. Texas, which contains 23 major river basins and over 80,000 linear miles of streambed, has made numerous attempts to establish a state-level protection program; however, each has failed. With a growing population of more than 17.6 million, competition for water resources will intensify, including demands for various forms of river recreation. This research reviews the status of existing state-level river protection programs, summarizes the progression of water resource development in Texas as it relates to river protection issues, analyzes the history of failed legislative attempts at establishing a Texas rivers system, and recommends strategies for future passage of a Texas river protection act.
23779804|The allocation of water is part of water management. In order to achieve maximum benefits to society, water should be allocated toward uses that have the highest value, followed, as an alternative, by the next highest level or one with equal value. Such decisions require knowledge of water value at the last unit of use. Within agriculture, irrigation is important. Irrigation water must be allocated to various crops; therefore, producers require knowledge of the marginal value of water among alternative crops. This study estimates marginal value product for irrigation water within the southern areas of the Canadian Prairie Provinces using a crop-response model. Marginal values were estimated under the present and a future climate scenario. Cash crops such as potatoes and dry beans had higher marginal values of water, around $1,000 per 1,000 m3. Cereals and oilseed crops lagged behind (close to $200 per 1,000 m3). Results show modest increases in marginal value under climate change, compared to the volatility resulting from commodity market price changes seen today.
23775579|Several soils of western Nebraska have exhibited unusually high water content at 15 bars tension (an estimate of the water content where plants begin to wilt) relative to the percent measured clay. These same soils are known to form in volcanically derived sediments. The objective of the study was to identify a mineralogical cause for the discrepancy. Representative samples from the Busher, Epping, Keith, Mitchell, Otero, and Tripp soils were collected and characterized to determine the relationship between soil moisture and measured clay contents. Calculated ratios of soil water content at 15 bars tension to the percent measured clay equaled or exceeded 1.0 for samples from all soils and suggested the presence of volcanic glass and associated minerals in the soils. Detailed mineralogical analysis of the Mitchell and Tripp soils indicated the presence of unmeasured clay coatings on sand and silt sized grains of volcanic glass and other soil minerals. The unmeasured clay contributed to the total surface area of the soils and therefore contributed to the high contents of soil water at 15 bars tension.
23779600|During the rural renaissance of the 1970s, the United States experienced a reverse migration pattern in which the flow of migration was predominantly urban to rural, unlike the traditional rural to urban flows. This migration phenomenon was equally experienced in the North Central Region, which includes the Great Plains states of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas. This study investigated the impact of the reverse migration phenomenon on employment in eight industry categories in three categories of counties in North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas. Findings show that net migration had differential impacts on employment by industry category and by county category. While the services industry category was most affected by net migration, no significant relationship was found between net migration and employment in the agriculture industry, the mainstay of the economy of these states.
23779596|The most comprehensive water policy analysis conducted on the High Plains region to date was the High Plains Ogallala Regional Aquifer Study completed in 1982. Twenty years later, we had a unique opportunity to compare the projections from this study with the changes that actually occurred over the past two decades. Specific comparisons were made for the area of western Kansas overlying the High Plains Aquifer. These comparisons revealed some significant differences in the status of the aquifer and in the region's economic development, relative to the predictions of the study. Most notably, contrary to the study's predictions, irrigated area did not decline precipitously, but rather continued to increase during the period. Despite large increases in irrigated area and production of more water-intensive crops, such as corn and alfalfa, both per-unit area and total water use declined over the 20 years. Differences in observed and projected results can be attributed to a variety of factors, including large differences in crop prices, yield trends, energy prices, farm commodity programs, and irrigation technologies relative to those assumed in the study. Future research will need to better account for these factors to offer useful guidance in setting water management policies.
23778226|Ecosystem, species and genetic dimensions of biodiversity have eroded since widespread settlement of the Great Plains. Conversion of native vegetation in the region followed the precipitation gradient, with the greatest conversion in the eastern tallgrass prairie and eastern mixed-grass types. Areas now dominated by intensive land uses are "hot spots" for exotic birds. However, species of all taxa listed as threatened or endangered are well-distributed across the Great Plains. These species are often associated with special landscape features, such as wetlands, rivers, caves, sandhills and prairie dog towns. In the long run, sustaining biodiversity in the Great Plains, and the goods and services we derive from the plains, will depend on how successfully we can manage to maintain and restore habitat variation and revitalize ecosystem functioning. Public policy and legislation played a significant role in the degradation of native habitats in the region. Both policy and legislation will be needed to reverse the degradation and restore critical ecosystem processes.
23782173|The NamibRand Nature Reserve, located in southern Namibia, is a private nature reserve established to protect and conserve the unique ecology and wildlife of the southwest Namib Desert. At 172,200 ha, NamibRand is one of the largest private conservation areas in southern Africa. The reserve consists of 13 former livestock farms rehabilitated into a continuous natural conservation area and shares a 100 km border with the Namib-Naukluft National Park. The reserve is a model for private conservation in southern Africa, as it demonstrates holistic biodiversity conservation balanced with financial sustainability. Innovative approaches to resource management ensure that this critical area bordering on the national park is effectively conserved. Research conducted on the reserve aims to directly benefit management of the reserve and to contribute to the national scientific knowledge base. The project is financially self-sustaining mainly through high-quality, low-impact tourism. Partnerships with local and regional neighbors, and government and other organizations, connect the reserve to a larger conservation landscape throughout Namibia, forming the foundation of the national tourism economy.
23779803|Small mammals can be an important bioindicator of ecosystem health. They serve as both predator and prey in many ecosystems. By means of live trapping and nest monitoring, we studied the ecological relationships between small mammals, avian nest survival, and vegetation composition and structure on six private ranches in the Sandhills of Nebraska during 2004. Our study documented six species (132 captures) of small mammals, and we monitored 139 bird nests. Pastures with high small-mammal populations did not suffer higher nest mortality, indicating that small-mammal abundance does not predict avian productivity. We found several vegetation characteristics that influenced small-mammal abundance on our sites. Small-mammal capture indices declined with increased percentage of lying-litter cover in pastures. Long-duration grazing systems had higher small-mammal indices than medium- or short-duration grazing systems, and proximal pastures had higher similarity indices for both birds and small mammals. Our study shows that landowners can affect the small-mammal community through grazing management.
23779394|This study of Nebraska-made quilts spans the years from the 1870s through the 1980s, which extends from the early settlement of the state through the recent farm crisis. The descriptive profile of Nebraska quilts that emerged highlights the many similarities of Nebraska-made quilts to other American quilts of the same periods. Analysis shows that Nebraska quilts reflected the technological, artistic, and social trends of the times and points to changes in popularity of quilt types and pieced and applique patterns over the years. Although distinctive quilt types, styles, and quilting practices were reported in other states, Nebraska quilts are notable for their conservative character, the absence of exceptional qualities, and their tendency to reliably reflect national trends in quiltmaking. Quantitative summaries and analyses of a state's quilts can be important in the construction and rewriting of American textile history.
23779914|Populations of lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) have declined by more than 90%, due primarily to the conversion of sand-sage and mixed-grass prairie to agriculture, overgrazing by domestic livestock, juniper encroachment, and fossil-fuel development. Degradation of native habitats has made restored cropland through the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) potentially one of the best management options for lesser prairie-chicken. An estimated 1.4 million hectares of CRP exist within the lesser prairie-chicken range. We assessed 1,019 CRP fields representing more than 51,000 hectares within the current distribution of the lesser prairie-chicken. We sampled various grassland plantings including Farm Service Agency conservation practices 1, 2, 4, 4D, 10, and 25. In the context of lesser prairie-chicken habitat requirements for nesting and brood-rearing, our data suggest the following conservation practices (CP) have the highest potential for lesser prairie-chicken management: in Colorado and New Mexico, CP10 and CP2; in Oklahoma, CP2, followed by CPs 25 and 10; in northeast Texas, CP2, and in northwest Texas CPs 1, 10, and 2. Kansas CRP fields consistently displayed a high forb component and tall average grass height, habitat attributes that are consistent with the incidence of range expansion and population stability of the lesser prairie-chicken within that state. These field assessments are the first step in a process to target fields for CRP re-enrollment and to guide management to benefit lesser prairie-chicken.
23774365|The recently restored Ponca Tribe of Nebrasks has faced considerable challenges to the expression of their tribalism throughout the contact period. As a small, prairie-plains tribe the Ponca have endured the ravages of epidemic disease, land cessions, dispossession and removal, assimilation and finally in 1962, the outright termination of their status as a federally recognized tribe. The Ponca Tribe of Nebraska has been granted the opportunity to attempt retribalization with the 1990 Congressional restoration of their recognized status. The historical circumstances which have contributed to the assaults on their political and cultural identity will be explored within the larger framework of federal Indian policy and the metropolis-satellite model.
23778877|Grassland birds are known to respond to specific changes in habitat structure, such as plant height and density. However, the response of grassland bird communities to management induced changes in the regional habitat mosaic are less well understood. Grazing by ungulates and fire regimes play an important role in defining the habitat mosaic in the Great Plains. We provide information on bird abundance, distribution, and habitat structure from similar sandhill prairie landscapes managed traditionally with grazing by cattle (Bos taurus) and by a dynamic bison (Bos bison)-plus-fire regime. Although the two management regimes are dissimilar, only a few differences were recorded in bird abundance, distribution, and habitat structure at the landscape scale. Our result may reflect either the inherent variability of sandhills prairie compared to the scale at which grassland birds perceive habitat, or the short time frame over which the dynamic bison-plus-fire regime has been in place. The specific habitat patches produced by fire and by intensive bison grazing do appear to have different bird communities and habitat structure at the local scale.
23780006|Mexicans and Mexican Americans in Nebraska commemorate Holy Week with a popular display of religious fervor. In semblance with the old religious traditions in Mexico, the Mexicanos, old and new residents, parade through the Omaha streets following the Way of the Cross on Good Friday. Processions, rituals, and plays are not only a yearly Catholic ritual in the streets of Omaha but an essential part of Mexican American and Latino cultural identity. Palm Sunday and the Way of the Cross are but a few of the constituent elements of the growing manifestations of Latino popular culture in the state. The religious celebrations are organized and sponsored by the Catholic parish of Saint Agnes-Virgin de Guadalupe, which are the pivot, protector, and guide of the Latino community in Omaha.
23777991|We examined the sustainability of the livestock grazing industry in the Great Plains of North America relative to ecological processes, economic viability, and social acceptance. We conclude from the review that livestock grazing is an appropriate use of Great Plains grasslands and, when properly managed, ecologically sustainable. However, we also present evidence that the Great Plains grazing industry is not always economically sustainable or socially acceptable. We attribute this anomaly in large part to the consuming public's general lack of understanding and appreciation for the ecological linkages between current livestock grazing tactics and the evolutionary history of the Great Plains. A contributing factor to this problem is the scientific community's interjection of personal biases and value systems when interpreting ecological response patterns to varying forms of land use. We present evidence in support of this hypothesis by comparing statements and supporting literature citations from three recently published literature reviews addressing the ecological impacts of livestock grazing on North American rangelands.
23778227|Japanese brome (Bromus japonicus Thunb.) is an annual grass that has invaded thousands of hectares of Northern Great Plains rangelands. We studied the effect of Japanese brome on the current year's increase in biomass in a plant community in the Northern Great Plains dominated by western wheatgrass [Pascopyrum smithii Rydb. (Love)]. In our experiment, brome seedlings were either removed or left in place in replicated 1-m2 plots. Above-ground biomass of western wheatgrass increased (891 to 1,095 kg ha-1) with the removal of Japanese brome. However, total above-ground biomass decreased (1,873 to 1,334 kg ha-1) when brome was reduced in early spring (708 to 12 kg ha-1). Increased biomass of western wheatgrass resulted from increases in the density of tillers and not in the weight of each tiller. Since the effect of removing brome did not vary among the combinations of site and year, similar outcomes can be expected over a wide array of environmental conditions, such as among years with variable April to late-June or mid-July precipitation or stands with varying percents of brome and western wheatgrass. Thus, we conclude that the presence of annual Japanese brome reduces the biomass of important grasses in the Northern Great Plains.
23780059|This study documents historic fire events at Capulin Volcano National Monument over the last four centuries using dendrochronologically dated fire scars at two sites: the lower volcano lava flows (the Boca) and the adjacent canyon slopes (Morrow Ranch). The mean fire interval (MFI) was 12 years at the Boca site (before 1890) and 5.4 years (1600-1750) and 19.1 years (1751-1890) at the Morrow Ranch site. Data from the Boca and Morrow Ranch sites combined with the extremely pyrogenic landscape position of the volcano slopes indicate that the volcano slopes likely burned more frequently (e.g., MFI <5 yr). Around 1750, the fire regime appeared to transition to longer fire intervals, greater temporal synchrony among fire-scarred trees, and a higher proportion of trees scarred in fire years. Temporal variability in the fire regime at Capulin Volcano may reflect changes in human populations, climate, and land use.
24156340|Land use decisions that affect wetlands and wetland functions are influenced by a variety of factors, some of which arise from policies that directly or indirectly provide incentives for wetland drainage or conservation. Direct efforts to provide incentives for wetland conservation must be augmented by complementary policy reforms. This paper reviews the policy instruments that have the potential to influence land use on the Canadian Prairies, and suggests some research questions that should be addressed to promote reforms that would conserve wetlands.
23780011|Land management agencies need to plan and prioritize their activities to best use limited resources. To implement ecosystem management, the US Fish and Wildlife Service has defined watershed-based planning units, such as the Mississippi Headwaters/Tallgrass Prairie Ecosystem. To identify important habitats for migratory birds in this ecosystem, we ranked habitats according to their importance for breeding birds of conservation concern, using rankings of the birds' conservation priority within this ecosystem. Grasslands and wetlands were the highest ranked habitats because 12 (46%) and 9 (25%), respectively, of the species breeding in these habitats had "Partners in Flight" scores greater than 19 (maximum 35). Shrub-sapling stands and lake habitats ranked next, and forest habitats ranked lowest. The four highly ranked habitats are widespread in the Great Plains. These habitats can contribute to the conservation of a variety of high-priority bird species, if the habitats are restored and managed for birds.
23804532|Ecologists commonly separate Great Plains grasslands communities into types based on grass height: shortgrass prairie, mixedgrass prairie, and tallgrass prairie. Grass height correlates directly with precipitation and thus lessens with distance westward and with drought. Grass height correlates inversely with grazing intensity and thus shortgrasses expand eastward when grazing pressures are great and shrink westward when grazing pressures relax. Evidence about past distributions of shortgrasses, coupled with the prehistoric and historic abundances of large grazers and the black-tailed prairie dog (a shortgrass indicator), suggest a far-eastward occurrence of shortgrass prairie in the late Pleistocene (despite a relatively wet climate), a shrinkage westward by late prehistoric and early historic times, and a farther shift westward in response to the bison's demise in the 19th century. After cattle arrived in the late 1800s, shortgrass prairie expanded and contracted depending on the prevailing grazing philosophies, resulting grazing intensities, and periodic drought. Currently, taller grasses have prevailed for over a half century, and shortgrass prairie may be more restricted than it has been for millennia, because of a grazing philosophy that promotes moderate grazing. An emerging change in grazing philosophy may presage a gradual return of heavier grazing and another expansion eastward of the shortgrass prairie. Such an expansion, particularly if accompanied by grazing regimes patterned on early historic and prehistoric grazing, may enhance biodiversity, the stability of some soils, and under some circumstances, economic returns from ranching.
23779476|Great Plains communities have been experiencing an influx of refugees but many communities are unaware of the international and national context for refugee resettlement. This article explores patterns impacting US Great Plains communities. This leads to three specific questions: (1) How many refugees have been resettled since 1983 in the US, in comparison to the Great Plains region, and where are they? (2) What are the patterns of the refugees resettled in the US versus the Great Plains region? And, (3) What are some of the economic benefits that can be anticipated in the resettlement of refugees in the Great Plains? The goal of this article is to answer these three questions in order to get at the larger question of how Great Plains communities can make sense out of the migration of the world's refugees to their communities.
23775750|Scientists generally consider all water as merely passing through, but in different phases of, the endless hydrologic cycle. In contrast, the law divides water in the hydrologic cycle into several different classes based on real or supposed physical differences between classes. Legal classes of water are treated separately, usually without consideration of the many interconnections existing between phases of the cycle, and different rules of law have developed concerning the ownership and use of each legal class. Texas courts, like those of other Great Plainsjurisdictions, have applied this fragmented classification system, recognizing diverse public and private rights to each class of water. Under such a system, it is obvious that human interference with water in one phase of the cycle can have significant impacts on existing water rights in other phases, a situation especially evident in water-short West Texas, a part of the semi-arid southern Great Plains. Application of this legal system to hydrologic realities has, as one scholar aptly noted, resulted in a lawyer's paradise and a logician's nightmare.
23803423|The role of parents in wraparound mental health systems of care for youth with emotional and behavioral disorders is evolving. The purpose of the present study was to identify variables that impact parents' perceptions of systems of care. Parents in a countywide system of care (N = 213) were surveyed to determine their perceptions of barriers to effective services and service priorities. Parents identified the ability to pay for services, long waiting lists and periods, and lack of information about community services and resources as their top barriers. Respondents indicated services coordination, mental health outreach, and mentoring programs were their greatest priorities. Time involved in the system of care and the number of agencies with which families were involved were variables that were related to parents' perceptions of barriers to services. Neither variable was found to impact parents' perceptions of service priorities, however.
23775610|This paper examines the nature of the electoral coalitions that develop surrounding gubernatorial candidates in the states of the Great Plains. It focuses on the contribution various groups make toward the electoral success or failure of gubernatorial candidates, highlighting the underlying political divisions within a state's population. This paper marks a first step into the study of these coalitions by offering a basic description of them. Some discussion of how electoral coalitions respond to candidate and campaign-related factors is presented. The implications of these findings are discussed, along with several considerations for further research. The data used for this analysis come from election day exit polls and a content analysis of the newspaper coverage of each campaign.
23775556|Population growth in the states of Kansas and Nebraska between 1870-1900 was largely due to the influx of migrants from other parts of the United States and from Europe in search of fertile land to own and till. However, not all migrants were equally successful in attaining this goal. This paper discusses differences in occupational positions of African-American, Native-Born White and Foreign-Born White migrants in Kansas and Nebraska. Evidence from the U.S. censuses from 1890 and 1900 indicates that African Americans occupied positions of relative disadvantage in the occupational structures of Nebraska and Kansas, being more likely to be relegated to the lowest positions in the urban labor markets and were less likely than white migrantsboth from Europe and other parts of the U.S.to take up farming. This was especially true of African-American women who were highly concentrated in the least desirable occupations in 1890 and 1900 in both states. Finally, African-American migrants to Nebraska were less likely than those to Kansas to be employed in agricultural occupations.
23804535|Though many nonmetropolitan counties in the United States experienced population gains in the 1990s, many of the nonmetropolitan counties in the Great Plains continued to experience population declines. Thus, the reasons that people are moving need to be explored. This paper examines possible reasons by analyzing the relationship between community satisfaction and migration intentions of nonmetropolitan Nebraskans. Data used for this analysis were from an annual survey mailed to 6,500 residents living in nonmetropolitan counties in the state. The survey data were analyzed at two levels. First, demographic comparisons were made between those who planned to stay in their communities and those who planned to leave. Second, a multivariate model was developed to examine the independent effects of several different concepts on the decision to stay or leave. These concepts included community satisfaction, residential preference status, and the individual characteristics of the respondents. It was found that residential preference status, community social attributes, satisfaction with economic and environmental factors, household income, and residential tenure all influenced migration intentions.
23782176|More than three-quarters of the land in the Northern Great Plains is privately owned and less than 2% of the region is in public protected areas; therefore, sound private-land management is critical for restoring and conserving the region's biodiversity. Although considerable progress has been made in recent years in fostering and assembling nature reserves on private lands in various regions of the world, this approach has received little attention in North America, including the Northern Great Plains. We review here recommendations, trends and issues related to private protected areas globally and in Canada and the United States. We then discuss socioeconomic and ecological conditions that deserve particular attention in creating private protected areas, which we prefer to call "private nature reserves," in the Northern Great Plains. We conclude with proposed standards and guidelines for the establishment and recognition of private nature reserves in the region.
23779602|The Hispanic population of Lexington, seat of Nebraska's Dawson County, increased nearly tenfold between 1990 and 2000, from just over 400 to about 4,000, and the city's population grew from 6,600 to over 10,000. Economic trends in the 1990s contrast sharply with the previous decade, when the county's population and overall employment declined rapidly. This episode of immigration provides a unique opportunity to analyze the economic impact of immigration on a local economy. Traditional models of immigration, which focus almost entirely on the effects of immigration on labor supply, predict that immigration depresses wages and raises unemployment rates. However, census data and other evidence on Dawson County's economy suggest exactly the opposite occurred during the 1990s. This article provides an explanation of the effects of immigration on Dawson County's economy that is considerably more accurate than the explanation that would be offered by traditional immigration models: immigration stimulated both labor supply and demand, thus explaining the subsequent rebound in employment, average wages, and economic growth.
23777884|This paper reviews current endangered species issues associated with the development of the Platte River and the "Cooperative Agreement for Platte River Research and Other Efforts Relating to Endangered Species Habitats." The Platte River is an important economic resource, providing water essential for irrigation in a highly productive, but semiarid, agricultural region. However, the Middle Platte region of southcentral Nebraska is also recognized as a critical environmental zone for several endangered species. Thus, Platte River water users are subject to the provisions of the Endangered Species Act. In 1994, the Governors of Nebraska, Colorado and Wyoming agreed to work cooperatively with the US Department of Interior on resolving economic and environmental issues relating to the Platte River. After three years of negotiations, the three states and the Department signed a Cooperative Agreement that details a 75 million-dollar, 10-to-15 year plan for basinwide recovery efforts. While it is premature to judge the ultimate effectiveness of the Cooperative Agreement, understanding its central features provides important insights into some of the environmental issues critical to the Great Plains.
23777816|Since its founding in 1871, the University of Nebraska State Museum has been a leader in the study of the natural history of the plains and prairies of the central United States. Its history can be divided into three eras: 1) founding and first steps in a struggling new university (1871-1891); 2) the Barbour-Schultz era (1891-1970) when research focused on vertebrate paleontology and exhibition became a major focus; and 3) recent history (1970-present) beginning with the consolidation of university collections in 1970, the professionalization of museum staff, and increased access through computerization. Research and public exhibits have been prominent components throughout the history of the museum. The success of the UNSM is based on at least five important factors: 1) its long history of public exhibition giving the Museum a high profile with substantial public support; 2) the high quality of its scientific research contributing to the growth and importance of the collections; 3) the regular participation of faculty in teaching and students in collections research; 4) the fact that museum faculty responsibilities are primarily to the museum, focusing their attention on the use and development of the collections; and 5) the fact that the museum director reports directly to the vice-chancellor for research rather than to a dean or department chair, thus making the case for the museum at a high administrative level.
23779964|This article considers whether state constitutionalism provides greater possibilities for workplace religious accommodation than is currently available to religious minorities within federal law under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. We approach this question via a case study of the controversy over religious accommodation for practicing Muslims employed by the JBS Swift and Company meatpacking plant in Grand Island, NE. The case study consists of analyses of the requirements for religious accommodation under federal law, examination of the reasons why religious accommodation under federal law was not achieved in the Grand Island case, and analysis of Nebraska constitutional law on the subject of religious free exercise. We find that the language in the Nebraska Constitution regarding protection of religious practice provides grounds for Muslims and other religious minorities in Nebraska to seek religious accommodations in the workplace through state government venues that they have been unable to achieve under federal law.
23775639|Between 1995 and 1997, archeological excavations in northwest Calgary, Alberta, uncovered cultural materials from several occupations dating back 8,500 years. Samples of bison bone recovered at the sites were chemically prepared and analyzed for isotopic ratios. Using the resultant carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios, we reconstructed the diet of bison from four different cultural occupations spanning the last 8,500 years. Based on current and established models of bison subsistence behavior, this dietary information was used to infer largescale environmental changes during this time interval in our study area. The inferred changes in vegetation and climate were compared with paleoenvironmental reconstructions for the study area specifically and with models of post-Pleistocene environmental change for the Northern Great Plains generally. Our results suggest that changes in the diet of bison in southern Alberta coincide with broader environmental changes reported for the Holocene and appear to reflect the adaptability of this species.
23775668|Climate change, whether natural or due to human action, will have an impact on many aspects of our environment. The nature of streamflow changes will depend on the magnitude and direction of the climate change. However, since the principal climatic factors that control streamflow are precipitation and evapotranspiration (which can be estimated from air temperature data), the sensitivity of streamflow to variations in climate can be studied through the use of plausible scenarios of climate change. A simple water budget model was used to reconstruct streamflow from monthly temperature and precipitation data for locations within and immediately surrounding the Little Blue River basin in south-central Nebraska. Then, climate change scenarios corresponding to changes in monthly temperature of 1 C and 3 C and to differences in monthly precipitation of 10% and 20% were used to estimate the sensitivity of streamflow to climate change. Results of this procedure show the sensitivity of streamflow to climate variability. For example, a 20% increase in precipitation would more than double the average annual streamflow, while a 20% precipitation decrease would almost halve the average annual streamflow. The effects of temperature changes are similar, with a 3 C increase resulting in an almost 60% decrease in streamflow, and a 3 C decrease causing streamflow to increase by more than 80%. Scenarios with both temperature and precipitation changes can either enhance or nullify the effects of a single change. Changes in streamflow will affect water availability for agricultural, human consumptive, industrial, and recreational uses. For a region with critical water needs, such as the Great Plains, understanding the possible consequences of climate change on streamflow is necessary to ensure adequate future supplies. The simple streamflow model presented here can easily be applied to other streams in the Great Plains to evaluate the regional effects of climate change on water supply.
23777987|Recent employment growth in the northern Great Plains may be stimulating increased in-migration. This study, expanding on our initial report (Leistritz et al. 2000), seeks to identify the salient characteristics of recent in-migrants to Nebraska and North Dakota, using data from mailed surveys conducted in Nebraska in 1996 and North Dakota in 1997. The survey respondents were generally younger than the populations of Nebraska and North Dakota overall; about 60% were between 21 and 40 years old. The educational level of the migrants was also higher than that of the states' populations overall45% of the new residents were college graduates and another 35% reported some college or postsecondary vocational/technical school attendance. The migrants' motivations appeared more linked to quality of life values than economic incentives; reasons for moving most often cited were desire for a safer place to live (58%), desire to be closer to relatives (54%), lower cost of living (48%), and quality of the natural environment (47%). These new residents represent a very productive cohort of people who were needed to augment population strata that were severely depleted by the out-migration of the 1980s.
23780131|Although landscape changes from anthropogenic causes occur at much faster rates than those from natural processes (e.g., geological, vegetation succession), human perception of such changes is often subjective, inaccurate, or nonexistent. Given the large-scale land-use changes that have occurred throughout the Great Plains, the potential impacts of land-use changes on ecological systems, and the insight gained from knowledge of land-use trends (e.g., to compare to wildlife population trends), we synthesized information related to land-use trends in Nebraska during 18662007. We discussed and interpreted known and potential causes of short- and long-term land-use trends based on agricultural and weather data; farm policies and programs; and local, state, and global events. During the study period, mean farm size steadily increased, whereas number of farms rapidly increased until about 1900, remained stable until about 1930, then rapidly decreased. Total area of cropland in Nebraska increased until the 1930s, but then showed long-term stability with large short-term fluctuations. Crop diversity was highest during 19551965, then slowly decreased; corn was always a dominant crop, but sorghum and oats were increasingly replaced by soybeans after the 1960s. Land-use changes were affected by farm policies and programs attempting to stabilize commodity supply and demand, reduce erosion, and reduce impacts to wildlife and ecological systems; direct and indirect effects of war (e.g., food demand, pesticides, fertilizers); technological advances (e.g., mechanization); and human population growth and redistribution. Although these causes of change will continue to affect Nebraska's landscape, as well as that of other Great Plains states, new large-scale trends such as increasing energy demands (e.g., biofuels) may contribute to an already highly modified landscape.
23779835|Behavioral segregation between the sexes of bison (Bos bison), coupled with artificially manipulated sex ratios of bison herds, might profoundly influence prairie ecosystems. Therefore, we measured carbon isotopes in hair collected from bison from the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in northeast Oklahoma to determine if adult male, adult female, and juvenile bison segregate on the basis of botanical composition of their diet. Sex ratio of bison herds in the Great Plains and behavioral differences between sexes were used to assess potential effects of sex ratio on tallgrass prairie. Botanical composition of diet differed among the three bison groups, in that C4 grasses contributed most to adult bull diets and least to juvenile diets. Bison sex ratio in half of the herds surveyed was highly skewed toward females. Because of behavioral differences between adult male and female bison, different sex ratios in bison herds might result in different vegetation structure, composition, and patchiness.
23775753|The future economic and environmental changes in the communities of the Black Hills were examined through the use of the Delphi technique. The study utilized a panel of 80 experts on the wide range of land-use issues and conflicts in the Black Hills. The panel identified 14future land-use conflict issues: mining, grazing, timbering, outdoor recreation, wilderness areas, tourism, legalized gambling, second home development, Native American claims, fire management, water management, landfills, traffic management, and the US Forest Service's policies of land-use management. The panel predicted when certain events concerning those 14 issues would occur. Their predictions were then related to the economic and environmental vitality of Custer, Deadwood, Edgemont, Hot Springs, Newcastle, Rapid City, Spearfish, and Sturgis for the next 20 years.
23779772|Rural communities increasingly are looking to the tourism sector as a source of economic growth. Southwestern North Dakota has experienced substantial out-migration and population loss, resulting in designation of the eight-county area as a Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) zone in 1995. The purpose of this study was to (1) identify opportunities for expanding the region's tourism sector, (2) identify challenges and obstacles facing tourism businesses, and (3) frame key issues and outline potential options for area decision makers. Information was gathered from (1) a survey of the region's tourism businesses, (2) focus-group interviews with tourism business operators, and (3) personal interviews with community and business leaders. The findings provide insight into the basic characteristics of the tourism businesses, identify some of the key constraints to expansion and development, and identify sector participants' perceptions of opportunities for growth, thus providing direction for future research and policy initiatives.
23777880|This paper reviews the evidence for nonagricultural benefits of windbreaks in the Great Plains. Windbreaks may provide recreational opportunities, scenic beauty, fuelwood, and wildlife habitat in addition to agricultural benefits. Quantitative studies demonstrate that windbreaks on the Great Plains provides important wildlife habitat for woodland edge species, substantial opportunities for recreation, a potentially important source of fuelwood, and enhanced scenic beauty.
23780095|Phragmites australis (common reed) is known to have occurred along the Platte River historically, but recent rapid increases in both distribution and density have begun to impact habitat for migrating sandhill cranes and nesting piping plovers and least terns. Invasiveness in Phragmites has been associated with the incursion of a European genotype (haplotype M) in other areas; determining the genotype of Phragmites along the central Platte River has implications for proper management of the river system. In 2008 we sampled Phragmites patches along the central Platte River from Lexington to Chapman, NE, stratified by bridge segments, to determine the current distribution of haplotype E (native) and haplotype M genotypes. In addition, we did a retrospective analysis of historical Phragmites collections from the central Platte watershed (19022006) at the Bessey Herbarium. Fresh tissue from the 2008 survey and dried tissue from the herbarium specimens were classified as haplotype M or E using the restriction fragment length polymorphism procedure. The European haplotype was predominant in the 2008 samples: only 14 Phragmites shoots were identified as native haplotype E; 224 were non-native haplotype M. The retrospective analysis revealed primarily native haplotype individuals. Only collections made in Lancaster County, near Lincoln, NE, were haplotype M, and the earliest of these was collected in 1973.
23779841|Discussions of religion in the rural Great Plains present two radically different images: one of declining and abandoned churches, the other of surprising congregational vitality. Both images purport to describe how rural churches are adapting to declining population, but neither view has been examined very systematically. Kansas provides a natural laboratory in which to examine the relationships between religion and rural depopulation. From 1950 to 1980 Kansas experienced the sharpest decline in number of farms in the state's history. Yet population change in rural counties varied widely. I compare 39 rural counties that experienced the greatest depopulation with 30 rural counties that experienced only modest depopulation and 31 rural counties in which population grew. I first use demographic and economic data to describe the different trajectories of these counties. I then examine county-level statistics on church membership and numbers of churches to determine how religious change was related to depopulation. Finally, I compare the changes that occurred within selected denominations. The results suggest that churches, church membership, and average church size remained relatively robust in the face of severe depopulation. I consider several alternative explanations for this robustness.
23778878|Switchgrass, Panicum virgatum L., one of the three dominant grasses of the North American tall grass prairie, is a genetically and morphologically diverse species with an array of ploidy levels, or set of chromosomes, and ecotypes. The relationship between DNA content and ploidy level has been controversial. The objectives of this study were to provide clear photodocumentation of switchgrass chromosome numbers and to clarify the relationship between nuclear DNA content and chromosome number. Defining the relationship between ploidy level and nuclear DNA content will facilitate the use of molecular biology techniques, such as flow cytometry, in plant breeding and evolutionary biology. The switchgrass tetraploids examined, which contain 4 sets of chromosomes, had 36 chromosomes with a nuclear DNA content of 3.1 pg/nuclei, while octaploids (8 sets of chromosomes) had 72 chromosomes with 6.1 pg/nuclei. Tetraploid plants from lowland ecotypes had the same nuclear DNA content as tetraploid plants from upland ecotypes. Normal diploid chromosome pairing occurred at meiosis for all tetraploid and octaploid plants examined. Our results indicate that the lowland and upland ecotypes have the same basic genome, and that the octaploids most likely evolved from the tetraploids by a natural doubling of chromosomes, and did so long enough ago for meiosis to be stabilized. Further research is needed to explore the evolutionary origins of switchgrass.
23774315|The development of a legal community in late nineteenth-century Lincoln, Nebraska, offers an opportunity to examine career differentiation. Relying upon census and Lincoln city directories, the data analysis reveals similar patterns to previous research on the legal profession and some significant differences. Lincoln attorneys usually came from middle or lower classes backgrounds, seldom graduated from college, relocated to Nebraska from midwestern states, practiced alone, joined numerous fraternal organizations, became involved in politics, and were overwhelmingly Republicans.
24156312|Gun part assemblages from several Euroamerican and Native American contact period sites from the Plains are compared as a way of examining how firearms were incorporated into Native technology of the Plains region. These data are interpreted in terms of a "fault tree analysis, " an operations research technique that identifies potential points of failure in technical systems in order to study patterns of use, maintenance, and reliability. The analysis indicates distinctively different patterns of gun repair and treatment by Indians and Euroamericans but suggests that Indians were quite capable of repairing firearms and that they systematically reused parts from failed arms.
23779443|Colonias are unincorporated subdivisions located in the rural, largely unregulated portion of counties where building codes and regulations are either nonexistent or unenforceable. Colonias are characterized by Third World living conditions where basic infrastructure services such as wastewater collection and treatment, drainage, paved streets, and, in some cases, electricity is lacking. Housing is substandard, with poor plumbing, heating and cooling systems. In Texas, there are approximately 1,193 colonias (home to an estimated 280,000 people, mostly Hispanic) concentrated outside of El Paso, and in counties comprising the lower Rio Grande Valley. In 1989 and 1991, voters approved constitutional amendments that authorized the sale of $250 million in water development bonds to help finance water projects for the colonias. Presently, 25 such projects are in various stages of development and construction. This paper examines colonia geographical distribution, voting patterns produced by two constitutional amendment elections, and outlines procedural guidelines for the economically distressed areas program.
23778225|I analyzed primary literature, spanning 42 years (1948-1990) that addressed buffalograss and blue grama's response to fire; no relevant literature has been published since 1990. The results suggest that fire in shortgrass steppe need not be negative. Plant response to fire depends mainly on levels of precipitation, though some studies indicated that the season during which fire occurs may also affect recovery of buffalograss and blue grama.
23779631|Inhabitants in the villages of Jefferson County, Kansas, respond to socioeconomic changes in a variety of ways. Empirical research conducted in 2004 revealed multiple discourses that constituted such responses. The shop-locally discourse emerged in structured interviews, newspaper articles, and newspaper advertisements as an emblem of socioeconomic empowerment. Discourse was analyzed within its context and interpreted to provide some insight into residents' responses to change. The discourse revealed not only nostalgia for formerly vibrant commercial districts but also the importance of economic vitality to social life. Shopping locally today, however, will not restore yesteryear's social milieu. The proximity of midsize cities in adjacent counties pulls the economic lifeblood out of Jefferson County, transforming the villages into bedroom communities. If their economies are to be revitalized, inhabitants will need to become more thoughtful and creative agents of change within their own villages.
23780126|Three phenotypes within the Cicindela longilabris complex are present in the vicinity of the Black Hills in South Dakota: Laurent's boreal long-lipped tiger beetle, Cicindela longilabris laurentii; the prairie long-lipped tiger beetle, Cicindela nebraskana; and a third phenotype that shares characteristics of both species. By comparing morphological and ecological characteristics between these three phenotypes, I was able to separate C. longilabris and C. nebraskana using ventral and proepisternal color, presence or absence of a middle band on the elytra, elytral luster, labral width:length ratio, and hind tarsal length. Somewhat less useful characters were labral color and total length. The third phenotype was often not assignable to either species and probably represents hybrid populations, showing gene flow (introgression and recombination) between C. longilabris and C. nebraskana, as individuals were often found in overlapping prairie/boreal habitats at intermediate altitudes.
23778288|This paper has three objectives designed to support the work of practice systems, scholars, and policy makers. First, it provides a conceptual model that supports a multidisciplinary, multicultural, collaborative university-community research, service, and teaching group that is consistent with the philosophy, mission, and objectives of land grant institutions and community systems. Second, it describes how the Latino Research Initiative implemented this collaborative model to support the goals of the university and the community to enhance the lives of Latinos in Lincoln, Nebraska. Finally, this paper discusses how this collaborative model can be used or adapted by university and community professionals with their changing communities. Several factors highlight the importance of university-community collaborative models. The increased Latino population in a sparsely populated region such as the Great Plains requires that research, programming, and teaching be conducted to respond to the changing needs of its communities. Educational (particularly land-grant universities) and community institutions are committed to actively conducting research and programming that serve to enhance the lives of members of their communities. Finally, attitudinal, economical, and organizational barriers and dwindling resources make partnerships necessary so that the needs of diverse populations can be most adequately met.
23775727|Winter snow cover duration has varied across the northern and central Great Plains of the United States throughout this century. Decade-to-decade variability has been common, and the timing of these fluctuations has differed considerably across the region. A general trend towards longer snow cover duration was noted from the 1920s and 1930s to the 1970s. Nine stations with continuous records of snow cover, temperature, precipitation, and snowfall dating back 61 to 97 years were studied. Snow cover fluctuations and trends are associated with changes of these other variables. Such relationships are complex and differ across the Great Plains. Correlations between winter snow cover duration and mean maximum temperature are negative in all areas, and are strongest in Nebraska, South Dakota, and southeastern Montana, where snow cover is most variable. Precipitation is correlated positively with snow cover duration in most of the region, although statistically less significant than for temperature. In the future, should the winter climate of the Great Plains deviate from what has been observed this century, it is reasonable to assume that the duration of snow cover will change significantly. Snow cover should play a role in dictating the nature of any such changes, and should also serve as a credible indicator of future winter climate change in this region.
23779506|Quantifying evapotranspiration (ET) over vast ecosystems such as the Sandhills of Nebraska is crucial in linking the surface, subsurface, and atmospheric processes affecting a region. There are numerous methods of obtaining large-scale ET estimates, but most are constrained by the availability of data. This study investigates implementation of an approach that uses a simple land-cover-based standardized tall (ETrs) and short (ETos) surface reference crop evapotranspiration and crop coefficient to compute actual ET over various spatial and seasonal scales. Subsequently, computed ETrs was used to get the preliminary estimate of regional ET over the entire Sandhills at the 30 m scale by using Landsat vegetation data. Therefore, while the final ET values are a close approximation to actual ET, it does not relate to the real water consumption by the vegetation in the Sandhills. The 30 m ET values were aggregated at four different scales (500 m, 1 km, 5 km and 10 km) using three methods of interpolation (nearest neighbor, bilinear interpolation, and cubic convolution) in estimating coarser-scale ET. Although the differences in the estimated ET among these four resolutions and three interpolation methods were generally small in magnitude, aggregation resulted in a mean percentile error of up to 4% when compared with estimated high-resolution 30 m ET over the region. In general, both nearest neighbor and bilinear interpolation methods were found to perform better than the cubic convolution method.
23782178|Botswana has a variety of ecosystems, all of which support a multitude of wildlife species. The Kalahari is a vast semidesert that covers over 84% of the country. Grasslands along with scattered trees and drought-resistant undergrowth dominate large tracts of the Kalahari's landscape. The northeastern Kalahari extends into the wetter environments of Botswanathe Okavango Delta, the Savuti, and the Chobewithin which grassland habitats support abundant wildlife species. Botswana is unique in that most of its biodiversity remains intact, with a higher percentage of its total landmass conserved than any other country. Botswana achieves this level of protection primarily through ecotourism, which operates at several levels in working toward biodiversity conservation. Government policy on tourism aids ecosystem conservation in Botswana by employing a high-income, low-volume tourism policy. This paper examines and gives specific examples of where and how Botswana has used ecotourism as a tool for biodiversity and grassland conservation. It further looks at the other factors that play a role in successfully conserving Botswana's grassland habitats.
24156331|To date, wetland conservation programs and policies have focused on wetlands primarily as wildlife habitat. In spite of the extensive efforts of wildlife interest groups, wetlands continue to be lost. Successful wetland conservation in North America will require that society, as a whole, perceives broader and more significant values of freshwater wetlands than simply their role as wildlife habitat. Identifying and quantifying the functions of wetlands to the maintenance and renewal of critical freshwater resources are important steps toward expanding the base of support for wetland conservation/restoration programs throughout the continent. This paper introduces the functions and values of prairie wetlands related to the quantity and quality of fresh water. Subsequent papers in this issue evaluate the current state of our knowledge of these functions and values, identify priority information needs, and make specific recommendations for the use of this information to enhance wetland conservation restoration programs and policy.
23775702|In South Dakota and North Dakota, political pundits, journalists, politicians, academics, and citizens often reduce political questions to an east-west divide. Here we statistically examine whether an east-west divide occurred in presidential voting behavior in the Northern Great Plains over the last century. We found that there were four presidential voting regions in South Dakota and North Dakota. These presidential voting regions reflect the economic, ancestral, and political cultures and landscapes of this area of the Northern Great Plains.
23775558|In 1992, Douglas Bruce, a non-practicing lawyer and landlord from Colorado Springs, Colorado, successfully mobilized popular support for Amendment 1, a ballot initiative that has restricted the taxing and spending powers of state and local governments in Colorado. For most Coloradans, Douglas Bruce is now a household name. Using a historical perspective to examine the role Bruce played in advancing Amendment 1, this study offers the analytic concepts of faux populism, populist entrepreneurs, and the public mood. Faux populism is the transposition of an illdefined, but tangible public mood into a ready-made ballot initiative that is offered to the people by a populist entrepreneur. The primary question driving this inquiry is: How did Douglas Bruce successfully tap the widespread, but ambiguous animosity held by many Coloradans towards government and taxes, and turn it into his particular cause of limiting the taxing and spending powers of state and local governments?
23779570|Western harvester ants, Pogonomyrmex occidentalis, are seed eaters that occur in short- and mid-grass prairies. Harvester ants are efficient seed predators but they may also be seed dispersers. We examined what ants collect to address that question. We also studied how different cattle grazing intensities affected harvester ant nest densities. Items collected by western harvester ant foragers returning to their nests were categorized as non-seeds, seeds, and nothing. Harvester ants collected large amounts of non-seeds (48%), followed by seeds (33%) and nothing (19%). Western harvester ants tolerate some environmental stress caused by grazing because nest densities were highest in moderately grazed grasslands. Interestingly, other aboveground arthropods in Colorado grasslands are reported to decrease in response to grazing, especially moderate to heavy grazing regimes. Harvester ants prefer to collect seeds but do not collect them exclusively.
23779477|The present study was designed to examine the roles of family cohesion and adaptability, parent and peer attachment, and acculturation in predicting prosocial behavior tendencies in Latino adolescents from Nebraska. A total of 63 Latinos (M age = 14.52 years) from Lincoln, NE, completed measures of acculturation, parent and peer attachment, family adaptability and cohesion, and tendencies to perform prosocial behaviors. Results of a series of multiple regression analyses suggest that acculturation negatively predicted prosocial behavior tendencies (i.e., the higher the level of acculturation, the lower the tendency to perform prosocial acts). Peer but not parent attachment, and family adaptability but not cohesion, positively predicted prosocial tendencies. Discussion focuses on the integral roles that parents and peers play in healthy social development of Latino youth, and in the importance of incorporating culture into current models of prosocial development.
23775575|Blowout penstemon (Penstemon haydenii S. Wats.) is the rarest plant endemic to the Great Plains and is the only officially endangered plant species in Nebraska. The endangered species recovery plan calls for an increase in viable populations from five to ten and an increase in plant numbers from about 6,000 to 15,000. Research conducted on survival of greenhouse grown seedlings transplanted at three sites in the Nebraska Sandhills showed that transplanting seedlings was feasible. Greatest survival was obtained when blowout penstemon seedlings were transplanted into blowoutgrass [Redfieldia flexuosa (Thurb.) Vasey] communities in blowout depressions. Plants were not long lived, but they produced seed for continuation of the species. Their relatively short life span may be directly related to the temporary aspect of suitable habitat in blowouts.
23779540|Debate persists about the dynamics of segregation and their consequences for Latinos as well as others. This paper draws from the most recent census to examine these dynamics and their consequences in three midwestern cities: Omaha, Lincoln, and Lexington. By shifting the focus to new centers of Latino population growth, we clarify the complexities of Hispanic segregation across the United States. Our findings extend and inform previous debates in several ways. Using the index of dissimilarity, we find evidence of rising segregation in Omaha and Lincoln while Lexington appears a model of integration, at least at first glance. Class factors, in part, account for these disparate patterns. However, the evidence also points to the continuing significance of race/ethnicity. Most telling perhaps is evidence of white flight across all three cities, suggesting that current debates must be broadened to include micropolitan areas like Lexington as well as metropolitan areas. Though problematic on many levels, the dynamics of segregation that we uncover have not had as devastating a set of consequences for Latinos in the Heartland as for others. Rather, split labor markets have created a set of job opportunities in the meatpacking industry that in turn provide a measure of economic stability for Hispanic enclaves, at least in the short term. This finding further pushes scholars to theorize the complex ways in which class factors tied largely to local labor markets intersect with cultural barriers as well as racial bias to shape the fate of Latinos across the United States.
23777765|The past decade has been a period of turmoil for the manufacturing sector in both the U.S. and Canada, and rural manufacturing firms in both countries have been subjected to substantial competitive pressures. The purpose of this study was to identify the firms that comprise the manufacturing sector in North Dakota and in the Provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan, and to identify their needs in order to increase economic activity in the region. Data came from a survey of 333 firms conducted in 1991. Overall, the findings indicate that the firms comprising the manufacturing sector in Manitoba and Saskatchewan are quite similar to their North Dakota counterparts. Many are relatively new, and most are relatively small. The Canadian firms have experienced less favorable recent trends in sales and employment growth. However, with substantial experience and widespread interest in international trade, combined with substantial excess capacity, the Canadian firms may be well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement and the North American Free Trade Agreement.
23775749|Clearly, the doctrine of prior appropriation played an integral part in Justice Willis Van Devanter's decision in Wyoming v. Colorado (1922). Not so clear was the pervasive influence of equity in the justice's opinion. In many ways, Van Devanter's thinking is in keeping with the historical unfolding of the United States Supreme Court's use of equity to resolve interstate water conflicts.
23779769|Throughout the western United States, natural resources managers are attempting to address the growing, and often competing, demands that municipal, agricultural and environmental interests have for water. The Platte River Cooperative Hydrology Study (COHYST) is a multi-agency effort that seeks to improve understanding of the ecology, geology, and hydrology of the Platte River watershed in central and western Nebraska. Information regarding the types, areal extent, and locations of crops (especially irrigated crops) is critical for estimating consumptive use of water. Digital land-cover and land-use datasets of the central and western Platte River valley have been prepared for four years: 1982, 1997, 2001, and 2005. Mapping was carried out using multidate Landsat satellite imagery in combination with ancillary geospatial data. The mapping was validated using field observations collected independently. Overall accuracy of the maps developed ranged from 74% to 82.7%. All land-cover maps and full documentation are available online at http://www.calmit.unl.edu/cohyst/.
23782174|Cattle ranching in Latin America supports wildlife conservation. Ranching probably represents one of the few land uses in which we can advance conservation goals. The approximately 950,000 km2 of Bolivian, Brazilian, Paraguayan, Colombian, and Venezuelan savannas that are privately owned and dedicated to meat production provide a model for conservation programs. We present a geographic and historical description that covers several centuries and ends with descriptions of seven successful cattle ranches (three in the Venezuelan Llanos and four in the Brazilian Pantanal) where cattle ranching, ecotourism, and wildlife conservation coexist. These three activities support each other: tourism creates additional income for cattle ranchers while promoting protection of natural heritage and wildlife research.
23775698|Past conditions in North American prairies have left behind animals and plants whose features were shaped by interactions, some of which no longer exist. For example, pronghorns are fast runners but there are now no fast predators to chase them. Similarly, bison activity structured grasslands, but few prairie reserves now have bison. Here I draw attention to possible cases where ecological patterns are best explained by conditions not present in the modern prairie and propose that such outcomes may be more important than presently thought. My aim is to stimulate a reevaluation of prairie organisms and the effect of their interactions in light of this hypothesis.
23777812|The counties of the Texas Great Plains have been part of a depopulation of the rural "heartland" of the United States. This paper traces the loss of population in these counties since 1910 and tries to account for the reasons underlying the trend. Four major groups of variables are analyzed through stepwise regression to determine their relative conceptual importance: demographic factors (age-structure and percent Hispanic), environmental factors (annual rainfall, percent irrigated land, and amount of oil production), geographic factors (distance to an urban central place and population size of a county's central place) and socioeconomic factors (lack of diversification of local economy, per capita income and percent of population with a high school diploma). The percent of the population greater than 65 years was most closely associated, both as a cause and effect, with depopulation. Probing beyond this somewhat inherently linked demographic variable, the next most important factor underlying depopulation was the distance of a county to a major metropolitan area. Also associated with depopulation were the lack of economic diversification, insufficient water supply and lower levels of income.
23779966|In recent decades, the migration that has long been characteristic of life in the Great Plains has meant the steady relocation of population from rural to metropolitan counties. While much has been written about the social and economic consequences of this migration, far less is known of its political consequences. In Nebraska, the least-populated counties experience the most severe out-migration, and are the most reliably Republican. To discern a relationship between population migration and political outcomes, this study analyzes the six open-seat races for United States senator that have occurred in Nebraska since 1976. An econometric model that explains Democratic vote share at the county level demonstrates that larger growth in a county's population exerts a positive and significant influence on the proportion of the vote won by the Democratic candidate, when partisanship and other race-specific variables are controlled for. Consolidation of more of the state's population into fewer counties has increased the competitiveness of well-qualified Democratic candidates.
23775701|Despite large increases in the participation of women in the paid labor force, occupational segregation by sex continues to be a significant characteristic of the labor market in the US. To better understand occupational segregation, we developed a new measure of occupational segregation that allows us to identify "female-dominated," "male-dominated," and "integrated" occupations. We use the new measure to examine differences in occupational segregation in the Great Plains states of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas, compared with the US as a whole. Our results indicate that more women on the Great Plains are employed than expected, given male employment patterns in the US. However, women on the Great Plains are disproportionately represented in occupational categories that are traditionally "female-dominated." To the extent that female-dominated occupations pay lower wages than male-dominated occupations, women in the Great Plains states suffer lower income levels than women elsewhere in the US.
23775669|The Rainbasin area of south-central Nebraska is an important component of the central flyway of migratory waterfowl. Little is known or has been reported about the morphology of large basins in the Rainbasin. A subsurface investigation was conducted to determine the morphology of two basins in Clay County, Nebraska. Transects were located across two sample areas, and seventeen test holes were drilled to determine loess thickness and stratigraphy. Radiocarbon dates were obtained from buried paleosols. The modern basin landscape was determined to be a direct result of 2.5 to 8 m of loess deposition on an older basin landscape. The modern landscape generally mirrors the paleolandscape except that the modern basin ridges seem to have less relief than the paleoridges. The paleobasins were formed prior to the Early Wisconsinan deposition of the Gilman Canyon Formation. It is likely that other large basins within the eastern Rainbasin are underlain by paleobasins and are the result of prior basin-forming processes.
23780097|This article addresses a current gap in the inequality literature by identifying demographic and economic factors that best explain persistent income inequality across N = 817 nonmetropolitan block groups in Nebraska between 1979 and 2009. Over one-half of rural places in Nebraska have average levels of income inequality, one-quarter have persistently low inequality, and one-fifth of places have persistently high levels of income inequality. Results of multinomial logistic regression suggest that persistently high-inequality places in rural Nebraska tend to be smaller, more urbanized, more ethnically diverse, more wealthy, more specialized in high-skill and low-skill industries, and have experienced fast growth in urbanization, incomes, and professional services. By contrast, low-inequality places tend to be larger, less urban, less diverse, less well educated, less wealthy, less engaged in the labor force, and have experienced population declines and slower growth in urbanization, educational attainment, and incomes.
23779598|Sericea lespedeza [Lespedeza cuneata (Dum.-Cours.) G. Don], an exotic, drought-hardy perennial legume was first introduced into the United States from Japan. It was planted from the 1930s through the 1950s as a forage crop, for healing erosion scars on farmlands, establishing cover on mine spoils, and as cover for wildlife. The species range was unintentionally increased in the 1980s when seeds harvested from infested rangelands were planted on Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres. Sericea lespedeza has spread to extensive areas of native prairie and other lands not under cultivation in the more humid regions of the Great Plains in Texas, Oklahoma, Nebraska, Kansas, and eastward into Missouri and Iowa in the past decade. Left uncontrolled, the plants may dominate native grasslands. Hectares infested with sericea lespedeza in Kansas increased from 3,200 in 1988 to 187,492 in 2001, and it now occurs in 72 of the 105 counties. Seeds are disbursed primarily by wildlife and humans. Herbicides are available but expensive and often ineffective in long-term control. A potential biological control is the lespedeza webworm (Tetralopha scortealis Lederer, Family Pyralidae), a defoliating moth, larva that reduced seed production 98% in infested plants. Lespedeza webworms were successfully transplanted into a sericea lespedeza population not previously infested. Severe drought in 2001 reduced lespedeza webworm numbers by 87% to 100% in sites sampled in eastern Kansas.
23775725|The relationship between monthly midtropospheric circulation variations, occurring in the North American sector, and surface temperature and precipitation across the Great Plains is evaluated for the middle month of each season (January, April, July, and October). The results demonstrate that monthly Great Plains temperature variability is strongly associated with the major patterns of midtropospheric circulation variation during all months considered. Temporally, the strongest associations are observed during October. However, January, July, and April also exhibit spatially coherent regions of strong association. Spatially, the relationship tends to be strongest in the northern Plains, with decreasing association to the south. Precipitation-midtroposphere relationships are weaker than those for temperature during all months. The association between the midtroposphere and precipitation is relatively strong from late fall through late spring. However, the convective nature of precipitation in the region during the summer months limits any strong relationships in July. In a spatial sense, no preferred regions of precipitation explanation were indicated in the analysis.
24156334|Agricultural applications of fertilizers and pesticides have increased dramatically in the prairie pothole region since the middle 1960s, and agrochemical contamination of surface and groundwater has become a serious environmental concern. There is growing interest in the potential of prairie wetlands as sinks for excess nutrients in this agricultural landscape. As much as 50% of the fertilizer nitrogen applied to cultivated crops may be lost as nitrate in agricultural drainage water, and prairie wetlands may be especially effective as nitrate sinks. The effectiveness of prairie wetlands as sinks for nonpoint source nitrogen loads is likely to depend on the magnitude of nitrate loads and the capacity of the wetlands to remove nitrate by dissimilatory processes. Performance forecast models are needed to evaluate the effectiveness of prairie wetlands as nitrogen sinks from a watershed scale framework. This will be made significantly more difficult by the spatial and temporal complexity of prairie pothole wetlands and by their hydrologie diversity. Future research should focus on identifying the principal factors controlling nitrogen transformation in prairie wetlands and on developing general predictive tools for modeling nitrogen fate in these systems.
23779634|Geomorphological and archeological evidence indicates potential linkages between Plains aboriginal occupation and dune activity in the Elbow Sand Hills of southern Saskatchewan, Canada. Vegetation encroachment has rapidly outpaced migration of an active dune complex over the last 65 years. Optical ages of stabilized dune remnants indicate that dune activity predates Euro-Canadian settlement (ca. AD 1900). Early Euro-Canadian explorers observed local occupation and exploitation of the sand hills by aboriginal groups for herding and impounding bison. Mapping of archeological sites in relation to physiography reveals that sand dunes, in close proximity to permanent water resources, were preferred areas of occupation. Collectively, these results support the hypothesis that aboriginal occupation disturbance may have perpetuated dune activity in the Elbow Sand Hills until the late 19th century, and that Euro-Canadian settlement and land use emphasizing conservation may have encouraged recent stabilization. We propose that similar aboriginal occupation disturbances may have been responsible for perpetuating dune activity in other dune fields in the Great Plains. To this end, climatic variability should not be considered exclusive of other drivers of dune activity in semivegetated inland dune fields of the Great Plains.
23779726|Declining retail trade in rural America is a concern for rural residents, their leaders, and rural development professionals. This cross-sectional study presents a framework for understanding relationships between changes in retail trade and rural population declines. The study uses county trade pull factors as a benchmark for retail trade in Nebraska and develops a theoretical and a statistical model to explain changes in this measure. The model suggests that retail trade in a given county is a function of the customer base, the buying power of those customers, and the quality of the retail environment.
23775643|Efforts to save remnant wild bison from extermination have resulted in the establishment of herds on private, public, and tribal lands. Ironically, their successful restoration has evolved into a profitable agricultural industry and a practical alternative to raising domestic cattle. Bison restoration actively managed by humans raises ecological, ethical, and evolutionary questions about whether we are compromising their native ability to function in a grasslands ecosystem. In this essay I examine current bison management practices, conflicting human values about land-use practices, and emerging land-use initiatives focusing on wild bison and ecosystem restoration in the northern Great Plains.
23774367|Non-insulin dependent diabetes is a rising health concern among the Omaha Tribe. The problem has developed from negligible levels in the 1960s to a significant health threat today. As of 1992, 35% of the Omaha Tribe adult population residing on the reservation had been diagnosed with the condition, and the actual proportion of people with the condition is probably much higher. The age of onset of the disease is decreasing so that people as young as 10 years of age are diabetics. The increase in diabetes is at least partly due to changes in diet practices that include the emergence of new traditional foods and the consumption of prepared or convenience foods. Preliminary observations suggest that the modern diet that includes federally subsidized food programs may contribute to the problem.
23779536|Sandhills of eolian origin and currently active dunes in Oklahoma are located mainly on the northern side of the main rivers. Their longitudinal distribution spans a gradient of annual precipitation ranging from 914 mm in the east to 403 mm in the west. Vegetation types along this gradient include cross-timbers woodlands in the east and sand-sage and short grasses in the west. The information presented here is a preliminary assessment of sand dune dynamics and morphology, soils, and vegetation as the basis for an ongoing study on past and present processes of sand dune stability. For this purpose, six areas along the east-west precipitation gradient were selected to evaluate potential sources of information. Pedostratigraphic data were used to reconstruct prehistoric landscape-change events and sequential aerial photographs were used to reconstruct modern processes affecting sand dune stability in the context of climate change and human agency.
23778287|Death and disability remain serious problems in the meatpacking industry, which increasingly depends on Latino workers. Here we examine these problems and the dynamics that heighten and minimize the hazards encountered in meatpacking plants. Drawing from published and unpublished sources, we provide statistical profiles and ethnographic accounts to capture the health and safety risks Latino workers face in the meatpacking plants of Iowa, Kansas, and Nebraska. Guided by recent research in labor market segmentation and the politics of social regulation, we trace the increased risk of injury and illness for Latinos to three intersecting dynamics: corporate conduct and misconduct on the shopfloor, segmented labor markets and limited unionization, and finally, the failure of regulatory agencies to set standards and actively enforce health and safety laws. While these problems occur across the tri-state region, our analysis indicates that the responsiveness of regulatory actors varies by stateand the dynamics that drive inspections and penalties also vary, to some extent, across states. More specifically, regulatory officials in Iowa have historically been more responsive to complaints and accidents, in part due to union pressure. These findings suggest several important lessons for both scholars and labor that are not fully acknowledged in previous research.
23780092|Surveys for the American burying beetle, Nicrophorus americanus Olivier (Silphidae), between 2001 and 2010 in Nebraska resulted in 11 new county records for this endangered species and 465 new county records for 14 other silphid species. A total of 5,212 American burying beetles were captured in more than 1,500 different locations. Using mark-recapture data, we estimated the population size of the American burying beetle (ABB) for six counties in the Sandhills. Blaine County (2003) had the largest population, with an estimated 56 ABBs per km2 (1,338  272 ABBs). The remaining estimates were between 2 and 36 ABBs per km2, which were calculated for Loup (2010) and Holt (2010) Counties, respectively. We calculated movement distances, finding that some American burying beetles moved as far as 7.24 km in a single night. This new information greatly contributes to efforts to conserve the American burying beetle in the Great Plains and provides knowledge about other silphid species distributions, which may play a role in recovery of the American burying beetle.
23777983|Habitat fragmentation exacerbates the problem of habitat loss for grassland and wetland birds. Remaining patches of grasslands and wetlands may be too small, too isolated, and too influenced by edge effects to maintain viable populations of some breeding birds. Knowledge of the effects of fragmentation on bird populations is critically important for decisions about reserve design, grassland and wetland management, and implementation of cropland set-aside programs that benefit wildlife. In my review of research that has been conducted on habitat fragmentation, I found at least five common problems in the methodology used. The results of many studies are compromised by these problems: passive sampling (sampling larger areas in larger patches), confounding effects of habitat heterogeneity, consequences of inappropriate pooling of data from different species, artifacts associated with artificial nest data, and definition of actual habitat patches. As expected, some large-bodied birds with large territorial requirements, such as the northern harrier (Circus cyaneus), appear area sensitive. In addition, some small species of grassland birds favor patches of habitat far in excess of their territory size, including the Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis), grasshopper (Ammodramus savannarum) and Henslow's (A. henslowii) sparrows, and the bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). Other species may be area sensitive as well, but the data are ambiguous. Area sensitivity among wetland birds remains unknown since virtually no studies have been based on solid methodologies. We need further research on grassland bird response to habitat that distinguishes supportable conclusions from those that may be artifactual.
23780293|The Great Plains has experienced population loss for most of the 20th century while the Rocky Mountain region has experienced rapid population growth in the past few decades. This paper examines net migration by county for Montana between 1995 and 2000 disaggregated by age and educational level. Montana was chosen because it straddles the Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions and thus provides an opportunity to compare and contrast net migration and population change in two regions undergoing fundamentally different population processes. Regression analysis was applied to determine the predictor variables responsible for net migration between 1995 and 2000. Dependent variables concerned economic, demographic, and environmental characteristics of each of the counties. Overall, median household income and the Rocky Mountains explained the greatest amount of variance in the dependent variables, suggesting that both economics and the environment play a role in migration patterns in Montana.
23780055|We studied relations between river size, fish species diversity, and fish species composition along four major rivers in the Great Plains of southwestern South Dakota to assess patterns of species diversity and composition. We expected diversity to increase with river size and fish composition to change via species addition downstream. Previous surveys of 52 sampling stations provided fish assemblage data, and we used the Geographic Information System (GIS) to determine watershed area by station. Watershed area did not predict species richness or species diversity (Fisher's ), so species richness of 12  3.5 SD species and Fisher's  of 2.3  0.87 SD characterized species diversity in the study area. Cluster analysis of faunal similarity (Srensen's Index) among the 52 sampling stations identified two geographically distinct faunal divisions, so species composition was variable within the study area, but changed via species replacements among faunas rather than species additions downstream. Nonnative species were a minor component of all faunas. Uniform species diversity may be a recent phenomenon caused by impacts of Missouri River dams on native large-river fishes and the unsuitability of rivers in the Great Plains for nonnative species. Variation in faunal composition may also be recent because it was affected by dams.
23778232|Explorers and colonists in the American grasslands viewed the landscape as barren and its people as savage. Both the land and its people needed to be controlled, and this often led to the destruction of both the environment and its inhabitants. Our perception of the landscape influences our actions toward it. As we redefine our perception of the landscape, we act differently toward it. We have begun to appreciate the important ecological functions provided by prairie grasslands. Understanding all the resources in plains communities  the human, social, financial and environmental forms of capital  and the impact of each of these types of resources on the others should allow resilience to change and movement toward a more sustainable future, one that balances people and place in the grasslands.
23778881|Current research suggests that there may be positive local economic benefits associated with holding local sporting and other tourism-related events in communities. This study examined the economic impact of two municipal hockey tournaments, one urban and one rural, in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan. Based on the responses of three geographically-oriented travel groups (Total N=169), an estimated CDN $137,442 was generated by both tournaments; 87% was associated with the larger urban tournament in Saskatoon. However, the smaller rural tournament generated $10,635 revenue in Kamsack and vicinity. Evidence of the direct economic input from tourism should help communities and organizations who are interested in implementing similar tournaments provide incentives for local business owners to assist in the creation and continuation of such events.
23803426|We sampled the soil seed bank underneath and surrounding eastern redcedar (Juniperus virginiana L.) trees at two mixed-grass prairie sites in Nebraska. Our objectives were to investigate the seed bank for seed number and seed viability in various directions and distances from individual trees. Additionally, we planted seeds to determine seed longevity and viability in the soil seed bank. Six female trees were selected at each site. At each tree, 16 soil samples were collected using a 10  10 cm quadrat at four distances (inside the canopy and 0.5, 2, and 5 m from the canopy) in each of the cardinal directions. Seeds were counted and viability tested using 1% 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride. We found that most seeds were recovered inside the canopy, and seed numbers rapidly declined as distance from the canopy increased. Seed recovery and viability over time decreased, with an average of only 3% of the potential seeds recovered. Our results indicate that eastern redcedar recruitment does not rely on long-term accumulation of seeds in the soil seed bank.
23803422|The religious landscape of the Plains is dominated by four major denominations: Lutherans, Catholics, Methodists, and Baptists. But beneath these prevailing majorities are others that are declining (Presbyterians) and increasing (Pentecostals and Mormons) in membership and places of worship. Jews, Muslims, Charismatics, and Baha'i are also increasing in metropolitan areas, where the greatest diversity exists. "Religious geology," a concept that depicts religious diversity, exhibits sharp regional variations.
23779721|Nine years of groundwater monitoring data has documented the important influence that topographic relief and location in the groundwater flow system have on the hydrologic function of interdunal valleys. The western "wet" valley at the Gudmundsen Sandhills Laboratory in central Nebraska, which is a net discharge area, is more strongly buffered from the effects of annual-scale climatic variability than the eastern "dry" valley. The east valley is generally an area of net recharge and as such is more responsive to climatic variability. This study employed a simple water balance approach to estimate evapotranspiration (ET) from water level measurements in the west valley for four specific time intervals in 1998-99 that included growing and senescence periods. The estimates of ET ranged between 5-6 mm/day in the mid-growing season and 2-3 mm/day during the period of senescence.
23779576|When the Comanches, a Native American community originally from the Great Basin region, migrated to the Southern Plains in the early 1700s, they encountered Spanish colonies, missions, and military and administrative personnel as well as newly introduced trade items. Spain attempted to incorporate the Comanches into the region's emerging political economy through a variety of means including the use of treaties, coercive force, and economic inducements. Because of the Comanches' decentralized political organization, their conquest of the Apaches, and Spain's tenuous control over its northern frontier, the Comanches successfully retained control over their own articulation within the region's political economy. In order to examine the means by which the Comanches retained their independence, this paper explores the Comanches' decentralized political organization, relations with the Apaches, and strategic responses to trade agreements and peace accords offered by the Spanish.
23775646|In January 1997 the National Wildlife Federation and the InterTribal Bison Cooperative signed a memorandum of understanding formally recognizing our common goals of ending the slaughter of Yellowstone bison and working to repatriate buffalo to Native American reservations. It was the first time a formal relationship had ever been established between Native Americans and a national conservation organization. The partnership had two goals. The first goal was to reestablish management of North American bison as one of the premier wildlife species of the West, by restoring bison to those tribal and public land habitats capable of supporting their long-term survival. The second goal was to enhance the availability of wild bison to Native Americans for cultural and subsistence uses. Our partnership has been a rallying point for bison advocates and illustrates the importance of repatriating bison to tribal lands. The partnership also presented opportunities for Native Americans to demonstrate their management capabilities and to affirm the importance of bison to the health of Indian people and the vitality of their culture. Our work together has opened up many new conservation avenues. One example is the National Wildlife Federation's recent involvement with the newly established InterTribal Prairie Ecosystem Restoration Consortium, assisting with the development of prairie dog management plans on Indian reservations. Here we summarize the results of our partnership and look to the future of conservation and restoration of natural resources on tribal lands.
23780127|A study of feeding preference was conducted on two tallgrass prairie grasshopper species, the autumn yellow-winged grasshopper Arphia xanthoptera (Burmeister) and the short-winged green grasshopper Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder), to determine if they would feed upon introduced grass species. Both grasshoppers were offered two non-native cool-season grasses, smooth brome (Bromus inermis Leyss) and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.), and two native warm-season grasses, big bluestem (Adropogon gerardii Vitman) and sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula Michx.). Live biomass of the plants was weighed before and after feeding to quantify the amount of each plant species consumed by the grasshoppers. Statistical analysis showed that D. viridis strongly preferred smooth brome (P  0.05) over other species offered. A. xanthoptera also consumed more smooth brome than the other grass species offered. These results suggest that both grasshopper species accept non-native grasses and perhaps prefer them to tallgrass prairie species. Because the tallgrass prairie ecosystem of the Great Plains has been dramatically impacted by human activity, documentation of the response of native insects to incursion by exotic plants is important to preservation efforts. Moreover, if grasshoppers feed on invasive sod-forming species such as smooth brome and Kentucky bluegrass, they may become an important ally in maintaining native plant diversity in remnant grassland ecosystems.
23778285|The objective of this study was to determine if an Ethnic Food Frequency questionnaire more accurately reflected food intake among immigrant Hispanic women compared to US-born Hispanic women. Participants in the study consisted of 30 immigrant and 25 US-born Hispanic low-income women living in the Grand Island, Nebraska, area. A traditional food frequency questionnaire used by the Nebraska Women, Infants, and Children's (WIC) Special Supplemental Food program and a modified questionnaire containing ethnic foods were administered to the women. The immigrant group consumed more of the traditional Hispanic foods than did the US-born group. A traditional food frequency questionnaire that did not include ethnic foods did not accurately measure food intake among recently arrived Hispanic immigrants. Use of a modified food frequency questionnaire that reflects typical ethnic foods of recently arrived immigrant groups would be important for assessing nutritional status of new immigrants. Such an instrument would be useful in health clinics and other medical settings that serve new immigrants.
23779723|A small, isolated population of the threatened western prairie fringed orchid (Platanthera praeclara Sheviak & Bowles) occurs at Pipestone National Monument, Minnesota, in a mesic prairie that is periodically burned to control invasive cool-season grasses. During 1995-2004, monitoring counts of flowering orchids in the monument varied considerably for different years. Similar precipitation amounts in the spring and histories of burning suggest that fire and precipitation in the spring were not the causes of the variation. For the eight non-burn years in the monitoring record, we compared the number of flowering plants and the precipitation amounts during six growth stages of the orchid and found a 2-variable model (precipitation during senescence/bud development and precipitation in the dormant period) explained 77% of the annual variation in number of flowering plants. We also conducted a fire experiment in early May 2002, the typical prescribed burn period for the monument, and found that the frequency of flowering, vegetative, and absent plants observed in July did not differ between burned and protected locations of orchids. We used the model and forecasts of precipitation in the spring to develop provisional burn decision scenarios. We discussed management implications of the scenarios.
23804533|The Cooper model postulates that a dichotomy exists in the size and seasonality of bison kill sites from the Folsom age (10,800-10,200 years ago). This dichotomy is a result of changing settlement and subsistence patterns, from population aggregation in the late summer and early fall for large-scale kills, to a dispersed pattern with small bison kills during all other seasons. Attendant to the change in human population aggregation and number of bison harvested are changes in bison butchering techniques, choice of camp location, and ritual activity. It is postulated that ritual activity of an aggregated group is manifest in the painted bison skull at Cooper. The evidence in support of the Cooper model is presented in summary form.
24156314|The High Plains of North America extends from Canada to northern Mexico. This grassland region is subject to prolonged drought, herbivory, and wildfire. Organisms that are indigenous to the High Plains are adapted to these environmental factors. Periodic droughts occur at inexact, but few year, intervals. The grazing by free ranging bison, the indigenous large herbivore, has been replaced by grazing of fenced domestic stock. Fire regimes throughout human occupation of the region have been greatly influenced by human activities. Cultivation of wheat and com also is carried out in the region. Predicted climate changes in this region are increased temperature and reduced effective precipitation. Paleontological records document past climate changes from which certain predictions may be made about the effects of current models of Global Change. Ecological studies at the ecosystem, community, species, and population levels are defensible. Land use modifications should be undertaken immediately to minimize deleterious effects of Global Warming.
23780098|The purpose of this study was to gauge the impact of agriculture and energy policies on conservation practices through a survey of conservation reserve program (CRP) contract holders in a selected Prairie Pothole Region of North DakotaBurleigh, Kidder, and Stutsman Counties. The survey results showed that 48% of respondents are considering returning CRP acres to annual crop production once the contract expires. The largest influence on post-CRP land use was the market prices for production of annual crops. Respondents also identified lack of knowledge of conservation programs as a large hurdle to participation. This may indicate a need for improved communication from program information sources such as the Farm Service Agency and the Natural Resource Conservation Service, from where most contract holders get their information. These findings also provide interesting insight into the motivation and decision-making process surrounding conservation programs, in particular continued participation in the CRP. By understanding the main motivation and considerations for conservation participation (market prices, cost-sharing opportunities, and expected cost of production), federal conservation programs will be able to maximize conservation efforts, which will benefit landowners and resources alike.
23778286|The last decade has seen a significant growth of the Latino population in the Midwest, particularly in rural communities. We discuss the forces that have stimulated the growth of the Latino population in the region. We use data from the Current Population Surveys (1988-1997) to assess the demographic and employment growth of the Latino population in the Midwest. Because of the limitations of secondary data, we also illustrate the growth of the Latino population with evidence from Nebraska and a selected area of the state. Data analysis suggests that population estimates of the Latino population generated by the US Bureau of the Census do not accurately reflect the magnitude of the Latino population growth in the region. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of Latino population growth to midwestern communities.
23775700|We studied current strengths and contemporary stresses of Omaha Indian families living on the reservation in northeast Nebraska. Interviews with 60 tribal members revealed that major family and tribal strengths included: extended family support, spiritual values and religious practices, community generosity and support, Omaha culture and traditions, and a determination of many tribal members to recognize and overcome their problems. Respondents also identified major stresses that included: alcohol use, family breakdown, tribal leadership, unemployment and their children's education. Social Interaction Theory suggests that the identification of stresses should be more common than the identification of strengths by an oppressed minority. Our findings are consistent with this expectation. Respondents had much more to say about problems than about strengths. In addition, we found that Omaha strengths, such as community group orientation, may inadvertently make solving some problems more difficult. While the study has limits, it is the first to initiate an evaluation of the Omaha's perception of their situation and well-being.
23779482|The print media has the potential to educate the general public about newly arriving Great Plains populations, influence refugee resettlement programs, and motivate volunteers to assist in transitions. Thus, accuracy of news items is crucial to successful assimilation of new populations to host communities. In this paper, we provide results from a content analysis of eight Nebraska newspapers regarding Sudanese refugees. We focus on refugee population descriptors, cultural characteristics, resettlement issues, and refugee goals to determine what could be learned about refugees from Sudan if one used local print media. Consistent with theories of stereotyping, results suggest that limited, and sometimes erroneous, information would be acquired about any of the Sudanese tribes if one relied exclusively upon print media. Despite this potential setback, Nebraskans are assisting Sudanese refugees in resettlement and learning how difficult it is for refugees to understand and incorporate US culture into their fragile existence.
23780057|The highest concentrations of arsenic in groundwater are found in the Nebraska Panhandle, southwestern Nebraska, and the Republican River valley. Data from 33 public water supply wells indicate that significant variability in arsenic concentrations did not occur over a one-year study. The general absence of temporal variability in arsenic concentrations suggests that the collection of one sample per year from most wells will adequately characterize the arsenic concentrations to which the population drinking this water will be exposed. The collection of additional samples is strongly recommended if the reported arsenic concentrations are at, or slightly above, 10 g/L in order to verify that the average arsenic concentration is above the maximum contaminant level. Short-term (4 to 24 hours) sampling experiments indicate that arsenic concentrations may increase, decrease, or remain relatively constant during the first 30 to 60 minutes after a well is turned on. The potential for these changes need to be considered when collecting samples for regulatory purposes. It is recommended that the sampling scheme be designed around the operational history of the individual wells within a system. This will provide a more realistic assessment of the arsenic concentration to which the consumers of the water are exposed.
23779398|Physiographic regions are natural landforms valuable for research and management landscape stratification. Accurate regional delineations may increase research sampling and management effectiveness. Soils data in the U.S. Department of Agriculture Natural Resource Conservation Service (USDA-NRCS) State Soil Geographic Data Base (STATSGO) were used in a Geographic Information System to delineate 13 South Dakota physiographic regions. Soil mapping units were selected within physiographic regions in the STATSGO coverage in ARC/INFO to delineate geographic features. Several modifications to prior South Dakota physiographic region delineations are proposed. Soils data may be used to provide detailed and objective delineations of natural landforms. A map and brief description of South Dakota physiographic regions are presented.
23779728|Coproducts of processing agricultural commodities are often marketed for use as livestock feed through private transaction. The resulting lack of historical price information prohibits the use of positive time series techniques to estimate demand. Linear programming is used as a normative technique to estimate step function demand schedules for coproducts by individual livestock classes. Seemingly unrelated regression is used to smooth demand schedules by fitting demand data to generalized Leontief cost functions. Estimates are adjusted for data censoring using probit analysis. Aggregate quantity demanded of sugarbeet pulp, wheat middlings, and potato waste is relatively responsive to price changes (i.e., demand is elastic) but less so for specific species and at higher prices for sugarbeet pulp (i.e., demand is inelastic).
23779773|The lion's share of financial losses caused by drought is shouldered by crop and livestock producers. Producers' perceptions of and responses to drought were studied in the mid-1960s, the mid-1980s, and again in this study. Direct and indirect impacts are experienced by nonfarm businesses, communities, and individuals as well; some of those impacts have not been well researched and were integral to this project. Interviews with crop producers, livestock producers, and community members were conducted in Frontier County, NE, in late summer 2006. Producers are very perceptive of the drought hazard, a result found in the two previous studies. Adoption of drought mitigation practices has increased over the past 40 years. Producers are concerned about the myriad of factors they must consider when planning their farm or ranch operations, particularly as they are trying to adjust to water restrictions imposed as an outcome of the Kansas-Nebraska lawsuit regarding Republican River flow, but overall they are basically optimistic. Community members were very concerned about the future of farming and the quality of rural life. They expressed fears that changes in farming practices may lower the value of land, affect the tax base, and ultimately impact the school system and other county services.
23777885|During the 1980s crisis in the agricultural economy, some observers claimed that many towns were too small, too isolated, or too distant from larger population centers to survive in times of economic turmoil. We decided to evaluate these assumptions through a series of in-depth case studies of thriving small communities in the Great Plains. The communities we studied fit the general description of towns that were doing better than expected. Using an anthropological approach, the teams of field researchers from the Heartland Center for Leadership Development visited communities, ranging in size from 300 to 6,000, in Colorado, the Dakotas, Kansas, Nebraska, and Texas to interview opinion leaders, positional leaders, and average citizens. These findings were updated recently through telephone interviews. The findings suggest that leadership, rather than size or location, is a clearly critical factor in whether or not a community survives. This article summarizes the research approach, reviews examples of local leadership behaviors and community development strategies that illustrate these characteristics, reflects on the characteristics commonly shared in thriving small towns, and offers some ideas for additional research that may add to this or related bodies of knowledge.
23778224|The central grassland region occupies the center of North America in the United States, Canada and Mexico and is a unique resource for the continent. While there are no other areas with comparable features, the largest similar grassland areas occur in Europe and Asia. The uniqueness of the region derives from its size, its relative flatness, and the smoothness of its physical gradients. The smooth gradients in precipitation and temperature are the reasons why most gradients in ecosystem properties are also smooth. The west-east gradient in precipitation and the north-south gradient in temperature result in corresponding gradients in plant community types, net biomass production by plants, soil carbon storage, and nitrogen availability to plants. One of the most striking features of the present condition of the central grassland region is that a huge fraction of the original native grassland have been replaced by cropland.
23779908|Despite favorable locations and the potential for economic development, Native American tribes have not developed their ecotourism markets substantially. In this paper we present a choice experiments analysis of potential tourists' and local residents' preferences for alternative ecotourism development scenarios for the Standing Rock Sioux Indian Reservation. The choice experiments' elicitation featured attributes of both cultural and nature-based tourist attractions. Survey results demonstrated that visitors interviewed at powwows had significantly different preferences from those interviewed at local tourist attractions. Results from all samples showed positive preferences toward an amphitheater, a nature trail, and a bison meal, and no preference toward an all-terrain-vehicle (ATV) trail. Non-powwow tourists had significant willingness to pay for a number of potential attractions, including nature trails, a road through the bison pasture, and an interpretive center with amphitheater show.
23804538|The American burying beetle (Nicrophorus americanus Olivier) is the only insect found in Nebraska currently on the federal endangered species list. I conducted surveys in 1995, 1996, and 1998 to determine range and population size of the American burying beetle in south-central Nebraska. A total of 826 individuals were captured during these three years. A Sequential Bayes Algorithm was used to estimate population size based on mark and recapture data. Results from this study and other studies identify the range of this population in south-central Nebraska as an approximately 4,500 km2 area located south of the Platte River in Gosper, Frontier, Dawson, and Lincoln counties. Mark and recapture data from 1998 indicate the population size within this area is greater than 3,000 individuals. This exceeds the recovery goal of 500 individuals/population established by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and as such, along with populations in Oklahoma and Arkansas, also meets the recovery goal of three separate populations of that size within the Midwest Geographic Recovery Area for the species as identified in the Recovery Plan.
23778437|Dollar values were estimated for four prairie potholes and a wetland complex in North Dakota. Assessing these values required careful consideration of the ecological values and the societal values on a site-specific basis. Assessments of value were made from four perspectives owner, user, regional, and social. Values of specific outputs and total values varied among the five study sites. Annual per hectare values varied from the $10 owner value for the Nome wetland to the $921 regional value for the Alice wetland. The greatest analytical obstacle to obtaining more refined estimates was the physical and biological data needed to technically quantify wetland functions (e.g., groundwater recharge rates, groundwater flow paths and flow rates, runoff water storage capacity, impacts of runoff timing on flood synchronization, and sedimentation rates).
23779801|In the Great Plains, soil water is one of the most critical factors related to sustainable production on cropland and rangeland, while the need for better water management grows in the face of increasing water demand during dry years. Soil water is also an important factor related to flood modeling and quantification of the boundary conditions in atmospheric models such as global circulation models. The objectives of this study were to install a wide-area automated soil-monitoring network, determine effective calibration procedures, and develop new products to illustrate the status of soil water. Soil-monitoring sensors were established at 51 sites across Nebraska under rain-fed conditions and under a grass cover. Four sensors were installed at each site at depths of 10, 25, 50, and 100 cm. The sensors were calibrated for three soil types: sandy, loamy, and clay. Data are collected daily, assessed for quality, and archived. Six quality-assurance (QA) tests were developed based on the properties of soil water, the statistical characteristics of the measurements, the soil properties, and the precipitation measurements. The quality-assured data from the network are used in maps to determine the spatial status of soil-water availability as expressed by the percentage of maximum available water in the layer (or profile). Data is also presented on the interannual and mean annual patterns of soil water across a range of climates, from semiarid to subhumid, in the Great Plains. The results of this study demonstrate the feasibility of monitoring soil water. This capability will be valuable in drought mitigation, water management planning, ecosystem research, and other studies. The dataset will be of great value for researchers in the Great Plains to quantify weather forcing, climate change, and the water balance, especially in rangeland areas.
23777990|This phenomenological analysis concludes that the American family farmer is a steward of the environment in a way that the corporate farmer is not. As a study of consciousness, phenomenology recognizes that family farmers have more sensitive and less selective experience because of living in the farm environment. It draws from the first-hand accounts articulated by family farmersaccounts that reflect their firsthand and direct experiences of the farm environment. Although considered to be irrelevant by many scientists and statisticians, phenomenological accounts of direct experience are important starting points for the scientific study of farmers and their knowledge of environmental problems.
23780299|Simulation models of soil-related biological processes usually require soil temperature data. Frequently these soil temperatures are simulated, and the soil temperature algorithms cannot be more complicated than the original process model. This situation has led to the use of semi-empirical-type relationships in these process models. The objective of this study was to evaluate a hybrid soil temperature model, which combines empirical and mechanistic approaches, in an agroecosystem and a tallgrass prairie in the Great Plains. The original hybrid soil temperature model was developed and verified for a temperate forest system. This model simulated soil temperatures on a daily basis from meteorological inputs (maximum and minimum air temperatures) and soil and plant properties. This model was modified using different extinction coefficients for the plant canopy and ground litter. The agroecosystem consisted of a no-till rotation system of corn (Zea mays L.) and soybeans (Glycine max [L.] Merr.). Soil temperatures were measured at different depths in multiple years (three years and two-and-a-half years in the agroecosystem and tallgrass prairie, respectively). In the agroecosystem, the root mean square error of the modified model simulation varied from 1.41 to 2.05C for the four depths (0.1, 0.2, 0.3, and 0.5 m). The mean absolute error varied from 1.06 to 1.53C. The root mean square error and mean absolute error of the modified model were about 0.1-0.3C less than the original model at the 0.20.5 m depths. For the tallgrass prairie, the mean absolute errors of the simulated soil temperatures were slightly greater than the agroecosystem, varying from 1.48 to 1.7C for all years and from 1.09 to 1.37C during the active growing seasons for all years.
23777886|The comprehensive nature of Walter Prescott Webb's (1931) text, The Great Plains, has made this book a classic reference. However, the scientific errors and omissions, as well as the availability of more current research on the geology, hydrology, and physical geography of the region, suggest that the information presented should be viewed with more skepticism.
23778880|The population of rural towns in the Great Plains is generally declining. Between 1980 and 1990, over two-thirds of the 105 counties in Kansas lost population. The towns have been struggling with economic and demographic changes. In a number of Kansas towns, residents organized to save or refurbish their theaters. In this study I gathered information on the outcome of these activities from municipalities in Kansas in which a movie theater is owned by the town, the Chamber of Commerce, or a community group. Economic impact, fund raising activities, and volunteerism connected with the theater were explored. The results show that the theaters contributed to community pride, while suggesting neutral to positive economic impact. The various strategies used to acquire, renovate, and maintain the theaters provide ideas for rural community development elsewhere.
23779504|The October 1998 flood on the upper Guadalupe River system was produced by a 24-hour precipitation amount of 483 mm at one station, over 380 mm at several other stations, and up to 590 mm over five days, precipitation amounts greater than the 100-year storm as prescribed in Weather Bureau Technical Papers 40 (1961) and 49 (1964). This study uses slope-area discharge estimates and published discharge and precipitation data to analyze flow characteristics of the three major branches of the Guadalupe River on the Edwards Plateau. The main channel of the Guadalupe has a single large flood-control structure at Canyon Dam and five flood dams on the tributary Comal River. On the upper San Marcos River there are five detention dams that regulate 80% of its drainage. The Blanco River, which has no structural controls, generated a peak discharge of 2,970 m3/s from a 1,067 km2 basin. Downstream of Canyon Dam, the Guadalupe River generated a peak discharge greater than 3,000 m3/s from an area of 223 km2. The event exceeded the capacity of both the Comal River and San Marcos flood-control projects and produced spills that inundated areas greater than the 100-year floodplain defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
23774311|The Popper thesis, that large parts of the U.S. Great Plains are best suited to their pre-settlement role of buffalo commons and should be returned to that state, might also be applied to portions of the Canadian prairies north of the 49th parallel. The Canadian Dry Belt, often referred to as the Palliser Triangle, has suffered drought and environmental degradation similar to the U.S. Great Plains. Rural depopulation began in the 1920s, and in the 1930s the region became known as the Canadian Dustbowl. As early as the 1920s, some farmers had begun to work together to develop land-use strategies suited to the dry environment, and the Lethbridge and Swift Current agricultural research stations had been established. It was not until the mid-1930s, however, that the federal government created the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Administration. PFRA took a comprehensive approach to the problem. Along with the provincial governments and other groups, it embarked upon programs to change land-use, develop irrigation, improve farming techniques and diversify the agricultural economy. More recently, subsidies to agricultural producers have slowed the process of returning marginal farmland to pasture or wildland. Nevertheless, a large area of land in the Dry Belt is now under forms of management that are more compatible with the environment, such as the Grasslands National Park, wildlife lands, provincial parks, community pastures, and ecological reserves. The reestablishment of the buffalo commons in parts of the southern Canadian prairies has been under way for some timebut without the buffalo.
23775611|Farmsteads reflect more than the nature and health of agricultural activity on individual farms and across geographic regions; they provide a reliable record of other aspects of cultural and economic adjustment and change. This paper considers the farmsteads constructed by the Ukrainian immigrants and their descendants who settled in one district of the Canadian prairies beginning in 1896. A field survey of four townships reveals that between the time of initial settlement and the present four distinct generations of farm structures were erected. These generations of buildingslabeled here pioneer, traditional, transitional, and modern provide clear evidence of the economic progress and cultural adjustment made by Ukrainian farm families. More specifically, a parallel set of changes took place in house, barn, and outbuilding design and construction as families became more fully integrated into Anglo dominated Canadian society, giving up their traditional Old World building practices and replacing them with the more standard building forms, materials, and technology of their Anglo-Canadian neighbors.
23780094|Archeological and paleontological records indicate that the pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) have a history of at least 20,000 years of occurrence within the current boundaries of Nebraska. Pronghorns occurred throughout the state for much of its history. With the evidence at hand we concluded that the eastern boundary of the geographic distribution of the pronghorn south of the Niobrara River in Nebraska at the beginning of the 19th century was along the western perimeter of the eastern deciduous forest and tallgrass prairie. This excluded most of the easternmost tier of counties in the state. This geographic arrangement persisted throughout most of the Holocene. The boundary, however, was never a straight line, but a dynamic system of fluctuating distribution. By the early 20th century, the pronghorn was nearly extirpated from Nebraska, with only scattered herds in the western panhandle. With a ban on hunting beginning in 1907 and management by the Nebraska Game and Parks Commission, the population in the panhandle had increased to the point that a hunting season was reinstituted in 1953. To establish herds of pronghorns in previously occupied areas beyond the panhandle, 1,106 individuals were translocated between 1958 and 1962 primarily to the Sandhills region of Nebraska. Currently, the pronghorn possess stable populations throughout nearly half of Nebraska, including the panhandle and most of the Sandhills.
23780013|The eastern woodrat is a characteristic, charismatic rodent in the prairie region. We assessed the distribution of eastern woodrats (Neotoma floridana) within the mosaic of interspersed grasslands and woodlands on the Konza Prairie Biological Station. In summer 1996 we recorded the placement of eastern woodrat nests in 10 areas that differed in prescribed fire regimes. Although most vegetation in our study sites (>90% of the area) was native tallgrass prairie, all of the nests (n = 122) were associated with woody-shrubby vegetation. Nests of the eastern woodrat were more common along limestone outcrops that had trees and shrubs (16 nests/km) than in the other four types of linear, wooded habitats (<2 nests/km). Seven of 78 nests were damaged or destroyed in areas burned by prescribed fires in April 1997. Large-sized eastern woodrat nests were less common in sites that experienced annual fires than in those sites that had less frequent fires. This pattern suggests that eastern-woodrat nests are vulnerable to prairie fires. The frequency of large eastern woodrat nests may be an indication of time since last burn in a tallgrass prairie ecosystem.
23775670|Rapid change is a hallmark of rural settlement on the Canadian Prairies. All the stages from the initial trickle of pioneers through the closer settlement of established farms to widespread and severe depopulation have been telescoped into a mere one to five generations. This paper focuses upon the geographical patterns of rural population change within the region during the twentieth century. Fundamental to this purpose are township population maps. Several main sub-regions of population change are identified. The grassland zones were settled relatively late, the rural population peaked early at moderate to low densities, and decline to sparse populations was rapid and permanent. Earlier settlement, later peaks, more variable declines partly because of ethnic differences, and higher population densities characterize the more moist parkland belt. Only in the main zones of urban influence and areas of considerable non-farm resource development have sizeable rural populations been retained or regained.
24156316|In an effort to stem Nebraska's loss of population and create new employment opportunities, the State Legislature passed the Nebraska Employment and Investment Growth Act in 1987. The legislation provides various tax incentives to businesses that make new investments in the state or create "new jobs," the majority of which are located in metropolitan counties. However, the largest number of jobs to result from this legislation is at IBP's beefpacking plant in Lexington. Previous studies of the impact of beefpacking plants upon small towns found high levels of social disruption associated with the arrival of the workers. Lexington, by contrast, has so far been able to avoid many of the adverse social impacts associated with sudden population growth by a de facto policy of restricting new housing construction in the community.
23775697|Corn production in the United States provides an example of the agricultural changes that have occurred in recent times. Because all such agricultural activity potentially can affect the environment to some degree, the challenge is now to quantify and understand those effects. Although monitoring of the environment for such effects is not new, the procedures often fall short of providing reliable quantitative data. One example is the inconsistent, incomplete, and unreliable information currently available to assess US surface water quality and trends in that quality. The utilization of probability-based sampling designs could play a vital role in the improvement of information on the interface between agricultural activity and environmental quality.
23774369|The historical conflict of interest between states and American Indian nations has encompassed jurisdictional disputes ranging from land rights, water rights, and taxation to civil and criminal issues. Many of these political, legal and economic disputes currently center on Indian gaming on reservations within state boundaries. The tribes have been put in the position, yet again, of fighting to define and articulate the exercise of their perceived sovereignty rights vis-a-vis the rights of the states. The federal role, as designated trustee of the tribes, has been and continues to be, an ambiguous, dynamic one. This paper explores the history, current disputes and economic development potential generated by the passage of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (1988), with particular emphasis on tribes resident in the Great Plains.
23804534|The popular vision of the Great Plains as a region of ongoing population decline is only partly appropriate. In a fundamental transformation of the population geography previously set in the late 19th century, there is an emerging divide between growing metropolitan centers concentrated along the region's periphery and a vast interior struggling to hold its traditional rural population. The size and geographical distribution of population within the Great Plains region is examined over time with the aid of cartographic and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) techniques. Intercensal net migration rates estimated using the vital statistics-based residual method are mapped by county for several decades since 1890 and are tabulated for metropolitan-nonmetropolitan setting and other relevant geographical characteristics. Several subregions within the Great Plains are identified as becoming more culturally diverse due to net immigration or faster natural increase among Hispanic, black, Native American, or Asian culture groups.
23779910|Census data demonstrate that the movement of population in the rural Great Plains is not oneway. People do indeed move into as well as out of the region. Past research has identified perceptions of the quality of life in rural areas as an important consideration in the decision to migrate to such areas. However, those studies have not segmented the population of migrants in such a way as to fully inform efforts to recruit new residents. Using data collected from a survey of new Nebraska Panhandle residents, this study describes the motivations of recent migrants from both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan points of origin, and identifies significant differences in how both push and pull factors are perceived.
23779430|The Seymour aquifer of north-central Texas is identified as containing elevated levels of nitrate. The area has been designated as a Hydrologic Unit Area under the President's Water Quality Initiative. The effect of alternative production practices on the relative changes in nitrate leaching through the vadose zone was measured by adding an extended soil profile in the EPICWQ simulation model. Net returns from alternative production methods were estimated by using returns from associated yield and adjusting the cost of different levels of nitrogen, irrigation, and harvesting. Tradeoffs between nitrate percolation and net returns were explored by plotting the net returns-percolation data points for various methods of production. The results indicate that the relationship between nitrate percolation and net returns is not strictly positive for all production methods; potential remains where a lower percolation level could be achieved without a significant reduction in farmer's profit.
23775692|The Nebraska Sand Hills region is a giant dune field that is presently stabilized by prairie vegetation. During numerous severe droughts within the last 15,000 years, the dunes have lost their plant cover and have migrated freely. Wetlands between dunes are extensive in the central Sand Hills and are connected to the High Plains (Ogallala) aquifer. Lakes and wetlands were formed when dunes blocked and deranged stream systems. Evaporation of water from wetlands may benefit adjacent dune vegetation during extended droughts, by locally increasing humidity and rainfall. Buried bison tracks are abundant within the dunes, suggesting that grass and water remained available in some interdunes, even during episodes of dune migration. Study of the geologic processes operating within this dune field enhances not only our ability to read the paleoclimatic history of the Great Plains, but also our understanding of features found within similar deposits from the rock record.
23779437|The Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) has effected major changes to the landscape, especially in the northern Great Plains. Breeding birds have responded dramatically to habitat changes by colonizing CRP fields, often in large numbers. The vegetation in most CRP fields consists of introduced grasses and legumes, along with a variety of weedy species. This paper describes the bird populations found during three years of surveys on more than 300 CRP fields in western Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, and eastern Montana. We relate densities of selected species to geographic location, annual effects, conservation practice adopted, and vegetation features.
23779505|The acid weathering of pyrite-bearing Pennsylvanian clastic sedimentary rocks in southeastern Nebraska locally produces the secondary sulfate minerals alunogen, copiapite, epsomite, felsbnyaite/basaluminite, gypsum, halotrichite, jarosite, rozenite, and slavikite. Of these mineral occurrences, four are first-time discoveries in the state or the surrounding region. Slavikite (NaMg2Fe5(SO4)7(OH)6  33H2O), which has been reported only once before in North America and from a handful of sites in Europe and South America, was found in abundance at an outcrop at Brownville, NE. The pH values in 1:1 solutions of deionized water of the studied minerals, excluding epsomite, range from 1.94 to 4.82. Therefore, segregations of secondary minerals in themselves are significant microenvironmental reservoirs of acid that can be mobilized during precipitation events. Because of its role in liberating and concentrating ions such as Al3+, Fe2+, Fe3+, Mg2+, and SO42-, acid rock weathering should be considered in local to regional assessments of surface-water and groundwater chemistry. Observations also suggest that rock weathering by the growth of sulfate salts is a potential factor in local hillslope development, one that has not previously been considered in the study area.
23778436|Canadians mythologize the aesthetics and importance of canoe travel in their nation's development. However, on the Plains, the canoe proved a far from ideal transport mode. The navigation history of a typical small northern Plains river, the Qu'Appelle, illustrates the problems European canoeists faced on the Plains. Key problems included inadequate wood supplies, highly seasonal and variable river flows, meandering rivers, and the lack of feasible portages between major watersheds. Additional handicaps, dangerous in combination, were restricted visibility while canoeing and poor relations with Plains Indian nations. Retracing the forgotten Qu'Appelle river fur trading route confirmed historical evidence of the canoe's shortcomings. That the canoe was employed to the extent it was may reflect the slow adaptation of woodland fur traders to Plains travel.
23779720|Recent decreases in rainfall and the accompanying decreases in groundwater levels since 1999 indicate heightened vulnerability to drought in Nebraska and the surrounding Great Plains. Precipitation across Nebraska during 2000-2005 ranged from 72% to 108% of the 30-year normal value, with fully 90% of 150 stations reporting below-normal precipitation. Simultaneously, groundwater levels declined more than 9 m in the most heavily impacted areas, most of which were already experiencing declines due to extensive irrigation development and low recharge rates. Thus, recovery from the drought and long-term intensive land use will be particularly challenging in densely irrigated areas of Nebraska. In contrast, contemporaneous groundwater-level changes in areas with little groundwater irrigation were comparatively modest. These observations demonstrate that drought mitigation efforts in the central and northern Great Plains must consider the combined effects of area-specific reduced recharge, local geohydrology (especially as it affects recharge), and increased groundwater withdrawals.
23779970|White-tailed jackrabbit (Lepus townsendii) populations in the Northern Plains have been in a general decline for the past decade or longer. A suggested reason for this population decline was reduced body condition of individual jackrabbits due to habitat changes. In order to evaluate body condition, we determined the kidney fat index of 314 white-tailed jackrabbits harvested in 44 counties throughout South Dakota. We removed and weighed kidneys and all perirenal fat associated with the kidneys from collected jackrabbits. We measured kidney weight to determine times of high metabolic activity as indicated by an increase in mass. Body condition was assessed by measuring the amount of kidney fat within each collected jackrabbit. Seasonal fluctuations were evident in average kidney weight and kidney fat for both sexes of white-tailed jackrabbits. The kidney fat index in both male and female peaked in winter and was near 0% in summer. We believe that changes in body condition as indicated by the kidney fat index were related to the onset of breeding season rather than availability of food resources.
23777879|Past human groups of the High Plains have been variously characterized as starving nomads and affluent foragers. In fact, these terms do not capture the multi-faceted nature of the human foraging experience on the High Plains. Relying on human ecology and archaeological interpretations, this paper examines the coping strategies used by Late Prehistoric foragers in the high variance environment of the High Plains, which was relatively less variable during the early part of the Late Prehistoric time period and more variable in the later part.
23780093|Sera samples were collected from 21 free-ranging, captured female elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) in 199596, and tissue and sera samples were collected from 415 hunter-harvested elk from 1995 to 2006 and tested for selected diseases. Titers for Anaplasma marginale were detected in 81 of 436 (19%) elk. Occurrence of antibodies to anaplasmosis increased from 4 to 40 elk from 2002 to 2006. Titers for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were detected in 18 of 346 (5%) samples. Titers for Leptospira interrogans serovars were detected in 21 of 289 (7%) of samples from 1995 to 2004. Titers for bluetongue virus (BTV) and epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV) were detected in 65 of 370 (18%) sampled elk during 19952006. Biologists collected obex tissues from 566 elk from 1997 to 2009 and found evidence of chronic wasting disease (CWD) in one elk in 2009. No brucellosis was detected. Due to the prevalence of several diseases in elk in Nebraska, we recommend that surveillance efforts continue.
23775674|The species composition and soil-site characteristics of three prairies from the Missouri Coteau of southeastern South Dakota were used 1) to determine the major environmental variables responsible for vegetational patterning and 2) to describe the plant communities on these prairies. Vascular plant species composition was significantly correlated (p < 0.01) with a suite of variables that strongly influence available soil moisture, and with soil pH and conductivity. Cluster analysis yielded five groups at the 38% similarity level. From the lowest (in elevation) and most mesic to the highest and most xeric, the five groups (communities) are: wet meadows with prairie cordgrass (Spartina pectinata Link) and sedge (Carex praegracilis W. Boott.) as the most important species; meadows with prairie cordgrass and switch grass (Panicum virgatum L.); swales with Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) and big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii Vitman); slopes with Kentucky bluegrass, sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula [Michx.] Torr.), and needleleaf sedge (Carex eleocharis Bailey); and crests with Kentucky bluegrass and needleleaf sedge.
23779478|This qualitative study involved interviewing 40 Chinese Americans residing in Lincoln and Omaha, NE, and Naperville, IL, on their perceptions of family strengths and acculturative stress. Themes related to family strengths include family support leading to achieving a renewed sense of family, contextual support from friends and community, communication among family members, spiritual well-being, and balancing host and heritage cultures. Themes pertaining to acculturative stress are language barriers, loneliness, and loss of social status and identity at the early stage of immigration. New dimensions are being added to the current family strengths model. Implications for health professionals are provided.
23779510|The rapid influx and new demographic patterns of Latino immigrants to the United States have precipitated numerous pressing issues, among them health and healthcare disparities. The relatively recent phenomenon of high Latino immigration rates to rural areas is increasingly common in the Midwest and Great Plains states, where they are drawn by the labor market. A rural setting, low socioeconomic status, and high concentrations of minorities have been shown to be closely intertwined, and such regions are often medically underserved. Such describes rural southwest Missouri, where we collected data in four counties on demographics, socioeconomic factors, healthcare perceptions, and use of medical services by Latino immigrants. The health of a community is reflected by the health of its subpopulations, which are strongly impacted by socioeconomic factors. Results from several interviews and focus groups, and from our surveys of 300 Latino households, showed that low socioeconomic status and poor English proficiency are associated with frequent lack of regular preventive medical and dental care. Most respondents in our sample lack health insurance and commonly use low-cost clinics and health departments. We propose outreach efforts that emphasize preventive health care to better incorporate immigrants and augment their health status, and thus those of their communities at large.
23779485|This is the story of Iranian engineer Mostafa Jamshidi and his twenty-five years in Nebraska: his student days, his experiences with the immigration department and his eventual citizenship, his work history, and his personal life as told by his English teacher and surrogate mother. His language skills, soccer playing, and personality enabled him to combat his homesickness and the harassment of the immigration officials. The University of Nebraska at Omaha and the Nebraska Department of Roads gave him a place to learn and grow despite the time and geography in which he was born. The Great Plains, with its friendliness, openness, and fairness, has been fertile ground for this struggling, successful young engineer.
23780010|Although rangeland grasshopper populations have been studied for more than 120 years, little is known of the spatial patterns in grasshopper numbers between outbreak cycles. This information is necessary to understand how grasshopper outbreaks develop and to correctly design research, monitoring, and modeling projects. We used exploratory data analysis and geostatistics to identify the spatial patterns in grasshopper numbers for 1993 through 1997 in Colorado. The same family of models (spherical) provided the best fit to the sample data for all years, which implies that similar processes influenced grasshopper densities over these years. The parameters of the models differed among years, however, which suggests that the scale of spatial patterning changed over time. Since Colorado grasshopper densities were patterned at scales larger than those reported for other areas of the Great Plains, our results suggest that survey methods for Colorado are not adequate to identify small-scale "hot spots" of high grasshopper numbers, inhibiting prediction of potential outbreak foci in this region.
23779637|Knowledge of how current-year grazing and drought stress affect subsequent-year herbage production is needed to enhance the management of semiarid Sandhills prairies. This study quantifies subsequent-year effects of defoliation and precipitation on prairie sandreed (Calamovilfa longifolia), a high-seral, warm-season tallgrass, and total graminoid herbage production in the Nebraska Sandhills. Mainplots (9.0 m2) received either ambient precipitation (noncovered) or precipitation was excluded during April-May, June-July, or August-September, resulting in 66% to 135% of the long-term average (434 mm) precipitation. All species in 1.0 m2 defoliated subplots were clipped in early July at the stubble height required for 30%, 60%, or 90% defoliation of C. longifolia. Measurements were made during July of the following year. Yield of C. longifolia declined about 5% for each 10 percentage points of defoliation compared to 3% yield declines for all graminoids (grasses and sedges) combined, regardless of precipitation regime. Additionally, excluding precipitation during June-July reduced tiller density by about 44% and yield and percent composition of C. longifolia by about 25% compared to ambient precipitation. Periodic full growing-season deferment may be necessary to maintain high-seral species dominance in these grassland communities, particularly in pastures where overgrazing and drought stress occur concurrently during June or July.
23780014|Leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula) is an invasive exotic weed in Great Plains rangelands and pastures. Aphthona nigriscutis, the black dot flea beetle, was released as a biological control agent in nine heavily infested sites in south-central Manitoba (three sites in 1986, three in 1988, and three in 1990). In 1992 we evaluated beetle impact by sampling the vegetation in 25  25 cm quadrats. We measured cover, height, density, and biomass of leafy spurge, the cover of litter and bare ground, and the presence of other plant species both at the release point and at randomly-chosen nearby nonrelease reference points at each site. Leafy spurge near the release points showed significantly lower cover, biomass, height, and stem density than at the reference points. Also, release points had significantly more bare ground, higher grass and sedge biomass, and greater plant diversity. Other plant species, especially perennial grasses and sedges, increased in frequency, while frequency of leafy spurge did not change over time. Data such as these are important if we are to employ management techniques that can both reduce invasive weeds and restore native species diversity to the Great Plains prairies and rangelands.
23782179|Temperate grasslands are one of the world's great biomes and were once home to some of the largest assemblages of wildlife the earth has ever known. Today these grasslands are considered the most altered terrestrial ecosystem on the planet and are recognized as the most endangered ecosystem on most continents. While species and habitat declines continue, temperate grasslands have the lowest level of protection of the world's 14 biomes. With only 4% of the biome under protected status, considerable effort will be required to increase this level of protection. Several international bodies have suggested that achieving at least a 10% level of protection should be considered a minimum, yet this is a monumental challenge in an ecosystem now so vastly altered. This paper presents a global overview of the status of protected areas in the context of the health and extent of the world's temperate grasslands and identifies the scope of remaining opportunities and regional priorities for increasing the level of protection. The Temperate Grasslands Conservation Initiative will facilitate international collaboration for, and develop a strategy to achieve, meaningful protection and sustainable use. The Northern Great Plains ecoregion is of international significance and can make a valuable contribution to the global restoration of the temperate grasslands biome.
23779481|This descriptive study identifies the key concerns voiced by the Hispanic community and service providers in rural southwestern Missouri. Three surveys were conducted in 2001 with 381 Latino adults, Latino youth, and human service providers located in over 20 rural cities and towns throughout southwest Missouri. Demographic information, socioeconomic status, and mobility patterns of Latino respondents are profiled, and their housing, educational, and healthcare needs are reported. Language barriers, legal and documentation issues, a lack of job availability, and nonacceptance in the broader community are identified as key concerns of Latinos. Human-service providers identified language barriers, a lack of understanding of cultural differences, a lack of funds to develop culturally appropriate services, and a lack of job availability for Latinos with lower formal education as significant problems. Strategies for improving access to basic health, educational, and social services through a service integration model are suggested.
23803421|The religious heritage of the Great Plains is illustrated in distinct denominational regions. Mapping county-level data on major denominations reveals that Catholics and Lutherans are strongest in the Northern Plains, Methodists in the Central Plains, and Baptists in the Southern Plains. Counties that are increasing in population and closest to metropolitan and interstate areas experience the most diversity. During the last fifty years, Lutherans and Methodists have lost members, while Catholics and Baptists gained. The Central Plains is experiencing the most dynamism.
23778439|Rural homelessness, particularly in the Great Plains region, is under-researched. Most current understandings of homelessness are based on research in metropolitan regions. This paper suggests that the general structural frameworks, which have been developed to model homelessness in metropolitan areas, can serve as a useful starting point for understanding rural homelessness in Nebraska. By using a "key informant" survey of homeless service providers in Nebraska it is clear that there are several niches of homeless persons (Native Americans, migrant workers, meat-packing workers, and transients) present in Nebraska that are not discussed in the existing literature.
23775751|Public policy in such areas as the environment is increasingly being shaped by the courts as they resolve conflicts. There is some question whether the courts are able to include in policy decisions those values that are not derived from economic utility. In this article, the values represented by traditional Native American beliefs about nature and particularly water are examined. While NativeAmericans have won some court battles over water, the judges have usually decided on the basis of contractual and treaty agreements and not on the basis of the preservation of traditional values. Cases arising in the Great Plains reflect this tendency in judicial thinking.
24156332|Wetlands in the prairie known as potholes or sloughs represent an ever-changing mosaic of surface waters interacting with the atmosphere, groundwater, and each other in a variety of ways. Studies of groups of adjacent wetlands in different parts of the glaciated North American prairie have enabled some connections to be made between hydrologie processes, biological communities, and use of these wetlands by wetland-dependent wildlife. Understanding controls on variability in water levels, water volume, and salinity in these wetlands sets the stage for understanding controls on biological communities utilizing these wetlands. The role that natural variability in water and salinity plays in making these wetlands an important resource for waterfowl will provide an important context for those who are responsible for artificially altering the variability of water and salinity in prairie wetlands.
24156336|Many wetlands in the prairie pothole region are embedded within an agricultural landscape where they are subject to varying degrees of siltation. Cultivation of wetland catchment areas has exacerbated soil erosion; wetlands in agricultural fields receive more sediment from upland areas than wetlands in grassland landscapes and hence are subject to premature filling (i.e., they have shorter topographic lives). Associated impacts from increased turbidity, sediment deposition, and increased surface water input likely have impaired natural wetland functions. Although trapping of sediments by wetlands is often cited as a water quality benefit, sediment input from agricultural fields has potential to completely fill wetlands and shorten their effective life-span. Thus, the value placed on wetlands to trap sediments is in conflict with maximizing the effective topographic life of wetlands. Herein, we provide an overview of sedimentation, identify associated impacts on wetlands, and suggest remedial management strategies. We also highlight the need to evaluate the impact of agricultural practices on wetland functions from an interdisciplinary approach to facilitate development of best management practices that benefit both wetland and agricultural interests.
23777810|This paper examines the feasibility of establishing a regional presidential primary for the Great Plains States. It reviews the introduction of primaries for selecting national convention delegates, and the slowness of these states to adopt this method. Further, it surveys the use of the primary in the region, noting the independence of Great Plains voters in both the prereform and post-reform periods. Finally, the paper recommends that Great Plains States adopt a regional primary; suggests they select the earliest possible date in order to enhance their influence on the selection of presidential nominees; and offers several alternative proposals, depending upon whether the states of Texas and, possibly, Oklahoma are retained as part of such a regional primary.
23779599|The depopulation of the Great Plains continues to draw the attention of rural scholars. However, a number of aspects of migration in the region remain poorly understood. For example, what differences exist among migrants in terms of their economic characteristics? Recent research shows that there is tremendous variability in the amount of income each migrant brings to or takes from a region. Using county-level Internal Revenue Service data for migration flows between 1995 and 1998, we explore the spatial patterns of income and population migration, while contrasting the income flows of in-migrants versus out-migrants. The results show that income flows out of the Great Plains exceed what might be expected given the pattern of net out-migration, and that many of the migration flows into the region may be reinforcing pockets of poverty. These findings should concern local officials worried about preserving public and private services in rural areas in the face of a declining population and tax base.
23780130|We interviewed 200 tourists at Fort Robinson State Park and Chadron State Park in the Pine Ridge region of northwestern Nebraska during July and August of 1997 to determine attitudes toward elk (Cervus elaphus) and elk management in Nebraska. Fifty-nine percent of the respondents were aware that elk occupied the Pine Ridge, 95% favored free-ranging elk, and 55% favored hunting as a means of managing the population. Nebraska residents were more aware of elk and elk hunting in the Pine Ridge than were nonresidents. Also, more residents had observed elk and were willing to drive longer distances to view elk in the Pine Ridge. Respondents in older age groups (5564) were more knowledgeable about elk. More urban tourists were in favor of elk than those from rural communities, but attitudes toward elk hunting were similar between urban and rural residents. Seventy-six percent of respondents wanted an increase in the population of elk. Men were more aware of elk populations than women and more supportive of hunting as the best method to manage the population. We found no differences between gender for maintaining free-ranging elk, knowledge of hunting seasons, or willingness to drive, pay, or spend time to view elk. Our results revealed that tourists had positive attitudes toward free-ranging elk and management practices in Nebraska. Elk herds should be managed to provide maximum opportunity for both consumptive and nonconsumptive uses while minimizing negative impacts to property owners and the ecosystem.
23779572|Several counties of south-central and southeast Kansas experienced floods in the first week of November 1998. The communities of Arkansas City and Augusta were among those most severely affected by these floods. This study is based primarily on a mail questionnaire survey of residents of these two communities, and it examines respondents' satisfaction with four emergency response measures employed by local officials and emergency management agencies before and during the flood event. The extent of external support victims received and the level of their satisfaction with that support were also investigated. The analysis of the survey data shows that the emergency response efforts and the support victims received were rated poorly. Furthermore, the satisfaction scores differed significantly between respondents from Arkansas City and those from Augusta. The findings suggest that the extent of damage and preparedness are directly associated with victims' satisfaction with emergency measures undertaken by emergency management agencies. The study further suggests that the respondents of Arkansas City were relatively more satisfied with emergency measures than their counterparts in Augusta. Unlike in Arkansas City, city officials in Augusta had little time to prepare for the flooding. Hazard preparedness appears to be an important determinant of victims' satisfaction with emergency measures.
23779911|Agricultural lands can be used as a terrestrial sink for atmospheric CO2 by changing their management and/or use. The goal of this study was to evaluate the economic potential of carbon sequestration on cropland in the spring wheat producing region of the northern Great Plains. In order to provide a more realistic assessment of the economic potential for agricultural carbon sequestration, this study reflects regional trends in land management practices, incorporates the value of co-products from the conversion of cropland to permanent grass, and considers producer differences in crop production profitability. The economic model compared the expected net present value of (1) maintaining current farm practices, (2) switching tillage practices, or (3) converting cropland to permanent grass over a 20-year time horizon. Six different carbon prices ($10, $25, $50, $75, $100, and $125 per metric ton) were used to gauge producer/landowner response to incentive payments. A carbon price of $25 per metric ton led to a 29% increase over the baseline level of C sequestration, representing 49% of the study area's technical storage capacity. The study area's technical capacity to store C was fully attained when the price of C was increased to $125 per metric ton.
23775728|How humans perceive, respond, and adapt to long-term climatic change are questions of fundamental interest to nature and society researchers. This paper analyzes the effect of drought experience on Great Plains farmers' perceptions of long-term climate change. Approximately three-quarters of all farmers surveyed believed that the climate is, or is possibly, changing. Drought experience, while perhaps not initiating concern for climate change, can solidify peoples' perceptions of the certainty and nature of the change. The potential cognitive heuristics used in the formation of climate change perceptions are discussed.
23782175|There are increasing numbers of private (nonprofit and for-profit) centers that carry out conservation research and education in locations of environmental concern. Such centers generate revenue streams that directly support conservation programs and also sustain surrounding human communities. This paper assesses the size of the centers' economic impacts. We conducted separate studies of the economic impacts of the Cheetah Conservation Fund (Namibia) and (jointly) the Rowe Bird Sanctuary and Whooping Crane Trust (central Nebraska, USA). We collected data on direct expenditures and surveyed visitors and volunteers on their spending. For the Cheetah Conservation Fund, we estimate total economic impact using a Social Accounting Matrix developed for Namibia to determine appropriate multipliers. For the Rowe Sanctuary and the Whooping Crane Trust, we employ the IMPLAN Pro modeling software. We find that the Cheetah Conservation Fund generates a total economic impact of US$4.13 million per year and Rowe Sanctuary/Whooping Crane Trust generates US$3.80 million annually; the former sustains 177 jobs and the latter creates 63 jobs. Are such impacts significant? Two considerations suggest they are. First, such centers tend to be located in remote, usually rural areas where even small impacts may be important in sustaining local human communities. Second, for Africa alone we identified some 352 active conservation centers (undoubtedly a large undercount), so if on average each had an economic impact equal to that of Cheetah Conservation Fund, their combined impact would total about $1.5 billion per year.
23775752|The legal profession is highly differentiated by practice situation, clientele, and community setting, producing multiple professions within the practice of law. Using community size as the independent variable, this paper argues that the structuring of a legal career has less to do with the commonalities of legal training or the presumed solidarity of a learned profession and more to do with the characteristics of the community in which professional practice takes root. With a comparative approach, using data selected from a sample of rural lawyers in communities of 20,000 or less in Missouri, a midsize (150,000) Missouri city, and a metropolitan setting (Chicago), this paper demonstrates that law careers are deeply rooted in the social, economic, and political characteristics of their communities and tend to mirror the dominant local institutions. In large-scale settings where the population is broadly stratified, legal careers are distributed within a professional hierarchy that mirrors the economic and social setting. Institutional practice is the norm while entrepreneurial practice is experienced as a residual form. In smaller settings, where populations are more homogeneous and the economic base does not support institutional practice, entrepreneurial practice is the norm. Entrepreneurial careers include diverse clientele, a concentration on personal plight matters and deep involvement in community activities. The community is thus argued to be the prior and fundamental source of structuring for the professional career of lawyers.
23779969|There are various methods available for estimating magnitude and trends of evapotranspiration. Bowen ratio energy balance system and eddy correlation techniques offer powerful alternatives for measuring land surface evapotranspiration. In spite of the elegance, high accuracy, and theoretical attractions of these techniques for measuring evapotranspiration, their practical use over large areas can be limited due to the number of sites needed and the related expense. Application of evapotranspiration mapping from satellite measurements can overcome the limitations. The objective of this study was to utilize the METRIC (Mapping Evapotranspiration at High Resolution using Internalized Calibration) model in Great Plains environmental settings to understand water use in managed ecosystems on a regional scale. We investigated spatiotemporal distribution of a fraction of reference evapotranspiration (ETrF) using eight Landsat 5 images during the 2005 and 2006 growing season for path 29, row 32. The ETrF maps generated by METRIC allowed us to follow the magnitude and trend in ETrF for major land-use classes during the growing season. The ETrF was lower early in the growing season for agricultural crops and gradually increased as the normalized difference vegetation index of crops increased, thus presenting more surface area over which water could transpire toward the mid-season. Comparison of predictions with Bowen ratio energy balance system measurements at Clay Center, NE, showed that METRIC performed well at the field scale for predicting evapotranspiration from a cornfield. If calibrated properly, the model could be a viable tool to estimate water use in managed ecosystems in subhumid climates at a large scale.
23778231|Grasslands are integral to the economic health of Canada's rural prairies, making up 30% of the agricultural land base in Canada's three prairie provinces. These grasslands support agriculture, through grazing of livestock, and recreation, such as hunting and ecotourism. These grasslands are also environmentally significant, providing habitat for native plants and animals. The economic and environmental significance of these grasslands should not be undervalued. Economic opportunities and environmental policies and regulations affect the management of these lands. Current issues that may affect how the prairie is used include the: potential species-at-risk legislation, other initiatives for biodiversity enhancement, greenhouse gas regulations or incentives, carbon sequestration opportunities, and economic diversification to support economic growth. Decisions on these issues will affect the way prairie grasslands contribute to the region's economic and environmental sustainability.
23780058|The purpose of this paper is to provide quantitative fire history information for a geographically unique region, the Loess Hills of northwest Missouri. We sampled 33 bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa Michx.), chinkapin oak (Q. muehlenbergii Engelm.), and black oak (Q. velutina Lam.) trees from the Brickyard Hill Conservation Area in northwest Missouri. The period of tree-ring record ranged in calendar years from 1671 to 2004 and fire-scar dates (n = 97) ranged from 1672 to 1980. Fire intervals for individual trees ranged from 1 to 87 years. The mean fire interval was 6.6 years for the pre-Euro-American settlement period (1672-1820), and 5.2 years for the entire record (1672-1980). A period of more frequent fire (mean fire interval = 1.6 for 1825 to 1850) coincided with Euro-American settlement of the area. The average percentage of trees scarred at the site was 16.8%, or about 1 in 7 trees sampled per fire. No significant relationship between fire years and drought conditions was found; however, events prior to 1820 may have been associated with wet to dry mode transitions.
23775730|Carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel combustion have increased markedly in this century. Increased carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere are thought likely to help produce a warming of global climate. Many strategies to reduce or reverse the anticipated global warming point to reductions of fossil fuel combustion as a primary ingredient. This paper examines the possibility of obtaining a decrease in world petroleum supply as a result of reducing interest rates relative to the rate of inflation.
23779395|World War II accelerated the movement of rural and small town Iowa women into manufacturing industry. Scholars have debated the significance of World War II for gender relations, but the recent consensus is that only focussed studies of particular localities can address the complexity of the changes effected by the War. This study looks at Iowa women in meatpacking plants. Assessing the economic background, their prior efforts to enter packing plants, and the resistance they met in the plants makes their limited gains understandable. Women of rural and small town wage earning households had always been workers, usually in the informal sector; and their World War II experience was a continuation of this pattern in a formal job setting. While the women did not consistently press for gender equality as workers, they achieved more security and higher incomes than they had had previously.
23774368|Applied anthropology has much to offer the educational evaluator role, especially in cross-cultural settings concerning language and bilingual education programs. This study examines the evolution of an elementary school Indian language and bilingual education program in a small, northern plains American Indian reservation community, the use of anthropological research methods, and the role of the external evaluator. Findings suggest that evaluation and change recommendations are more likely to be accepted when they are derived from the participants in the program rather than from an external evaluator.
23780295|The purpose of this study was to utilize Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technology and spatial analysis coupled with the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) alumni data from 1930 to 2004 in order to compare and contrast the changing distribution patterns of five-year alumni cohorts. Mean centers, location quotients, and cluster analysis were used to assess the degree to which UNK alumni cohorts have migrated over the 75-year period, the extent to which any regionalization or lack thereof occurs, and the proportion of UNK alumni per county compared to college graduates as a whole. These spatial patterns were then compared to migration trends throughout the United States for the same period.
23777764|A water use regulation order by the Chief Engineer of the Division of Water Resources of the Kansas State Board of Agriculture addressed a controversial issue: water allocation for agricultural, wetland, and urban users in Central Kansas. The specific study area includes Cheyenne Bottoms Wetland, a preserve with important habitat conditions for many migratory bird species. This region is economically dependent on irrigated agriculture. Groundwater withdrawal for irrigation had caused the water table to decline and left the wetland with no consistent water source. The Chief Engineer required many farmers to reduce their irrigation water use. An evaluation of this order indicates that it was a logical regulation, given current water law. Although many farmers fear its impact on future water use regulation decisions, analysis reveals that this decision will not set a legal precedent.
23775694|The pre-settlement Platte River is commonly described as a mostly unwooded prairie river, comprised of water, sand, and wet grassland. However, primary historical accounts do not support this prairie river concept. Instead, the early accounts and quantitative information from the General Land Office survey indicate that, prior to settlement by European immigrants, the Platte was a wooded river traversing a prairie landscape. Woodland was reported as dense on innumerable islands in the channel, but scattered along on the outer banks. This woodland was cleared during exploration and early settlement. Thus, the openness of the post-settlement river observed early in the 1900s was an artifact of deforestation rather than of the result of natural processes. Since the 1930s, however, reforestation and channel narrowing have occurred in response to reduced streamflow and less demand for timber. The new woodland harbors high biodiversity, while occupying some areas formerly available to certain aquatic avifauna. This historical synthesis should help to reformulate restoration targets for the Platte River ecosystem.
23779573|Human population size in the Great Plains ecosystem before European contact has been of longstanding interest to scholars. The same is true of bison numbers. Given the near total dependence on bison by nonagricultural precontact humans, integrating information on both human and bison numbers from that time is of further interest, providing the focus for this paper. Recent research on the behavioral ecology of bison and related ungulates has led to the identification of two distinct, although not mutually exclusive, populations: resident and migrant herds. Moreover, migrants tend to vastly outnumber residents, often by more than 4 to 1. The best available evidence supports estimates of about 30 million bison in the Plains ecosystem during prehistoric and early historic times. Of these, about 6 million likely were nonmigrants at any one time. These numbers provide a basis for estimating the numbers of human bison-hunters. We review four possible combinations of human use of resident and migratory bison populations and their implications for human numbers. Archaeological and historical information provides evidence that year-round use of residents, together with seasonal use of the more numerous migrants, was the most likely pattern of human usage of bison. Hence, we estimate the sustainable human bison-hunting population to have been 86,000-130,000. This estimate is close to past population estimates based on direct counts and other extrapolations.
23779568|Recorded presettlement observations of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) are not adequate to fully determine their abundance and distribution. Early naturalists and explorers made only casual reports of prairie dogs on an opportunistic basis; their written records do not represent systematic surveys. Cumulative accounts of prairie dog control efforts, together with the known current prairie dog distribution in North Dakota and Montana, clearly show that most journalists failed to record prairie dog colonies. Also, they restricted their travels to a few common routes, and as a result only a very small and select portion of the landscape was surveyed. The hypothesis that prairie dogs dramatically increased in abundance following settlement is highly speculative. It ignores the fact that the Great Plains were once populated by large numbers of native ungulates, and that prairie dog control efforts began as early as the 1880s. Many lines of evidence suggest that the black-tailed prairie dog was common prior to European-American settlement and occupied 2%-15% of large landscapes (400,000 ha or more). There are systematic accounts of prairie dogs at the time of settlement, government records concerning poisoning efforts, physical evidence of abandoned historic colonies, and contemporary information on prairie dog ecology, dispersal, distribution, and abundance, as well as presettlement accounts of large colonies measured in miles. The association of an obligate predator (the black-footed ferret [Mustela nigripes]) and a commensal bird species (e.g., mountain plover [Charadrius montanus] and burrowing owl [Athene cunicularia]) with the prairie dog (Cynomys spp.) is considered additional evidence that prairie dogs were abundant and widespread for an extended period. The presence of black-tailed prairie dogs throughout the short- and mixed-grass regions of the Great Plains from southern Canada to northern Mexico provided an important and unique habitat to a variety of wildlife species. We conclude that the black-tailed prairie dog was more abundant than suggested by tallies of observations in the journals of early European travelers.
23778223|Research on biodiversity, landscape ecology, grazing management, greenhouse gas effects, control of invasive species, riparian ecology, sustainable development, and related fields is forging a new and broader understanding of the Great Plains and its grassland ecosystems. This research documents dramatic changes that are taking place across the Great Plains and their consequences. First, we review the factors that led to the January 1999 symposium, Great Plains at the Millennium, sponsored by the USDA Agricultural Research Service, USDA Forest Service, Ecological Society of America, Society for Range Management, as well as the Center for Grassland Studies and the Center for Great Plains Studies at the University of Nebraska. Then, we highlight the primary themes developed by the speakers. The funding for this special issue was provided by grants from the USDA Agricultural Research Service and USDA Forest Service.
23779433|Chemical control of weeds has increased agricultural productivity, but complete reliance on chemicals has serious drawbacks. These include high cost per acre, decreasing effectiveness, negative effects on plant community diversity, and increased opportunities for environmental contamination. One alternative is biocontrol, the use of biological factors that naturally limit weed populations. Long-term research goals focus on improving our knowledge of the processes that control and limit potential plant pests naturally and to use that knowledge to develop predictable, sustainable, low-cost, biologically-based weed management strategies. This paper reviews the ecological under-pinnings of classical biological control of weeds, including basic research on the interaction of natural enemies with native thistles in Nebraska. The fundamentals for developing a biological weed control program are summarized and research in the central and northern Great Plains on applying biological controls to limit introduced noxious rangeland weeds is reviewed. This is followed by a discussion of one of the problems associated with biological control, the potential secondary effects of biocontrol agents on non-target plant species. The evidence suggests that biological control is an ecologically-sound, sustainable and economical option for limiting introduced rangeland weeds. Biological control represents an attractive technique for limiting the negative impacts of high weed densities, while not eradicating the introduced weed. Expanding interest in sustainable agricultural systems and more environmentally-friendly pest control and the prohibitive costs of chemical control suggest that biological weed control is likely to become an increasingly important part of rangeland management.
23774366|Today, intertribal participants at Southern Plains powwows (Oklahoma and Texas) celebrate common history and culturetheir sense of Indianness through the enactment of ceremonial song and dance. The Kiowa play a central and assertive role in the Southern Plains powwow network, and they use the Gourd Dance as the vehicle to identify their Kiowaness. The thesis of this paper is that the Kiowa continue to maintain their tribal identity through performances of the Gourd Dance, which they claim as their own. The maintenance of identity is traced from the late nineteenth century through the evolution of Kiowa dances leading up to the Gourd Dance.
23779603|Unlike most of the Great Plains, Texas's Edwards Plateau lies near large, rapidly growing metropolitan centers. County-to-county migration data for the period 1985-1990 were used to examine migration patterns in Edwards Plateau counties. Weighted standard distance and stream efficiency values were used to analyze county in-migration fields of 28 nonmetropolitan counties. A key finding was that net in-migration to counties closest to metropolitan areas was not mere "urban spillover." There were also indications that counterurban migration extended beyond metropolitan-adjacent counties to more sparsely populated destinations. Counterurbanization was occurring from central counties of the nation's largest metropolitan areas and some Texas metropolitan areas. In-migration from the Gulf Coast of Texas played an important role in the Edwards Plateau. The migration system of the Edwards Plateau appears to have functioned differently than nonmetropolitan counties in the High Plains. Continued change is supported by data from the 2000 census.
23779915|The relationships among seasonal change, population dynamics, social pressures, landscape dynamics, anthropologic disturbances, and behavioral ecology are complex. Therefore, migration and seasonal movements are poorly understood and dispersal continues to be one of the least understood aspects of animal ecology in North America. We reviewed scientific literature on movements of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) in western and midwestern landscapes to identify gaps in our knowledge and direct future research. We used electronic databases, library catalogs, Internet search engines, and peer-reviewed journals to conduct key word searches for pertinent articles. We found that deer disperse due to habitat conditions and social pressures that are based on seasonal influences. Dispersal rates and distances vary regionally and are influenced by landscape characteristics and competition for resources such as food, cover, and mates. Migration and dispersal may influence local population levels. Decisions to manipulate densities, sex ratios, and age structures should account for local deer movements.
23780056|Gizzard shad are a riverine species commonly transplanted into manmade reservoir systems to provide prey for predatory game fish. Thermally limited, the range of their native distribution extends into the midwestern Great Plains. Following the harsh winter conditions of 2000-2001, numerous incidents of extensive gizzard shad die-offs were reported in eastern Nebraska during spring ice-out. In an effort to determine the breadth and extent of mortality, statewide fish population surveys conducted between 1994 and 2004 were examined, and it was found that gizzard shad were extirpated from seven flood-control reservoirs in a localized area of eastern Nebraska. Meteorological data confirmed that extreme cold and windy conditions were prevalent in the area during early December 2000, and may have been correlated to this unique extirpation event. Hydrologic connection to groundwater and wind sheltering may have protected smaller waterbodies from extirpation.
23779445|Since its introduction into Canada in 1973, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been controversial. Proponents argue that EIA is a practical means of achieving sustainable development because major projects are subject to an independent review before they are issued a license to proceed. However, the government's role in promoting resource-based development such as the ALPAC pulp mill (northern Alberta) and the Repap mills (northern Manitoba) has attracted considerable resistance. Public opposition to pulp and paper megaprojects in western Canada has reinforced the contradiction between the government's role as development promoter and as protector of northern resources and aboriginal populations. Analysis of the ALPAC and Repap controversies indicates that the EIA process is a highly imperfect means of resolving environmental disputes. EIA in Western Canada is being held hostage to overriding political conflicts, notably the demands of economic development, such as provincial governments anxious to promote growth by selling their resources in global markets, and environmental preservation. This contradictory commitment to economic development and environmental preservation has been played out through the evolving EIA review process.
23780296|A consortium of tribal bison producers, tribal and state university faculty, and business professionals defined a "brand" of Native American-raised bison that would reflect the cultural and spiritual values of American Indians and the historic relationship between American Indians and bison. Following a concept-testing market-research approach, surveys were distributed to potential producers and consumers of this "Good Buffalo." The consumer respondents indicated that environmentally friendly production practices (89%), humane treatment of animals (82.1%), and supporting prairie restoration were very important aspects of the brand. Price was very important for only 42.7% of consumer respondents, and being raised by American Indians was very important to 28% of consumer respondents. The number of producer survey respondents was too small to present clear conclusions. However, since completion of the brand development, Native American Indian and non-Native bison producers with similar interests have formed a business and adopted the brand concepts developed.
23775723|Evidence of wind erosion, accumulation of airborne sediments, and drought is preserved on the Southern High Plains. Eolian deposition in the Holocene concentrated between 6000 and 4500 years ago. The Blackwater Draw Formation indicates episodic wind erosion and deposition in the past 1.6 million years. The Ogallala Formation suggests a vast, sandy eolian plain accumulated episodically between 4 and 11 million years. Warmer and drier conditions predicted for the region in a globally-warmer climate will thus be superimposed upon prevailing characteristics of wind and relative aridity that have dominated recent geologic time.
23777768|This study examines the spatial evolution of drought severity within the contiguous United States during the first six months of average Great Plains-centered drought events. It identifies Great Plains-centered drought events from 1895-1989 based on the drought history of the North Central, South Dakota and Low Rolling Plains, Texas climatic divisions. Time series of warm- and cold-season average drought severity based on Great Plains drought for all United States 'climatic divisions are calculated and spatially analyzed. Mapped patterns show spatial teleconnections in drought development. Cold-season drought patterns based on the North Central, South Dakota climatic division are clearly in-phase with droughts in the lower Mississippi Valley. Drought patterns based on the Low Rolling Plains, Texas climatic division reveal that droughts are in-phase across the southwestern United States, but are largely out-of-phase with the eastern states.
23779574|In a country where more than 40% of the agricultural land is farmed by tenant operators, the question of how that land base is farmed becomes paramount. In this study we examined soil erosion levels in relation to land tenure and surveyed tenant farmer practices and attitudes in Nebraska and South Dakota. We found leased land was farmed and maintained by tenants in an environmentally sustainable manner. Furthermore, we found no evidence to suggest variation from this norm due to type of lease, size of farm, type of farm organization, or landowner classification. While educational level and years of experience (age) contributed to soil stewardship practices, to a great extent tenant farmers in these Great Plains states farmed leased land in a conscientious manner to maintain their integrity and reputation in the community as being a good farmer. Landowners, as well as society at large, benefit from this perspective.
23779633|Recognition of the human right for indigenous peoples to freely express their spiritual beliefs is essential to expanding tolerance for the earth-based spirituality of many indigenous peoples. Awareness of such beliefs must be extended to support the spiritual significance of what indigenous peoples believe are their sacred lands. Physical landmarks such as mountains or rivers hold essential spiritual meaning for many tribes. Linkages to indigenous peoples' knowledge systems can yield a greater understanding of their social values and cultural differences in public debates over human rights and their struggles to protect their sacred lands. This paper reviews the impact of the Garrison Dam on the Three Affiliated Tribes of the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in North Dakota. A discussion on the Draft United Nations Declaration of Indigenous Human Rights demonstrates the ongoing global struggle of indigenous peoples to protect their sacred lands and cultures.
23780125|The relative influence of physical, chemical, and biotic wetland characteristics on wetland use by spring migrating lesser scaup (Aythya affinis [Eyton]; hereafter "scaup") is not well understood. We compared characteristics of used and unused wetlands in eastern South Dakota. Used wetlands were larger (>2 ha; P = 0.05), with higher amphipod densities (>500 individuals m-2; P = 0.01) and higher chlorophyll-a concentrations (>0.2; P < 0.05). These wetlands had lower ionic conductivity (1.8 mS; P = 0.02), lower nitrates (1.0 ppm; P = 0.01), lower submerged aquatic vegetation density (P < 0.01), and lower fine sediment proportions (150 m grain size; P < 0.01). Wetland use was best described by amphipod and submerged aquatic vegetation densities. The predictive model explained 50.4% of the variation in scaup use in a reserve dataset. Thresholds of tolerance by amphipods in relation to wetland habitats in the upper Midwest should be investigated further as indicators of a broader range of water and habitat quality characteristics for scaup.
23779836|Mammals impact prairie ecosystems through burrowing activities. Burrows used by carnivores were studied in four habitat types at the Konza Prairie Biological Station, a native tallgrass prairie near Manhattan, KS. We surveyed nearly 40 km of 10-m-wide transects and counted burrows in upland, slope, and lowland prairie and along ravines. Burrows were placed selectively along slopes (7.3 per km) and to a lesser extent along edges of ravines (4.2), but only infrequently in upland (0.6) and never in lowlands (0.0). We also recorded features (e.g., location, aspect, and slope steepness) along slope transects at a 30 m intervals to estimate availability of these features. Points of hills (18.7 burrows per km) were used more than sides of hills (2.0) or upper ends of ravines (1.5). Burrows on points were placed selectively on steep rather than shallow slopes and on south- and west-facing slopes rather than north- and east-facing slopes.
23780099|Landscapes such as the Great Plains have been described as lacking human scale. This study developed a quantitative model of human scale and compared it with viewers' perceptions of visual structure. Visual structure was selected from the physical features of Otoe County, NE, forming boundaries, found as ground textures, vegetative screens, and topographic breaks and was depicted in photographs of landscape scenes. The model used and tested nine classes of scale based on grain and extent of the photos rated by viewers against those from the model. Viewers identified boundaries representing grain and extent that were synthesized into a viewer-perceived scale class. Good agreement with the proposed model occurred at four smaller scales but deteriorated as scale increased. Larger-scale scenes appear to offer more opportunities for the viewer to select closer or farther visual boundaries, thus changing their interpretation of scale.
23804537|The Great Plains is one focus of the debate in the United States over appropriate land use and sustainability. Within the Plains region, eastern Colorado represents a case study that permits researchers and policymakers to focus on important relationships between agricultural land use, population change, and the sustainability of agriculture, environment, and communities. Colorado Front Range urban areas experienced large increases in population from 1950 to 2000 that resulted in a 35% reduction in total farmland. In the urban fringe region, farmland declined rapidly since 1978 and harvested irrigated cropland declined by 16% since 1990. Rural population in eastern Colorado decreased from 1950 to 1970 and then stabilized. Rural areas experienced decreased total farmland, harvested dryland, and rangeland, as well as intensification of agriculture because of a 76% increase in harvested irrigated land (1950 to 1997). Inflation-adjusted agricultural product income remained stable because of large increases in crop yield from irrigated crops and animal production. The surprising result of this analysis is that agriculture and population are not declining throughout the Great Plains.
23778283|The Latino population in the Midwest has been increasing rapidly. Latinos have been in Omaha, Nebraska, since the late 1800s. However, the development of modern meatpacking plants and a low unemployment rate have resulted in a large population of "newcomers" to the city. Latino "oldtimers" differ from newcomers in their experiences. I examine, through photo elicitation, attitudes of a selected population of Latino oldtimers toward newcomers as contextualized through segmented assimilation. Results indicate oldtimers in this sample have some misgivings about newcomers. Furthermore, I argue that downward assimilation of Latino newcomers is likely given the conditions to which they migrate.
23777985|Anthropogenic modification of native woodlands and grasslands in the Great Plains has altered the abundance and distribution of many species of mammals. To study habitat effects on the eastern woodrat (Neotoma floridana), we surveyed nests of the eastern woodrat in woodlands, grasslands, and croplands along 77 km of secondary roads in three counties in north-central Kansas. All nests were located in woodlands (<2% of habitat), although grasslands and croplands constituted 36% and 62% of habitat surveyed, respectively. In our survey, nests were associated positively with shelterbelts (3.6 nests per 100 m of road edge) but not with shrub patches (1.1 nests per 100 m of road edge) or riparian woodlands (0.3 nests per 100 m of road edge). Consequently, we specifically censused nests in an additional 12 riparian woodlands and 12 shelterbelts. Nests of eastern woodrats were less dense in riparian woodlands (9.4 nests/ha) than in shelterbelts (55.5 nests/ha). Density of woodrat nests decreased as width of a wooded area increased. Further, nests per 100 m of length of woodland did not increase as the width of woodland increased. These patterns suggest that woodland edge, not woodland interior, is the primary factor in abundance of eastern woodrats in this region. Although the eastern woodrat has previously been considered a woodland species, our results suggest that this assessment is incorrect. Our observations demonstrate that anthropogenic modification of the Great Plains, in the form of planted shelterbelts and expanded riparian woodland, likely has increased the distribution and abundance of eastern woodrats, compared to the mid-1800s.
23779770|Most attempts to map the frontier of agricultural settlement in western Canada have used land alienation data or population density calculated from census returns. Both methods are fraught with difficulties. Population density data are only available at five-year intervals at the 36-square-mile township level. Land alienation does not always reflect settlement. In Manitoba, entire townships were alienated years before they were occupied. The organization and building of schools is a better indicator of actual settlement and the emergence of community-based institutions. To test this hypothesis, school formation and land alienation in 35 townships in southeastern Manitoba were plotted. This showed a close correlation between school formation and land alienation. All rural schools in Manitoba were then plotted by year from 1871 to 1959 using GIS software. Interpretation of this mapped data supports the contention that the formation of rural school districts is an effective and easily employed indicator of the limits of frontier settlement. These mapped data suggest that the idea of a well-defined frontier line of settlement is not the best analogy to describe the progress of agricultural settlement in Manitoba.
23775642|Grazing management on the Great Plains has been criticized for not more closely matching the presumed grazing patterns of bison. The critics assume that bison "flash grazed," that is, grazed heavily for a short time, then moved on, and did not return for months or even years. This assumption complements the traditional view of an annual north-south migration of the herds. However, evidence from explorers' and other travelers' journals contradict both flash grazing and annual north-south migration. In a few cases where prolonged continuous observations were made in the same favorable habitat, bison were seldom absent. In Canada, bison sometimes moved from the plains into the bordering aspen parklands during severe winter weather, but not regularly and not north-south. Throughout the Great Plains, bison numbers were so great and so thoroughly spread over the country that if a herd moved on, they were quickly replaced by another, giving little opportunity for rest or regrowth of the plant communities. Bison appeared to move in response to local conditions of forage availability, as influenced by weather, fire, and previous grazing. In at least one case, bison remained on a depleted watershed until they starved, rather than moving to an adjacent watershed with adequate forage.
23779539|Nature tourism is increasingly being considered as an economic development opportunity for rural areas of the Great Plains. As rural communities seek to develop nature tourism, questions regarding the attributes and interests of the nature tourist arise. This study sought to address these questions through a survey of participants at a birding festival held in central North Dakota in June 2004. The festival participants were predominately from outside the local area, and most of these visitors were from out of state. The festival participants were middle-aged and highly educated, and had relatively high income. The visitors spent an average of three nights in the local area, with an average local expenditure of $160 per person. The visitors enjoyed the festival and the area; almost all would recommend the birding festival to a friend. The potential for growth of nature tourism in the area appears substantial.
24156339|Land and water resources of the Prairie Pothole Region support important economic and ecologic activities. Scarce resources, such as wetlands, should be allocated among these activities such that society's well being is enhanced. Such allocation requires knowledge of the relative values of resources, something that has been largely missing in the wetland literature. This paper describes the practical realities of wetland economics, using the Prairie Pothole Region as an example. Ongoing human and economic activities in the PPR are presented as an introduction to the economy of the area. The purpose for economic valuation of wetlandsachieving the "greatest good"is briefly discussed. The connection between wetlands and human values is described. Five types of wetland valuation methods are discussed: market, surrogate/proxy, revealed preference, stated preference, and benefits transfer. Finally, some suggestions are made to add value to all types of wetland science by enhancing the collaboration among wetland scientists.
23775609|Settlement of the western United States resulted in clearing and degradation of many wooded areas. The loss of biodiversity and erosion of soil which followed produced a landscape which is still being restored. The first section of the paper reviews the settlement history of western South Dakota, describing the ecological effects of rapid population growth upon the landscape. The second part focuses on a smaller area, that of a family's ranch, which has undergone land management changes and woodland restoration since 1950. Studies which document an increase in woody species diversity and abundance, the population structure of trees, and the area occupied by woody vegetation are summarized. Sampling included measurements of woody vegetation in the field and of riparian and scarp woodland cover from 1956 and 1991 aerial photography.
24156335|There is abundant, albeit fragmentary, evidence that prairie wetlands are being contaminated extensively by agricultural pesticides (primarily herbicides and insecticides) and other anthropogenic contaminants. Such inputs can affect fundamental ecosystem properties such as primary production which, in turn, affects habitat and resource supply for wetland fauna. We review data on the use of pesticides, off-site transport of residues from treated land, and the frequency with which these residues are subsequently detected in receiving streams and wetlands on the prairies. As the environmental distribution of a pesticide is affected by its chemical and physical properties, and the abiotic and biotic characteristics of the receiving wetland, greater insight into its ecological impacts will be obtained from considering the underlying partitioning and degradative processes that determine distribution rather than from case-by-case studies of persistence. Future research on chemical contamination of prairie wetlands should include the development and testing of dissipation and fate models under conditions typical of prairie wetlands using a process-oriented approach, emphasizing the roles of adsorption and photolysis in a shallow, high area to volume environment. Output from a computer model based on the fugacity concept (QWASFI: Quantitative Water, Air, Soil, Film Interactions) indicates the potential to predict the environmental behavior of specific chemicals in wetlands.
23779508|This article reports partial findings from a five-year study that examined the attitudes, perceptions, and expectations regarding higher education among a sample of American Indian students attending a predominantly non-Indian university. Most notably, this article examines some of the factors associated with two specific personal assessments of the college experience: (1) the impact of college upon their appreciation of Native American heritage and (2) the level of satisfaction with the college experience.
23779571|Climate change models predict that ecotones, which are boundaries between two biomes, are likely to be the first place we see the effects of climate change. However, very little baseline data exist for these areas and their current community structure. In order to better understand the community dynamics of an ecotonal forest, a 2.2 ha 60year-old upland forest in northeastern Kansas was monitored for 10 years. This oak-hickory forest at the ecotone with the tallgrass prairie biome is growing more slowly than other forests of similar species composition farther east, possibly due to lower levels of available soil moisture or nutrient-depleted soil. The aboveground biomass (122 Mg/ha) was 15%-25% less than more eastern forests of similar composition and age. The study area contained three slightly different landscape units, typical of the regional matrix of land-use histories, edaphic characteristics, and forest compositions. A portion of the study area with a history of greater disturbance had the greatest number of small trees and a higher biomass and density of early successional species. Over the 10year study period, differences among landscape units became less pronounced, with tree biomass and species composition becoming more uniform. We expect that in the next 50 years, the forest will become more homogenous across the study area with respect to aboveground biomass and species composition. This suggests that land-use history plays a minor role in determining community composition in this ecotonal forest, and that biological and environmental factors play a larger role.
23777881|Low-density development consumes large tracts of the rural landscape surrounding Great Plains cities. Our objective was to determine how low-density sprawl influences the presence of birds. We used logistic regression models developed for two eastern Great Plains study areas for 1966-1990 to determine the probability of occurrence of bird species on the same areas in 1902. The two areas experienced different levels of low-density urban sprawl from 1902-1990. Birds associated with forests and forest edge are expected to decrease in both areas. Some of these are species of high concern. Dickcissel, a grassland bird, is expected to increase in the area of low sprawl, whereas several bird species associated with intense development, such as the house sparrow, are expected to increase in the area with a greater level of urban sprawl. We conclude that changes in land use and human activity associated with urbanization are influencing plains bird communities.
23775640|Understanding how bison behaved in the past can provide key insights for today's managers, ecologists, and anthropologists. However, the direct application of both historic documentation and modern field observations may not provide the necessary insights for understanding bison behaviors in archeological and paleontological contexts. In order to develop a better understanding of possible behavior within these contexts, we have developed individual foraging histories for 22 Bison bison from the Glenrock Buffalo Jump assemblage of the Plains Late Prehistoric period in Wyoming and four Pleistocene B. priscus from the Ukraine. Incremental stable carbon isotopic values of dental enamel were used to determine foraging histories. The progressive development of enamel allows for samples to be selected that represent distinct periods of an individual's life. Comparison of these dietary patterns among members of a herd can demonstrate foraging behaviors of cohorts and, in turn, the entire assemblage. Application of this high-resolution paleodietary technique provides new information on bison behaviors in a paleontological and archaeological context.
23780012|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations have in the past, and continue today, to increase in the Great Plains and North America. However, their impact on native plant species and endangered ecosystems such as the tallgrass prairie is poorly documented. To better understand the consequences of increasing deer numbers for native shrubs in grasslands, we assessed the extent of their summer browsing activity on six shrub species (wild plum, rough-leaved dogwood, smooth sumac, fragrant sumac, and coralberry) along transects that spanned riparian margins to upland tallgrass prairie. The proportion of terminal shoots browsed was quantified along established white-tail deer trails and in parallel transects off trails in watersheds that varied in fire history at the Konza Prairie Biological Station (Kansas). Proximity to deer trails was a strong determinant of deer browsing activity. Along trails, 20% of the twigs surveyed (N = 60,032) were browsed, whereas off trails less than 1% of twigs (N = 14,785) were browsed. Coralberry and rough-leaved dogwood comprised 80% of the shrub cover along trails, whereas wild plum, prickly ash, smooth sumac, and fragrant sumac had less cover, in that order. However, browsing was greatest on wild plum and rough-leaved dogwood (between 40% and 50% of available twigs), and the proportion of twigs browsed out of the total twigs used was highest for rough-leaved dogwood. Based on preference ratios (use/abundance), white-tail deer are likely to have the greatest impact on the less common wild plum and smooth sumac as well as rough-leaved dogwood. Interestingly, white-tail deer avoided the most common shrub, coralberry, at this time of year. Our results suggest that even in summer, when deer tend also to forage on herbaceous species in grasslands, deer browsing may have significant local impacts on woody species of tallgrass prairies in the Great Plains. Concurrent increases in woody plant cover and abundance in grasslands throughout the Great Plains suggest that deer browsing is not yet intense enough to prevent shrub expansion into tallgrass prairie.
23779722|Nitrogen is increasing in terrestrial ecosystems as a result of agricultural practices and the burning of fossil fuels. This increase is expected to be accompanied by changes in water availability due to global warming. We examined the effects of nitrogen and water manipulations on Schizachyrium scoparium, one of the dominant grasses in the Great Plains. Schizachyrium scoparium responded positively to watering, with an increase in photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, water and nitrogen use efficiencies, and water potential. Under watered conditions, fertilization had no significant effect on measured parameters, except for nitrogen-use efficiency. Significant differences appeared between fertilized and nonfertilized plants under moderate drought, with fertilized plants maintaining higher photosynthesis and water-use efficiency than nonfertilized plants. Water potential declined with water stress but did not differ between fertilization treatments, while nitrogen-use efficiency was significantly higher under nonfertilized than fertilized treatment. Differences among fertilization treatments disappeared under severe drought. We conclude that S. scoparium will likely respond positively to fertilization under moderate drought in the Great Plains. However, under severe drought, fertilization will not provide any physiological advantages to S. scoparium.
23779396|Critics of education in the United States asserted that high school students' performance fell after 1960. The decline has been linked to high school curricula which lost academic rigor in comparison to high school curricula in earlier decades. This study investigates the curricula of selected high shcools in Nebraska, using random samples of graduating seniors taken every 10 years from 1953 to 19830 Findings show that the proportions of students' programs devoted to more demanding English, social sciences, mathematics, business, and natural science courses diminished during the study period. Grade inflation was observed in smaller public schools, but not in larger public schools nor in Catholic schools.
23774364|The (Dawes) General Allotment Act of 1887 was meant to fulfill the United States Government policy of allotting individual parcels of Indian reservation lands in an effort to break up communal societies, forcing tribes to move towards the white man's ideal of civilized culture. Three decades earlier, Article 6 of the Treaty of 1854 allowed for the survey and allotting of the Omaha's northeastern Nebraska reservation, placing the Omaha Nation at the leading edge of federal policy a generation before the Dawes Act. Two interrelated groups of tribal members identified as "Make-Believe White-Men" and the "Progressives" who signed an 1882 petition are tracked through the allotments of 1871, 18831884, and 1900. Though numerically small these politically active groups had a great impact on the shaping of federal policy relating to the Omaha Nation. Their success or failure at emulating white culture was interpreted as an example of the attitude of all Omaha people. Their patterns of land-taking, as well as the unexpected growth of land leasing which developed with allotments, showed Omaha innovation within a traditional framework.
23779533|Integer programming techniques were used to determine the optimal windbreak pattern for corn and soybean production over a 70-year planning horizon. Field windbreaks provide numerous benefits to agricultural producers, including increased crop yields, erosion control, and wildlife habitat. However, windbreaks involve costs of establishment, maintenance, removal, localized yield reductions, and a loss of income resulting from cropland dedicated to windbreaks. As with any farm investment, windbreaks must be economically viable if they are to be adopted by producers. In addition to the direct costs of establishment, maintenance, and removal, yield increases must be large enough to replace opportunity costs of yield losses due to cropland removed from production and yield reductions in the area immediately adjacent to the windbreak. The economic viability of windbreaks is examined here by comparing the yield benefits resulting from climatic protection to total costs. A key question in determining economic viability is how closely windbreaks should be spaced. Assuming a conservative growth rate and tree height (20 feet in 40 years), the optimal spacing was approximately 386 feet, or 13 times the height of the windbreak. The net return results for the optimum pattern were 7.61% and 9.23% over unprotected production for corn and soybeans, respectively, assuming windbreak maturity is reached at 40 years. Net returns increased as the time required for windbreaks to reach maturity decreased. For taller windbreaks, the optimal spacing remains at 13 times windbreak height, but the absolute distance between windbreaks increases and the number of windbreaks required for optimal protection decreases.
23775644|Prior to their demise in the late 1800s, bison coexisted with and helped sustain a diverse and spectacular assemblage of animals and plant communities on the Great Plains. Bison, in concert with fire, exerted strong control on the structure of the vegetation by grazing, trampling, and wallowing. The changes in the vegetation induced changes in many animal populations. These impacts, coupled with the bison's role as the major converter of grass to meat, so greatly affected other species that some have called bison a "keystone" species in the Great Plains ecosystem. The black-tailed prairie dog, dependent on bison grazing over a large part of the Great Plains, amplified the keystone influence of bison by its own grazing and burrowing activities and its utility as prey. Although modern bison-growing practices usually will preclude restoration of the large predators and scavengers that once were a part of the great faunal spectacle, other species can return, often even on small acreages. Maintenance of a habitat mosaic is the key to restoring some of the original biodiversity lost to the historic pursuit of single-species pastoralism.
23779483|How do women from patriarchal cultures adapt to gender equality and feminism in the Great Plains? How do women from Eastern Europe change as a result of living in a gender-neutral environment? The study (1) identifies the major cultural differences that Eastern European women perceive between gender-related norms in Eastern Europe and the American Midwest, (2) examines the strategies that women use to cope with these differences, and (3) investigates when encounters with American feminists help and when they hinder immigrants' adaptation. Eastern European culture is characterized by a greater separation of gender roles and little concern about sexism. Women from this region perceive male and female behavior in American culture as ambiguous and gender-neutral. They observe egalitarian gender relations in the US, but do not prefer the forms of male-female interaction that this involves. They adapt to US culture behaviorally but do not significantly change their values about gender relations. The negative attitude of feminist activists toward gender roles in Eastern Europe often creates resistance toward American ways and slows immigrants' adaptation.
23779802|Opuntia polyacantha Haw. (plains prickly-pear) is a common cactus in the Great Plains of North America. We used two data sets, from Montana and Colorado, to test the hypothesis that there is a range of precipitation event sizes upon which O. polyacantha specializes. Events smaller than this range (>2 to 6 mm) do not moisten sufficient soil to be utilized, and larger events have negative effects on the status of O. polyacantha because they favor the development of taller and denser grass canopies. Multiple regressions of either green cladode density (northern mixed prairie) or O. polyacantha frequency (shortgrass steppe) with precipitation event sizes indicated negative effects of large precipitation events on the yearly changes in the either density or frequency of O. polyacantha. We suggest that weather conditions in the Great Plains may cause O. polyacantha to be controlled almost entirely by light competition from grasses and other negative biotic effects.
23779909|The purpose of this study was to examine patterns of similarity and difference in psychosocial well-being among 42 first-generation, Spanish-speaking Latinas, 23 second-generation, English-speaking Latinas, and 25 English-speaking Caucasian women residing in five unique rural Nebraska communities. Participants completed a series of self-report survey instruments to assess indices of psychosocial health, including: marital satisfaction, marital communication, family communication, social support, and depression. Spanish-speaking Latinas and English-speaking Caucasians evidenced the greatest similarity in patterns of experience. Twenty-eight percent of the total sample (n = 25) scored above the clinical cutoff for depression. Implications and suggestions for future work are discussed.
23780009|Migration of young Latinos and Latinas has increased in many towns in the Midwest. These young people will experience the perinatal period in a new cultural environment. We focus on the interface between families fo Latino origin and the Midwest health-care system, particularly in the care of the pregnant woman or couple and in the care of the infant. Issues of culture are central in the perinatal period, and often the staff in health-care centers is not aware of the importance of several traditional and "folk" health-care beliefs in this period. These beliefs impact the care of the pregnant woman, the baby, and the couple's conception of health and illness, as well as the remedies to solve problems. We review, from the mother and infant mental and physical health point of view, the main culturally based health beliefs and precautions and the culture-bound conditions in pregnancy and for the baby.
23779435|Modern industrialized agriculture is based on monocultures of annual crops requiring massive levels of biocide, fertilizer, and fossil fuel inputs. This form of agriculture has led to soil erosion and chemical contamination of soil and ground water. The Land Institute is studying a new model for grain agriculture, based on the prairie ecosystem, involving diversified plantings of perennial seed crops. Species we have studied include eastern gamagrass, wildrye, Illinois bundleflower, wild senna, Maximilian sunflower, hybrid perennial sorghum, and hybrid perennial rye. The Land Institute's research program develops perennial polycultures based on basic questions concerning high seed yield, overyielding, nitrogen supply by a legume component, and biological management of weeds, insect pests, and plant diseases. Results to support the model are presented.
23778229|This essay suggests that there is a discrepancy between historical accounts of the natural state of the Great Plains by European explorers and the likely strong influence of the North American Indians resident in the area. The preconceived notion of the Great American Wilderness appears to have obscured the explorers' perceptions of the many ways in which the indigenous peoples had manipulated and influenced both the vegetation and the abundance of animal life in the Plains. Clearly, this challenge of the total wilderness paradigm has major implications for future restorations in the Great Plains.
23777811|Using a community classification based on key demographic and geographic factors and data from the U.S. Census, analyses from 212 small communities indicate significant inter- and intra-state differences. The communities studied were located in two states within the North Central Region. The sample was limited to incorporated places with populations between 1,000 and 2,500. Several commonly-held ideas about small communities are either challenged or confirmed by this research. Similarities and differences among the communities as well as between the states support the conclusion that small communities have diverse characteristics. Not all small communities of this size are geographically isolated places with declining population. While many small communities have a large proportion of their residents age 65 or older, not all do. Finally, while most small communities are populated by large proportions of white residents, some small communities have growing minority populations. The diversity of small communities has substantial implications for public policy decisions such as the allocation of Community Development Block Grant funding or the distribution of services for community residents. Recommendations for future research directions are also presented.
23779601|Upheaval causes many people to flee intolerable conditions in their own countries and to seek better lives elsewhere. The United States plays a pivotal role in the resettlement of refugees uprooted by these crises. The refugee resettlement program in North Dakota primarily assists the refugees in making a better life, and it ultimately helps the state's quest for population growth, ethnic diversity, and economic development. This study deals with refugee resettlement in North Dakota communities, specifically Bosnian refugees in Grand Forks. Survey questionnaires and interviews were used to gain an understanding of the issues that the Bosnians face in adjusting to life in the community. Their concerns include the lack of employment opportunities with a livable wage, learning English, and job/skills training.
23775554|The paper examines the issue of underinsurance. It discusses how the concept can be measured and employs the measure in assessing the number of underinsured in the State of Nebraska. The paper examines the social and economic characteristics of the uninsured, both an at-risk group defined by low income and a group with higher income, and compares each to a corresponding set who are not underinsured. The paper reports a multivariate analysis of factors related to underinsurance and compares the above categories with respect to health status and access to health care.
23774312|This study investigated woody plant composition, structure, and biomass of hedgerows and fencerows, and for effects between human attitudes and management practices. Fencerows arise as narrow strips of woody and herbaceous plants at field margins and property boundaries. Hedgerows grow from intentional linear plantings. Exotic species were more important in fencerow composition. Hackberry, Missouri gooseberry, American plum, and white mulberry readily inhabited both fencerows and hedgerows. Woody plants exhibited clumped distribution in both hedgerows and fencerows. A moisture gradient emerged as a factor in distribution of species. Management caused a significant difference in species richness and biomass in both hedgerows and fencerows. Hedgerows (discounting basal area of Osage-orange) had less tree biomass than fencerows and were more evenly distributed between center and margin. For all hedgerows, there was a significant difference between management schemes based on preservation-removal attitude scores.
23780060|Wetland restoration typically includes modifications to soils, flora, and hydrology. Will the return of wetland hydrology to former saline wetlands create conditions suitable for wetland taxa, especially saline wetland indicator species? To answer this question we evaluated the potential restoration efficacy of historical saline wetland soils by re-exposing them to wetland hydrological conditions simulated in a greenhouse. Agricultural lands contained no saline indicator plants and limited wetland species, likely due to significant and long-term land alteration. Restored wetlands showed only a few additional wetland taxa, and seeds of saline wetland plants emerged from soils of only one restored site. Because land alteration threatens the seed bank status of current saline wetlands, potential restoration sites, and even historical saline wetlands under agricultural production in Nebraska, preservation of existing sites that currently have saline dynamics and affluent seed banks may be the only means for continued restoration.
23779479|This paper discusses the impact of population influx on small communities using the city of Schuyler, NE, as a case study. As a small city of 4,000 some residents, Schuyler experienced a proportionally significant population influx in the past decade largely due to an increase of immigrant population. Unlike large cities, Schuyler has fewer resources to cope with the impact of a drastic population increase on its physical conditions and environment. The population expansion also impacted its previously homogeneous social and cultural environment. Through surveying long-time and newly arrived residents and comparing responses of the two groups, the study revealed similarities and differences between the two groups in response to questions regarding a variety of issues related to the population influx. The survey investigated residents' perceptions of changes in the physical and social/cultural environment, housing quality and development priorities, and concerns for future development of the city and its housing.
23782177|Mongolia and North America contain expansive grassland ecosystems that remain sparsely populated, dominated by agriculture, and support relatively isolated human communities dependent on natural resources. Until recently Mongolians raised livestock using extensive pastoralism without seriously threatening most of the region's biodiversity. Yet that changed rapidly following the recent transition from a communist, command-control economy to a democratic, free-market economy. The main challenges to protecting biodiversity on grasslands in Mongolia include overgrazing, poaching, mining, and inadequate management, training, and resources. Mongolia and the Great Plains both retain great opportunities for biodiversity conservation that could also benefit local people. Mongolia has begun embracing nature-based tourism as a means of providing additional jobs and enhanced livelihoods to local communities on its steppe grasslands. Nature-based tourism development in Mongolia may provide a model for conserving biodiversity in the Great Plains. Similar developments are beginning in the Great Plains but have focused primarily on big game hunting and dude ranches. Expanding the model in the Great Plains to include Native American cultures and wildlife viewing may offer alternatives that help restore biodiversity and enhance livelihoods.
23780007|This essay examines the arrival and growth of Latino population, principally Mexican American, into the Platte River valley region of Nebraska from 1890 to 1996. It outlines the history of the push and pull factors of immigration from Mexico and the various phases and characteristics of Latino settlement in the Midwest generally and in Nebraska specifically. It reviews demographic patterns over the 20th century and concludes with observations based upon census projections that indicate that the Nebraska Latino community will become the state's primary minority community by 2025.
23780294|Current models of farmer conservation practices minimize the role of individual personality characteristics. This study examined the relationship between farmers' use of conservation practices that impact surface water quality and the personality characteristics of work motivation, environmental attitude, and moral reasoning about the environment. A significant negative predictive relationship was found between an externally based self-concept and pro-environmental behaviors. This finding lends support to the notion that farmers concerned about what their neighbors and peers think may not believe their efforts to benefit surface water will be adequately recognized. A significant negative predictive relationship was found between anthropocentric reasoning and pro-environmental behaviors. This finding indicates that farmers who are concerned about the health of the environment for the sake of human health and well-being are less likely to use conservation practices. Implications for research and practice are included.
23779724|Smooth sumac (Rhus glabra L.) is a resprouting shrub native to the tallgrass prairie region that increases in density without an active disturbance regime. Our objective was to use prescribed fire and herbicides to decrease smooth sumac density as a strategy to improve a degraded tallgrass prairie remnant. In two separate experiments repeated in space and time, we used prescribed fire in combination with herbicides at various rates and two application methods to develop an effective management scheme for reducing smooth sumac. We used a randomized complete block design with 13 herbicide treatments and a control with three replicates in burned and non-burned areas. Results were similar in both experiments in which herbicide treatment and burning were the significant main effects. All herbicide treatments reduced smooth sumac stem density compared to the control, but no distinct advantage was detected regarding specific herbicide, application rate, or whether the herbicide was applied as a broadcast spray or with a hand-held wick. We expected burning to make the plant more susceptible to herbicides, but burning increased stem density. In this tallgrass prairie remnant, we determined that herbicides were the most effective management tool in reducing smooth sumac stem density.
23775671|Mobility decisions and the effects of migration upon the quality of life of elderly people who had recently relocated to or within Brandon are assessed and compared with the responses of a non-mover "control group." Although confirming many established results concerning the migration of the elderly, other conclusions also emerged. For instance, migrants and non-movers have a number of different social demographic characteristics, and their needs and desires appear to be quite dissimilar. Although non-movers appear apprehensive about the future, many movers see positive outcomes, in terms of life satisfaction, resulting from their migration. The research also raises the question of whether contemporary service and support patterns are appropriate for the people who need them. If these elderly are not to be "forced" or "imposed upon" to move, then different policies must be enacted that build more distinct and creative support systems.
23775608|Voting behavior in the three largest Aboriginal communities of AlbertaBlood Tribe, Peigan Nation, and Four Nationsis contrasted with non-Aboriginal voting behavior using polling-station counts from 16 general elections and the 1992 constitutional referendum. Lower voter turnout and distinctive patterns of party preferences among Aboriginal voters are examined more closely using data collected through standardized, openended interviews conducted in conjunction with a voter mobilization effort on the Peigan Reserve in 1996. Although respondents did not report refraining from participation in Federal or Provincial elections to avoid compromising their sovereigntyan argument sometimes made by national Aboriginal organizationsthe responses often exhibited pessimism or disillusionment in other respects.
23777769|The North Dakota Prairie Pothole Region is one of the most unique and important wetland environments for waterfowl in North America. A water balance climatology is developed for this region for the period 1895-1990. A monthly water balance time series for the 96-year period was computed utilizing the Thornthwaite water balance methodology and a regional time series developed from area-weighted National Climate Data Center divisional data. Results illustrate the unique seasonal dynamics of the mean soil moisture regime, the frequency distribution of selected water balance variables over the period of record, and the large intra-annual and interannual variability which characterizes the hydroclimatic environment of the Northern Great Plains. Long-term analysis of the water balance variables revealed statistically-significant linear trends toward warming and increased soil dryness. The increased soil dryness trend, however, has been concentrated in the summer months after the peak waterfowl breeding and migratory period. Trends toward decreased precipitation and increased spring soil dryness, although suggested by the data, are not conclusive at the 0.05 level. Inferences related to waterfowl production, global warming, historic loss of wetlands, and resource management issues are noted.
23780100|Land-cover and land-use change usually results from a combination of anthropogenic drivers and biophysical conditions found across multiple scales, ranging from parcel to regional levels. A group of four Level III ecoregions located in the U.S. northern Great Plains is used to demonstrate the similarities and differences in land change during nearly a 30-year period (19732000) using results from the U.S. Geological Survey's Land Cover Trends project. There were changes to major suites of land-cover; the transitions between agriculture and grassland/shrubland and the transitions among wetland, water, agriculture, and grassland/shrubland were affected by different factors. Anthropogenic drivers affected the land-use tension (or land-use competition) between agriculture and grassland/shrubland land-covers, whereas changes between wetland and water land-covers, and their relationship to agriculture and grassland/shrubland land-covers, were mostly affected by regional weather cycles. More land-use tension between agriculture and grassland/shrubland land-covers occurred in ecoregions with greater amounts of economically marginal cropland. Land-cover change associated with weather variability occurred in ecoregions that had large concentrations of wetlands and water impoundments, such as the Missouri River reservoirs. The Northwestern Glaciated Plains ecoregion had the highest overall estimated percentage of change because it had both land-use tension between agriculture and grassland/shrubland land-covers and wetland-water changes.
23774313|Chromosomes were studied in somatic cells of 60 plants of blue grama, Bouteloua gracilis (Willd. ex Kunth) Lag ex Griffiths, collected from a 7-hectare field of native range at the Central Plains Experiment Range (CPER), Nunn, Colorado, to determine chromosome constitution in relation to the plant characteristics. Somatic chromosomes were studied in root tips collected from vigorously growing plants in the greenhouse. Acetocarmine squash method was used to make slide preparation. The majority of the plants were 2n=40. However, three plants were 2n=50 and two were 2n=60. The pentaploid plants (2n=50) were recorded for the first time in this report. Additional 94 plants collected from entire CPER were all 2n=40. The basic chromosome number of blue grama was determined to be x=10. There was no significant relation between chromosome number and morphological traits: culm height and number, basal diameter, and plant dry weight.
23779913|Elk (Cervus elaphus) were historically found throughout North America but were extirpated from Nebraska and much of the Great Plains in the 1880s due to consumptive uses by settlers, miners, market hunters, and others. Elk began to reappear in Nebraska in the 1950s and 1960s, and established a stable, nonmigratory population that currently consists of seven herds and an estimated 1,400 individuals throughout western and central Nebraska. The reappearance and subsequent persistence of elk in Nebraska suggests there is adequate habitat to support a self-sustaining population. The general movement of elk eastward may lead to an eventual statewide distribution, and populations being established in states to the east and south of Nebraska, where elk populations were historically present and suitable habitat still exists. We examined published historic accounts, museum and archeological records, and current literature to determine historic and current distribution of elk in Nebraska and the Great Plains.
23775557|Despite the recent enactment of federal and provincial reduction targets, the majority of government and private sector research has focused primarily on household recycling strategies while little attention was given to other dimensions critical to the achievement of sustainable waste management. Although distinct problems may exist in rural jurisdictions, the literature continues to address the problems inherent in the management of wastes in urban centers rather than rural communities. The aim of this research was to close this gap by examining the issue of municipal waste management in rural Manitoba. Special emphasis was placed upon: (1) the amount and type of solid waste generated, and associated management activities, (2) the social, economic, political and jurisdictional factors influencing regional strategies and (3) the level of awareness and willingness of rural Manitobans to address the solid waste problem. Questionnaires were distributed to the 104 Rural Municipalities (RMs) in the province from which a response rate of 40 percent was achieved, and waste management officials in four municipalities were directly interviewed to provide a more in-depth analysis. The most conspicuous conclusion of the study is that, like other communities, household recycling continues to be the primary waste diversion activity in rural Manitoba. There is a deficiency in perceptual recognition of a waste management problem as there is still available landfill capacity in the area. This factor may partly explain why the 4Rs (reduction, reuse, recycling, and recovery) strategies or initiatives are not vigorously
23779838|The Nebraska Sandhills consist of 50,000 km2 of dunes, currently stabilized by vegetation. Radiocarbon dates of paleosols, blocked paleovalleys, and sand beds found in interdunal wetlands suggest that the Holocene had significant periods of dune reactivation. A paleoecological investigation was conducted in Jumbo Valley, NE, in an interdunal wetland known to contain sand layers interbedded with peat. The sedimentary record in two cores is continuous, except for some loss due to surficial burns. Macrofossils indicate that the late Pleistocene was cool and wet, with current vegetation establishing around 12,000 years ago. Sand and bulk density profiles reveal significant periods of dune activity in the intervals 9200-7000, 6400-5400, 4000-3000, 2700-2300, 2100-1800, and 950-700 calendar years before present (cal yr BP). Profiles also indicate four significant wet intervals: 6900-6500, 4700-4000, 5200-5000, and 1300-1000 cal yr BP. Dune activity prior to 6000 cal yr BP was most likely caused by drought, while after 6000 cal yr BP, increased frequency and severity of fires appear to have also contributed. This study reveals that the Sandhills have experienced many droughts, including as recent as 950-700 cal yr BP, that were more severe than any experienced in the last century.
23777984|The abundance and habitat associations of overwintering birds in Platte River Valley of central Nebraska may influence their long-term survival. I observed a total of 51 species over a three-year period in shrub-grassland, forest, grassland, and cropland habitats during the winter. Grassland habitats had the lowest abundance of wintering birds, while abundances in shrub-grassland, forest, and cropland habitats were higher and similar. Species richness was highest in forests ( x= 2.97 species) and lowest in grasslands (x= 0.73 species) and croplands (x= 0.57 species). Overall, horned larks (Eremophila alpestris), American tree sparrows (Spizella arborea), black-capped chickadees (Parus atricapillus), dark-eyed juncos (Junco hyemalis), western meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta), and red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) were the most abundant wintering birds in the Platte River Valley. American tree sparrows (34%) accounted for most of the birds in shrubgrasslands, while black-capped chickadees (18%), dark-eyes juncos (11%), and American tree sparrows (10%) accounted for most of the birds in forests. Grasslands were dominated by American tree sparrows (39%) and western meadowlarks (27%), and croplands were dominated by horned larks (43%), red-winged blackbirds (25%), and western meadowlarks (16%). The winter bird community in the Platte River Valley is dominated by woodland-associated species. Many of the woodland-associated species that overwinter in the Platte River Valley have likely benefited from the development of woodlands in the region.
23779840|Much of the research on Mexican Americans and earnings has focused on either national samples or on states such as California and Texas. Even though Mexican Americans have become more visible in the Midwest, we know very little about their earnings in the Midwest. Using an individual level sample consisting of data on 1,807 Mexican Americans from the 2000 Integrated 1% Public Use Microdata Series, we examine the extent to which human capital, family status and industry concentration predict earnings. Multivariate analyses reveal that education and years in the U.S. are positively associated with earnings. However, Mexican American women yield lower returns to their education compared to their male counterparts. Women also experience an earnings penalty for having children while men do not. In addition, workers concentrated in the peripheral sector earn significantly less than workers in the core sector. The findings are interpreted in terms of human capital and labor market theories and directions for future research are discussed.
23778230|The influence of human activities on riparian zone vegetation differs markedly by ecoregion and stream size. Large rivers, dams and water diversions affect ecological processes more than local land uses do. However, for small streams, the reverse is generally true. Examples demonstrating these relationships include studies completed on the Missouri River in North Dakota, the Platte River in Nebraska, and Foster Creek in western South Dakota. On the Missouri River, damming has stopped river meandering and the regeneration of riparian forests in gaps between reservoirs. In contrast, on the Platte River, diversion of a large portion of the flow for cropland irrigation has contributed to the expansion of riparian forests. And on Foster Creek, the riparian zone was destroyed by homesteading early in this century; however, the creek is recovering because of improved land management. I conclude that restoration methods need to be tailored to deal with the large variation in stream response to human use.
23779767|It is our thesis that members of the Stephen Long Expedition of 1819-20 completed the first biodiversity inventory undertaken in the United States at their winter quarters, Engineer Cantonment, Missouri Territory, in the modern state of Nebraska. This accomplishment has been overlooked both by biologists and historians, but it should rank among the most significant accomplishments of the expedition. The results of this inventory allow us to evaluate the environmental, faunal, and floral changes along the Missouri River in the intervening nearly 190 years. The historical records form a visual image of a dynamic riverine system in which a highly meandering river flows through a wide valley filled with oxbows, palustrine wetlands, and scattered groves of trees. This system has now been modified to a channelized river with the surrounding wetlands drained and converted to agricultural and municipal purposes. The suppression of prairie fires and the adoption of irrigation practices have promoted the growth of trees and other woody vegetation. The city of Omaha and its suburbs are expanding and encroaching on the site from the south and west. At least three taxa recorded at the site have become extinctEctopistes migratorius (passenger pigeon), Conuropsis carolinensis (Carolina parakeet), and Canis lupus nubilus (plains subspecies of the gray wolf)and several more have been extirpated from the region. For mammals, the data indicate that nine species of the 1819-20 fauna have been lost, and two species have been added, thus resulting in a net loss of seven species. These changes represent a net loss of 15% of the mammalian biodiversity originally present in the Engineer Cantonment area. The species richness estimator for Engineer Cantonment in 1819-20 is 403 for vertebrates, insects, snails, and plants, but it is clear that this number is extremely low, because plants were not thoroughly surveyed by the expedition and only a small fraction of the insects were collected.
23779575|In this article we compare the Canadian Heritage Rivers System with the US Wild and Scenic Rivers Act and analyze case law in order to identify the best means of ensuring preservation of Great Plains rivers. We find that fear of federal dictates provides a powerful political weapon for opponents of river preservation policies. Therefore, we conclude that national officials should work with state, provincial, and local officials to develop cooperative plans that enable local residents to participate in river management decisions. Cooperative river management policies avoid the perception of federal government action as threatening to state sovereignty, thereby removing a significant rhetorical and political obstacle to water preservation.
23779768|The relationship between carrion and blow flies is well understood, but in situations where fresh carrion sources are unavailable, as may occur on the Great Plains, the potential for multigenerational colonization of a single carcass exists. By testing this possibility through a replicated choice/no-choice experiment using pig carcasses, we were able to demonstrate that multigenerational colonization of carrion by blow flies does not occur. Fresh pig carcasses were exposed to blow fly infestation, then placed in insect exclusion cages. After the emergence of this first generation of blow fly adults, "choice" cages were supplied with a fresh pig cadaver. No multigenerational colonization of the parent carcass took place in any of the choice or no-choice replicates. This demonstrates that carcasses act as temporary resource islands, with a "window of opportunity" of colonization in the ecosystem, and are vital for the biodiversity of the Great Plains.
23779912|This study documents over six centuries of historic fire events at Devils Tower National Monument in northeast Wyoming, USA. The 691-year tree-ring chronology is based on 37 ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa C. Lawson) trees collected at the monument. The period of tree-ring record ranged in calendar years from 1312 to 2002 and fire scar dates (n = 129) ranged from 1330 to 1995. The mean fire interval (MFI) for the entire record was 24.6 years, and intervals for individual trees ranged from 4 to 119 years. A period of increased fire frequency (MFI = 5.7 years) occurred from about 1860 to 1880, corresponding to the period of Euro-American exploration and settlement of the region. Comparisons of fireclimate relationships derived from Devils Tower, the Black Hills, and other Great Plains sites suggest that Devils Tower presettlement fire events were more similar to those of grasslands. Despite this, current fire intervals and vegetation assessments suggest that conditions are departed from historical conditions. In the Great Plains, temperature appears to be a strong regional-scale determinant of fire frequency, which may become more evident considering global warming predictions.
23778284|Using interviews conducted in two Nebraska communities, we illustrate health-care challenges for Latinos in meat-processing communities. Two hundred twenty-one Latinos (48% male), primarily of Mexican descent, were interviewed face-to-face by bilingual interviewers. Fifteen percent of the respondents are between the ages of 20 and 24, 75% are between 25 and 44, and 10% are between 45 and 64. Nearly half have lived in the United States for five or fewer years. Aday's (1993) framework for predicting populations at risk is used to identify factors affecting health status and utilization. These factors include measures of human capital, social status, and social capital. It is found that barriers to utilization include, among others, transportation, lack of understanding of the health-care system, income, insurance, inconvenient office hours or location, and distrust of doctors. Variables significantly affecting health status include age, length of residence, and perceived racism. Policy recommendations are considered based on the findings.
23779725|Vehicle training, a common disturbance of military lands, is part of a suite of land uses that also includes cattle grazing. Yet, no studies have examined their interaction. Our objective was to review the effects of vehicle training and grazing on grassland soils and vegetation and develop a state-and-transition model that incorporates grazing and training for Fort Hood, TX. Both grazing and training can cause soil compaction and vegetation disturbance, altering hydrology and increasing erosion. While the effects of grazing largely depend on stocking rate, vehicle training causes greater disturbance when wet soils are driven on, when vehicles are turned sharply, and as the number of vehicle passes increases. Grazing and training are expected to maintain grasslands in secondary succession, though eroded sites dominated by annuals also could develop under frequent training. The state-and-transition model may guide decision making for military land managers faced with training and grazing effects.
23775672|Movements of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus Rafinesque) in the eastern Great Plains and Midwest were examined. The proportion of deer that move between distinct summer and winter home ranges varies among different populations. Seasonal migration between home ranges is influenced primarily by phenological period, agricultural activities, and the availability of cover and food. Corn provides a nearly unlimited source of cover and food in summer and early fall. In late fall and early winter, deer move to areas of permanent cover, such as wooded river bottoms, draws, or slopes. Hunting, crop harvest, or seasonal change may influence deer movements and distribution, depending on the past experiences of individual deer and their situation. Emigration rates increase with deer population density because of increased social pressures, increases may or may not be proportional to the increase in overall populations. The ability of white-tailed deer to adapt to human activities has allowed them to thrive throughout the region, and current populations are stable to increasing. The availability of large tracts of secure winter cover and safe travel corridors between seasonal ranges are the primary factors limiting their populations.
23775729|The potential for social adaptation to climate change on the Great Plains is examined, and a framework offered for sharpening the inquiry into regional agricultural sustainability. The future of Plains agriculture in a worsening climate depends on several factors, but a key characteristic is whether the system is fundamentally adaptable (able to change form and function markedly under new conditions) or resilient (likely to attempt to maintain "normal" operations via disaster relief and other social maintenance schemes in future droughts). In a cumulative climate deterioration, adaptive strategies are likely to yield less abrupt social dislocation, but debate over the sustainability of Plains agriculture even in the absence of climate change demonstrates the need for a concerted, collaborative examination of regional development trends by Plains researchers.
24156337|Relatively little is known about the factors which regulate inwater biogeochemical processes and food chains in prairie wetlands. Climatic warming, increased UV-radiation and agricultural activities will have interacting effects on these wetlands. We examined the effects of these processes on prairie wetland functioning and productivity with particular emphasis on production and cycling of organic carbon, especially dissolved organic carbon (DOC). Autotrophic and heterotrophic production are temperature dependent and temperature increases or decreases could affect production under more extreme climate change scenarios. DOC concentrations could decrease with increasing bacterial production and photolysis, leading to increases in UV-radiation penetration. This is pertinent to prairie wetlands because of their general shallowness. Considering the potential consequences of climatic warming, increased UV-radiation and agricultural activity on biogeochemistry and food chains, it is imperative that we obtain an understanding of the major rate processes in prairie wetlands and how these may be affected by external processes.
23779727|In recent years, bison products have been incorporated into the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR). This paper examines the factors leading up to this particular development and the structural problems that have yet to be resolved within the program. Altogether, the findings illustrate that cultural traditions, health problems, and economic concerns instigated the federal government to embark upon this new policy. Unfortunately, while the program has responded to tribal demands in certain respects, it has not resolved underlying structural inequalities between tribal and nontribal communities. In particular, the FDPIR does not acknowledge the problematic nature of production-consumption networks within the program. These networks currently undermine some of the fundamental reasons for including bison in the FDPIR.
23779805|The surface waters of eastern and central Kansas once supported an impressive variety of native freshwater mussels, but a widespread decline in species richness accompanied the urban, industrial, and agricultural development of this region. Statewide mussel surveys implemented during the past two decades have shed new light on the scope and severity of this decline. Of the 48 mussel species originally known from Kansas, six are now extirpated, one lacks reproductively viable populations (i.e., faces imminent extirpation), and 38 others have suffered evident range reductions or a widespread thinning of former populations. Soil erosion and stream siltation, other forms of water and sediment pollution, physical habitat degradation, stream flow attenuation, and declines in the native fishes serving as biological hosts for larval mussels all have contributed to these changes. Dams and other impediments to fish migration now hinder the reestablishment of mussel colonies following prolonged droughts and major water pollution events. Some mussel populations in this region display unique morphological, developmental, and genetic attributes, implying their continued attrition may lead to the eventual loss of distinctive forms or subspecies.
23779509|A number of small towns in the Great Plains have recently started to offer free land and other incentives to entice new residents in the hope of reversing persistent depopulation. Based on in-depth interviews, this study assesses the initial performance of the free land programs in six small towns in central Kansas and analyzes the factors that have affected the migration decisions of the new residents. The initial results of these programs have been impressive. Not only have they attracted multiple new residents and increased enrollments in local schools, but they have also elevated long-time residents' pride in their community and created a positive synergy. The new residents' migration decisions were influenced by a number of push and pull factors. The free land and other incentives are not enough to trigger migration, but they have effectively changed some migrants' destination choice to a small town in central Kansas. Without the free land, most new residents, particularly those from out of state, would not have moved there. Contrary to our expectations, the relative locations of small towns with respect to larger cities do not appear to have affected new residents' destination choice.
23774310|This study explores the role of groundwater exploitation on population change in the High Plains Ogallala region. Results from several multiple regression analyses are examined to assess the relationship between 1980-1990 population changes in 184 counties with the dominance of irrigated agriculture, change in irrigated acreage, historical population change, farm size change, population density, urbanization, and the level of agricultural employment. Change in irrigated acreage is significantly associated with population change for Nebraska and for the 90 counties that have an urban place. However, the more important factors are the degree of urbanization among the urban counties and long term patterns of historical change in the nonurban counties. Population has actually increased slightly for the entire region between 1960and 1990 but has become more concentrated. The findings challenge the feasibility of applying the buffalo commons approach to the Ogallala region. The implications of adopting other regional development policies are discussed.
23779971|Over the past century, the interactions between agricultural land use and government cropland retirement programs have affected pheasant population change. Two government land retirement programs that returned croplands to grasslands, Soil Bank in the 1960s and the current Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), help to illustrate these connections. From 2007 to 2010, South Dakota lost 41% of its CRP lands and experienced an 18% decline in pheasants per mile. However, because of where CRP expirations have occurred and where pheasant populations are found, some regional variability is seen. Western South Dakota (Region 1) had an 80% increase in pheasants per mile and a 51% decrease in CRP land, while central South Dakota (Region 2) had a 22% increase in pheasants per mile and a 42% decrease in CRP land. Region 3 saw a 51% decrease in pheasants per mile and a 25% decrease in CRP land, and Region 4 had a 45% decrease in both pheasants per mile and land in the CRP. These differences are explained by regional land use and land cover, the extent to which row crop agriculture dominates each region, and the variability in the abundance of pheasants found in each region.
23779441|Reisner (1986) coined the term "Cadillac Desert" to describe the high costs associated with irrigated agriculture in the American West. This concept can logically be extended to the northern-most reaches of the Great Plains in Canada to perform a critical analysis of irrigated agriculture in southern Alberta. Today irrigation technology, which arrived with the Mormon immigration of the 1880s, keeps over a million acres of former shortgrass prairie green. Costs of one of the world's largest snow melt irrigation systems are examined on several dimensions: the massive infusion of state funds necessary to build and maintain the system, environmental degradation in the form of salinization, expansion of low or no food value crops, and intensification of the domination of the farmer-to-consumer chain by transnational corporations. Possible water regimes under global warming conditions are discussed, along with the implications of Free Trade.
23804536|In several areas of the United States previously not known for foreign populations, the number of Hispanics and Asians have increased in the past two decades. I examined the percentage change for Hispanics and for Asians for 41 cities in the states of Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota between 1990 and 2000. Hispanics and Asians are then disaggregated by ethnic subgroup, and regression analysis is used to determine the characteristics of cities that attract or repel different subgroups for both 1990 and 2000. In 2000 Mexicans, Other Hispanics, and Vietnamese were attracted to cities with low income levels and cities with a flourishing meat-processing industry. Chinese, Koreans, and Indians were attracted to cities with a public university and high levels of income. Clearly, Hispanics and Vietnamese were attracted to different cities than were the other Asian groups. This most likely reflects the educational differences between the two groups.
23779397|Principle components analysis and multiple regression were used to examine spatial variations in quality of life indicators, and relationships between quality of life indicators and net migration rates for North Dakota counties between 1980 and 1990. Three quality of life dimensions were identified: Affluence, Suffering, and Demography. Of the three derived indicators, Affluence was the best overall statistical determinant of county migration rates. Adverse quality of life and migration trends were especially evident for counties with high non-white population proportions; such counties may need special development policies.
23782171|Like many parts of the world, the Northern Great Plains faces immense challenges to sustainable land use. Privately owned conservation areas have emerged as a potential solution. This article reviews five global trends in so-called private protected areas and discusses their implications for the Northern Great Plains. The trends point to five recommendations to the Northern Great Plains community: (1) act now to tap rapidly growing policy support; (2) combine many models, including private protected areas that are owned by individuals and groups, formal and informal, large and small, and are dedicated to strict protection as well as sustainable use; (3) cultivate diverse revenue streams with emphasis on carbon payments, hunting, and tourism; (4) connect spatially through private-public or private-private partnerships to generate both ecological and economic benefits; and (5) cultivate a reputation for delivering high-quality products and services. The trends and recommendations should be of interest wherever landowners, policy makers, academics, and others seek to integrate economics with ecology in the Northern Great Plains.
23779842|Use of energy-intensive inputs in agriculture is generally considered to be unresponsive to price increases in the short run. An increase in diesel and natural gas prices directly increases costs of energy used on farms for irrigation, machinery operation, and heating. Energy-intensive production inputs such as fertilizer prices also increase due to higher energy costs. This study assesses the impact of substantially higher energy prices in 2000 and 2001 on whole-farm production costs on 983 Kansas farms using actual whole-farm data. It is hypothesized that the impact on fuel, irrigation energy, and fertilizer costs will be significantly more than the impact on seed and chemical costs. Higher prices for fuel, irrigation energy, and fertilizer in 2000 and 2001 raised production costs and lowered net farm income, depending upon farm type and location by an average of $2,697 to $51,685 below what it would have been without these energy price increases. Dryland farms and irrigated farms are impacted most by increasing fertilizer and irrigation energy costs, respectively, and both kinds of cost increases are due to higher natural gas prices.
23777988|The Great Plains economy is influenced much more by federal spending and taxation than is the nation as a whole. Results were generated from analyzing federal fiscal activities at three different levels: a state-by-state analysis, an analysis of the 478-county region, and an analysis by county category for two Great Plains states (Nebraska and South Dakota). In several Great Plains states, federal spending represents well in excess of 25% of the state's economic activity. Federal spending, especially farm program payments, are of particular significance to nonmetropolitan counties in the Great Plains. This level of federal dependency, coupled with recent and proposed changes in federal programs and policies, make this a critical time for Great Plains residents and their advocates and political leaders. Much additional research is needed to help inform the relevant constituencies regarding the scope and importance of federal programs to the Great Plains region.
23775667|The weather of 1849 in the central Great Plains and western interior of the United States has been reconstructed in numerous analyses of diaries from the mass migration to the California goldfields, military post records, and other archival materials. These studies have demonstrated that the spring and summer periods of 1849 were unusually cold and wet, particularly in the eastern region of the Oregon Trail (near Kansas City). Historical sources from the valley of the Red River of the North of Norht Dakota, Minnesota, and Manitoba support this contention and extend the climatic reconstruction 1,000 km northward. Spring breakup of the Red River was exceptionally late, snow fell in the Red River Settlement on several days in late May, and widespread, heavy rainfall from June to August caused unusual and protracted flooding of the Red River and its tributaries. Instrumental records from Fort Snelling and Norway House confirm the anecdotal accounts. Similarly abnormal weather was produced by the July, 1958 synoptic pattern and it is suggested that this pattern may provide a suitable large-scale analog than others which have been suggested. As unusual as these observations appear to be when compared with the modern record, they may have been more typical of conditions on the Great Plains in the first half of the nineteenth century.
23803420|The relationship between political theory and economic development is often overlooked. In this research, political theorizing about what makes democracies work is linked to the production of wealth in rural Nebraska towns. Evidence shows that social capital in rural settings actually can help with economic development. The evidence also shows that suburban towns may actually inhibit the development of social capital.
23779538|The purpose of our project was to investigate well-functioning adolescents to identify familial influences that may account for their positive developmental outcomes and healthy life choices. A family systems perspective was used to conceptualize this project. More than 300 teenagers were surveyed about family influences on adolescent outcomes. Results indicated that teen religiosity, parental warmth, parental monitoring, and a low occurrence of stressful life events were related to teen depression, participation in risky behaviors, and parental-teen conflict. General conclusions were drawn about the importance of the family environment on teen behavior and the usefulness of a systems point of view when studying individual behavior.
23777767|For the majority of Native American tribes on the Great Plains, contact with Euro-Americans resulted in a number of changes in their lifeways. For the Omaha tribe, the introduction of both the horse and firearms meant a diversification in nutritional strategies and a florescence in their culture. After being confined to their reservation in 1855, the Omaha continued to remain largely self-sufficient in food production. During the early years of the reservation until the turn of the century, the Omaha were highly successful farmers, producing surpluses of cash and garden variety crops. In this paper I argue that today the situation is quite different. Few Omaha are able to produce their own food as most of their land has either been sold or leased. The tribe's dependency on processed, store-bought foods and government commodities has increased dramatically in the last fifty years. From an analysis of changing foodways over the past 200 years I conclude that, associated with this dependency, is a marked increase in chronic dietary diseases such as diabetes and obesity.
23775578|In 1976, a study by the Judicial Services Division of the Bureau of Indian Affairs concluded that insufficient information is available on Indian tribal courts, suggesting that they have been largely ignored by historians and political scientists alike. By examining a specific court the Oglala Sioux Tribal Court a fuller understanding of its vital role in the operation of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation can be gained. From 1870 to the present, the Oglala Sioux Tribal Court has experienced a series of changes dictated by federal Indian policy including the replacement of tribal legal traditions with federal laws such as the Major Crimes Act of 1885. The passage of the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA) in 1934 and the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968 brought a new era to the tribal court. Today, severe budget restrictions and increasingly high crime rates have created problems for the Oglala Sioux Tribal Court. Nevertheless, the court has become the linchpin for effective tribal control of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation.
23775641|The North American buffalo (Bison bison) has survived near extinction to become a commodity (meat, hides, and hair) in a consumer-driven market. Since this is a growth industry, primarily young bulls are slaughtered for meat, while most females are used to build the herd. Bison meat is highly palatable, and previous research showed that grain-finished bison meat is low in fat and high in protein. However, bison may be grain- or grass-finished. In this study we found few differences in nutrient content of the meat between grain- or grass-finished bison. Grass-finished animals had a little more moisture (75.9 vs. 74.6 %) and less fat (1.7 vs. 2.2%). The largest difference was in fatty acid profiles (expressed as percentages of total fat), with grass-finished bison containing on average 5% more saturated fatty acids, 6% more polyunsaturated fatty acids, and 11% less monosaturated fatty acids than meat from grain-finished bison. Bison meat is low in sodium. It is also an excellent source of phosphorus, zinc, selenium, and vitamin B12, as well as, iron, niacin, vitamin B6, and other minerals and vitamins. In summary, bison meat is a low-fat, low-sodium, nutrient-dense food, making it a nutritious food, whether it is grain- or grass-finished.
23779511|Irrigation is vital to the economic activity of the west-central Great Plains. The crops grown, the distribution of center-pivot irrigation systems, and the basic transportation infrastructure is the same in northwest Kansas, northeast Colorado, and southwest Nebraska. But buyers of agricultural land face a different price for irrigated cropland in each of the states, even when the production characteristics of the land are similar. After accounting for factors like productivity and local property tax differences, we argue that it is the difference in water marketing rights between the three states that explains the price difference. The link between land values and water marketing rights is statistically developed by using Ordinary Least Squared (OLS) regression techniques. After adjusting for differences in property taxes, the analysis reveals that the implicit value of full water-marketing rights in the region is approximately $1,026 per acre. This valuation is within the range of estimates provided by other comparable studies across the country.
24156311|Employment data for women living on farms/ranches in six Wyoming counties were gathered in 1985 and 1986 as part of a farm/ranch households survey. This paper focuses on female employment and its contribution to the economic viability of farm operations, by considering the importance of women's as well as men's employment in maintaining the economic viability of farming/ranching operations during a farm crisis and a wage boom. Although an equal percentage of females and males work off-farm, the data show gender-defined patterns. While size of farm operation was a major predictor of the likelihood of engaging in off-farm employment for men, age and education level proved important predictors of women's employment off the farm. Both men and women recognized that the need for off-farm income conflicted with the perceived negative consequences for the farming operation as a result of off-farm work, but comments on the questionnaire suggest that husbands were more comfortable having their wives get a job than taking one themselves.
23779837|Currently, the northern river otter (Lontra canadensis) is listed as a threatened species in South Dakota. We determined whether adequate habitat was available for reintroducing river otters in South Dakota. The 17 rivers/creeks included in the analysis were selected according to stream size, water gradient, and water permanence. A vegetation transect was conducted and a water sample was collected at each study site, ranging from one to four per river. Rivers/creeks were rated (1 = least suitable to 5 = most suitable) according to habitat requirements of river otters in the following categories: stream characteristics, watershed features, water quality, prey availability, and other factors. Based on the habitat survey and rating criteria, rivers/creeks with high ratings have sufficient riparian habitat (vegetation bordering water), water quality, and prey availability for river otters. The five highest-rated rivers were the Bad, Big Sioux, James, North Fork of the Whetstone, and Little White.
23779428|The City of Lincoln draws water from a well field along the banks of the Platte River near Ashland. Since 1989 we have monitored the infusion of atrazine into this well field via recharge from the Platte River. Samples of water from the river, several monitoring wells and production wells were analyzed by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometer following solid phase extraction. Atrazine concentrations were found to be less than 0.1 ppb before the growing season every year through 1989-1992. Atrazine in the Platte reached maximum concentrations of 5, 11, 19, and 19 ppb respectively in these years. These increases corresponded to precipitation events and agricultural practices in the Platte River basin. Following a time delay, high concentrations were observable in the well water samples and ultimately in Lincoln municipal tap water.
23780008|High mortality from invasive cervical cancer among Mexican-descent Latinas living in the Great Plains could be substantially reduced if they would utilize screening procedures regularly. To understand possible influential factors on their screening behaviors, we investigated which variables differentiate women age 50 and older who are most compliant with cervical cancer screening guidelines from those who are less compliant. Of 184 women surveyed, 100 were compliant with a yearly Pap smear while 84 were not compliant. Discriminant function analysis revealed that, apart from the significance of sociodemographic factors and acculturation, women who were most compliant significantly received more health-care provider interventions, complied with breast cancer screening, and were more motivated to engage in general health behaviors. Findings suggest that health-care providers can help women comply successfully with cervical cancer screening guidelines by educating and referring them for Pap testing when they provide other health care services to these women.
23779439|Data collected during 1957-1989 on the Platte and North Platte rivers was analyzed to detect changes in the temporal and spacial distribution of staging sandhill cranes. The data indicate that a significant west-to-east shift in crane distribution has developed since the late 1960s. The most negative changes have occurred between Lexington and Kearney, Nebraska, where vegetation encroachment has been most pronounced. A significant increase in crane numbers between the Wood River and Highway 34 bridges is attributed to the result of vegetation scouring flows and active removal of woody vegetation.
23782172|Increasingly, private land around the world is being set aside for conservation. The Laikipia District in Kenya is one area where wildlife conservation has been relatively successful on privately owned lands. This region supports a higher diversity of large mammals than any other region in East Africa, yet only 2% of the district is formally protected. Land is mostly owned and managed by private ranchers or groups of Maasai families on "group ranches." In most private ranches, wildlife conservation and tourism have become important sources of revenue over the last two decades. Wildlife, once merely tolerated, are now considered desirable by most people. On group ranches, wildlife conservation is also gaining ground, albeit more slowly. Land on group ranches is being set aside specifically for wildlife, and income from wildlife-based tourism now supplements livestock ranching. In both types of ranches, however, land management practices may need to be refined to conserve a broader assemblage of fauna and flora. Populations of some threatened herbivores have fallen, and many ranches are experiencing woody encroachment, decreases in grass cover, and increases in bare ground and erosion. Conservation enterprises also face the challenge of achieving independence from foreign capital. They will need to diversify their income-generating activities and build local capacity. Regional coordination, though relatively strong, could be improved to provide greater scope to promote conservation. These challenges and successes illustrate the potential for private-land conservation in a region of high biodiversity.
23778875|The tallgrass prairie once was continuous throughout the eastern Great Plains. Now, scattered remnants remain. The distribution of some of the most interesting and socially valuable remnants occur along the base of the Rocky Mountains as relicts from a past era. When the species composition of these Colorado grasslands is compared with that of the eastern tallgrass prairie by an index of similarity, the relationship is clear, even though the climates of the two regions differ greatly. It is likely that this western tallgrass prairie is left over from past geologic times rather than the product of long distance seed dispersal. Today, the persistence of tallgrass prairie is threatened. These threats include urbanization, mismanagement, under-valuation by the people who inhabit the regions, and invasion by exotic plant species. These are serious, but correctable, problems. The conservation and restoration of the remaining tallgrass prairie is justified because these relicts contain valuable ecological and genetic resources for the future.
23778228|We study bison (Bos bison) herds that are managed year-long without protein or energy supplements in large mixed prairie pastures in Nebraska, South Dakota, and North Dakota. We also manage cattle (B. taurus) grazing during the growing season in separate, but adjacent pastures. Management reflects the divergent evolution of bison and cattle with their respective human cultures and landscapes. Bison exhibit a stronger preference for the perennial grasses that form the prairie matrix, and they are strongly attracted to open landscapes during the growing season. Cattle include more forbs in their diet, and they use wooded areas and riparian zones more intensively. At similar annual stocking rates, the amount of grass remaining at the start of the dormant season is higher under year-long bison grazing compared to growing season cattle grazing. There are inherent differences between bison and cattle, suggesting that they be managed differently. Under our respective management regimes, bison are less productive than cattle, but they require less processed feed and labor inputs. We recommend that the focus of mixed prairie conservation be on developing ecologically sound goals and practices for grazing management, rather than on whether bison or cattle are more appropriate grazers.
24156333|Small wetlands in the semi-arid northern prairie region are focal points for groundwater recharge. Hence the groundwater recharge function of the wetlands is an important consideration in development of wetland conservation policies. Most of the groundwater recharge from the wetlands flows to the moist margins of the wetlands and serves to maintain high vapotranspiration by the vegetation surrounding the wetlands. Only a small portion of the recharged water flows to regional aquifers, but this portion is important for sustaining groundwater resources. Wetland drainage eliminates the local flow systems, but may have little effects on regional aquifers other than a slight lowering of the groundwater levels. Further research should focus on the effects of wetland drainage on regional groundwater levels, the role of small ephemeral ponds in groundwater recharge, and the contribution of groundwater inflow to the water balance of large permanent wetlands.
23780298|Regional climate models suggest that summers in the Great Plains may become increasingly dry during this century, raising concern about the availability of water resources for irrigation and municipal water supplies. While the models predict drier conditions across the region, the impact of climate change on water availability at the local scale will depend largely upon the soils and their ability to store water during dry periods. This study presents a soil water climatology for Kansas using a climatic water balance approach. Monthly observations of temperature and precipitation for the period 19502006 are used to calculate climatologies of actual evapotranspiration, soil water utilization and recharge, and runoff at the soil unit level. Results indicate that actual evapotranspiration rates are small across the state during the winter and spring, reaching a maximum during summer. Soil water utilization is greatest during summer in eastern Kansas; soil water recharge is greatest in the spring in central Kansas and during the fall in eastern Kansas. Soil moisture surplus (runoff) is most pronounced in eastern Kansas during spring and early summer, and soil water shortages (deficit) are common year-round in western Kansas and in soils with low field capacities during the summer months.
23803424|Two sections of the Missouri River, one extending 94 km downstream from Gavins Point Dam, and the other extending 62 km downstream from Fort Randall Dam, are legally designated as National Recreational Rivers. An ichthyofaunal list and fish habitat data were needed for conservation planning by states and federal agencies (e.g., National Park Service). We collected fish during three summers from four macrohabitats, using five fish collection techniques, and measured fish habitat characteristics. Temperature, conductivity, and turbidity varied little, but substrate, depth, and velocity differed among macrohabitats (e.g., depth and velocity in the channel exceeded those elsewhere; sand dominated the substrate except in silt-laden tributary mouths and backwaters). We collected 21,699 fish of 53 species and combined our survey with others to compile a list of 92 species. Common recreational species included walleye (Sander vitreum) and catfishes (Ictaluridae). Twenty nonnative species were present. Seventy-two native species have persisted, but the pallid sturgeon (Scaphirhynchus albus) is endangered and a few other species (e.g., native minnows) may be in decline.
23779630|This paper examines the contemporary land-cover changes in two western Great Plains ecoregions between 1973 and 2000. Agriculture and other land uses can have a substantial effect on grassland cover that varies regionally depending on the primary driving forces of change. In order to better understand change, the rates, types, and causes of land conversion were examined for 1973, 1980, 1986, 1992, and 2000 using Landsat satellite data and a statistical sampling strategy. The overall estimated rate of land-cover change between 1973 and 2000 was 7.4% in the Northwestern Great Plains and 11.5% in the Western High Plains. Trends in both ecoregions have similarities, although the dynamics of change differ temporally depending on driving forces. Between 1973 and 1986, grassland cover declined when economic opportunity drove an expansion of agriculture. Between 1986 and 2000, grassland expanded as public policy and a combination of socioeconomic factors drove a conversion from agriculture to grassland.
23779774|The decisions made by individual farmers to adopt conservation practices that improve surface water quality will be of increasing importance in the 21st century. Currently, models attempting to explain pro-environmental behaviors ignore or minimize the role of individual personality characteristics. In this paper we give an overview of current research regarding how personal characteristics influence the adoption of Best Management Practices (BMPs) and propose an expansion of measured characteristics to include farmers' work motivation, environmental attitude, and moral reasoning toward the environment. Our purpose is to spur an interest in understanding the antecedents to the pro-environmental behavior of farmers that benefit surface water quality. We include several propositions regarding the direction of correlation between characteristics and pro-environmental behavior. We propose a positive correlation of pro-environmental behavior with a pro-environmental attitude, ecocentric reasoning about environmental issues, intrinsic process motivation, goal internalization motivation, and a farmer's internal self-concept. We propose a negative correlation between pro-environmental behavior and a low environmental attitude, anthropocentric reasoning about environmental issues, instrumental motivation, and a farmer's external self-concept. We also discuss policy and education implications.
23775673|The relative influences of interannual climate variability, technological development, and management strategies on crop yields are difficult to separate. Assessment of climate impacts and of an agricultural system's ability to protect crops from weather-related yield changes are important questions receiving considerable attention in view of the potential for climate change. Statistical and ecological crop-climate studies have assumed that the combined effects of technology and management have produced linear or exponential yield increases in most crops in recent years. In this study, an empirical assessment of influences of management and technology on wheat yields in north-central Colorado was made using a control crop of unmanaged native shortgrass vegetation. A signal of climate variability was identified for the native grass, and was removed from the record of wheat yields, leaving departures termed the Management-Technology Index (MTI). The shape of the MTI curve was distinctly unlike the linear or exponential trend assumed in other models. The Index showed high variability from 1940 to 1963, but from 1963 to 1982 was characterized by step-functional increases. The step-functional behavior was interpreted to reflect the process of innovation diffusion.
23779798|Wind energy has been growing rapidly in the Great Plains because of the region's favorable wind resources and because it has been stimulated by a federal production tax credit and by state renewable portfolio standards. Wind energy installations also offer economic development opportunities for rural areas. The purpose of this study was to determine the socioeconomic effects of the recent development of a wind energy center on nearby communities. Project construction occurred over a six-month period, with the workforce peaking at 269. Project operation supports 10 permanent jobs and expenditures to local businesses and households totaling $1.4 million annually. These include easement payments to landowners totaling $413,000 the first year. In addition, the project is expected to make annual local property tax payments totaling $456,000. Wind energy projects do offer substantial economic benefits to nearby communities.
23777887|This study compares recent trends in family structure between the nation and the northern Great Plains states of Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota, using census data from 1950 to 1990. I focus on patterns in two-parent and non-two parent families, and on married women in the labor force, to evaluate Popenoe's thesis that the American family has been declining since 1960. Two explanations for the differences from national trends have been proposed for families on the Great Plains: they are exceptions to national trends or they only lag behind national trends. Analysis of the rate of change from the previous decennial censuses 1930-1990 suggests that the experiences of families in the northern Great Plains states lagged rather than differed significantly from national trends. Finally, I discuss three major problems with Popenoe's thesis of "family decline": definitions, applications, and lack of historical context.
24156310|Studies have generally found rural residents to be less concerned about environmental problems than urbanites. This difference has been attributed primarily to a nature-exploitative attitude of farmers. The present study finds little support for this proposition, but an alternative explanation, derived from rational choice and exchange theory, is supported. Owner-operator farmers are different from tenants and absentee owners in their level of environmental concern and shift positions across the range of environmental issues, as do rural nonfarm and small town residents. Furthermore, urban respondents are not consistently more likely than all rural categories to show the greatest environmental concern.
23780297|Livestock gains of yearling Hereford heifers were evaluated during 19961999 on two complementary forage grasses, "Bozoisky-Select" Russian wildrye (Psathyrostachys juncea [Fisch.] Nevski) or "Hycrest" crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum [L.] Gaertn. ssp. desertorum [Fisch. ex Link] A. Love). Average daily gains were similar between light and moderate stocking rates for both Bozoisky and Hycrest, and gains trended higher for Hycrest than for Bozoisky at light stocking rates. Total annual (spring + fall) beef production (kg/ha) was consistently greater for moderate (29%46%) than for light stocking of both complementary forages. Spring gains represented >75% of the total annual beef production across forages. Average daily gains on these complementary forages were similar to those on native shortgrass steppe for the summer grazing season, but total annual beef production was two to four times greater with the complementary forages, suggesting that both Hycrest and Bozoisky can fill forage gaps and provide significant contributions to beef production.
24156315|Time series of observed seasonal temperature data from selected locations on the American Great Plains contain a great deal of information on the nature and scales of climate variations over the past century. At four long-term stations in eastern Colorado, trends of increasing mean maximum and minimum temperatures occurred in all seasons except autumn; with most warming preceding 1940. Diurnal range has been decreasing considerably in recent decades, but long-term trends are not consistent at all locations. Interannual variability has also been changed but does not show a systematic trend. Time series similarities across the Great Plains decay rapidly over short distances in and near the Rocky Mountains, but are well correlated over longer distances in a north-south direction parallel to the mountains. The shared variance of mean seasonal temperatures decreased by 50% over a north-south distance of approximately 350 miles. Significant year-to-year differences in north-south and plains-mountains temperature gradients occur across the Great Plains. Changes in north-south winter temperature gradients appear to be related to Rocky Mountain precipitation patterns and other indicators of large scale atmospheric circulation patterns. Such connections offer explanations for variations that occur on an interdecadal time scale.
23778289|In this paper we provide human service professionals with a foundation for understanding the cultural and programmatic issues necessary for effectively addressing the needs of Latinos within a context of demographic transition and decreases in public support for educational attainment, physical and mental health, and occupational success. A long tradition of deficit thinking has shaped many of the current models employed when addressing the needs of Latinos. The authors suggest "community/culturally centered" or "strengths-based" approaches, such as community based organizations (CBOs), as promising alternatives to current practices. Coalitions among CBOs can be the most effective method in creating and sustaining reform of community-based services. These coalitions can better serve Latinos by expanding human service providers' cultural awareness and redefining risk and protective factors according to the framework of the Latino communities they serve.
23780124|The number of lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens) and Ross's geese (C. rossii), hereinafter called "light geese," staging during spring in the Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley of south-central Nebraska has dramatically increased since the late 1980s. However, there has been no documentation of the abundance or distribution of light geese across the Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley and the relationship of distribution to conservation-order activities. We used aerial transect surveys and distance sampling methodology to estimate abundance and distribution of light geese in the Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley in the spring of 2001, 2002, and 2003. In 2001 at peak migration, we estimated approximately 7.3 million light geese in the Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley. In 2002 and 2003 there were approximately 1.2 million and 1.6 million light geese at peak migration, respectively. Distribution did not appear to change in relation to light goose conservation-order activities. However, there was an increased use of the Central Platte River Valley during 2002 and 2003 due to dry conditions. The Rainwater Basin and Central Platte River Valley have become a major spring staging area for light geese. Abundance and distribution appear to be related to water conditions and migration chronology.
23779799|Between February 4 and 7, 1865, Cheyenne, Sioux, and Arapaho warriors engaged a force of U.S. Army soldiers at Mud Springs, Nebraska. Historical records from both sides indicate that this fight marked an early phase of the Indian Wars. Based on systematic metal detections, firearms identification, and terrain analysis, this paper adds archeological insights into the arms and tactics used by the opposing sides. Well-armed Native fighters used terrain to approach U.S. troops, who maintained a defensive posture. U.S. soldiers appear to have dug a rifle pit to see approaching attackers.
23775695|Johnson and Boettcher (2000) question the status of the presettlement Platte River as a prairie river, and they argue that it was "a wooded river traversing a prairie landscape." Here we review evidence in support of the prairie river concept, suggesting the channels of the Platte were predominantly open and largely absent of trees. Direct support for a prairie river is found in the detailed map drawn by Lieutenant Woodbury in locating the site for Fort Kearny in 1847. Woodbury showed a thin strip of timber, located in an area that appeared to be elevated above the influence of active river flows. Woodbury also illustrated the main channel as having vegetated islands only in one location, with only a "scattering [of] trees" along the banks. Historical accounts, an examination of historical perspectives, the distribution of land survey witness trees, a lack of regeneration of trees following supposed deforestation, and population changes in bird distributions over the past 100 years also support the prairie river concept. We argue woodland development is not true restoration in this area. Given current conditions, we suggest that long term management should be for a mosaic of habitats for migratory birds and other species including 10% open river channel in the Big Bend reach of the Platte River in central Nebraska.
23779534|The Platte River has changed from a nearly treeless prairie river to a heavily forested river. These habitat changes have likely benefited many woodland birds, but have harmed other migratory birds such as cranes. In response to this impact on migratory birds, conservation groups implemented a tree-clearing program to enhance habitat for these species. This practice is not without controversy because of concerns about its effect on woodland birds. The goal of this study was to determine the composition and abundance of breeding birds that use these forests and discuss the potential impacts of tree clearing on woodland birds. Surveys were conducted using the point-count method. I observed 56 breeding species during 1998 and 1999. The most abundant woodland birds were house wrens (Troglodytes aedon), Baltimore orioles (Icterus galbula), American goldfinches (Carduelis tristis), blue jays (Cyanocitta cristata), common yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), eastern towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus), European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), and northern cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). The avian community is dominated by migratory species that are forest-edge and open-forest generalists. Certainly, conservationists and managers should consider the impact of the river-clearing program on woodland birds. However, a high priority must be placed on those species that are declining or have been severely impacted by the expansion of riparian forests. Ultimately, conservationists and managers must consider both the detriments and benefits of the program and make management decisions accordingly.
23779771|Once Spirit Lake Dakota Reservation was opened to white homesteading in 1904, the turnover of land from Dakota to Euro-American hands was rapid. Scandinavians, the largest foreign-born group in the state, took advantage of this land-taking opportunity and moved onto the reservation in great numbers, acquiring approximately 25% of the land within six years. In effect, while the Scandinavians lived as neighbors with the Dakota, they also became the harbinger of the dispossession of Dakota land. Using quantitative analysis of landownership specified in plat maps of the reservation in 1910, this article analyzes the gender and ethnicity of the landowners. Oral histories contextualize the processes of land taking and land dispossession. The article then takes stock of landownership in 1929, finding that Dakota landownership declined 50% in less than two decades.
23779636|Conservationists and managers mention grassland restorations as a conservation strategy to reverse the decline of grassland bird populations in the Great Plains. In the Rainwater Basin Region of south-central Nebraska, state and federal resource agencies have used grassland restorations to protect wetlands from sedimentation and agrichemical runoff. These grassland restorations may also provide important habitat for breeding grassland birds. In this paper, we describe the abundance, composition, nesting success, and habitat requirements of breeding birds in grassland restorations in the Rainwater Basin Region. We observed 14 grassland bird species in 12 grassland restorations. The most abundant species were dickcissels (Spiza americana), grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), and bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). We found a total of 84 nests composed of 11 species in restorations. Dickcissels and grasshopper sparrows accounted for 77% of all nests found. Nest success was 31% (26 nests), and the major cause of nest loss was predation, which accounted for 66% (38 nests) of all nest failures. The occurrence of 10 of the species in grassland restorations was influenced by a variety of vegetation variables. Grassland bird species have benefited from grassland restorations in the Rainwater Basin Region. Conservation strategies for grassland birds in the Rainwater Basin Region should continue to focus on restoring marginal croplands back to grasslands.
24156313|A faunal study of the five species of Lucanidae and one species of Passalidae that occur in Nebraska is presented. All of these species are near the extreme western limit of their geographic range in North America, and five of the six species are reported from Nebraska for the first time. The treatment for each species consists of synonymy, description, general distribution, Nebraska locality records, temporal distribution in the state, remarks on identification, reference to larval descriptions when available, and information about the biology and ecology of each species when known. Distribution maps, showing the Nebraska records, are given for each species. Habitus drawings of the adult of each species as well as line drawings illustrating larval characters are provided. A key to all the Nebraska species of Lucanidae is provided.
23775726|This study identifies the spatial variability of the hydroclimatology of the Great Plains. Spatial associations of monthly midtropospheric circulation anomalies, total precipitation, and mean stream discharge are identified using an unrotated principal component analysis. Three hydroclimatic associations, representing synoptic circulation features and associated precipitation and stream discharge patterns, identify specific circulation anomalies and corresponding spatial patterns of surface hydrology in the northern, central, and southern Great Plains. Results indicate that nearly 47% of the hydrologic (precipitation and stream discharge) variability during summer is attributed to synoptic-scale midtropospheric circulation anomalies, with sub-synoptic convectional processes accounting for approximately 42% of the hydrologic variance.
23779965|Historic accounts from the 19th-century western Great Plains contain significant information on Plains ungulates and other animals, particularly as they relate to provisioning the Euro-American travelers. Using data derived from these accounts, a quantitative assessment of the hunting success of the Pike, Long, Glenn, and Dodge expeditions of the early 19th century is presented to ascertain the conditions of these species in the region. These data are then used to assess historiographic models of bison overhunting. This analysis indicates that the western Southern Plains and western Central Plains had differing trajectories of overhunting explained by temporally variable human and environmental impacts.
23778440|This study examined the psychological and socio-economic dimensions of the leisure experience patterns of the expanding older adult population in the Canadian Great Plains or Prairie region. Survey data were collected from a random sample of 2,969 of persons 65 years of age and older residing in southern Saskatchewan. Results indicated that older adults have a wide range of leisure activities with involvement in numerous individual and community related pursuits. However, when differentiated by season, winter activities tended to be passive, solitary, inexpensive, and home-based activities. Moreover, important psychological dimensions in perceived health and activity of older adults did not emerge from factor analysis. The results are discussed in terms of the need for rational planning policy initiatives providing adequate leisure services within dwindling financial resources for the widely dispersed, aging populations of the Prairie or Great Plains regions of North America.
23775645|For over 100 years, bison in the Greater Yellowstone Area have been managed intensely. Even during the years of natural regulation, bison herds have been heavily managed by culling. One of the fundamental goals of the plan for the Greater Yellowstone Area is to maintain the ecosystem's integrity using sound science. In order to reach this goal, it must be recognized that it is a dynamic system, continually undergoing change. However, our knowledge of such changes is extremely limited. In the case of bison, our knowledge is based on non-systematically collected historic records and modern studies of small, isolated populations. In contrast, the prehistoric record can provide a millennia-long record, providing a baseline of pre-European conditions against which the modern situation can be assessed and future management decisions can be made. In this paper, I discuss the application of new and emerging techniques (e.g., stable isotope analysis, pollen and phytolith analysis, and DNA extraction) in the reconstruction of the biology and ecology of prehistoric bison and in contemporary management of bison.
23778879|Widespread economic problems in rural areas have stimulated interest in rural economic development, and particularly in locally-based development initiatives. This paper describes and evaluates a state/local economic development initiative that has been operational in North Dakota for almost ten yearscreation of regional economic development funds financed by local option sales taxes. Data collected through interviews with managers of seven such funds, which have been operating from one to eight years, provide the basis for describing the economic development activities supported by the funds and the results of those efforts. The findings show that the businesses assisted have resulted in creation of substantial numbers of jobs. Six of the funds, which had been operating from four to eight years, provided support to businesses that created almost 4,500 jobs. Of the businesses supported, 89% were still operating at the time the study was conducted. The regional funds appear to be an effective economic development tool and also offer a mechanism for multi-community collaboration to achieve development goals. Additional research is needed to (1) identify key factors associated with success of these initiatives, and (2) quantify the extent to which the observed job creation can be attributed directly to the activities of the regional funds, by use of a "control group" of communities without such development programs.
23775555|The referendum and initiative processes were used six times between 1982 and 1994 to address the issue of gaming in South Dakota. Four of the six votes resulted in pro-gaming outcomes. This study examines how and why voters in the state's sixty-six counties varied geographically in their levels of gaming support over time. Five different ways of regionalizing the state are advanced as possible explanations, and then analyzed using maps, analysis of variance tests, and eta correlation coefficients. The popular East RiverWest River cultural-political divide is found to serve as the best explanation of the geographical distribution of gaming support for only one of the six votes. The other five were better explained by regions delineated by Hogan in the Geography of South Dakota, or by voting regions derived inductively through principal components analysis in the present study.
23803425|The Platte rivers and associated habitats are major wintering areas for Canada geese (Branta canadensis) in Nebraska. The objective of this study was to examine changes in abundance and distribution of Canada geese along the Platte River system during 1960-2000. We used counts of Canada geese based on aerial surveys from the annual Mid-Winter Survey (MWS). The entire lengths of the North and South Platte rivers and the Platte River were surveyed, and counts of Canada geese were made by visual estimation. We examined changes in goose numbers for the North and South Platte rivers, and divided the Platte River into two main sections (Central and East) over four time periods (i.e., decades). There appeared to be change in the distribution of Canada geese along the Platte River system; however, wintering Canada geese increased (>500%) on all river sections from the decades 1960-1969 to 1990-2000. Changes in the distribution and abundance of wintering Canada geese along the Platte reflect increases in populations in the Central Flyway and habitat changes that have benefited wintering geese.
23774309|In December 1987, The Great Plains: From Dust to Dust, a Daring Proposal for Dealing With an Inevitable Disaster," by Frank and Deborah Popper appeared in Planning, a journal of the American Planning Association. While many alternatives have been suggested to solve the environmental, social, and economic problems of the region, the Poppers Buffalo Commons thesis quickly made regional and national headlines. Since 1987, the Poppers, while writing and speaking on this topic at length, have failed to substantiate many of their arguments. Meanwhile, their somewhat facile assumptions have attracted a wide and sometimes favorable audience. This paper contains three section: in the first, we will summarize the major ideas of the proposal; second, we will identify its major methodological weaknesses; and in the conclusion, we will link the proposals implicit and controversial assumptions to a wider geographical context.
23777883|Remnant populations of the greater prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) in Kansas are managed to maintain population size while providing recreational hunting potential. Our aim in this study was to evaluate the effect of adding an early hunting season (late September-October) to the regular season (November-late January). We compared the hunting methods used and the harvest of greater prairie chickens during early and regular hunting seasons for 1990-91 and 1991-92. The use of dogs and walkup hunting techniques were emphasized in early season, whereas pass shooting in feeding fields was emphasized in the regular season. During early season, the reported harvest was composed predominantly of males (55-74%) and juveniles (60-67%). During regular season, the harvest was also composed of more males than females (60% for both years), but it had a similar proportion of adults to juveniles (50-58%). The ratio of males:females varied between each seasons for the two years analyzed. However, the ratio of juveniles:adults was similar between years and larger during early season than during regular season. Juvenile survival is generally lower than adult survival; so, harvesting a larger proportion of juveniles during the early season may mitigate some of the effect of an extended hunting season.
23777882|In the west-central Great Plains, the risk of soil erosion due to wind is high, particularly during winter. One way to reduce soil erosion is to plant winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) early in the season, so that the crop establishes four tillers prior to the onset of winter dormancy. Currently, however, wheat is seeded late in the planting season to reduce disease and insect infestation. In this study, we evaluated potential soil erosion in relation to seeding date. Using historical climate data, we determined the probability that winter wheat plants will establish four tillers prior to dormancy at 55 sites throughout the west-central Great Plains using current seeding dates. For many locations, the currently recommended planting date results in a low probability of achieving the growth required to reduce soil erosion. Planting one to three weeks earlier would reduce the potential of soil erosion during winter months. The use of earlier seeding dates, however, will depend upon the development of wheat cultivars that have improved disease and insect resistance.
24156338|Assessments of wetland restorations in the prairie region are not done routinely and no accepted assessment framework exists. Wetland assessment protocols in the U.S. have varied over time from those emphasizing social significance to those attempting to quantify functions of wetlands from hydrogeomorphic considerations. A conceptual framework for restoration decision-making is presented that is based on optimizing wetland restoration success at both the landscape and site scales. This framework uses societal concerns, knowledge of factors that limit ecosystem recovery, and data on losses of different types of wetlands locally and regionally to establish restoration goals and guide site selection. These goals in turn generate restoration expectations or targets. Currently, restoration expectations are usually formulated only at the basin scale. Prairie pothole wetlands, however, were historically part of wetland complexes. Consequently, restoration efforts should focus on restoring complexes not isolated wetlands. Wetland restoration decision-making thus requires that landscape-level restoration expectations be part of all prairie pothole restorations. Landscape-level expectations should also be used in the assessment of these projects. Reference wetlands or historic data from the wetland and wetland complexes to be restored are used to develop these restoration expectations.
23779968|Political and socioeconomic pressures on riparian areas in semiarid regions of the Great Plains are growing as water resources become more limited. Management along waterways has altered stream ecology and hydrology in ways that encourage the invasion and expansion of native (e.g., Juniperus virginiana) and non-native (e.g., Tamarix sp. and Elaeagnus angustifolia) woody species. One management tool currently implemented to restore the hydrology or increase water yields along waterways in semiarid areas is the removal of vegetation or invasive species. How managers should respond to invasive woody plants to optimize hydrological functions without compromising other riparian ecosystem functions is still debatable. In this manuscript, we provide an overview of the ecological status and hydrological role of riparian vegetation in the northern Great Plains, with examples drawn from the region and other semiarid areas. Additionally, we present information compiled from published studies on water consumption of native and non-native species at both tree and stand levels, and we evaluate the ecohydrological outcomes from removal of invasive woody vegetation. Lastly, we consider the economic costs and benefits of woody species removal, and suggest considerations to help managers make decisions regarding woody species removal.
23777989|This paper examines the residential preferences of rural Nebraskans. Data from the 1998 Nebraska Rural Poll were analyzed at two levels. First, the residential preferences of rural Nebraskans were compared to those of the general population of the United States. Second, the relationships between the attributes of the respondents' current community and their residential preferences were examined. Current community size, the social attributes of the community, and evaluations of local community services were all determined to be important influences on residential preferences. The findings illustrate the possible positive impact on rural Great Plains communities of enhancing social interaction and creatively providing service delivery.
23780061|In the next decades, aging farmers in the United States will make decisions that affect almost 1 billion acres of land. The future of this land will become more uncertain as farm transfer becomes more difficult, potentially changing the structure of agriculture through farm consolidation, changes in farm ownership and management, or taking land out of production. The Great Plains Population and Environment Project interviewed farmers and their spouses between 1997 and 1999. Farm Family Survey participants were ambiguous about their plans to leave farming, transfer land to others, and even long-term land use, largely due to concerns about the continued economic viability of farming. Participants living far from metropolitan areas expected to sell or rent to other farmers, while those near residential real-estate markets expected to sell to developers. Delays in planning for retirement and succession were common, further threatening the success of intergenerational transitions.
23778876|Recent international agreements for controlling emissions of greenhouse gases have focused the attention of both the climate research and policy communities on strategies for reducing the production and emission of these radiatively active substances. Most approaches have adopted a top down perspective, where mitigation strategies are framed at the level of national governments. However, emissions occur at local, rather than national scales. We describe a study aimed at documenting greenhouse gas emissions from a local area in the High Plains of southwestern Kansas that is currently undergoing marked economic change and population increase in response to restructuring of the meat packing industry. We estimate volume and source of emissions for three greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide, and contrast the relative importance of gas emissions at the local, state, and national level. The relative amounts of greenhouse gas emissions and the processes that produce them were found to vary considerably across these three geographic scales. In the study area, agribusiness is the leading source of methane and the greatest overall contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. Utilities and the natural gas industry contributed the largest amounts of carbon dioxide, ranking second and third in overall contribution to greenhouse gas levels, respectively. The proportion of total global warming potential (GWP) contributed by CH4 is somewhat higher at the local level than at the state or national levels. Contribution to total GWP by N2O in the local area is roughly equivalent to the larger geographic areas. Overall, the relative importance of various emission sources shows considerable contrasts across scale.
23780129|The Dust Bowl is a historical vernacular region that has been delimited by a diverse group of academics, literary authors, and popular cultural voices. However, the general public's perception of the Dust Bowl region has not been mapped and analyzed. This research queried residents of 93 Great Plains counties in order to ascertain their perceptions and knowledge of the vernacular Dust Bowl region. Analysis of the responses via the application of geographic information system mapping reveals striking differences between respondents of varying age and place of residence. Findings suggest that spatial understanding of the Dust Bowl phenomena is eroding among young people in the Great Plains. Diminished knowledge of human-environment dynamics should raise concerns in light of the recurrent nature of drought in the region.
23779967|The construction of the Oahe Dam on the Missouri River eliminated thousands of acres of riparian and floodplain lands on the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation in South Dakota. Restoration is needed to replace wildlife habitat. This study focused on site selection for native cottonwood (Populus deltoides Bartr. Ex Marsh. ssp. Monilifers (Ait.) Eckenwalde) restoration to help mitigate this loss. Geographic information systems technologies were used to develop a suitability model for cottonwood restoration. Tribal lands were extracted from a digital dataset of landownership. Those touched by or included in a 46 m border of the Moreau River were candidate sites. Of the 182 candidates, 50 sites were randomly selected for model development. Slope, aspect, stream length and number, soil properties, and land cover criteria were given a numeric score and these were summed; the lowest total score possible was -7 and the highest score possible was 33. The sample sites were evaluated and ranked as high (21 to 33, 7 sites), medium (7 to 20, 35 sites), or low (-7 to 6, 8 sites) for growth and maintenance of riparian cottonwood forests. Five sites were selected for cottonwood restoration using the model developed. Bare root trees were planted mechanically and by hand. Drought conditions limited survival and 50% of the area was replanted. Further data collection may increase the use of geographic information system (GIS) technology and facilitate site selection for cottonwood restoration in the northern Great Plains.
23777766|The Great Plains are sometimes characterized as an economically lagging region. To shed some light on the region's prospects, the locational and structural changes in employment patterns in the northern and central Great Plains were examined for the 1980 to 1990 period. County-level data were drawn from CD-ROM census publications and matched with locational references using Atlas*GIS. Shift-share computations were undertaken for the region as a whole and for metropolitan and nonmetropolitan counties. Employment declined sharply in agriculture and construction, but increased in the service sectors. Compared with the nation as a whole, the region competed poorly in many sectors, though it performed superbly in manufacturing and came close to holding its own in the business service and public administration sectors. Prospects appear bright for the metropolitan centers on the region's periphery, but the bulk of the territory will likely see only localized points of growth.
23779567|It is a common belief that the black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) was an extremely abundant species throughout the Great Plains prior to European settlement. We examined accounts from explorers, naturalists, and travelers in the Great Plains in the 19th and 20th centuries and found few that adequately document the relative abundance and distribution to support this view. Immense prairie dog colonies existed in the western Great Plains before Euro-American settlement, but it appears that the eastern Great Plains supported only localized populations. Historic accounts also indicate that the easternmost extent of the black-tailed prairie dog's range before settlement was at or west of the 98th meridian, which is largely west of the tallgrass prairie. We believe that the recent determination to list the species as threatened under the Endangered Species Act is flawed because presettlement distribution and abundance were overstated.
23777815|In this paper we explore two potential sources of variation in the life experiences of Latinos in the United States: region of the country in which a group resides and national origin. Although scholars have recognized the theoretical importance of these two variables, few studies have empirically examined the relationship of region of the country and national origin to socioeconomic variables such as occupation, education, and income or to cultural variables such as bilingualism and English language proficiency. Data from the 1990 U.S. Census 5% Public Use Micro Sample show that both the social structural and cultural experiences of Latinos in regions where they are few in number, such as the Great Plains, is significantly different than those of Latinos living in other parts of the country. Findings strongly suggest 1) that inferences drawn from historically Latino regional samples will not be valid for populations living in other areas of the country, and 2) that inferences based on the Latino population at large obscure substantial variation in the experiences of specific national origin Latino subgroups.
23780062|Anti-spit tobacco information is replete with fear appeals, including firsthand accounts of death and debilitation, to make users aware of the health risks and dangers. Those dangers, however, are well known by baseball players whose association with spit tobacco is historic. A survey of 217 Iowa and Nebraska college players showed that despite their awareness of spit tobacco's dangers, the players use spit tobacco to relax and focus on the field. This study supports other research showing that fear appeals may not be the most appropriate approach for anti-tobacco advertising campaigns. The study suggests that campaigns should promote relaxation and stress reduction techniques as alternatives to spit tobacco.
23779800|River salinization is a byproduct of water resource development that results from cumulative impacts of flow-regime modifications and crop irrigation. However, historical salinization in the Lower Pecos River is often attributed to natural, high-salinity groundwater. Here, evidence from literature and U.S. Geological Survey gaging stations is reviewed to summarize historical changes associated with water development that potentially contributed to Pecos River salinization. A suite of hydrological changes, initiated in the 1880s, likely contributed to streamflow salinization: (1) reduced flood frequency and magnitude, (2) diminished streamflow, (3) increased evapotranspiration, and (4) increased prevalence of natural, high-salinity groundwater. Salinization is presently highest where these cumulative impacts were greatest (Red Bluff Dam to Girvin, Texas). Prior to water-resource development, higher, fresher streamflows and periodic floods diluted natural, high-salinity groundwater inflows and continuously exported salts from the drainage. Predevelopment salinity was low enough to support at least 44 native fishes, 13 of which have disappeared from the region. Only seven euryhaline natives remain in the most salinized river reach. However, flow-regime restoration and improved irrigation practice could potentially reduce salinization and partially restore a freshwater fauna.
23774314|In 1883 the U.S. General Land Office conducted the sale of the eastern remnant of the Big Blue reservation in Nebraska and Kansas for the benefit of its owners, the Otoe-Missouria Indians. The property sold for an average of $12.22 an acre. It was the highest per-acre price ever offered for Indian lands on the Central and Northern Great Plains. Before the first year of white settlement had come to an end, however, many landholders began to petition federal authorities for payment-time extensions and, eventually, debt reductions. They argued that they had been "forced" to pay more for their lands than what they were actually worth. In the end, after nearly two decades of well-organized white agitation, the politically disadvantaged Otoe-Missourias were compelled to accept an "adjustment" on the outstanding debts due them. This amounted to a loss to the Indians of approximately $169,000. Were the settlers justified in their demands for price reductions? More specifically, were the various contentions that they had based their collective argument on truly valid? This paper will discuss these and other secondarily related questions by means of an inspection of the written historical record, as well as by a quantitative and qualitative analysis of land valuation and ownership data contained in the county deed records.
23779535|Named for the state where it was discovered, Cicindela nebraskana Casey is among the rarest insects in Nebraska. Although this beetle was described in 1909, only nine specimens had been collected in Nebraska in the 95 years before we conducted surveys in 2003 and 2004 in the extreme western portion of the state. Because of scant records, little was known about the Nebraska populations relative to populations of the species in the remainder of the western United States. We discovered two populations in Sioux and Scotts Bluff counties. We review the taxonomy of this species and document its habitat and adult seasonality. This information is vital to conserving this extremely rare species in the Great Plains.
23777986|The growth, condition, and mortality of black crappie, bluegill, and yellow perch were measured in 30 Nebraska Sand Hills lakes (1998, 1999) to determine the value of these parameters in these fish populations compared to other Great Plains populations. Growth was variable for all three fish species, but similar to or higher than populations in other midwestern states. Bluegill condition, as measured by mean relative weight, ranged from 115 to 123, indicating these populations were in very good condition. Mean relative weight by length for black crappie ranged from 94 to 114, but only 83 to 95 for yellow perch. Mean total annual mortality did not vary significantly among the three species, with 38.6% for black crappie, 30.9% for bluegill, and 37.9% for yellow perch (p > 0.50). These mortality estimates were similar to other lightly exploited or unexploited midwestern populations. This study indicates that high-quality panfish populations in the Nebraska Sand Hills had characteristic growth, condition, and mortality traits, and it provides baseline information for future comparisons with other Great Plains fish populations.
23777813|Scholars who have studied the political behavior of residents of Canada's province of Saskatchewan conclude that members of minority groups such as Roman Catholics and people of Central and Eastern European background voted Liberal much more frequently than Conservative, at least prior to the 1930s. There is no reason to question this conclusion when voting throughout the province by a specific minority is considered. However, the same is not always found to be true when the voting behavior of a particular minority group in a single constituency is examined. This paper discusses the German Catholics of the Humboldt Constituency of Saskatchewan and shows that, while they initially strongly favoured the Liberal party, they soon became disillusioned with its position on elementary schools and gave clear evidence of their discontent at election time.
23780128|Groundwater is critical to many aspects of life on the Great Plains. Overdevelopment of this resource can have serious social, economic, and environmental consequences. Aquifer depletion criteria are used in many areas of the Great Plains to implement management responses and limit groundwater development. This study addresses groundwater-level triggers and depletion limitscriteria commonly used in Nebraskawithin the context of interconnected ground- and surface-water systems. Generic models are used to calculate transient water budgets in three hypothetical systems given depletion limits of 5%, 10%, 15%, and 25%. In each simulation, the source of water to the wells changes from aquifer depletion to surface-water depletion, but at rates varying from 1 day to several hundred years. Separate simulations test the effectiveness of groundwater-level triggers at achieving a desired depletion limit. Results suggest that universal application of generic depletion criteria may lead to unintended consequences such as excessive surface-water depletion, excessive aquifer depletion, or conversely, unnecessary constraints on pumping. A holistic process framework for groundwater management is presented to promote the use of aquifer depletion criteria in conjunction with an adaptive management strategy. Such strategies can help ensure the future sustainability of water resources in Nebraska and elsewhere in the Great Plains.
23779839|The purpose of this study was to examine the local socioeconomic impacts of new economic development initiatives in North Dakota's rural (nonmetropolitan) communities. The analysis utilized interview, survey, and secondary data from four communities with recently developed agricultural processing plants, three with manufacturing and/or exported services facilities, and two control communities (i.e., towns that had not experienced the advent of a major new employer during the 1990s). Information from the two groups of development communities and the control communities is compared and contrasted to discern similarities and differences in the effects of the different types of development initiatives and to develop a set of general principles and recommended actions for community leaders to follow when planning for a new employer.
23804539|Over the past 25 years, the James River in North and South Dakota has experienced records in minimum and maximum discharge. Our objectives were to compare: (1) the fish community in the main river after dry (1988-90) and wet (1993-2000) years, and (2) the fish community of both the main river and tributaries between dry (1975) and wet (1998-2000) years. In South Dakota in the main river, there were 10 families and 29 species after several dry years and 11 families and 35 species after several wet years. Percichthyidae was the additional family after the wet years. Basinwide, there were 41 species present after the dry 1970s and 50 species after the wet 1990s. Overall, 93% of the species collected in 1975 have persisted. Our results provide some support for the flood pulse concept, and the findings suggest that the fish community can be useful for biomonitoring of prairie streams.
23779480|Intensive, in-depth interviews were conducted with 45 non-Hispanic white residents of three rural Nebraska meatpacking communities. The purpose of the investigation was to document (1) perceptions of community change; (2) community-wide benefits of a new Latino population; and (3) strategies for strengthening multi-ethnic rural communities. Data were analyzed using Thematic Analyses (Aronson 1994). Application of the findings, for strengthening rural communities, is discussed.
23780292|Ranchers in Cimarron County, Oklahoma, have turned to leasing school trust land to sustain and sometimes expand their operations. Changes in the land tenure process have undergone profound transformations in the last 20 years, greatly impacting land use in the region. Coupled with an almost decade-long drought, land managers pursuing seemingly "traditional" agricultural practices call upon increasingly complicated, mixed private and public tenure options in order to make ends meet. Using a political ecology framework, we examine conflicting relationships between school land, the state, and local land managers as well as the sustainability of cattle ranching on school trust land in Cimarron County, Oklahoma. We conclude that school trust land needs to be re-envisioned in order to ensure the greatest good for the greatest number of people as well as to uphold traditional rights and livelihoods of those in Cimarron County.
23775612|Canada as an historically contingent society, developing within the context of its own internal evolution, has always framed its becoming in its changing political, economic, and cultural relationships with the United States. The border takes on special significance for Canadians as it serves as the basic reference point for historical, literal, symbolic, and psychological interpretations of identity. Yet the meanings assigned to the border vary regionally because of different historic-geographical experiences. This paper examines different types of population, economic, political, and cultural interactions taking place across the border within what can be called the international region of the Great Plains. It attempts to identify and elucidate those forces which served to integrate and differentiate those societies developing on both sides of the forty-ninth parallel. To this end, the paper makes some judgement as to the relevance of the Borderlands thesis in understanding Canadian-American relationships in this part of North America.
23779597|During spring migration, sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) rely on the central Platte River valley in Nebraska as a staging area to replenish depleted energy and nutrient reserves. From mid-February to mid-April 1998-2001, we conducted ground and aerial surveys of sandhill cranes in the central Platte River valley. Peak numbers of sandhill cranes (121,000-285,000 cranes) detected during ground surveys occurred in mid-March (1998, 2001) or early March (1999, 2000). From 42% to 55% of the cranes occurred in cornfields, 26%-38% in lowland grassland, 7%-13% in alfalfa, and 2%-12% in other habitats (soybean, winter wheat, shrub-grassland, upland grassland). In general, sandhill cranes preferred channel widths >150 m and avoided channel widths <100 m. Channel widths at roost sites were significantly wider (P < 0.001) than channel widths at unused sites (229 m + 2.9 S.E. vs. 83 m + 2.1 S.E.). Our research suggests future management of sandhill cranes in central Nebraska should include protecting and restoring critical habitats, maintaining appropriate stream flows, and providing adequate river channel widths and food resources.
23778438|Changes in wetlands in the vicinity of the Phelps and E65 canals operated by Central Nebraska Public Power and Irrigation District in Southcentral Nebraska were examined using aerial photographs taken on seven occasions from 1938 to 1981. According to previous research, nearly 90% of the original wetlands within the surrounding Rainwater Basin were destroyed or altered by draining and filling between 1900 and 1980. Within a zone extending 10 kilometers on each side of the Phelps and E65 canals, however, we observed an increase in the number and total area of wetlands, which we hypothesize to have been caused by an elevated groundwater table. Of additional importance for wildlife management, there was a notable decrease in wetlands temporarily flooded for 2 months or less, and a notable increase in wetlands seasonally flooded for 3 to 5 months each year. These changes were most conspicuous after 1969.
23779632|The economic issues that often arise from Native land acquisition and development can strain relationships between American Indian tribes and non-Indian local governments. As Indian tribes expand their landholdings, political and economic landscapes are transformed. This paper examines intergovernmental relationships and the characteristics and impacts of recent land acquisitions made by two Dakota Indian communities in the Minnesota River Valley of Minnesota. The Upper Sioux Community has enjoyed a level of cooperation from local communities in their rural land acquisitions, while the Shakopee Mdewakanton Dakota Community has experienced vigorous opposition to their urban land acquisitions. Geographic situation may help to explain the variation in level of opposition or support for Native land acquisition, as well as the possibilities for Native land possession vs. ownership.
23775724|Monthly precipitation data in the Great Plains from the late nineteenth century (1851-1890) were compared with modern analogs. Seasonal precipitation changes were identified since 1858-1877, depending on the amount of data available, and additional droughts were inferred back to 1851. Regional droughts did not clearly fit any cycle. Precipitation during fall and winter was less than 1951-1980 averages during most of the late nineteenth century. Wetter than modern average springs and summers occurred in the mid-1870s to the mid-1880s. Relationships of these conditions to changes in mid-tropospheric circulation are suggested. Results from this study can be used for verification of dendroclimatic reconstructions and assessment of climatic impact on settlement.
23777814|The microclimate of an aboriginal winter campsite, set in an incised, south-facing meander of a small creek, is compared to the conditions on the adjacent open prairie at Wanuskewin Heritage Park, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Maximum and minimum temperatures and wind speeds were measured daily, on the prairie and in the valley, along with temperatures in a modern canvas tipi erected in the valley. Maximum temperatures tended to be about 1C higher in the valley, and 2C higher in the tipi, than on the prairie, while minima were 1-2C lower. Wind speeds were reduced to about 50% in the valley. Windchill factors, derived from these data, were reduced between 200 and 250 W m-2, suggesting that the valley site afforded considerable benefit as a winter habitation site.
23775699|Tiger beetles are common predators in open habitats throughout the Great Plains, including the eastern salt marshes. Adult tiger beetles are active searchers that attack and eat small insects. By contrast, their larvae are sit-and-wait predators that form permanent burrows and depend on prey moving within striking distance. We hypothesized that adults and larvae of the tiger beetle, Cicindela togata globicollis Casey, would differ in their utilization of lipid (fat) energy reserves, such as fatty acids, based on differences in the likelihood of starvation. To investigate this, we determined the fatty acid profiles from larvae and adult tiger beetles. We found that normally-feeding adults and larvae did not differ substantially in their fatty acid profiles. But, after fasting for a two-week period, larvae selectively used their lipid reserves while adults did not. Moreover, in contrast to all other insect species studied, we found that larval tiger beetles were not able to biosynthesize fatty acids from acetate. Our findings suggest that larvae optimize the use of fatty acids to allow for a lengthy larval developmental period in environments, such as the Great Plains, that provide unreliable and unpredictable food resources.
23778233|Populations of the greater prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) in Kansas are managed to maintain population size while providing recreational hunting potential. Our aim in this study was to evaluate the effect of adding an early hunting season (late September-October) to the regular season (November-late January). We compared the hunting methods used and the harvest of greater prairie-chickens during early and regular hunting seasons for 1990-91 and 1991-92. The use of dogs and walkup hunting techniques were emphasized in early season, whereas pass shooting in feeding fields was emphasized in the regular season. During early season, the reported harvest was composed predominantly of males (55-66%) and juveniles (60-67%). During regular season, the harvest was also composed of more males than females both years combined, but it had a similar proportion of juveniles to adults (50-58%). The ratio of males:females varied between each season for the two years analyzed. However, the ratio of juveniles:adults was similar between years and larger during early seasons than during regular seasons. Juvenile survival is generally lower than adult survival; so, harvesting a larger proportion of juveniles during the early season may mitigate some of the effect of an extended hunting season.
23779635|Responses of hazelnut hybrids (88BS, BOX1, G17, and GEL502) to water availability (watered and nonwatered) were examined in the field. The study site received 35% of long-term average precipitation between July and September. Photosynthesis (A), stomatal conductance (gs), water potential (), and specific leaf area were generally lower in the nonwatered than in the watered treatment and exhibited significant seasonal decline, which was accompanied by an increase in water use efficiency (WUE) under both water treatments. Hybrids exhibited different strategies to cope with water availability. The hybrid 88BS was more water conserving, with the most decline in gs, the least gradient in , and the lowest discrimination against 13C than in the remaining hybrids, indicating that 88BS responded to drought by increasing WUE and conserving water. BOX1 was more of a water spender, maintaining both higher gs and A, low sensitivity of gs to vapor pressure deficit (VPD) increase, largest gradient in , and the most negative carbon isotope ratio, indicating a higher capacity to absorb soil water and reach limited resources. GEL502 and G17 were more affected by water stress than were 88BS or BOX1. We conclude that relatively drought-resistant hazelnut hybrids suitable for the Great Plains can be identified for successful plantations.
23779484|Noncredit English as a Second Language (ESL) classes often serve as a starting place for new immigrants aged eighteen or older who want to learn survival English. The students attending these classes are widely diverse in terms of motivations, educational and cultural backgrounds, English-language fluency, life experiences, and learning styles. Classes are designed to equip these adult learners with basic English-language abilities in the context of the situations they are likely to encounter daily at work and in the community. This personal essay explores the challenges faced and the strengths revealed by students in these classes as witnessed by an instructor of these courses. Observations suggest that the strong work ethic, spirit of cooperation, and goodwill toward others that are displayed by these most recent immigrants to the Great Plains not only promise their success, but link them to earlier immigrants to the region.
23775577|Frederick Purshs Flora Americae Septentrionalis (1814) is considered to be the standard flora of the nineteenth century. Additional floras of this period were developed by Nuttall, Elliott, and Torrey and Gray. We know that Meriwether Lewis collected some herbarium specimens that contributed to Purshs Flora during the Lewis and Clark Expedition of 1804-1806. Purshs Flora was the first to include plants of the Pacific Northwest. A number of the specimens Lewis collected are in the Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Those who use the Herbarium know and appreciate the contribution of Lewis to botany. Twenty-four of the illustration plates in Flora were drawn by Pursh directly from the specimens. Included are explanations of the origin of the specimens, elucidation of the illustrators, final deposition of the specimens, and notes on the history of the collection and handling and on the process of the drawing. What is not known is the destination of drawings deposited with Clark and why at least one drawing on deposit with the American Philosophical Society differs so radically from that in Purshs Flora.
23779537|A cross-sectional design was used to assess the language skills and prevalence of language disorders among 84 randomly selected public school children (K-5) receiving special education services for emotional and behavioral disorders (EBD). The mean receptive language standard score fell in the nonclinical range, whereas the mean total and expressive standard scores fell in the clinical range. The prevalence rates of total, expressive, and receptive disorders among children with EBD were 54%, 55%, and 42%, respectively. Approximately two-thirds of children experienced a language disorder (i.e., total, expressive, and/or receptive). Half of those experiencing a language disorder met clinical criteria in all language areas (i.e., total, receptive, and expressive). Approximately 86% of children meeting clinical criteria for total, receptive, and/or expressive language disorder were not receiving formal language services (i.e., false negatives). The findings and future research needs are discussed.
23775576|A variety of undesirable plants pose problems for managers of grazingland and/or wildland because they reduce the land's usefulness for livestock grazing or are detrimental to its other functions, such as wildlife habitat or watershed protection. The purpose of this study was to assess the direct and secondary economic impacts of leafy spurge infestations in North Dakota. This involved estimating the extent of leafy spurge infestations on grazingland and wildland, estimating the effects of the infestation on the outputs of both types of land, estimating the direct economic effects of these changes in outputs, and using input-output analysis to estimate the secondary economic effects accruing to other sectors of the state economy.
23779507|Characterizing vegetation composition, carbon/nitrogen (C/N) content of soils, and root-mass distribution is critical to understanding carbon sequestration potential of subirrigated meadows in the Nebraska Sandhills. Five subirrigated meadows dominated by cool-season (C3) graminoids and five meadows dominated by warm-season (C4) grasses were selected throughout the Nebraska Sandhills. Vegetation, soil carbon and nitrogen, and root-mass density distribution were sampled in each meadow. Meadows dominated by C3 vegetation had 12% greater (P < 0.1) yields than meadows dominated by C4 vegetation. Total root-mass density was 30% greater (P < 0.1) in C4-dominated meadows than C3-dominated meadows. Total carbon and nitrogen content was 65% and 53% greater (P < 0.1), respectively, in the A horizon of C3-dominated meadows, but was 43% and 52% greater (P < 0.1), respectively, in the C horizon of C4-dominated meadows. Although meadows dominated by C3 vegetation had more carbon in the soil profile, much of the carbon in C3-dominated meadows appeared to be recalcitrant C4 carbon from historic vegetation.
23780096|Historic herbicide use and grazing have influenced natural diversity and quality of native pasturelands in the Great Plains. Floristic quality assessments are useful to assist agencies in prioritizing conservation practices to enhance native grasslands. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of past land-use practices on the floristic quality of remnant native pastures in eastern South Dakota and southwestern Minnesota. Floristic quality assessments were conducted on 30 native pastures and categorized by past management practices (herbicide application and grazing intensity). Mean coefficient of conservatism (C) and floristic quality index (FQI) were calculated for each site. Results showed that increased herbicide use and grazing intensity resulted in a lower species richness, forb C, and FQI. However, grass and grasslike plants were minimally affected. Pastures that were infrequently sprayed with herbicides and lightly grazed consistently had the highest species richness, C, and FQI. Pastures with no grazing produced similar values to those with moderate grazing. Pastures managed as preserves or wildlife habitat areas had higher FQI than those managed for livestock grazing. The implications of this study should further help ecologists and managers understand the positive and negative effects of grazing practices and herbicide application on tallgrass prairie remnants.
23779399|Federal river protection in the U.S. began in 1968 with passage of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (P.L. 90-542). In addition to the federal system, 33 states have enacted some type of state-level river protection legislation. Currently, over 400 river segments and 15,000 river miles are protected by the state programs. Texas, which contains 23 major river basins and over 80,000 linear miles of streambed, has made numerous attempts to establish a state-level protection program; however, each has failed. With a growing population of more than 17.6 million, competition for water resources will intensify, including demands for various forms of river recreation. This research reviews the status of existing state-level river protection programs, summarizes the progression of water resource development in Texas as it relates to river protection issues, analyzes the history of failed legislative attempts at establishing a Texas rivers system, and recommends strategies for future passage of a Texas river protection act.
23779804|The allocation of water is part of water management. In order to achieve maximum benefits to society, water should be allocated toward uses that have the highest value, followed, as an alternative, by the next highest level or one with equal value. Such decisions require knowledge of water value at the last unit of use. Within agriculture, irrigation is important. Irrigation water must be allocated to various crops; therefore, producers require knowledge of the marginal value of water among alternative crops. This study estimates marginal value product for irrigation water within the southern areas of the Canadian Prairie Provinces using a crop-response model. Marginal values were estimated under the present and a future climate scenario. Cash crops such as potatoes and dry beans had higher marginal values of water, around $1,000 per 1,000 m3. Cereals and oilseed crops lagged behind (close to $200 per 1,000 m3). Results show modest increases in marginal value under climate change, compared to the volatility resulting from commodity market price changes seen today.
23775579|Several soils of western Nebraska have exhibited unusually high water content at 15 bars tension (an estimate of the water content where plants begin to wilt) relative to the percent measured clay. These same soils are known to form in volcanically derived sediments. The objective of the study was to identify a mineralogical cause for the discrepancy. Representative samples from the Busher, Epping, Keith, Mitchell, Otero, and Tripp soils were collected and characterized to determine the relationship between soil moisture and measured clay contents. Calculated ratios of soil water content at 15 bars tension to the percent measured clay equaled or exceeded 1.0 for samples from all soils and suggested the presence of volcanic glass and associated minerals in the soils. Detailed mineralogical analysis of the Mitchell and Tripp soils indicated the presence of unmeasured clay coatings on sand and silt sized grains of volcanic glass and other soil minerals. The unmeasured clay contributed to the total surface area of the soils and therefore contributed to the high contents of soil water at 15 bars tension.
23779600|During the rural renaissance of the 1970s, the United States experienced a reverse migration pattern in which the flow of migration was predominantly urban to rural, unlike the traditional rural to urban flows. This migration phenomenon was equally experienced in the North Central Region, which includes the Great Plains states of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas. This study investigated the impact of the reverse migration phenomenon on employment in eight industry categories in three categories of counties in North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas. Findings show that net migration had differential impacts on employment by industry category and by county category. While the services industry category was most affected by net migration, no significant relationship was found between net migration and employment in the agriculture industry, the mainstay of the economy of these states.
23779596|The most comprehensive water policy analysis conducted on the High Plains region to date was the High Plains Ogallala Regional Aquifer Study completed in 1982. Twenty years later, we had a unique opportunity to compare the projections from this study with the changes that actually occurred over the past two decades. Specific comparisons were made for the area of western Kansas overlying the High Plains Aquifer. These comparisons revealed some significant differences in the status of the aquifer and in the region's economic development, relative to the predictions of the study. Most notably, contrary to the study's predictions, irrigated area did not decline precipitously, but rather continued to increase during the period. Despite large increases in irrigated area and production of more water-intensive crops, such as corn and alfalfa, both per-unit area and total water use declined over the 20 years. Differences in observed and projected results can be attributed to a variety of factors, including large differences in crop prices, yield trends, energy prices, farm commodity programs, and irrigation technologies relative to those assumed in the study. Future research will need to better account for these factors to offer useful guidance in setting water management policies.
23778226|Ecosystem, species and genetic dimensions of biodiversity have eroded since widespread settlement of the Great Plains. Conversion of native vegetation in the region followed the precipitation gradient, with the greatest conversion in the eastern tallgrass prairie and eastern mixed-grass types. Areas now dominated by intensive land uses are "hot spots" for exotic birds. However, species of all taxa listed as threatened or endangered are well-distributed across the Great Plains. These species are often associated with special landscape features, such as wetlands, rivers, caves, sandhills and prairie dog towns. In the long run, sustaining biodiversity in the Great Plains, and the goods and services we derive from the plains, will depend on how successfully we can manage to maintain and restore habitat variation and revitalize ecosystem functioning. Public policy and legislation played a significant role in the degradation of native habitats in the region. Both policy and legislation will be needed to reverse the degradation and restore critical ecosystem processes.
23782173|The NamibRand Nature Reserve, located in southern Namibia, is a private nature reserve established to protect and conserve the unique ecology and wildlife of the southwest Namib Desert. At 172,200 ha, NamibRand is one of the largest private conservation areas in southern Africa. The reserve consists of 13 former livestock farms rehabilitated into a continuous natural conservation area and shares a 100 km border with the Namib-Naukluft National Park. The reserve is a model for private conservation in southern Africa, as it demonstrates holistic biodiversity conservation balanced with financial sustainability. Innovative approaches to resource management ensure that this critical area bordering on the national park is effectively conserved. Research conducted on the reserve aims to directly benefit management of the reserve and to contribute to the national scientific knowledge base. The project is financially self-sustaining mainly through high-quality, low-impact tourism. Partnerships with local and regional neighbors, and government and other organizations, connect the reserve to a larger conservation landscape throughout Namibia, forming the foundation of the national tourism economy.
23779803|Small mammals can be an important bioindicator of ecosystem health. They serve as both predator and prey in many ecosystems. By means of live trapping and nest monitoring, we studied the ecological relationships between small mammals, avian nest survival, and vegetation composition and structure on six private ranches in the Sandhills of Nebraska during 2004. Our study documented six species (132 captures) of small mammals, and we monitored 139 bird nests. Pastures with high small-mammal populations did not suffer higher nest mortality, indicating that small-mammal abundance does not predict avian productivity. We found several vegetation characteristics that influenced small-mammal abundance on our sites. Small-mammal capture indices declined with increased percentage of lying-litter cover in pastures. Long-duration grazing systems had higher small-mammal indices than medium- or short-duration grazing systems, and proximal pastures had higher similarity indices for both birds and small mammals. Our study shows that landowners can affect the small-mammal community through grazing management.
23779394|This study of Nebraska-made quilts spans the years from the 1870s through the 1980s, which extends from the early settlement of the state through the recent farm crisis. The descriptive profile of Nebraska quilts that emerged highlights the many similarities of Nebraska-made quilts to other American quilts of the same periods. Analysis shows that Nebraska quilts reflected the technological, artistic, and social trends of the times and points to changes in popularity of quilt types and pieced and applique patterns over the years. Although distinctive quilt types, styles, and quilting practices were reported in other states, Nebraska quilts are notable for their conservative character, the absence of exceptional qualities, and their tendency to reliably reflect national trends in quiltmaking. Quantitative summaries and analyses of a state's quilts can be important in the construction and rewriting of American textile history.
23779914|Populations of lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) have declined by more than 90%, due primarily to the conversion of sand-sage and mixed-grass prairie to agriculture, overgrazing by domestic livestock, juniper encroachment, and fossil-fuel development. Degradation of native habitats has made restored cropland through the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) potentially one of the best management options for lesser prairie-chicken. An estimated 1.4 million hectares of CRP exist within the lesser prairie-chicken range. We assessed 1,019 CRP fields representing more than 51,000 hectares within the current distribution of the lesser prairie-chicken. We sampled various grassland plantings including Farm Service Agency conservation practices 1, 2, 4, 4D, 10, and 25. In the context of lesser prairie-chicken habitat requirements for nesting and brood-rearing, our data suggest the following conservation practices (CP) have the highest potential for lesser prairie-chicken management: in Colorado and New Mexico, CP10 and CP2; in Oklahoma, CP2, followed by CPs 25 and 10; in northeast Texas, CP2, and in northwest Texas CPs 1, 10, and 2. Kansas CRP fields consistently displayed a high forb component and tall average grass height, habitat attributes that are consistent with the incidence of range expansion and population stability of the lesser prairie-chicken within that state. These field assessments are the first step in a process to target fields for CRP re-enrollment and to guide management to benefit lesser prairie-chicken.
23774365|The recently restored Ponca Tribe of Nebrasks has faced considerable challenges to the expression of their tribalism throughout the contact period. As a small, prairie-plains tribe the Ponca have endured the ravages of epidemic disease, land cessions, dispossession and removal, assimilation and finally in 1962, the outright termination of their status as a federally recognized tribe. The Ponca Tribe of Nebraska has been granted the opportunity to attempt retribalization with the 1990 Congressional restoration of their recognized status. The historical circumstances which have contributed to the assaults on their political and cultural identity will be explored within the larger framework of federal Indian policy and the metropolis-satellite model.
23778877|Grassland birds are known to respond to specific changes in habitat structure, such as plant height and density. However, the response of grassland bird communities to management induced changes in the regional habitat mosaic are less well understood. Grazing by ungulates and fire regimes play an important role in defining the habitat mosaic in the Great Plains. We provide information on bird abundance, distribution, and habitat structure from similar sandhill prairie landscapes managed traditionally with grazing by cattle (Bos taurus) and by a dynamic bison (Bos bison)-plus-fire regime. Although the two management regimes are dissimilar, only a few differences were recorded in bird abundance, distribution, and habitat structure at the landscape scale. Our result may reflect either the inherent variability of sandhills prairie compared to the scale at which grassland birds perceive habitat, or the short time frame over which the dynamic bison-plus-fire regime has been in place. The specific habitat patches produced by fire and by intensive bison grazing do appear to have different bird communities and habitat structure at the local scale.
23780006|Mexicans and Mexican Americans in Nebraska commemorate Holy Week with a popular display of religious fervor. In semblance with the old religious traditions in Mexico, the Mexicanos, old and new residents, parade through the Omaha streets following the Way of the Cross on Good Friday. Processions, rituals, and plays are not only a yearly Catholic ritual in the streets of Omaha but an essential part of Mexican American and Latino cultural identity. Palm Sunday and the Way of the Cross are but a few of the constituent elements of the growing manifestations of Latino popular culture in the state. The religious celebrations are organized and sponsored by the Catholic parish of Saint Agnes-Virgin de Guadalupe, which are the pivot, protector, and guide of the Latino community in Omaha.
23777991|We examined the sustainability of the livestock grazing industry in the Great Plains of North America relative to ecological processes, economic viability, and social acceptance. We conclude from the review that livestock grazing is an appropriate use of Great Plains grasslands and, when properly managed, ecologically sustainable. However, we also present evidence that the Great Plains grazing industry is not always economically sustainable or socially acceptable. We attribute this anomaly in large part to the consuming public's general lack of understanding and appreciation for the ecological linkages between current livestock grazing tactics and the evolutionary history of the Great Plains. A contributing factor to this problem is the scientific community's interjection of personal biases and value systems when interpreting ecological response patterns to varying forms of land use. We present evidence in support of this hypothesis by comparing statements and supporting literature citations from three recently published literature reviews addressing the ecological impacts of livestock grazing on North American rangelands.
23778227|Japanese brome (Bromus japonicus Thunb.) is an annual grass that has invaded thousands of hectares of Northern Great Plains rangelands. We studied the effect of Japanese brome on the current year's increase in biomass in a plant community in the Northern Great Plains dominated by western wheatgrass [Pascopyrum smithii Rydb. (Love)]. In our experiment, brome seedlings were either removed or left in place in replicated 1-m2 plots. Above-ground biomass of western wheatgrass increased (891 to 1,095 kg ha-1) with the removal of Japanese brome. However, total above-ground biomass decreased (1,873 to 1,334 kg ha-1) when brome was reduced in early spring (708 to 12 kg ha-1). Increased biomass of western wheatgrass resulted from increases in the density of tillers and not in the weight of each tiller. Since the effect of removing brome did not vary among the combinations of site and year, similar outcomes can be expected over a wide array of environmental conditions, such as among years with variable April to late-June or mid-July precipitation or stands with varying percents of brome and western wheatgrass. Thus, we conclude that the presence of annual Japanese brome reduces the biomass of important grasses in the Northern Great Plains.
23780059|This study documents historic fire events at Capulin Volcano National Monument over the last four centuries using dendrochronologically dated fire scars at two sites: the lower volcano lava flows (the Boca) and the adjacent canyon slopes (Morrow Ranch). The mean fire interval (MFI) was 12 years at the Boca site (before 1890) and 5.4 years (1600-1750) and 19.1 years (1751-1890) at the Morrow Ranch site. Data from the Boca and Morrow Ranch sites combined with the extremely pyrogenic landscape position of the volcano slopes indicate that the volcano slopes likely burned more frequently (e.g., MFI <5 yr). Around 1750, the fire regime appeared to transition to longer fire intervals, greater temporal synchrony among fire-scarred trees, and a higher proportion of trees scarred in fire years. Temporal variability in the fire regime at Capulin Volcano may reflect changes in human populations, climate, and land use.
24156340|Land use decisions that affect wetlands and wetland functions are influenced by a variety of factors, some of which arise from policies that directly or indirectly provide incentives for wetland drainage or conservation. Direct efforts to provide incentives for wetland conservation must be augmented by complementary policy reforms. This paper reviews the policy instruments that have the potential to influence land use on the Canadian Prairies, and suggests some research questions that should be addressed to promote reforms that would conserve wetlands.
23780011|Land management agencies need to plan and prioritize their activities to best use limited resources. To implement ecosystem management, the US Fish and Wildlife Service has defined watershed-based planning units, such as the Mississippi Headwaters/Tallgrass Prairie Ecosystem. To identify important habitats for migratory birds in this ecosystem, we ranked habitats according to their importance for breeding birds of conservation concern, using rankings of the birds' conservation priority within this ecosystem. Grasslands and wetlands were the highest ranked habitats because 12 (46%) and 9 (25%), respectively, of the species breeding in these habitats had "Partners in Flight" scores greater than 19 (maximum 35). Shrub-sapling stands and lake habitats ranked next, and forest habitats ranked lowest. The four highly ranked habitats are widespread in the Great Plains. These habitats can contribute to the conservation of a variety of high-priority bird species, if the habitats are restored and managed for birds.
23804532|Ecologists commonly separate Great Plains grasslands communities into types based on grass height: shortgrass prairie, mixedgrass prairie, and tallgrass prairie. Grass height correlates directly with precipitation and thus lessens with distance westward and with drought. Grass height correlates inversely with grazing intensity and thus shortgrasses expand eastward when grazing pressures are great and shrink westward when grazing pressures relax. Evidence about past distributions of shortgrasses, coupled with the prehistoric and historic abundances of large grazers and the black-tailed prairie dog (a shortgrass indicator), suggest a far-eastward occurrence of shortgrass prairie in the late Pleistocene (despite a relatively wet climate), a shrinkage westward by late prehistoric and early historic times, and a farther shift westward in response to the bison's demise in the 19th century. After cattle arrived in the late 1800s, shortgrass prairie expanded and contracted depending on the prevailing grazing philosophies, resulting grazing intensities, and periodic drought. Currently, taller grasses have prevailed for over a half century, and shortgrass prairie may be more restricted than it has been for millennia, because of a grazing philosophy that promotes moderate grazing. An emerging change in grazing philosophy may presage a gradual return of heavier grazing and another expansion eastward of the shortgrass prairie. Such an expansion, particularly if accompanied by grazing regimes patterned on early historic and prehistoric grazing, may enhance biodiversity, the stability of some soils, and under some circumstances, economic returns from ranching.
23779476|Great Plains communities have been experiencing an influx of refugees but many communities are unaware of the international and national context for refugee resettlement. This article explores patterns impacting US Great Plains communities. This leads to three specific questions: (1) How many refugees have been resettled since 1983 in the US, in comparison to the Great Plains region, and where are they? (2) What are the patterns of the refugees resettled in the US versus the Great Plains region? And, (3) What are some of the economic benefits that can be anticipated in the resettlement of refugees in the Great Plains? The goal of this article is to answer these three questions in order to get at the larger question of how Great Plains communities can make sense out of the migration of the world's refugees to their communities.
23775750|Scientists generally consider all water as merely passing through, but in different phases of, the endless hydrologic cycle. In contrast, the law divides water in the hydrologic cycle into several different classes based on real or supposed physical differences between classes. Legal classes of water are treated separately, usually without consideration of the many interconnections existing between phases of the cycle, and different rules of law have developed concerning the ownership and use of each legal class. Texas courts, like those of other Great Plainsjurisdictions, have applied this fragmented classification system, recognizing diverse public and private rights to each class of water. Under such a system, it is obvious that human interference with water in one phase of the cycle can have significant impacts on existing water rights in other phases, a situation especially evident in water-short West Texas, a part of the semi-arid southern Great Plains. Application of this legal system to hydrologic realities has, as one scholar aptly noted, resulted in a lawyer's paradise and a logician's nightmare.
23803423|The role of parents in wraparound mental health systems of care for youth with emotional and behavioral disorders is evolving. The purpose of the present study was to identify variables that impact parents' perceptions of systems of care. Parents in a countywide system of care (N = 213) were surveyed to determine their perceptions of barriers to effective services and service priorities. Parents identified the ability to pay for services, long waiting lists and periods, and lack of information about community services and resources as their top barriers. Respondents indicated services coordination, mental health outreach, and mentoring programs were their greatest priorities. Time involved in the system of care and the number of agencies with which families were involved were variables that were related to parents' perceptions of barriers to services. Neither variable was found to impact parents' perceptions of service priorities, however.
23775610|This paper examines the nature of the electoral coalitions that develop surrounding gubernatorial candidates in the states of the Great Plains. It focuses on the contribution various groups make toward the electoral success or failure of gubernatorial candidates, highlighting the underlying political divisions within a state's population. This paper marks a first step into the study of these coalitions by offering a basic description of them. Some discussion of how electoral coalitions respond to candidate and campaign-related factors is presented. The implications of these findings are discussed, along with several considerations for further research. The data used for this analysis come from election day exit polls and a content analysis of the newspaper coverage of each campaign.
23775556|Population growth in the states of Kansas and Nebraska between 1870-1900 was largely due to the influx of migrants from other parts of the United States and from Europe in search of fertile land to own and till. However, not all migrants were equally successful in attaining this goal. This paper discusses differences in occupational positions of African-American, Native-Born White and Foreign-Born White migrants in Kansas and Nebraska. Evidence from the U.S. censuses from 1890 and 1900 indicates that African Americans occupied positions of relative disadvantage in the occupational structures of Nebraska and Kansas, being more likely to be relegated to the lowest positions in the urban labor markets and were less likely than white migrantsboth from Europe and other parts of the U.S.to take up farming. This was especially true of African-American women who were highly concentrated in the least desirable occupations in 1890 and 1900 in both states. Finally, African-American migrants to Nebraska were less likely than those to Kansas to be employed in agricultural occupations.
23804535|Though many nonmetropolitan counties in the United States experienced population gains in the 1990s, many of the nonmetropolitan counties in the Great Plains continued to experience population declines. Thus, the reasons that people are moving need to be explored. This paper examines possible reasons by analyzing the relationship between community satisfaction and migration intentions of nonmetropolitan Nebraskans. Data used for this analysis were from an annual survey mailed to 6,500 residents living in nonmetropolitan counties in the state. The survey data were analyzed at two levels. First, demographic comparisons were made between those who planned to stay in their communities and those who planned to leave. Second, a multivariate model was developed to examine the independent effects of several different concepts on the decision to stay or leave. These concepts included community satisfaction, residential preference status, and the individual characteristics of the respondents. It was found that residential preference status, community social attributes, satisfaction with economic and environmental factors, household income, and residential tenure all influenced migration intentions.
23782176|More than three-quarters of the land in the Northern Great Plains is privately owned and less than 2% of the region is in public protected areas; therefore, sound private-land management is critical for restoring and conserving the region's biodiversity. Although considerable progress has been made in recent years in fostering and assembling nature reserves on private lands in various regions of the world, this approach has received little attention in North America, including the Northern Great Plains. We review here recommendations, trends and issues related to private protected areas globally and in Canada and the United States. We then discuss socioeconomic and ecological conditions that deserve particular attention in creating private protected areas, which we prefer to call "private nature reserves," in the Northern Great Plains. We conclude with proposed standards and guidelines for the establishment and recognition of private nature reserves in the region.
23779602|The Hispanic population of Lexington, seat of Nebraska's Dawson County, increased nearly tenfold between 1990 and 2000, from just over 400 to about 4,000, and the city's population grew from 6,600 to over 10,000. Economic trends in the 1990s contrast sharply with the previous decade, when the county's population and overall employment declined rapidly. This episode of immigration provides a unique opportunity to analyze the economic impact of immigration on a local economy. Traditional models of immigration, which focus almost entirely on the effects of immigration on labor supply, predict that immigration depresses wages and raises unemployment rates. However, census data and other evidence on Dawson County's economy suggest exactly the opposite occurred during the 1990s. This article provides an explanation of the effects of immigration on Dawson County's economy that is considerably more accurate than the explanation that would be offered by traditional immigration models: immigration stimulated both labor supply and demand, thus explaining the subsequent rebound in employment, average wages, and economic growth.
23777884|This paper reviews current endangered species issues associated with the development of the Platte River and the "Cooperative Agreement for Platte River Research and Other Efforts Relating to Endangered Species Habitats." The Platte River is an important economic resource, providing water essential for irrigation in a highly productive, but semiarid, agricultural region. However, the Middle Platte region of southcentral Nebraska is also recognized as a critical environmental zone for several endangered species. Thus, Platte River water users are subject to the provisions of the Endangered Species Act. In 1994, the Governors of Nebraska, Colorado and Wyoming agreed to work cooperatively with the US Department of Interior on resolving economic and environmental issues relating to the Platte River. After three years of negotiations, the three states and the Department signed a Cooperative Agreement that details a 75 million-dollar, 10-to-15 year plan for basinwide recovery efforts. While it is premature to judge the ultimate effectiveness of the Cooperative Agreement, understanding its central features provides important insights into some of the environmental issues critical to the Great Plains.
23777816|Since its founding in 1871, the University of Nebraska State Museum has been a leader in the study of the natural history of the plains and prairies of the central United States. Its history can be divided into three eras: 1) founding and first steps in a struggling new university (1871-1891); 2) the Barbour-Schultz era (1891-1970) when research focused on vertebrate paleontology and exhibition became a major focus; and 3) recent history (1970-present) beginning with the consolidation of university collections in 1970, the professionalization of museum staff, and increased access through computerization. Research and public exhibits have been prominent components throughout the history of the museum. The success of the UNSM is based on at least five important factors: 1) its long history of public exhibition giving the Museum a high profile with substantial public support; 2) the high quality of its scientific research contributing to the growth and importance of the collections; 3) the regular participation of faculty in teaching and students in collections research; 4) the fact that museum faculty responsibilities are primarily to the museum, focusing their attention on the use and development of the collections; and 5) the fact that the museum director reports directly to the vice-chancellor for research rather than to a dean or department chair, thus making the case for the museum at a high administrative level.
23779964|This article considers whether state constitutionalism provides greater possibilities for workplace religious accommodation than is currently available to religious minorities within federal law under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. We approach this question via a case study of the controversy over religious accommodation for practicing Muslims employed by the JBS Swift and Company meatpacking plant in Grand Island, NE. The case study consists of analyses of the requirements for religious accommodation under federal law, examination of the reasons why religious accommodation under federal law was not achieved in the Grand Island case, and analysis of Nebraska constitutional law on the subject of religious free exercise. We find that the language in the Nebraska Constitution regarding protection of religious practice provides grounds for Muslims and other religious minorities in Nebraska to seek religious accommodations in the workplace through state government venues that they have been unable to achieve under federal law.
23775639|Between 1995 and 1997, archeological excavations in northwest Calgary, Alberta, uncovered cultural materials from several occupations dating back 8,500 years. Samples of bison bone recovered at the sites were chemically prepared and analyzed for isotopic ratios. Using the resultant carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios, we reconstructed the diet of bison from four different cultural occupations spanning the last 8,500 years. Based on current and established models of bison subsistence behavior, this dietary information was used to infer largescale environmental changes during this time interval in our study area. The inferred changes in vegetation and climate were compared with paleoenvironmental reconstructions for the study area specifically and with models of post-Pleistocene environmental change for the Northern Great Plains generally. Our results suggest that changes in the diet of bison in southern Alberta coincide with broader environmental changes reported for the Holocene and appear to reflect the adaptability of this species.
23775668|Climate change, whether natural or due to human action, will have an impact on many aspects of our environment. The nature of streamflow changes will depend on the magnitude and direction of the climate change. However, since the principal climatic factors that control streamflow are precipitation and evapotranspiration (which can be estimated from air temperature data), the sensitivity of streamflow to variations in climate can be studied through the use of plausible scenarios of climate change. A simple water budget model was used to reconstruct streamflow from monthly temperature and precipitation data for locations within and immediately surrounding the Little Blue River basin in south-central Nebraska. Then, climate change scenarios corresponding to changes in monthly temperature of 1 C and 3 C and to differences in monthly precipitation of 10% and 20% were used to estimate the sensitivity of streamflow to climate change. Results of this procedure show the sensitivity of streamflow to climate variability. For example, a 20% increase in precipitation would more than double the average annual streamflow, while a 20% precipitation decrease would almost halve the average annual streamflow. The effects of temperature changes are similar, with a 3 C increase resulting in an almost 60% decrease in streamflow, and a 3 C decrease causing streamflow to increase by more than 80%. Scenarios with both temperature and precipitation changes can either enhance or nullify the effects of a single change. Changes in streamflow will affect water availability for agricultural, human consumptive, industrial, and recreational uses. For a region with critical water needs, such as the Great Plains, understanding the possible consequences of climate change on streamflow is necessary to ensure adequate future supplies. The simple streamflow model presented here can easily be applied to other streams in the Great Plains to evaluate the regional effects of climate change on water supply.
23777987|Recent employment growth in the northern Great Plains may be stimulating increased in-migration. This study, expanding on our initial report (Leistritz et al. 2000), seeks to identify the salient characteristics of recent in-migrants to Nebraska and North Dakota, using data from mailed surveys conducted in Nebraska in 1996 and North Dakota in 1997. The survey respondents were generally younger than the populations of Nebraska and North Dakota overall; about 60% were between 21 and 40 years old. The educational level of the migrants was also higher than that of the states' populations overall45% of the new residents were college graduates and another 35% reported some college or postsecondary vocational/technical school attendance. The migrants' motivations appeared more linked to quality of life values than economic incentives; reasons for moving most often cited were desire for a safer place to live (58%), desire to be closer to relatives (54%), lower cost of living (48%), and quality of the natural environment (47%). These new residents represent a very productive cohort of people who were needed to augment population strata that were severely depleted by the out-migration of the 1980s.
23780131|Although landscape changes from anthropogenic causes occur at much faster rates than those from natural processes (e.g., geological, vegetation succession), human perception of such changes is often subjective, inaccurate, or nonexistent. Given the large-scale land-use changes that have occurred throughout the Great Plains, the potential impacts of land-use changes on ecological systems, and the insight gained from knowledge of land-use trends (e.g., to compare to wildlife population trends), we synthesized information related to land-use trends in Nebraska during 18662007. We discussed and interpreted known and potential causes of short- and long-term land-use trends based on agricultural and weather data; farm policies and programs; and local, state, and global events. During the study period, mean farm size steadily increased, whereas number of farms rapidly increased until about 1900, remained stable until about 1930, then rapidly decreased. Total area of cropland in Nebraska increased until the 1930s, but then showed long-term stability with large short-term fluctuations. Crop diversity was highest during 19551965, then slowly decreased; corn was always a dominant crop, but sorghum and oats were increasingly replaced by soybeans after the 1960s. Land-use changes were affected by farm policies and programs attempting to stabilize commodity supply and demand, reduce erosion, and reduce impacts to wildlife and ecological systems; direct and indirect effects of war (e.g., food demand, pesticides, fertilizers); technological advances (e.g., mechanization); and human population growth and redistribution. Although these causes of change will continue to affect Nebraska's landscape, as well as that of other Great Plains states, new large-scale trends such as increasing energy demands (e.g., biofuels) may contribute to an already highly modified landscape.
23779835|Behavioral segregation between the sexes of bison (Bos bison), coupled with artificially manipulated sex ratios of bison herds, might profoundly influence prairie ecosystems. Therefore, we measured carbon isotopes in hair collected from bison from the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in northeast Oklahoma to determine if adult male, adult female, and juvenile bison segregate on the basis of botanical composition of their diet. Sex ratio of bison herds in the Great Plains and behavioral differences between sexes were used to assess potential effects of sex ratio on tallgrass prairie. Botanical composition of diet differed among the three bison groups, in that C4 grasses contributed most to adult bull diets and least to juvenile diets. Bison sex ratio in half of the herds surveyed was highly skewed toward females. Because of behavioral differences between adult male and female bison, different sex ratios in bison herds might result in different vegetation structure, composition, and patchiness.
23775753|The future economic and environmental changes in the communities of the Black Hills were examined through the use of the Delphi technique. The study utilized a panel of 80 experts on the wide range of land-use issues and conflicts in the Black Hills. The panel identified 14future land-use conflict issues: mining, grazing, timbering, outdoor recreation, wilderness areas, tourism, legalized gambling, second home development, Native American claims, fire management, water management, landfills, traffic management, and the US Forest Service's policies of land-use management. The panel predicted when certain events concerning those 14 issues would occur. Their predictions were then related to the economic and environmental vitality of Custer, Deadwood, Edgemont, Hot Springs, Newcastle, Rapid City, Spearfish, and Sturgis for the next 20 years.
23779772|Rural communities increasingly are looking to the tourism sector as a source of economic growth. Southwestern North Dakota has experienced substantial out-migration and population loss, resulting in designation of the eight-county area as a Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) zone in 1995. The purpose of this study was to (1) identify opportunities for expanding the region's tourism sector, (2) identify challenges and obstacles facing tourism businesses, and (3) frame key issues and outline potential options for area decision makers. Information was gathered from (1) a survey of the region's tourism businesses, (2) focus-group interviews with tourism business operators, and (3) personal interviews with community and business leaders. The findings provide insight into the basic characteristics of the tourism businesses, identify some of the key constraints to expansion and development, and identify sector participants' perceptions of opportunities for growth, thus providing direction for future research and policy initiatives.
23777880|This paper reviews the evidence for nonagricultural benefits of windbreaks in the Great Plains. Windbreaks may provide recreational opportunities, scenic beauty, fuelwood, and wildlife habitat in addition to agricultural benefits. Quantitative studies demonstrate that windbreaks on the Great Plains provides important wildlife habitat for woodland edge species, substantial opportunities for recreation, a potentially important source of fuelwood, and enhanced scenic beauty.
23780095|Phragmites australis (common reed) is known to have occurred along the Platte River historically, but recent rapid increases in both distribution and density have begun to impact habitat for migrating sandhill cranes and nesting piping plovers and least terns. Invasiveness in Phragmites has been associated with the incursion of a European genotype (haplotype M) in other areas; determining the genotype of Phragmites along the central Platte River has implications for proper management of the river system. In 2008 we sampled Phragmites patches along the central Platte River from Lexington to Chapman, NE, stratified by bridge segments, to determine the current distribution of haplotype E (native) and haplotype M genotypes. In addition, we did a retrospective analysis of historical Phragmites collections from the central Platte watershed (19022006) at the Bessey Herbarium. Fresh tissue from the 2008 survey and dried tissue from the herbarium specimens were classified as haplotype M or E using the restriction fragment length polymorphism procedure. The European haplotype was predominant in the 2008 samples: only 14 Phragmites shoots were identified as native haplotype E; 224 were non-native haplotype M. The retrospective analysis revealed primarily native haplotype individuals. Only collections made in Lancaster County, near Lincoln, NE, were haplotype M, and the earliest of these was collected in 1973.
23779841|Discussions of religion in the rural Great Plains present two radically different images: one of declining and abandoned churches, the other of surprising congregational vitality. Both images purport to describe how rural churches are adapting to declining population, but neither view has been examined very systematically. Kansas provides a natural laboratory in which to examine the relationships between religion and rural depopulation. From 1950 to 1980 Kansas experienced the sharpest decline in number of farms in the state's history. Yet population change in rural counties varied widely. I compare 39 rural counties that experienced the greatest depopulation with 30 rural counties that experienced only modest depopulation and 31 rural counties in which population grew. I first use demographic and economic data to describe the different trajectories of these counties. I then examine county-level statistics on church membership and numbers of churches to determine how religious change was related to depopulation. Finally, I compare the changes that occurred within selected denominations. The results suggest that churches, church membership, and average church size remained relatively robust in the face of severe depopulation. I consider several alternative explanations for this robustness.
23778878|Switchgrass, Panicum virgatum L., one of the three dominant grasses of the North American tall grass prairie, is a genetically and morphologically diverse species with an array of ploidy levels, or set of chromosomes, and ecotypes. The relationship between DNA content and ploidy level has been controversial. The objectives of this study were to provide clear photodocumentation of switchgrass chromosome numbers and to clarify the relationship between nuclear DNA content and chromosome number. Defining the relationship between ploidy level and nuclear DNA content will facilitate the use of molecular biology techniques, such as flow cytometry, in plant breeding and evolutionary biology. The switchgrass tetraploids examined, which contain 4 sets of chromosomes, had 36 chromosomes with a nuclear DNA content of 3.1 pg/nuclei, while octaploids (8 sets of chromosomes) had 72 chromosomes with 6.1 pg/nuclei. Tetraploid plants from lowland ecotypes had the same nuclear DNA content as tetraploid plants from upland ecotypes. Normal diploid chromosome pairing occurred at meiosis for all tetraploid and octaploid plants examined. Our results indicate that the lowland and upland ecotypes have the same basic genome, and that the octaploids most likely evolved from the tetraploids by a natural doubling of chromosomes, and did so long enough ago for meiosis to be stabilized. Further research is needed to explore the evolutionary origins of switchgrass.
23774315|The development of a legal community in late nineteenth-century Lincoln, Nebraska, offers an opportunity to examine career differentiation. Relying upon census and Lincoln city directories, the data analysis reveals similar patterns to previous research on the legal profession and some significant differences. Lincoln attorneys usually came from middle or lower classes backgrounds, seldom graduated from college, relocated to Nebraska from midwestern states, practiced alone, joined numerous fraternal organizations, became involved in politics, and were overwhelmingly Republicans.
24156312|Gun part assemblages from several Euroamerican and Native American contact period sites from the Plains are compared as a way of examining how firearms were incorporated into Native technology of the Plains region. These data are interpreted in terms of a "fault tree analysis, " an operations research technique that identifies potential points of failure in technical systems in order to study patterns of use, maintenance, and reliability. The analysis indicates distinctively different patterns of gun repair and treatment by Indians and Euroamericans but suggests that Indians were quite capable of repairing firearms and that they systematically reused parts from failed arms.
23779443|Colonias are unincorporated subdivisions located in the rural, largely unregulated portion of counties where building codes and regulations are either nonexistent or unenforceable. Colonias are characterized by Third World living conditions where basic infrastructure services such as wastewater collection and treatment, drainage, paved streets, and, in some cases, electricity is lacking. Housing is substandard, with poor plumbing, heating and cooling systems. In Texas, there are approximately 1,193 colonias (home to an estimated 280,000 people, mostly Hispanic) concentrated outside of El Paso, and in counties comprising the lower Rio Grande Valley. In 1989 and 1991, voters approved constitutional amendments that authorized the sale of $250 million in water development bonds to help finance water projects for the colonias. Presently, 25 such projects are in various stages of development and construction. This paper examines colonia geographical distribution, voting patterns produced by two constitutional amendment elections, and outlines procedural guidelines for the economically distressed areas program.
23778225|I analyzed primary literature, spanning 42 years (1948-1990) that addressed buffalograss and blue grama's response to fire; no relevant literature has been published since 1990. The results suggest that fire in shortgrass steppe need not be negative. Plant response to fire depends mainly on levels of precipitation, though some studies indicated that the season during which fire occurs may also affect recovery of buffalograss and blue grama.
23779631|Inhabitants in the villages of Jefferson County, Kansas, respond to socioeconomic changes in a variety of ways. Empirical research conducted in 2004 revealed multiple discourses that constituted such responses. The shop-locally discourse emerged in structured interviews, newspaper articles, and newspaper advertisements as an emblem of socioeconomic empowerment. Discourse was analyzed within its context and interpreted to provide some insight into residents' responses to change. The discourse revealed not only nostalgia for formerly vibrant commercial districts but also the importance of economic vitality to social life. Shopping locally today, however, will not restore yesteryear's social milieu. The proximity of midsize cities in adjacent counties pulls the economic lifeblood out of Jefferson County, transforming the villages into bedroom communities. If their economies are to be revitalized, inhabitants will need to become more thoughtful and creative agents of change within their own villages.
23780126|Three phenotypes within the Cicindela longilabris complex are present in the vicinity of the Black Hills in South Dakota: Laurent's boreal long-lipped tiger beetle, Cicindela longilabris laurentii; the prairie long-lipped tiger beetle, Cicindela nebraskana; and a third phenotype that shares characteristics of both species. By comparing morphological and ecological characteristics between these three phenotypes, I was able to separate C. longilabris and C. nebraskana using ventral and proepisternal color, presence or absence of a middle band on the elytra, elytral luster, labral width:length ratio, and hind tarsal length. Somewhat less useful characters were labral color and total length. The third phenotype was often not assignable to either species and probably represents hybrid populations, showing gene flow (introgression and recombination) between C. longilabris and C. nebraskana, as individuals were often found in overlapping prairie/boreal habitats at intermediate altitudes.
23778288|This paper has three objectives designed to support the work of practice systems, scholars, and policy makers. First, it provides a conceptual model that supports a multidisciplinary, multicultural, collaborative university-community research, service, and teaching group that is consistent with the philosophy, mission, and objectives of land grant institutions and community systems. Second, it describes how the Latino Research Initiative implemented this collaborative model to support the goals of the university and the community to enhance the lives of Latinos in Lincoln, Nebraska. Finally, this paper discusses how this collaborative model can be used or adapted by university and community professionals with their changing communities. Several factors highlight the importance of university-community collaborative models. The increased Latino population in a sparsely populated region such as the Great Plains requires that research, programming, and teaching be conducted to respond to the changing needs of its communities. Educational (particularly land-grant universities) and community institutions are committed to actively conducting research and programming that serve to enhance the lives of members of their communities. Finally, attitudinal, economical, and organizational barriers and dwindling resources make partnerships necessary so that the needs of diverse populations can be most adequately met.
23775727|Winter snow cover duration has varied across the northern and central Great Plains of the United States throughout this century. Decade-to-decade variability has been common, and the timing of these fluctuations has differed considerably across the region. A general trend towards longer snow cover duration was noted from the 1920s and 1930s to the 1970s. Nine stations with continuous records of snow cover, temperature, precipitation, and snowfall dating back 61 to 97 years were studied. Snow cover fluctuations and trends are associated with changes of these other variables. Such relationships are complex and differ across the Great Plains. Correlations between winter snow cover duration and mean maximum temperature are negative in all areas, and are strongest in Nebraska, South Dakota, and southeastern Montana, where snow cover is most variable. Precipitation is correlated positively with snow cover duration in most of the region, although statistically less significant than for temperature. In the future, should the winter climate of the Great Plains deviate from what has been observed this century, it is reasonable to assume that the duration of snow cover will change significantly. Snow cover should play a role in dictating the nature of any such changes, and should also serve as a credible indicator of future winter climate change in this region.
